US	52186115	R2OTPVLQPH4FER	0805056645	856506400	Are You Somebody?: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman	Books	5	35	39	N	N	sad and so very true	I have once again made the mistake of reading the other customer reviews before writing my own review.  Generally when I happen onto a one or two star review that really comes down on a book that I like, I will go to the \\"See All Reviews\\" page and order the reviews from \\"Lowest First\\".  I will then read through review after review by readers who simply wanted this to be another book rather than the one it is.<br />I suppose that my repeated exercise of this masochistic procedure is part of my own Catholic background, which was far less complete, administered twenty years after O'Faolain's and in the New World rather than isolated, entrenched Ireland.  Perhaps it helps to be Catholic when it comes to understanding Nuala O'Faolain's nearly continual struggle to lead a full and worldly life and not feel badly about it.  <br />A lot of readers still seem to expect a 'Whig history' from a memoir with triumph leading to triumph, interspersed with set-pieces of 'struggle' to make it interesting.  Are You Somebody? is something much braver, truer and scarier:  an honest recollection.  <br />O'Faolain very clearly describes the historically maintained cultural institutions that caused her to have certain beliefs and take certain actions that led her repeatedly into disaster.  Forty years before her, Virginia Woolf had described the need for women to make lives that were expressions of their own desires rather than fulfillments of the needs of men.  O'Faolain is acutely conscious, looking back in middle age, that she had not internalized Woolf's wisdom and that her dysfunctional relationships with men were a direct result.<br />She is also at pains to describe the slow awakening of her consciousness of her Irishness and she is quite frank about how her failure to think of herself as Irish, even though the BBC thought of her as an Irish woman, caused to make mediocre documentaries about contemporary events in Ireland.<br />In chapter after chapter O'Faolain shows us how hidebound patriarchy made it difficult for a woman to enjoy or trust worldly success, how the medieval nature of Irish Catholicism made for complete confusion about sex and female independence, and how a deep-seated disinterest in Irish culture among the educated classes of Dublin made one's identity peculiarly rootless.  As if that weren't enough, there is much more in this book.<br />If you find this book pretentious and depressing, then I suggest that you stop going to Starbucks and paying $3 for a cup of coffee.  Life has not always been the way it is now.  A lot of things were harder for women, particularly Irish women, not so long ago.  If you don't want to hear it, then you're part of the problem.	2003-08-11
US	52186115	R8WZN806WTN85	0375701001	106732878	Old Glory : A Voyage Down the Mississippi	Books	5	18	22	N	N	a tattered flag, still waving	I have traveled a fair amount through the small towns of the United States and have to concur with Mr. Raban's depiction of both the towns and the people who live in them.  Other readers who have taken the time to write reviews of this book here seem to have remembered only about half of what Raban wrote about each of the towns that he visited.<br />His initial impressions were often filled with disappointment.  He had approached this trip with a boyhood dream in his head and he was continually set back on his proverbial heels by the reality of these river towns in 1979.  More often than not, however, further exploration of the town, conversations with some of its citizens and reflection on his part, caused Raban to revise his evaluation of many of the places that he visited.<br />Some reviewers may perhaps have forgotten that this book describes this region as it was after years during which the US economy struggled through an oil crisis, bouts of inflation, intervals of high unemployment and the tail end of the history of the &quot;old economy&quot;.  Should someone have the time and inclination to retrace Raban's steps nearly 25 years later, I would not be surprised if they found these towns and their people had changed quite a bit, probably for the better in social and economic terms.  For instance, Raban devoted most of a chapter to the failed election campaign of Memphis's first black candidate for mayor.  A quick Google (keywords: Memphis Tennesee government) will show you that the present mayor of Memphis (Willie W. Herenton) is African-American.  I'm going to guess that he is not the first black mayor of Memphis.<br />I loved Raban's modus operandi for getting to the heart of a place.  Tie up your boat, go to the nearest bar and strike up a conversation.  This would seem to me to be the most reliable means to quickly get an unvarnished opinion about a place.  Sure, someone on a bar stool is likely to have a slightly dimmer view of the place where he or shelives than the average citizen, but Raban was rarely, if ever, content with their views.  He basically used the tavern-sitters as a 1979-era local flesh-and-blood Google; he found out the basics about a place like who are the local characters, what are the main industries, which are the burning local political issues etc.  His fellow barflies were more important as sources of germane questions than as sources of definitive answers.<br />Raban's perspective on the St. Louis metropolitan area is one that I can vouch for personally, having visited there 10 years after he did.  Furthermore Jonathan Franzen's novel The Twenty-seventh City is an elaborate description of the city-county socio-politico-economic tensions during the late 1980s.  The continuum between Raban and Franzen's descriptions is pretty easy to imagine.  Franzen grew up in the county and would have been a teen-ager when Raban was shacked up with his rich, wigged-out girlfriend out in Clayton.<br />I took one long journey through the US accompanied by a Danish friend.  Upon learning that my traveling companion was a foreigner nearly every American that we encountered relaxed almost visibly and began to wax philosophical about the state of things.  The radius of their sphere of interest varied, but everyone had an opinion about something.  It was delightful to see that Mr. Raban experienced this same lowering of guard and move toward introspection as soon as he announced that he was an Englishman traveling in the US.<br />The parochial character and narrow-mindedness of many of the people he encountered matches up well with my own experiences in similar terrain four years after his journey.  It is important to note though that Raban was treated to extraordinary amounts of generosity, both material and emotional, by the people that he met, however rhetorically bigoted they might have been.  The author is at pains to acknowledge both the generosity and the puzzling disconnect that he sees between their rhetoric and their behavior.  <br />Just one of the wonderful things that Jonathan Raban does in the course of Old Glory is show the reader the essence of American character.  Their aggressive rhetoric is their shield against the unknown, but once you are brought in behind that shield, Americans are among the most outrageously generous and genuinely good people that you are likely to find.	2003-06-02
US	52186115	R3HK5Y0MQRNCB1	0919013341	28853057	Drive Dull Care Away: Folksongs from Prince Edward Island	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a good song is hard to find ... but worth the search	My great grandfather emigrated from northeast Kings County on PEI at the turn of the 20th century. He didn't go to the Maine Woods to log. He went to Boston to practice architecture. But like the old-timers that Sandy Ives interviewed in Maine early on in this book, he was constantly drawn back to the island, and now I'm guessing that when he wasn't there, he missed it. <br /> I went up to visit PEI once in the 1970s and again a couple of summers ago. On the most recent visit I met some of my distant cousins (all the close relatives had emigrated) and found them to be just like the folks that Dr. Ives describes in Drive Dull Care Away. The word for them, I suppose, is \\"genuine\\". <br />They won't pretend to know you better than they do and they will gradually warm to you if you show respect, are polite and don't try to hurry events along. When you speak with them about hard times or sad occasions in the past, they will grow sombre and somewhat reverential. When you get them to gossiping a recurrent theme will be someone who got a little too big for their britches, put on a few airs or otherwise started to ride a little high and then got their comeuppance.<br />All of these traits and a lot more are recorded by Dr. Ives in two senses. In the literary sense his memoir brings alive the people that he talked to over 40 years ago when he began collecting Larry Gorman songs in Princes County on western PEI. In the literal sense he has preserved on tape the songs that so well express the temperament of these people.<br />I bought this book expecting to get some useful information about a fairly esoteric topic: the folk songs of Prince Edward Island. As soon as I started reading I could see that I was going to get a whole lot more than that. This is a very personal book by an extremely personable guy. Dr. Ives is refreshingly candid about his youthful impatience and ignorance on his first sojourns into the field. He doesn't beat himself up about it, but he admits that he might have blown it here and there.<br />In one of the final chapters of the book he recounts attending a folk festival on PEI where he sits apprehensively in the stands waiting for a local singer to butcher one of the old songs by singing it accompanied by a 12-string acoustic guitar. He is nervous because he knows that these songs were written to be song a cappella in kitchens, pubs and logging camps. And he is nervous because these are plain-spoken songs that often describe deaths, betrayals and bad behavior of all kinds; they should not be prettied up. He is quite relieved when the singer delivers an unadorned, stoic version of an old classic called \\"The Flying Cloud\\". He liked it well enough that he included it on the CD that accompanies the book.<br />Dr. Ives inserts the music and lyrics to a large number of these songs into the body of the narrative at a juncture where he either first records the song or finds a particularly good version of it. This is fairly priceless information; in many cases he has transcribed the music himself by listening to the tapes. He allows that the songs as sung are quite difficult to reproduce in standard notation because they are coming from a strictly oral tradition and don't always follow standard musicological structures.<br />I deduct one star from my rating perhaps unfairly. I wanted more. Dr. Ives' narrative voice was so enjoyable that I found myself getting disappointed as he seemed to grow impatient with the writing as the book wore on. The most detail can be found in the chapters that recall the earliest trips. In later chapters he begins to skate through and more often refers you to his other books on Larry Gorman and Larry Doyle. And I believe I'll look for those books, if only to hear his voice again.	2003-04-02
US	52186115	R2REWSORJA66YD	0345439236	805610409	Breath and Shadows (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	some things you will never know	I confess that I am awarding this novel 5 stars in part to counter some of the low ratings given to the book by other customer reviewers.<br />I was not put off in the least by the three-part structure.  Every third chapter is about the same generation.  The generations are presented in chronological order and each block of three chapters is prefaced by brief description of the interior of cave, the significance of which is made explicit at the end of the novel.  There is absolutely nothing confusing, puzzling or arbitrary about any of this.  Quite the opposite:  it makes the unfolding of the plot(s) more dramatic and drives home the theme of the novel, which is a meditation on the difficulty of finding truth in your life.<br />The recent movie &quot;The Hours&quot;, based on a Michael Cunningham novel that I have not read, uses much the same technique, but is focussed on a different theme and the geneaological relationships among the characters are not as extensive.  Each group of characters in the Leffland novel are members of the same family, one separated from the other by two or three generations.  Leffland is quite good at making connections among the generations, some of the physical, such as the flowered rug made by Grete Rosted that has talismanic significance for Paula, although she never finds out that her own grandmother made it.  Some of the connections are metaphysical, such as the compulsion to travel extemporaneously shared by Thorkild, his grandson and Philip.  She is also quite good about showing us the hazy boundary between the memories of old people and the written historical record.  And the varying reliability of both.<br />Leffland is an excellent plotter.  The narratives are each compelling in their own right and while some threads are tied together at the end, the author has the art and good taste to leave some hanging, allowing the reader to imagine, for example the grimness of Thorkild's end.  She uses a trick of switching to the present tense at the beginning and ends of each chapter, which makes the action quite immediate and has the effect of repeatedly building a bridge between the generations.  One can almost sense the author's growing excitement and engagement as the book progresses.  The prose of the initial chapters is a bit halting and the chapters are short.  But as the novel progresses, the prose grows more fluid and the chapters stretch out to accomodate the sprawling plot.<br />If the book has a weakness, it is the failure to bring the theme into more focus.  The Rosteds are not world beaters.  They are intelligent members of the aristocracy in the nineteenth century and of the upper middle class in the twentieth century, but they are not geniuses or great in any sense.  Therefore their struggle to find truth in their lives is constantly doomed to  less than complete success.  Thorkild wrestles with life's verities in his endless writings, which he eventually burns.  Holger and Grethe throw Bohemian parties and Holger paints, but only as a gentleman painter.  Paula is a sculptor of no discernible talent and Philip deserted his creative side while still in college and became a businessman.<br />So no one in this novel ever has a sort of 'aha' moment.  Rather they all fail to discover the whole truth and must learn to settle for that.  While this is  the situation that most of us find ourselves in, I thought that perhaps Leffland could have limned the theme a little more clearly.  However, it is quite possible that I simply need to read the book again.  It is a great temptation in the last third of the novel to read very quickly as many of the climaxes approach.  I may well have missed some of the art in order to know the end of a sad and beautiful story.nse at the beginning and ends of each chapter, which makes the action quite immediate and has the effect of repeatedly building a bridge between the generations.  One can almost sense the author's growing excitement and engagement as the book progresses.  The prose of the initial chapters is a bit halting and the chapters are short.  But as the novel progresses, the prose grows more fluid and the chapters stretch out to accomodate the sprawling plot.<br />If the book has a weakness, it is the failure to bring the theme into more focus.  The Rosteds are not world beaters.  They are intelligent members of the aristocracy in the nineteenth century and of the upper middle class in the twentieth century, but they are not geniuses or great in any sense.  Therefore their struggle to find truth in their lives is constantly doomed to  less than complete success.  Thorkild wrestles with life's verities in his endless writings, which he eventually burns.  Holger and Grethe throw Bohemian parties and Holger paints, but only as a gentleman painter.  Paula is a sculptor of no discernible talent and Philip deserted his creative side while still in college and became a businessman.<br />So no one in this novel ever has a sort of 'aha' moment.  Rather they all fail to discover the whole truth and must learn to settle for that.  While this is  the situation that most of us find ourselves in, I thought that perhaps Leffland could have limned the theme a little more clearly.  However, it is quite possible that I simply need to read the book again.  It is a great temptation in the last third of the novel to read very quickly as many of the climaxes approach.  I may well have missed some of the art in order to know the end of a sad and beautiful story.	2003-03-04
US	52186115	R1IX35L5XI3X7O	0374199442	605719111	The Birds of Heaven: Travels with Cranes	Books	4	13	13	N	N	preaching to the choir of the birds of heaven	Of Peter Matthiessen's non-fiction I have previously read only The Snow Leopard, but I have also enjoyed a collection of short stories called On the River Styx.  Mr. Matthiessen's authorial voice is very prickly in Birds of Heaven, much more cranky than I remember it in The Snow Leopard, which was written in the wake of the death of his wife from cancer.  The Snow Leopard was permeated with sadness and longing.  Birds of Heaven is permeated with anger and impatience.<br />The book is arranged geographically.  Beginning in Siberia, Mr. Matthiessen takes through Asia to Australia and then on to Africa and Europe and finally to North America.  There are no cranes in South America (or Antarctica).  <br />The author is at his best when he is combining his wry observations of the people and places around him with an enthusiastic and well-informed account of the natural history of a region.  I felt that he was less successful when he lets his righteous indignation get the better of him and begins to make snide comments about the absence of a love of the natural world in Chinese society, the wrong-headedness of various bureaucrats and the corruption of local officials.  <br />It is not as if I disagreed with his point of view, but I knew that I already shared it before I even picked up the book.  I can't imagine anyone who had any doubts about the importance of cranes as sensitive indicators of the general health of the environment being won over to the crane's side by this hectoring, doctrinaire authorial voice.  But then, perhaps this books is really just an extended love letter to the cranes and to the environment in general.  As such, it succeeds wonderfully.	2003-02-12
US	52186115	RTYZSZDGG11VM	0060160500	372252081	Intellectuals	Books	1	23	52	N	N	the sound of one ax, grinding	Unfortunately, this is not a good book.  I confess to be unaware of Mr. Johnson's political perspective when I picked up this book inexpensively somewhere, but it didn't take long for me to discover where he is coming from.<br />The chapters are presented in chronological order.  The conceptual center of the book is the essay on Karl Marx.  Johnson hates his guts.  The intellectuals that precede Marx in the book are blamed for paving the way for him and the subsequent intellectuals are blamed for lying about the obvious falsehoods perpetrated by Stalin in the name of communism and therefore perpetuating the influence of Marx in the West.  Johnson also manages to blame these fellow-travelling intellectuals for the permissive society.<br />The most frustrating thing about this book is that some of Johnson's arguments might hold water if he actually bothered to make them more soundly.  Left-wing Westerners *are* a bit leery of received tradition and so they *are* more likely to reject the child-rearing practices of their parents and cast aspersions on and generally flout societal institutions, which arguably leads to a permissive society.  But Johnson makes no real effort to construct a coherent or sustained case for his point of view.  Most of the essays are just a series of biographical anecdotes about what a cad, liar, hypocrite etc. a particular left-wing intellectual happened to be, followed by with some wholly undefended connecting of the dots and an ending with a condemnation.  It get old in chapter after chapter.<br />The state socialist systems that were based on Marxism were pretty obviously built on a misinterpretation of the workings of a society.  Johnson published this book a year before the fall of the Berlin Wall.  I'm sure he was quite gratified by the subsequent collapse of the Soviet system.  But what of the social democratic systems that have provided the high standard of living for so many Western Europeans over the past 50 years?  There is a kernel of Marxist theory buried in those social systems; they found away to integrate it into a capitalist economy.  Johnson is too interested in setting up straw men and then knocking them down with blast after blast of hot air to be bothered with a real critique of socialism.l of Marxist theory buried in those social systems; they found away to integrate it into a capitalist economy.  Johnson is too interested in setting up straw men and then knocking them down with blast after blast of hot air to be bothered with a real critique of socialism.	2003-02-10
US	52186115	R2VTYO3F7R3OH9	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	38	44	N	N	bringing an unfamiliar style to a familiar topic	I looked at a few of the (713) reviews of this book and had the feeling that I was looking at a clash of cultures.  An Anne Tyler novel, this is not.  This is a book about family, which is (I guess) why it caught Oprah's eye.  It is a look into the dark heart of family life, but it isn't particularly melodramatic (except for Alfred's Parkinson's disease).  Hysterical behavior is described in an hilarious fashion that leavens the sadness, embarrassment and shame that you feel for the character.  Or rather, that I felt for the characters.  <br />If you cannot relate to these characters then either you had a nice wholesome family life (lucky you) or you are in complete denial about the dysfunctionality of your family life (which, in my experience, seems more likely).  Franzen never really describes what any of the Lamberts look like and yet I found myself creating images of them in my mind based on people I know (or knew).  This, I feel sure, is his intention rather than some sort of oversight.  Anyone who believes that Jonathan Franzen has no writing style has a pretty limited idea of what \\"writing style\\" means.  Among those 713 reviews here are readers condemning him for having too much style, not enough and none at all.  Hmmm.<br />I didn't like any of the Lamberts.  I felt badly for them and knew that they were not bad people, but they are not the kind of people that I would enjoy hanging around with.  If one of your requirements of enjoying a novel is that at least one of the main characters should be likeable, then don't spend $15 on this one.  Probably the most sympathetic person in this book might have been Gitanas, the Lithuanian UN ambassador/\\"crimelord\\".  At one point he jeers Chip because his cigarette burns are self-inflicted, while Gitanas's own were received during secret police inquisitions.  Chip and Gitanas are presented as döppelgangers (in the east/west sense that you find in the film The Double Life of Veronique).  In the East they get you from the outside and in the West they drive you to do it to yourself.  Who are \\"they\\"?  \\"They\\" are bourgeois establishment.   In this book \\"they\\" are represented by Gary's Old Main Line wife Caroline, the Axon Corporation, the Wrouth brothers and a variety of other characters who make decent people live lives full of shame.<br />Shame is the overriding theme in this novel.  The Lamberts are at heart good people who just want to play by the rules and lead successful lives by doing so.  But the world keeps telling them that they are missing out by being such goody-two-shoes.  All of the second generation of Lamberts are drawn into lives and acts that are wholesale transgressions of their parents' values.  Chip is a post-modern theorist and descends into a living hell when he begins to live out his transgressive ideas.  Denise is quite confused about her sexuality.  Gary is consumed by WASP-envy and is a complete materialist.  Enid lives a life consumed by envy as she grows older surrounded by contemporaries who have not played strictly by the rules and have been rewarded with material wealth.  Alfred clings desperately to an antique idea of propriety that is so out of step with the world around him that he is driven deeper and deeper into emotional isolation.<br />The Corrections referred to in the title are numerous.  All of them conspire to reward the moral uprightness that has served as both a beacon and an albatross to the Lamberts.  The correction to the financial markets that occurred after  the summer of 2000 is the most obvious one and because all the events in the book lead up to it, it has an almost Biblical feeling of being an act of God to reward the righteous.  <br />The temporal structure of this book is also fascinating.  The narrative consists of long segments devoted to one member of the Lambert clan.  You are allowed into the mind of each of them one at a time.  Each segment begins in the past and leads you through that person's life toward an event that you have already seen from another family member's point of view, and then advances the overall narrative another step.  In this way you witness meetings between the Lamberts from several points of view and experience those meetings from the perspective of one character at at time.  This allows you to understand what a mystery each is to the other.  This is a brilliant literary device for showing the reader how much better life would be if family members actually talked to one another, rather than operating on extrapolations from information received from secondary sources and your memory of what motivated that person when you knew them years ago during your shared homelife.<br />So, readers looking for a heartwarming saga of suffering and redemption are not going to get what they want out of this novel.  This is a novel about how things are, not how they ought to be.  At the end of this novel everything has not been worked out, but neither is everything in ruins.	2002-12-18
US	52186115	R3QI1B206MV8WJ	0156007436	125201320	The Confessions of Mycroft Holmes	Books	4	5	5	N	N	family and place; blood and water	This is a book about quite serious matters written in a very light style.  I found that I had to keep slowing myself down to savor the author's style, even though the odd events that unfolded made me want to rush along to figure out what was going on.<br />Damien March is a rather miserable person and not particularly heroic in any regard, but is still quite likeable.  You root for him.  His name would seem to refer to the Hesse novel about the character with the &quot;mark of Cain&quot;, someone who is simply ill-starred.  Theroux seems to be suggesting in this book that not knowing who you are can make you miserable.  You may at first believe that his status as an American raised in Britain is what gives him this fish-in-somebody else's-water feeling, but it turns out to be more intriguing than that.<br />I believe that Marcel Theroux has been influenced by his father's writing.  This book is in a way an oblique commentary on the elder Theroux's My Other Life, in which he fictionalizes his own biography in a wry way that is by turns self-effacing and self-inflating.  I also thought that both authors had the tendency to write relatively unstylized passages that serve to join together densely crafted intervals.  The former move the narrative forward, while the latter are what convey the deeper ideas embedded in the narrative.<br />One of the subthemes of Marcel Theroux's novel is the nature of the creative process; how do writers take information from the world around them and make it into fiction.  What is real in a ficitional story and what is made up?  Are their truths about the author even in the made-up portions?  Another important subtheme is the nature of family relations (the complications of the procreative process).  These two subthemes are related via their common element of confusion over the difference between truth and fiction, and its consequences.<br />This is a deceptively dense book.  The plot itself is necessarily kept rather simple in order to make room for the layers of subtext that are much more the point of the novel.  Bolder than Mandingo, indeed.	2002-10-04
US	52186115	R3JMMN0J7UCW6	0684808730	736554141	Flowers in the Dustbin: The Rise of Rock and Roll, 1947-1977	Books	4	3	5	N	N	one wise old guy's view	...<br />This whole book is obviously one man's perspective and I didn't agree with all of it, but I respect Miller's choice of emphases and do understand his feeling that rock \\"died\\" a long time ago. His is a thesis that is at least internally consistent and does seem to hold together, although admittedly he is free to cherry pick the rock \\"historical moments\\" that make it thesis work.<br />Any reader is going to find points of disagreement here. I always heard that \\"Rocket 88\\" was the first real rock song and I had never even heard of Wynonie Harris. I would have thought that the British blues-rock scene would have merited a little more attention. I would have teased the Deadhead readers about the bloated excess of their idols after about 1973.<br />Most of all I would have given a lot more attention to the downtown New York scene of the mid to late 70s that included the New York Dolls, Neon Boys/Television, the Ramones, Blondie, Patti Smith, Talking Heads and so many other bands and personalities. These people invented punk music and also revitalized rock music. There was an enormous underground music scene throughout the late 70s, through the 80s and into the early 90s wherein music was issued by independent labels, played on college radio stations and listened to in small clubs all around the United States. Different college towns successively took centerstage and one or two of their local bands went richocheting onto the national scene, only to be gobbled up by the corporate music industry (R.E.M. is exhibit A) or to implode as their music-first principles collided with corporate unit-moving \\"principles\\" (too many examples to mention).<br />Where Miller sees one long arcing rise and then an inexorable decline, I see shorter-term cycles. The music industry that we live with right now seems very much like the one that existed between Elvis's induction into the Army and the arrival of the Beatles in the US. Record-making companies hold the reins and one-hit wonders of minimal musical talent make insubstantial music that challenges nothing except perhaps good taste. Miller rightly laments the fragmentation of the once-united youth audience, but it possible that the internet may in the near future allow young people to make an end-run around the corporate shibboleth and \\"get together one more time\\".	2002-10-04
US	52186115	R2C0FW524OZ1VN	0385495951	354039794	Irish America: Coming Into Clover	Books	4	7	7	N	N	looking over a four-leaf clover	A lot of the reviewers here have remarked how surprised they were to see themselves and their families in Maureen Dezell's synoptic view of Irish culture in &quot;America&quot; (including Canada?).  I have to join these reviewers in saying what a revelation this book was to me.  There is Irish blood on both sides of my family and I am also somewhat active in the local Irish-American community, so I see a lot of the type of behavior that she describes, particularly the cheerful bleakness in outlook (&quot;It could all go wrong tomorrow, but we'll be all right ... probably.&quot;) and the careful &quot;chopping down of the tall wheat&quot; (as I am told the Australians say).<br />When I was growing up we thought of the Italians members of the extended family as having discernible &quot;culture&quot; and it was tacitly assumed that the Irish relatives were just &quot;normal Americans&quot;; Ms. Dezell points out that this is the general condition in Irish America.  It is not so much that the Irish are ashamed of their heritage (although sometimes they are), but more that they don't see any reason to make a big deal about it most of the time, so each generation takes more and more of the family character for granted.  The Irish have a tendency to stick together in neighborhoods and in social organizations, and I can testify to the fact that they seem to unconsciously gravitate toward one another in a crowd, drawn together by their shared suspicion about putting on airs or taking an occasion too seriously.  These reasons, and their enormous numbers, enable them to forget that they are in fact a distinct ethnic group.<br />Ms. Dezell's book pulls aside the curtain (lace or otherwise) that hides all these quirks, traits and folkways and reveals the Irish character in all its cacophony of paradoxes, engimas, aggravations and delights.  I subtract one star from my rating because Ms. Dezell comes dangerously close to being an Irish-American apologist on several topics, particularly racism, but also when examining the issue of drinking and the role of women in the culture.  She also tends to repeat herself a bit too often for my taste.  I believe that she is merely trying to drive home her points, but I noticed it.  And, true to my ethnic roots, I can be pretty cranky sometimes.	2002-09-21
US	52186115	R2BF87ZMKJWIJE	0060987324	831264929	Girlfriend in a Coma	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a sense of glowing in the aftermath	Douglas Coupland has written a passion play or at least he has borrowed a lot of elements from this medieval art form.  Passion plays are the story of Christ's suffering on the cross, his journey through the Hell in the three days before he rises again.  In Girlfriend In A Coma a Vancouver teenager named Karen has visions of an apocalyptic future and in December 1979 plunges into a coma.  Her five friends subsequently and perhaps consequently lose their ways in life; all of their lives become versions of Hell.  Seventeen years later on All Saints Day (Nov. 1, 1997)  Karen awakes to a very different world where he carefree, fun-loving high school friends have been transformed into harried, depressive, drug-abusing shadows.<br />Hovering over all of this is Jared, a friend from the same high school who, a year before Karen went into a coma, died of leukemia at 16.  Jared's angelic presence introduces the book in a brief preface, speaking to the reader from the \\"end of the world\\", a total depopulated planet.  The first third of the book is then told largely from the point of view of Richard, Karen's boyfriend.  This is largely the story of the night of the coma and 17 years that come after.  Coupland tells the story in image-packed vignettes that include his trademark commentary on consumerism, contemporary vanity and the spiritual emptiness of modern life. <br />After Karen wakes up you intially think that you will get primarily her point of view, but Coupland does not hold to so formal an exercise.  The second third of the book is largely given over to Karen's reactions to how \\"hard\\" every one and every thing has become in the future.  She has been asleep for 17 years so she sees what is around her through fresh, unjaded teenage eyes.  Coupland's commentary on life in the 1990s is very damning and frankly spot on from my point of view.  But then I am the same age as Mr. Coupland.  Karen is shocked at how worn out and run down every one seems in spite of all of theirelectronic devices to increase their efficiency.  She is appalled that 'increased efficiency' has been put up on such a pedestal.  And upon finding out that Hamilton and Pam are heroin addicts at 34, her reaction is \\"They're awfully old to be on drugs.\\"<br />It is the last third of the book that is most likely to throw most readers.  In the final pages of Generation X, oh so many years ago, one of the protagonists is driving through the desert and thinks he sees a mushroom cloud in the distance.  His reaction is a mixture of horror and resignation, but it turns out only to be a sandstorm.  In Girlfriend In A Coma, it is not just a sandstorm.  It isn't a nuclear attack either.  Instead it is like something out of the Old Testament.  The six friends (and Karen and Richard's daughter; long story) are finally the only people left on Earth.  Jared comes to visit them and tells them that they have been chosen to have special role in the redemption of humankind.  This final third of the novel is narrated by Jared.  This is, as most people have complained, the weakest part of the novel.  You have no idea why these people have been singled out.  For about 200 pages you have seen no singular behavior from any of them; they have seemed like incredibly typical middle-class suburban white kids who can't seem to grow up.  For Coupland to put the fate of humankind in the hands of such people is a cruel, depressed joke.  But it is kind of a funny joke if you have the stomach for existential bleakness on a global scale.<br />So this is a rough ride.  It isn't 'sci-fi' as some people have claimed, since there is virtually no science involved at all.  It isn't really 'fantasy' in the usual sense either, which usually borrows more from pagan tradition than Christianity.  Instead this is a parable, a story that hopes to impart a lesson.  He is mixing the passion play story together with the apocalyse story which some might regard as a bit sloppy.  Coupland very much goes over the top, but then we should all be used to his odd mixture of under- and overstatement.  Post-modern readers might not like being told \\"shape up or else\\" by someone that they thought was \\"one of them\\", but that's what is going on in this novel.  More power to him.	2002-07-08
US	52186115	R1E4JYN0AZ373E	0809322315	320205272	Germany, Third Edition: A Short History	Books	4	9	9	N	N	terse and readable	I recently plowed through Davies's enormous Europe and enjoyed it immensely.  He knit together the stories of the various European countries, but necessarily could not focus on any one.  Donald Detwiler's book is a good next step for someone curious about the individual countries, but without the time or patience to read a detailed, multivolume work<br />A Short History is written in the same concise, clear fashion as Davies' book.  True to its name it rushes through two thousand years of history in just over 200 pages.  This is a political history; wars receive a paragraph, social movements get a sentence unless, like the Reformation, they are important to political changes.  There are a lot of names and genealogies here and some German terms are either defined once and obliquely or not defined at all, but you can look them up somewhere else or not worry about them.<br />The most important thing that I took away from reading this book was an understanding of the relationship between liberalism and nationalism in the history of the Germans and how it differs from the evolution of these movements in Britain and France.  The failure of the liberal cause to take root in Germany after the revolution of 1848 seems to have been the main reason that Europeans and Americans had to fight two world wars.<br />A less important lesson that I took away is an understanding of German regionalism.  Central Europe remained divided into tiny fiefs, duchies, grand duchies and kingdoms right into the 19th century.  Their shifting patterns of allegiances have always mystified me, but I now believe that understand at least vaguely the nature of their economic and cultural interrelationships.<br />This would be a very good textbook to accompany a class on Germany history.	2002-07-05
US	52186115	R313TMO9QA2PG0	068482471X	877375023	DARWIN'S DANGEROUS IDEA: EVOLUTION AND THE MEANINGS OF LIFE	Books	4	1	3	N	N	dense and challenging, and mostly worth the slog	I am not particularly interested in the evolution of consciousness per se.  Consequently I found the first two parts of this book quite fascinating and could barely make myself finish the last third.  Dennett is a good writer, but I found him to be clearer and more entertaining when he was in territory where he did not feel completely comfortable, which is to say biology.  In the first two-thirds of the book Dennett describes the mechanism of natural selection and systematically outlines the many criticisms of natural selection as the primary engine of evolution.  <br />He more or less agrees with everything that Richard Dawkins has ever written; Dawkins comes up again and again through out the book.  An entire chapter is devoted to the ideas of Stephen Jay Gould, who is praised for his eloquence, but portrayed as going a bit overboard.  Gould and Lewontin &quot;Spandrels of San Marco&quot; essay gets a lot of attention and frankly I thought that Dennett rather missed the forest for the trees in his analysis of that work.<br />Dennett is very good at devising code words for concepts that he refers back to repeatedly.  One of the central ideas of the book is the distinction between &quot;skyhooks&quot; and &quot;cranes&quot;.  Natural selection is a crane; it builds complex structures in small steps over long periods of time without any help from a deus ex machina.  &quot;Intelligent design&quot; is a skyhook; it requires a supernatural intervention in order to provide an explanation for the origin of life and the development of various complex structures.  Skyhooks, in short, are cop-outs.  Dennett provides many other more subtle examples of skyhooks versus cranes.<br />The last third of the book returns to a subject that Dennett apparently presented in greater detail in his book Consciousness Explained (which I have not read).  The evolution of consciousness by means of natural selection is of great fascination to Dennett and, I guess,  a lot of people.  Of some interest to me was Dennett's discussion of why linguists like Noam Chomsky are doubters of the power of natural selection.  Apparently Chomsky cannot figure out how natural selection could have evolved a brain with language capability, so he reaches for a skyhook and moves on. <br />The artificial intelligence (AI) community wants to create a machine that is essentially conscious, so they are interested in how consciousness evolved.  Dennett insists that one must cling to natural selection as the mechanism that produces consciousness in order to successfully develop an intelligent machine.  If you are interested in this stuff, then maybe you will read it more carefully than I did.<br />On the whole, however, this book is well worth reading.	2002-06-14
US	52186115	R22LS6I4D70WYT	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	3	5	6	N	N	not serious in the end	There was a time back in the mid 90s when this book first came out in paperback when I couldn't seem to go anywhere without running into a colleague who was reading this book.  That struck we as ironic, since I am a scientist and this book is virulently anti-science and anti-technology.<br />Smilla's mother seems to represent a sort of aboriginal virtue while her father represents the decadence of civilization.  Smilla is split right down the middle, which leaves her exactly nowhere.  She is the ultimate outsider, at home in neither the frozen wilderness of her mother's homeland nor the swishy cocktail-party universe of her father's world (he is a famous surgeon).  I suppose that Hoeg wanted Smilla to represent all of us in some way.  Her mother is our \\"good\\" pre-industrial self and her father is our \\"bad\\" technological self.  I am told that Mr. Hoeg is fond of walking the winter streets of Copenhagen in his bare feet on occasion.  He is an eccentric and perhaps even a crank with a axe to grind.  He is, however, also a very good writer.<br />He apparently also isn't all that fond of his reading public.  This book would seem to me to be a send-up of both the mystery and thriller genres, the two genres that are consumed by the largest slice of the reading public.  He is really making fun of that audience by giving them a mystery that doesn't have much of a resolution and a thriller that has all the plot elements of one of those silly movies that they (used to) make fun of on Mystery Science Theater 3000.<br />So the book ends up being frustrating because Hoeg can't really seem to help writing well and yet the structure and plot of the book are essentially a joke.  Oh, and the movie was even worse, although I liked seeing Copenhagen in a film for the first time.	2002-01-23
US	52186115	R2IQ5A6KRJBPN7	014028902X	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a Greek idyll with tortoises	I read this book with a certain amount of jealousy. Like Durrell I had a childhood fascination with animals and Nature in general. Unlike Durrell I did not come from a leisure-class family and my mother would not have allowed me to revive heat-struck water snakes in the bath tub.<br />This is a very funny book and it is related in a very dry tone of voice. Durrell succeeds in limiting the narrative to the perspective of a 10 year old boy. His older sister Margo remains an object of derision throughout the book and the young Durrell seems to have had no interest in or respect for 'girl stuff'. He is the perfect little Edwardian naturalist; you can just seem him poring through his big thick references books to try to figure exactly what insect he's got in his jar of alcohol. The book is filled with Wodehousian eccentrics including his entire family, but also other ex-patriate Brits (Theodore and Mr. Kralkefsky) and Spiro, the mountainous cab-driver and unofficial island potentate.<br />Each chapter is fairly self-contained and the book is organized as a seasonal precession. One of the most memorable chapters, and the one that most approaches the level of literature, is Durrell's initial encounter with one of his many tutors, Mr. Kralkefsky. This chapter has the least to do with natural history and includes an almost surreal passage about Gerry's encounter with his tutor's mother. There really isn't a dull moment in this book, however, with elder brother 'Larry' Durrell fairly consistently serving the purpose of a sort of Bertie Wooster-with-brains figure. One particularly funny comic device is Durrell's description of the arguments between Larry and his mother over where the family should live. The chapters always end with his mother's adamant refusal to accept her son's suggestions, but things never come off as expected. The chapter on the final dinner party on the island is a comic tour de force.<br />More than any other book I have read, this narrative made me wantto visit the Greek islands. I only hope that some remanant of the natural and pastoral landscape that Durrell describes remains on Corfu.	2002-01-07
US	52186115	R37NA6TVMNV9C2	0312283091	36589650	Class Dismissed: A Year in the Life of an American High School, A Glimpse into the Heart of a Nation	Books	4	10	15	N	N	rings true to me	Four years ago I began teaching college students after being in the world of research and graduate students for 15 years.  I experienced culture shock; it seemed obvious to me that my students had not had the same high school experience that I had had.  My sister listed to my mystified stories and gave me this book for my birthday.  It was a big help.<br />Like these students I went to an urban high school with a significant minority population, largely African-American at the time (the mid 1970s).  However, we did not have &quot;tracking&quot; in our school system.  I am a white male from a middle class family and I did well in school.  I was placed in class after class with students who (if, for example, it was an English class) could not read at their grade level.  At the time I found this frustrating.  Instead of actually reading Native Son, for example, we read a 'teleplay' of Native Son.  Looking back on the experience, however, I have seen the wisdom of putting students of varying academic ability together; it developed my empathy for people with backgrounds that were different from my own.<br />Meredith Maran's book is at its best when she simply reports what is going on inside of Berkeley High School.  When she gets out her soapbox and starts trying to address the larger societal issues that are influencing the events at BHS she quickly bogs down.<br />That none of the three students whom she profiles live in Berkeley is quite beside the point.  I don't remember if a number is provided, but it seems that a significant percentages of BHS students come from other parts of the East Bay.  I also do not believe that any of these students will be embarrassed in the future by the way they come off in this book.  All of them make mistakes and there are discrepancies between what they profess to believe and what they actually do, but that is just the way people are when they are young.  Some people never grow out of that, but I suspect that these three will.  You finish the book believing, no matter what their academic abilities and regardless of their various mistakes, these are decent human beings.<br />What you might have a harder time believing is that they are better human beings because they went to Berkeley High School.  Maran is quite merciless when exposing the failures, inconsistencies and wrongheadedness of the various teachers, teaching techniques, administrative policies and administrators.  There is a glaring contrast between the AP and the Communication Arts and Sciences (CAS) classes.  There are different students and there are different expectations.  The shining beacon of integrity is Mr. McKnight, the African American studies teacher.  He makes tough rules and enforces them calmly and completely while treating the students with the utmost respect.  Maran spends little time describing his classroom, but it stands in stark contrast to the laissez-faire chaos of CAS and the stern sarcasm of Mr. Miller's AP African-American lit class.<br />Some have complained that the well-to-do white liberal parents do not come off very well in this book.  This is true, but I'm afraid they deserve it to some extent.  It seems unlikely that very many of them had a high school experience analogous to the one that they are idealistically putting their own children through.  Their hearts are in the right place, but they have no personal experience with which to understand what is going on at the school, so they try to &quot;help&quot; the school by simply putting their ideals into action.  Anyone who has been on the receiving end of this kind of empathy-free &quot;help&quot; has felt the resentment that rises up in you.  It is likely being told by someone who has never smoked that you shouldn't have any problem quitting because it is so bad for you.  Yeah, thanks.<br />I can take or leave Maran's five &quot;solutions&quot; for the problems that she has observed at BHS.  They all seem like worthwhile places to start discussion of the issues.  For instance, her first suggestion is to abolish private schools as a way of improving public schools.  I personally feel that this is ridiculous, but I wouldn't mind defending why I thought so and I do think that it is constructive to put such a radical suggestion in print.	2001-12-17
US	52186115	R3RZUVZZGESHD0	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Lucid and strident	I am afraid that Prof. Dawkins will win no converts to &quot;Darwinism&quot; with this book.  He is a strident writer who expresses little patience with those who cling to religious dogma.  The audience for this book is those among us who would tend to want to have a materialistic explanation for biotic phenomena, but have not been lucky enough to get lucid instruction in the philosophical underpinnings of the theory.  Dawkins gives you just that, with a sense of humor thrown in for good measure.  He is a little more fond of strawmen than I would like, but he uses them as rhetorical devices and makes no effort to conceal the fact that they are strawmen and not fleshed-out representations of opposing positions.<br />Some readers might be put off by Prof. Dawkins' rather shrill put-downs of the ideas of some of his fellow evolutionary biologists.  In most cases, however, these cutting remarks are balanced by compliments elsewhere, which leads me to believe that he is doing some serious kidding around to make the narrative interesting and to honestly express his passion about the topic.<br />I felt that Prof. Dawkins made a very strong argument against the necessity for an intelligent designer behind the production of biological complexity.  His primary emphasis is on the role of cumulative changes in the development of complex structures.  The &quot;ID&quot; crowd understand neither the primacy of natural selection in the evolution of complex structures nor do they really understand how history is different from the mere passage of time.  As many playful potshots as Dawkins takes at S.J. Gould, they are both on the same side on this topic.	2001-12-12
US	52186115	R12WD1XDWT0XCM	013583659X	29288461	The Miner's Canary: Unraveling the Mysteries of Extinction	Books	3	2	3	N	N	canary's song a little flat	This is a reasonable book for someone who knows nothing about the history of extinctions, or evolution and historical geology, in general.  Eldredge takes great pains to describe the phenomenon of extinction (background and mass) in the most popular terms possible.  He also tries to inject some humanity into his narrative by introducing ideas and their originators at the same time.  This is a game effort, but the scientists never really become more than names to the reader.  One of Eldredge's goals is to introduce the absolutely uninitiated to the idea that Homo sapiens is not responsible for most extinctions in Earth history.  For readers still hazy about the fact that our genus is only about 3.5 million years old and that life has been around for at least 3.5 billion years, this is a good lesson to pound across.  For everyone else it will seem like a dogged repitition of the obvious.  When one finished reading this book extinction will definitely be a lot less mysterious, but I don't think it will have been made much more interesting.	2001-11-06
US	52186115	R2G6QHADREO8FJ	0252724410	803978681	Geology of the Great Lakes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a dated but readable overview	This book falls somewhere between a science text and a popular science book, probably falling closer to the former.  However it is a concisely written textbook that dwells at greatest length on the Pleistocene history of the lakes as it was understood in the early 1950s.  Hough's work revises the literature from the late 19th century and the first half of the 20th century and presents some of the early carbon-14 dates for the moraines.  It is important to keep in mind that all of these dates have been revised because it was discovered in the 1970s that C-14 is not produced at a constant rate in the upper atmosphere.  Hough actually tries to relate the terrestrial record of moraines and lake sediments to the deep-sea record, which was pretty progressive for his time.  However, the O-18 record of deep sea carbonate that serves as a proxy indication of global ice volume had not been published when Hough was writing.<br />So this text has to be read with caution.  Many of the conclusions are probably out of date.  However, Hough includes a lot background information about the bedrock geology and the limnology of the lakes that is quite useful and has probably not been as drastically revised as the Pleistocene sediment record.  It is the chronology of the Pleistocene record that has been revised; Hough's relative sequence of events has probably only been changed in the details.  He devotes a chapter to the history of each lake basin (although Huron and Erie are treated together) and admits that lake-to-lake correlation of events was still unclear. <br />A very useful feature of this text is the large number of nicely drawn figures and maps.  The older maps and figures tend to be black &amp; white and less full of fussy obscuring details, so they are very useful for teaching.	2001-10-05
US	52186115	R1SEH2VWEPVRH1	0582278171	262715759	The American Irish: A History	Books	3	28	31	N	N	reporting the facts	This book needed a better editor. Professor Kenny is allowed to repeat himself constantly. In his introduction he apologizes in advance for the number of statistics that he will present in the book. He then proceeds to provide a moderate number of statistics three or four times, sometimes in subsequent paragraphs. This is merely mildly irritating.<br />A more irritating habit of the author's is to provide a selection of analyses of a particular historical or cultural question and then provide a very lame summary or feint at providing his own analysis without writing anything of substance. For example, he brings up the question of &quot;Why do the Irish have such an alcohol problem?&quot;, sketches out various other scholars' theories about this cultural phenomenon, &quot;straightens out&quot; some misunderstandings (e.g., they don't drink more, they drink differently (!?)) and you finish the section having no idea why alcholism is prevalent in Irish culture.<br />Professor Kenny is fine at reporting the facts (especially if you need to be told more than once). I finished this book knowing a great deal more about the &quot;what&quot; and the &quot;where&quot; of Irish Americana, but very little more about the &quot;why&quot;. Aside from these basic complaints I would say that this is a book worth reading. Kenny arranges his book chronologically, beginning in the 18th century, well before the Famine diaspora. He makes an explicit effort to explain the relationship between largely &quot;Scotch-Irish&quot; immigrants from Ulster of the 18th and earliest 19th century and later largely Catholic immigrants from Munster and Connacht. The Ulster people had been in Ireland less than 200 years before they uprooted themselves and moved on; their identification with Ireland was considerably weaker than that of emigrants from Munster and Connacht. The appellation &quot;Scotch-Irish&quot; was invented in the US by the Ulster people in order to distinguish themselves from the famine Irish, who were altogether more destitute, culturally distinct (different folkways), not to mention Catholic.<br />There is a great deal of information in this book. It is simply not all that well presented or analyzed. It is understandable that it be sold as a textbook; the analysis can perhaps take place in the classroom after the reading. As I read this book out of curiosity and not as a reading assignment, it is now up to me to find more critical books to supplement the basic knowledge that this book provides.	2001-09-25
US	52186115	R18CD8C532IRSS	0195209125	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	5	15	16	N	N	the whole nine yards: comprehensive and comprehensible	I don't think that I would recommend this book to a person who knows nothing about European history.  Davies' telegraphic style inserts a lot of names, locations and events without telling the reader why any of them are significant.  He assumes that his reader either has either some foreknowledge of Europe's history or has the curiosity and motivation to look these things up elsewhere.  To me this represents an admirable refusal to condescend to his readers.<br />For me this overview of European history served to connect up isolated areas of more detailed knowledge that I had of certain periods, persons and places.  I found myself repeatedly muttering &quot;Aha.  So that's why ...&quot;.  In addition, Davies (usually in his 'boxes') has enough attention to detail to explain odd but intriguing things like how historical events caused certain cheeses in different regions to be similar.  He also fulfills his initial promise to give eastern Europe more attention.  I learned a great deal about Russia and the area around the Black Sea from this book and now understand much more about the Asian influence on Europe's history.<br />It is not possible to put a 'definitive' history of Europe in one volume, even one of over 1,000 pages.  This book is more of an abstract of European history in the same sense that Darwin considered On the Origin of Species to be an abstract of his ideas on the mechanisms of evolution.  Davies' book should serve to incite its readers to read further in European history and to guide that reading in such a way as to make it more efficient and informed.  Having read this book I feel I can now sit down to a volume on, say, the medieval history of Denmark and when outside players exert influence on the internal politics and culture of the region they will not seem so deus ex machina.  Another real boon of this book is the enormous Appendix III, which includes pages and pages of maps and tables, to which I think I will quite often refer in the future.<br />Finally, I must commend Davies for his incredibly readable prose.  This material has the potential to be quite dry, but the terseness and clarity of the author's style makes the text quite transparent; you are almost never distracted from your absorption of the continuous stream of information that he presents.  His chapters contain subthemes which are adhered to with discipline.  He will follow a theme through a portion of the time period covered by the whole chapter and then double back in time to follow the next theme through the same period before moving on with the overall chronology.  This structure allows the reader who is not particularly interested in, say, the history of the Church, to skim a bit before resuming one's absorption in the unfolding of European history.<br />I am looking forward to reading his book on the British Isles.	2001-07-30
US	52186115	R3KEO7FPD44T9L	0140012664	411353234	The Bafut Beagles	Books	4	11	11	N	N	the end of the old Africa?	This book was published in 1954 and I guess that the actual collecting trip must have been in the late 40s.  The Africa presented here is a weird mixture of Hollywood movie and anthropological journal.  Durrell is quite respectful of the Africans and their culture, but this doesn't prevent him from sitting down and getting repeatedly sloshed with the local king.  On the one hand, Durrell never refers to the people of Bafut as savages or anything overtly pejorative, but the 'Bafut beagles' of the title refers to both the mongrel dogs that help him to collect animals and the Bafut hunters themselves.  He recounts telling off the hunters for being superstitious, but he never comes close to stereotyping these people.  He communicates with the people of Bafut in pidgin English, which is at first a bit difficult to read, but after you get used to its conventions, makes a lot of sense.<br />Durrell's affection for Africa, its people and the animals that live there permeate this narrative.  I am left wondering how similar or different Cameroons is 50 years later.  The descriptions of the landscapes and the various animals that are collected contain just enough detail for you to form a picture in your mind, but not so much as to make the picture too literal and therefore somehow limited.<br />I believe that this was Durrell's first book.  If so, I can imagine that he won an immediate audience for his subsequent books if only because his self-description is so winning.  He presents himself in a classic Edwardian combination of self-deprecating humor, occasional bumbling, eccentricity, earthiness, but finally practicality and capability.  I grew to like him more and more as the book progressed and look forward to meeting him again in later books.  He returns to Bafut with his wife in A Zoo In My Luggage.	2001-06-11
US	52186115	R2WOP8HVEJWDGC	0374525056	453697093	The Twenty-Seventh City: A Novel	Books	5	41	47	N	N	trouble in the heartland	This was one of those books that kept me up at night.  The story was very involving and Franzen's technique of alternating narrative perspectives among a large cast drew me on.  I would look at the first line of the next chapter or sub-asterisk and feel compelled to find out what was going on with that character.<br />I live in a city that is smaller than St. Louis, but the social stratication, economic segregation, and political altercations were all quite familiar.  I was not particularly surprised to read the disbelieving reaction of a reviewer from St. Louis (&quot;this is not my town!&quot;).  Franzen pre-zinged her by building up to an election that no one apparently cared about.  You spend first 7/8 of the book being led to believe that the whole city is in an uproar about the &quot;reign&quot; of S. Jammu, only to have the election show that the county/city consolidation issue was only of interest to the players and to the media who were hyping it.  No one else was paying any attention.<br />This is a wickedly funny book, both in the way it deploys broad comic themes like the one above and also in little zingers aimed at various social groups.  Franzen aims most of his barbs at what is presumably his own social milieu: the white suburban uppermiddle to upper class.  But he has some left over for the black middle class and Indian socialists.<br />As has been stated by other reviewers, Franzen is primarily a story teller and secondarily a stylist.  There are, however, similarities between this book and D.F. Wallace's Infinite Jest.  One obvious similarity is the epic scope.  Another is the multi-personal narrative.  The scathingly critical and borderline cynical perspective on politics.  The recurrent dwelling upon the details of substance abuse (although Wallace is much more obsessive).  The selection of an unlikely ethnic group as the source of an anti-American conspiracy.  The occasional passages of pure hallucinogenic description.<br />That Franzen wrote this book in the 80s is impressive.  He saw a lot of stuff coming and yet a lot of the details of the book are charmingly dated (e.g., Probst's delight in the novelty of using a phone in a car).  I found myself wondering what the (surviving) characters were up to today.  I visited St. Louis in 1990 and found the downtown to be a sad and lifeless place (including the Disneyfication of Laclede's Landing).  I hope the 90s were good to it.	2001-06-04
US	52186115	RQJKONO8K1QDA	0394533461	233611554	Clea and Zeus Divorce	Books	4	1	1	N	N	dated, but fascinating	Ah, the 80s.  The last days of the Cold War; people were still frightened of nuclear holocaust.  An entire book could be creditably built around one woman's conviction that a 150 kiloton nuclear bomb will fall on Kennedy Airport on September 10 at 10 p.m.  And a nuclear blast could be compared to the end of a marriage.<br />A lousy marriage.  That is what Clea and Zeus have.  They don't even like each other, but remain infatuated with each other for about 8 years.  They recreate and embellish upon the events of their marriage in their nightclub act, which eventually evolves into a series of television specials.  They become rich and famous by failing to distinguish between entertainment and their own lives.  This is very, very funny stuff.<br />These two spectacularly attractive and talented people have no real friends except for their entourage, which consists of 8 Rhodesians colonials devoted to Zeus's protection, one black South African and one Chinese.  Clea and Zeus are wildly narcissistic people, their own selves shattered by perverse childhood traumas involving their mothers.  They live to perform and are essentially always on stage, barely existing when they are not.<br />The structure of this book is fascinating.  The narrative is spliced up with flashbacks into the youths of Clea and Zeus and into the more recent events that have led up to their final performance and the end of their marriage.  Emily Prager is not a showy writer.  There are some postmodern tricks here: the confusion between the performances and real lives, the narrative disruption, the absurdity of some of the character's identities, the magic realism of their physical abilities.  But there is a real story here and it is a sad and compelling one.	2001-05-21
US	52186115	R75XCEJ8P34WE	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	4	4	N	N	mean on the outside, but honest through and through	I haven't read any of David Sedaris' other books, but I recently saw him read selections from his older books and from unpublished material.  Like a lot of people, I was introduced to him by his appearances on NPR.  I loved his voice immediately and in reading Naked found that when I made myself hear his voice in my head while reading his prose, that this made the material a lot funnier.  His timing and intonation are a significant part of his humor.<br />I felt that his book started off a little slowly.  Perhaps I didn't figure out the trick of hearing his voice until about a third of the way into the book.  In any case, midway through I found that I couldn't put the book down.  I suppose that I had entered his world by then.  His world is that of a nouveau riche suburban family from upstate New York transplanted to Raleigh, North Carolina.  He grew up without material want, but not completely spoiled, as his father forced his kids to go out and work at menial jobs.  The story \\"Dinah, the Christmas Whore\\" is his crassly honest telling of rescuing a co-worker of his sister Lisa's from an abusive incident and bringing her home to their suburban ranch house.  By the time you get to this story you have gotten to know his mother and it is completely believeable that her first reaction to Dinah's appearance is to start mixing the drinks.  Sedaris ends the story by telling us how cool it felt to be the only one on his block entertaining a whore that evening.<br />...The story of his hitch hike from Ohio to North Carolina with his parapelegic friend at first relates how Sedaris and his friend lied to and took advantage of all of their rides.  While he is telling the tale he calls these people 'stupid', but by the end of the story when he is looking back on the trip after receiving a letter from his now born-again friend he confesses that she had already figured out that all those people were simply kind and generous, but that it would take him years to understand that.<br/>Sedaris is now in his early 40s.  All of these stories are set in his childhood through his mid 20s.  He is confessing that he was a snotty, confused, erratic young person.  A lot of us were, but choose to remember it less honestly.  And hardly any of us are as funny as David Sedaris.	2001-05-19
US	52186115	R2OZ2LFZ1LX7P	0679602070	401852041	The Education of Henry Adams (Modern Library)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	the bridge between the distant past and near past	Henry Adams managed to become a Modernist late in life.  He was 62 years old at the turn of the century and a bit older when he wrote this memoir and yet his prose is crisp, direct and penetrating like that of Aldous Huxley rather like that of say Charles Dickens.   I found myself re-reading passages of this books immediately after finishing them, purely to admire the beauty of expression.  Adams is epigrammatic, conveying humor and wisdom with economy and an amazing sense of rhythm.<br />The content of this book is fascinating.  His observations of 'New England character' early on are, to my mind, dead on, although it may be so that he actually invented this perspective on New Englanders.  In either case it matches my post-Modern experience of the place and its people.  Adams' insistence on treating all of life's events as either learning experiences or conscious wastes of time is an attitude that I suppose I've always had, but never 'brought to consciousness'.  He is very tough on formal education, but one needs to be or it rapidly becomes a waste of time.<br />His application of the third person to his own self is very effective.  He considers himself to have been essentially a pawn of history because of his pedigree.  His use of this simple literary device detaches the character portrayed from the narrator and has the effect of leaving Adams adrift in the narrative of his own life.  Other reviewers have actually complained that he does not deal with the suicide of his wife in this book.  This is not true.  He pointed stops the chronological narrative immediately before his marriage and picks it up several years later after she is dead.  In a painful but enigmatic passage he describes daily visiting the statue that St. Gaudens designed for her grave and being angry that it has become a tourist attraction.  There is much else expressed there, but I would have to re-read it to understand all of it, but I do know that the sadness is practically palpable on the page.<br />I can not say that I accept his 'law of history' related in the penultimate chapter of the book, but it has made me want to pick up his brother Brooks' book, The Law of Civilization and Decay, that has long sat on my shelf.	2001-05-09
US	52186115	R1AINHK31N6YQT	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	3	2	2	N	N	good notes, but just notes	If I received these chapters as a series of letters from Mr. Bryson, then I would have been quite impressed and enjoyed them a great deal.  I merely enjoyed the read because Mr. Bryson is a very funny guy.  I would probably like to have a beer with Mr. Bryson, actually several, as he seemed to enjoy doing, but I'm not sure that I would like to travel with him.  One thing that I can get quite enough of in a travel book is the I-am-so-inept act.  Mr. Bryson pushes this a little beyond what I have patience for.  He is not, however, a one-schtick pony, which makes his books well within bearable bounds.<br />I myself have been accused of being an Anglophile, although I have only visited England and Scotland a couple of times and never stayed for more than a few weeks.  I have gained an affection for the British through their media (radio, television, magazines) and their literature (I was an English major).  Mr. Bryson's book articulates many, many of the tics, traits and traditions that make the British so lovable and so maddening.  Be prepared for one long valentine to vernacular British culture and its inhabitants.  When Mr. Bryson goes on a negative rant it is almost invariably directed at 'the modern world' rather than anything that is peculiarly British.  There are exceptions to this rule, but these scenes always leave room for the possibility that Mr. Bryson's outrage is in fact caused by his own shortcomings rather than by the focus of his anger and frustration.<br />By moving from the Midwest to England Mr. Bryson went from one culture that does not express emotion all that well to another that isn't exactly known for it.  This is reflected in his narrative.  Whenever he is presented with the opportunity to wax truly and personally rhapsodic he contrives some excuse or deploys some device to avoid it.  This refusal to take that step means that he remains a rung or two below travel writers like Paul Theroux (whom he mentions several times) who deign to bare (whatthey would have you believe is) their own souls in their books.  Mr. Bryson surprised me in his later book on the Appalachian Trail by doing just that a few times.  I look forward to his continued maturation as a writer.  For now I am content to laugh both with him and at him.	2001-05-09
