US	52184435	R2NLDFYAUSKW5E	156478343X	794860679	Mobile (French Literature)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Portrait of America	I couldn't help but notice that there were no reviews, not even professional ones, of this book, and it's too good not to have some description available here.  I first read Mobile in the sixties, in French, and in spite of a failing memory for the language, re-read it recently.  (I'm ordering this translation, too, curious to see how it reads in English)  Written in the era of Rauschenberg and Pop collage, the book is a pastiche, alternating between short, dry notes seemingly made as the writer travels across America, and excerpts, sometimes fascinating, sometimes damning, always revealing, from our own documents.  Audubon's diaries, Sears catalogs, treaties with Indian tribes, billboards, all kinds of quotations are included to create a portrait of the country.  Butor seems to be arguing that only thereby can a likeness be created that is true to our nature.  Mo-BEEL, or mobile:  fragmentary, disjointed, contradictory, hypnotic, always on the move.<br /><br />This wry inventory, although (as is true of all books that quote pop culture) somewhat dated, deserves to be more widely known here.  We Americans are notoriously self-involved;  ever since deToqueville we have been fascinated not only with questions of our own identity but the way foreigners see us, and Butor fulfills that promise with a fascinating interpretation, not sociology but art.  His entries definitely stack the deck--the 60s counterculture flourished in France as well as the U.S., after all-- but this is no easy hatchet job.  The author seems as fascinated by American excesses, lapses and foibles as he is judgmental.  Forget Baudrillard:  this is much more engaging.	2005-09-17
US	52184435	RPEYHTYMKQEA	0142437166	362823749	The Interesting Narrative and Other Writings: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Amazing Primary Source History	Hemingway said of Tillie Olsen's \\"Tell Me a Riddle\\" that, however many readers it may have, it will never have enough. He expressed my feelings about this book. Yes, the \\"Autobiography of Frederick Douglass\\" is critical to achieve an understanding of the obscenities of black slavery in the New World, but Equiano's remarkable account dramatizes it in ways even more diverse. He summarizes in his single life the whole span of slavery, from his kidnapping as a child from Africa to the fiendish brutality of Caribbean sugar plantations. But he is also a celebration of the indomitability of the human spirit at its most resilient: from his insistence, against all odds, on his own worth as a person, his acquisition of seafaring and business skills, his achievement not only of literacy but of an Englishman's 18th century eloquence.<br /><br />I didn't think I could learn more about the particular brutalities of slavery, but I did. An example: in the Caribbean some slavemasters \\"rented out\\" their slaves by the day to other masters for excruciating toil. Their temporary masters sometimes \\"forgot\\" to feed them lunch, and moreover sometimes sent them back to their masters without payment. For retribution, their masters then beat the slaves! This was a new twist for me, and reminded me that the psychological torture--imagining the starved and exhausted slaves returning to their masters, knowing what was awaiting--often outstripped physical torture for cruelty.<br /><br /> But this is no litany of abuses, and Equiano is careful to spare us gratuitous outrages. He lived the equivalent of five or six lives within his timespan, and the book likewise breaks up into episodes: the African years--during which he chronicles a clime of abundant food and privileged childhood; his adventures at sea, serving several captains on mercantile ships that faced enemy fire and perils of every kind; his strivings to buy his freedom in the Caribbean and North America; his conversion to Christianity; and his settling as a freeman in England with marriage to a British wife.<br /><br /> As with most primary source documents, there are lulls in the narrative. The writing about the author as a Christian aware of his \\"sins\\" (he who has so overwhelmingly sinned against) is as familiar as it is ironic. Episodes in the seafaring accounts will be of more interest to afficionados of Melville or Conrad. But what is finally amazing is Equiano's moderation and modesty in describing a most remarkable life. One wonders how many hundreds of thousands of uprooted Africans succumbed to the brutalization and denial of their self-worth for every one who managed to salvage some shred of dignity, but one is nevertheless grateful to Equiano for putting his own example in writing.<br /><br />It is writing for the ages. I wonder whether it should be required reading, for high school students, for example. Perhaps it's a bit too difficult or tedious for everyone in that age group. But at the very least it should be mentioned in the same breath as Douglass's books. I was 62 before I'd even heard Equiano's name.  This remarkable account should be better known.ttling as a freeman in England with marriage to a British wife.  <br /> As with most primary source documents, there are lulls in the narrative. The writing about the author as a Christian aware of his \\"sins\\" (he who has so overwhelmingly sinned against) is as familiar as it is ironic. Episodes in the seafaring accounts will be of more interest to afficionados of Melville or Conrad. But what is finally amazing is Equiano's moderation and modesty in describing a most remarkable life. One wonders how many hundreds of thousands of uprooted Africans succumbed to the brutalization and denial of their self-worth for every one who managed to salvage some shred of dignity, but one is nevertheless grateful to Equiano for putting his own example in writing.  <br />It is writing for the ages. I wonder whether it should be required reading, for high school students, for example. Perhaps it's a bit too difficult or tedious for everyone in that age group. But at the very least it should be mentioned in the same breath as Douglass's books. I was 62 before I'd even heard Equiano's name.  This remarkable account should be better known. <br />	2005-06-28
US	52184435	R1NHRDELDUS64X	1400043662	478155730	Kafka on the Shore A novel	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	Sheherazade eats sushi	Murakami asked his writing class to submit plot twists and characters for a novel, daring them to be as outrageous as possible.  The following list materialized: <br /> <br />A retarded man who can interview cats <br />A 15-year-old who has an affair with a 55-year-old <br />Johnnie Walker, as a murder victim <br />Colonel Sanders, as a pimp <br />Leeches falling from the sky <br />A child who kills his father and marries his mother <br />A transvestite librarian <br />A magical stone <br />A pop song named Kafka on the Shore <br /> <br />He assured the class that he would incorporate them all into a seamless, compelling narrative.  And he did. <br /> <br />Of course that isn't how Kafka on the Shore was written.  But it reads like it, just as The Wind-up Bird Chronicle--my other dip into Murakamania--reads like another continuous, illogical but convincingly vivid hallucination.   <br /> <br />This is Murakami's gift.  He is a vivid realist, describing the sensory and psychological realities of everyday life.  He writes without irony--at least any that can be discerned.  Thus he can make the reader believe, stay attentive and tuned in.  Comparable to Salvador Dali, whose command of 19th century realist devices enabled him to paint convincing melted watches, flaming giraffes and floating crucifixions, Murakami's realism can make the most unlikely events vivid and palpable.  However, the multiple surreal and supernatural elements recall Stephen King--not a good association--in the way King could never seem to confine himself to one supernatural device when three or four could make the plot so much juicier.  And Murikami's elements, like King's, are often unrelated, seemingly trotted in without rhyme or reason.  There is no attempt to define a coherent world beyond the physical one, no supernatural cosmology;  we are given only various hints that reality is porous, and that physical laws can be interrupted in various ways at various times, at the whim of the gods--or the author.   These supernatural events don't build toward any one revelatory or climactic event, however, but are strung together like a necklace.  This, I am inclined to argue, is Murakami's weakness.  But then I had the same trouble with Halldor Laxness' Under the Glacier, which for me seemed eventually to disintegrate--melt?--into a dreamscape.   Kafka, Beckett-even T.C. Boyle in Descent of Man--could build and sustain haunted  quasisurreal worlds.    <br /> <br />But I am not sure of this criticism, that these comparisons are fair. I would suggest that everyone who is an audience for serious literature take a dip into Murakami. A singularity in the Modernist tradition, he represents the non plus ultra in a certain direction.  As with Proust, Joyce, Gertrude Stein, etc. and more recently Handke and Sorrentino, reading him thus allows one to test one's assumptions about reality, literary limits, narrative expectations, emotional involvement, the human willingness to be enthralled by an obvious travesty.   Wallace Stevens once made a statement:   <br /> <br />The final belief is to believe in a fiction, which you know to be <br /> a fiction, there being nothing else.  The exquisite truth is to <br /> know that it is a fiction and that you believe it willingly. <br /> <br />Murakami takes us to that level of self-conscious complicity. He succeeds in giving us the sensation that we are creating the story with him.  By its very meandering, seemingly unfettered outlandishness, his story keeps us self-conscious about our suspension of disbelief, and thus of our active participation in the \\"fiction.\\"  In my experience no one has done that to this extent.   So I can say to the worldly reader:  read Murakami;  you may discover something new about yourself, the mind, the imagination and maybe the possibilities of literature.   And have an enjoyable ride, perhaps, in the process.    <br /> <br />Murakami knows well what he's about, and he shares it with us.  He plants clues.The name \\"Kafka\\" is one.  More to the point, early on the 15-year-old Kafka Tamura himself reads The Thousand and One Nights.  Sheherazade's gift was to keep her auditor enthralled and expectant above all, and this is the author's forte. This book, like Chronicle, is outrageous, self-indulgent, whimsical, highly disciplined and tightly organized.  It has the intense, insistent authority of optimal writing.  Great literature or eccentric entertainment, I couldn't put it down.	2005-06-18
US	52184435	R2FSQSWKCULMN3	0300074409	847842692	No Passion Spent: Essays 1978-1995	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Provocative, eloquent	One need not agree with Steiner to find the essays erudite and provocative.  What greater use of a book than to provide stimulus for ruminations on one's own values and those of the culture?	2004-05-22
US	52184435	R1Y7RTOQ39HSGA	0841478945	749198740	Essays by Robert Louis Stevenson	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Masterly	Disappointingly out of print.  The essay on Walt Whitman is alone worth the price of admission.  In it RLS is led to discuss the art and craft of poetry with surprising lucidity and  characteristic concision.  Also essays on Thoreau, Realism, and &quot;Books which Have Influenced Me&quot; are notable, though not all the essays here are literary.  Lacking a current edition, fans of literature and 19th century eloquence should go for a used or collector's copy of this wonderful compendium.	2004-05-01
US	52184435	R2CBXEMFZ8J5J7	0500017662	217548181	Gauguin's Skirt	Books	4	10	12	N	N	An expanded cultural study of Gauguin	I read this just before reading Rebecca Solnit's &quot;River of Shadows:  Edweard Muybridge and the Technological Wild West,&quot; and the parallels were manifold.  Like hers, this is more than even expanded biography:  it places Gauguin's South Sea quest in a historical and social context, discusses the mythologies of exoticism and primitivism, two cultural phenomena of late nineteenth century Europe, and explores how they contributed to Gauguin's complex and often self-contradictory identity.   Eisenman has taken care to become familiar with Tahitian culture and mores, both then and now, and gives us the locals' views of Gauguin into the bargain.  <br />As a painter, I was intimate with Gauguin's oeuvre and was familiar enough with his life (though I hadn't read Sweetman's definitive biography), and this both extended my understanding of the man and enhanced my enjoyment of the work.  <br />The writer, a polymath with a rather academic style, isn't the compelling writer that Solnit is (hence 4 rather than 5 stars) but his subject is no less fascinating, the challenge of showing his subject simultaneously in the context of fin-de-siecle colonialism and European Modernism no less daunting.  A very interesting approach to understanding a unique artist, one who justifies it totally.	2004-05-01
US	52184435	R1ZWOQABH14GT5	0142004103	616456493	River of Shadows: Eadweard Muybridge and the Technological Wild West	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Much more than Muybridge	I wasn't especially interested in Muybridge, but this book is a good deal more than that.  Though not stinting on detail, Solnit's writing and intellectual abilities provide a grasp of the transformations of time and space that occurred in the past century and a half;  she addresses, and conquers, the challenges of making another age vivid and profound  as has no book I've yet encountered.  &quot;She writes like an angel,&quot; one critic said, and it's quite true;  through her supple and sensitive prose she reflects on Muybridge's life and times, examining them from every angle, and in so doing gives a clinic in how history of any kind may be most richly approached.	2004-05-01
US	52184435	R2659EATTTBZ4B	1585423068	808294084	A Sideways Look at Time	Books	4	56	60	N	Y	A journalistic look at time	This was not the book I had hoped it would be.  It is a good one, but given its title, its chosen subject, it could have reasonably been a terrific one.  Griffiths, perhaps, is too young and extroverted to have selected the more exotic and decisive aspects her subject and spent some, er...time with them.  Perhaps it is a matter of temperament.  Rather than merely outline the manifold ways with which time is conceived in various cultures, she could have inhabited some of the more interesting constructs and helped the reader try them out, experience them.  They are here, in this book--the accounts of peoples for whom past and future are identical, others for whom time is exclusively cyclical, or for whom change itself (as in \\"progress\\") is a negative, rather than a positve value--but the author doesn't tarry long enough to immerse us in these non-Western mind sets, help us to see the cosmos through their eyes.<br />Griffiths is basically a journalist of the chatty, wide-ranging sort hat the British are good at (as with the author of \\"Nathaniel's Nutmeg\\" or the old BBC series \\"Connections\\").  Her methods suggest she had located some gigantic encyclopedia, looked up \\"time,\\"  then followed up all the leads and connections, however tenuous, however founded on mere figures of speech.  The resulting verbal carnival hops through all periods and continents, back and forth, sometimes repetitively, flogging her biases (Western, male, linear time is Bad;  non- or pre-industrial, female, i.e., cyclic, time is Good) ad infinitum and ad nauseum.  Hard to imagine a reader of any stripe not wanting to rise to the defense of our own clock-dominated culture, if only to be contrary.<br />If you dislike puns, stop reading this immediately and look for another book.  Griffiths is positively smitten with them, and moreover with wordplay of all kinds.  The trouble with this penchant is that it too often competes with her very interesting subject, her considerable research into non-Western peoples and their customs.  The book is self-indulgent in the extreme. With all the multiple re-phrasings and digressions, I suspected more than once that the author is used to being paid by the word.<br />With all these caveats, though, this is a rich survey of a fascinating subject by an erudite author.  She tosses off scores of razor-sharp insights without seeming to value them, often crowding them with silliness and pointless asides that dilute her purposes.  Those willing to sift through this compendious book for the strands of gold,  however, will find it quite worthwhile.rn peoples and their customs.   The book is self-indulgent in the extreme. With all the multiple re-phrasings and digressions, I suspected more than once that the author is used to being paid by the word.  <br />With all these caveats, though, this is a rich survey of a fascinating subject by an erudite author.  She tosses off scores of razor-sharp insights without seeming to value them, often crowding them with silliness and pointless asides that dilute her purposes.  Those willing to sift through this compendious book for the strands of gold,  however, will find it quite worthwhile.	2004-04-05
US	52184435	RYHUBB21D217F	0394623614	112728199	Mulligan Stew	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	The mother of all parodies	Yes, it's a bit too long for my taste too (or reading speed?), but Sorrentino, at full gallop, as here, is amazing, constantly surprising, inexhaustibly imaginative and wild.  Hard to imagine a more fiendish sendup of the excesses--the posturings, the vanities, the inanities--of writers, publishers, critics and academics .  For me, out-loud laughs from front to back.  I've so far read &quot;The Sky Changes,&quot; &quot;Little Casino,&quot; &quot;Blue Pastoral&quot; and now &quot;Mulligan Stew,&quot; and this writer is a singularity, always fascinating.  Maybe the brightest and most resourceful American writer alive, but a definite Modernist, Protean, and a man of many forms and styles.	2004-03-18
US	52184435	RWIVQ84YIXAMW	0865470952	950360095	Blue Pastoral	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A Mad Romp by a Major Writer	Read the editorial notes here, all accurate;  I won't repeat them.  <br />This is a great, sprawling, Rabelaisian , self-indulgent joke of a book, a wild carnival ride, a drunken festival of language, from ivory tower to gutter, and written by a polyglot prodigy who makes Thomas Pynchon, T.C. Boyle and David Foster Wallace all seem like tin-eared dullards.  If Sorrentino were English he would be more famous than  Julian Barnes;  if he were French, better known than Georges Perec.  As it is, being American and subject to our culture, Sorrentino has trouble staying in print.  But his work is well worth finding, in whatever form.  <br />I have to wonder how many readers who unabashedly relished this novel were hard put to recommend it to friends.  It is a case of English 101 Meets Mad Magazine.    Yes, it is a send-up of various literary modes, but hardly stuffy or bookish.  Its precursors include Swift and early Beckett and Lawrence Sterne and maybe Machado de Assis. And Twain? Terry Southern?  Its profligate literary variety--any given chapter might be different in style from the last, and a single sentence may morph from Spenser to Lenny Bruce--merely masquerades as authorial self-indulgence;  its seeming logorrhea is in the hands of a precisionist, a miniaturist.  Yet it is self-indulgent, of a kind that many authors must dream of allowing themselves, but precious few could carry off.   It is testament to Sorrentino's craft and wit and discipline that it is a frolic from beginning to end, bawdy, profane, with laugh-out-loud passages, and with some trenchant social and philosophic points along its nihilistic way.   <br />Its humor ranges from one-liner literary puns ( \\"I also serve who only stand and prate.\\"   \\"He e'en bared my seat and greeked me afore blushing nature, so that She stood up and said to all the world, 'This is a can!'\\" ) to convoluted running gags, as with what is presented as a horrendously, hysterically translated French primer, which descends intoa bedroom farce.  Self- reference abounds:  at one point the characters curse the narrator;  at another the narrator re-writes a passage, begging the reader's indulgence.  A botanical compendium stretches from one end of the book to the other, listing supposedly local flora both real and fanciful.  And as with other Sorrentino books I've read so far, there are manifold examples of decidedly heterosexual male proccupations (one meaning of  \\"Blue\\" in the title);  I, admittedly, was happy enough to be complicit in the author's fantasies. <BR>   <BR>But preeminently this is a cascade, an avalanche of words:  an onrushing collision of sounds and textures as much for their own sake as for their place in the (loose) narrative.  This prose is more poetic than most poems (even granting that many chapters take the form of poems), and should be read slowly enough to savor the rich, prolix cornucopia that is Sorrentino's wildly unfettered vocabulary. <BR> <BR>Understandably, this book is a singularity, even within Sorrentino's decidedly variegated literary output.  No one could sustain a career in this self-created genre;  it is a testament to the author's erudition and love of his craft that he could finish a sizeable book in this overstuffed, over-the-top format.   If you love anomolous Modernist or Postmoderist efforts, but dislike the affected, stingy approach of many, this may be for you.  But best read a page or two.  Some of the references are already dated, but in the main the adventures of Helene and \\"Blue\\" Serge Gavotte are still timely, and the topography they travel comically recognizable.	2004-02-17
US	52184435	RSF8LY3UZGCMC	1566891264	641899058	Little Casino	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Little Casino, Big Writer	Where has Gilbert Sorrentino been all my life?  Why have I known about Peter Handke, David Markson, Barry Hannah, Curtis White, and Jeanette Winterson for so long and never heard HIS name before?  Truly a major writer of fierce, rich, trenchant prose and a nuanced sense of the absurd, reminiscent of the Samuel Beckett who wrote &quot;Murphy,&quot; and also an innovator of Joycean, Sterne-ish, deAssis-ian resources.  (Does this mean he is the equal of Joyce? Probably not, but then again, this is my first acquaintance with Sorrentino.) This novel of discontinuous chapters is as memoir-like--a paean to a long-lost Brooklyn--as anything this playful and perverse can be said to be.  Not that it is not also a meditation on death and loss.  Only a considerable writer can have it both ways.  Sorrentino is such, and in me has likely found himself another big fan.   Huzzahs!	2004-01-02
US	52184435	R2G7GH2NVS0ERM	0060524367	287340205	The Middle Mind: Why Americans Don't Think for Themselves	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A rare understanding of art and imagination	I, too, read the Harper's article that inspired this book, and though I was just as perplexed as Patrick O'Kelley by White's vilification of Terry Gross and \\"Fresh Air,\\"  White takes the time in this longer work to make his antipathy very clear.  It is the dumbing-down and leveling of our boldest art with pap entertainment  that infuriates him, and Gross, broadcasting on NPR, which should be insulated from the pressure for public pandering that so afflicts commercial radio and television, seems to do this on a regular basis.  Other examples White advances to illustrate his points are idiocyncratic more often than not, but that doesn't detract a whit from one singular accomplishment of this book of particular interest to me.  White is a novelist of a particularly creative and original stripe (the fact that I've read all his work must mean that I'm a fan), and this qualifies him to speak of something that few intellectuals have discussed with much accuracy, in my opinion:  the identity and function, not only of imagination, but of the arts in society. <br />As an artist and sometime intellectual myself, I have despaired at how many writers on the subject have got it wrong.  Happily, White takes Wallace Stevens as his mentor, and Stevens's pronouncements apply as well to visual and musical as to literary arts.  But to be able to articulate with authority what art is, and does, one must have experienced it, fully and from the inside.  Thus the greater part of White's discussion, I'm sure, comes from his own reflective experience as a novelist, and not only from reliance on the work of other authors and poets. <br />The middle section of the book, discussing in detail the military-industrial technocracy and where it is leading us, I read only dutifully;  I have a hunch this subject has been discussed better elsewhere, and by insiders.  And White's style, a mix of elegant, articulate discussion with conversational asides and profane expletives--something that energizes his novels--is a needless distraction here.   But the Introduction, Chapters 1, 2, and 5 (of 5, all totaled) are brilliant, completely on-target, and worth the highest praise. <br />My only wish is that I could afford to send a copy of White's book to every critic, curator, gallery dealer and endowment administrator alive.  For the \\"Middle Mind\\" lurks in palaces of power in the art world--where you might expect to find those who know better--as well as in government, corporate America, Big Media, and the general populace itself.  Whether it always will is another question;  but Step One is always to define the Problem, and it is done here with great insight.	2003-12-28
US	52184435	R1QHT5MNHXC4GI	0395859964	359077660	The Journals of Lewis and Clark (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Hard to overpraise	The powerful experience of reading this book leads me to search my memory for comparisons.  This was an Event in my literary life, but comparable to what, whom?  Canetti's &quot;Crowds and Power,&quot; Eliot's &quot;Middlemarch,&quot; Shakespeare's plays?  All quite different.  Least Heat Moon's &quot;Blue Highways?&quot;  Unfair to that book to compare.  No, this was a singular experience, unlikely to be repeated in its, or any other, genre.  I want to say it was the most moving and exhilarating tome by any NON-professional writers in memory.<br />Through the diurnal accounts are discerned a spectacular natural panorama, an early American mind-set, an anthropology of native North Americans, and--as  unexpected as they were inadvertent--self-portraits of two temperate, honest and altogether winning protagonists.  Their spelling is atrocious (though we are happy the editor left it uncorrected), but as these were, after all, early 19th century gentlemen, they are characteristically eloquent, in the best sense of that word.<br />All the praise for these Journals is deserved.  One needn't be a particular student of history to appreciate them--they are rewarding on many, many levels.	2003-12-16
US	52184435	R2DEV4EU7ESYQI	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	2	3	13	N	Y	Strained, false-note sitcom	Leery of an Oprah-recommended book, I read the first chapter at a friend's and was nevertheless impressed.<br />Alas. By chapter 2 the false notes began to accumulate at breakneck speed. We are told that the protagonist, Chip, works part-time at proofreading but can somehow afford a doorman building in New York City--in the East Village, where there are few--if any!--doorman buildings. And that this doorman, named Zoroaster, is supposedly savvy enough to call out to Chip as he leaves, \\"Goodbye, Mr. Chip!\\" Chip's parents are presented as midwestern WASPs but read as quintessentially, transparently Jewish. In this desperately overwritten tome, Franzen frantically wants to entertain but can't decide if he's William Gaddis or Woody Allen. Obviously he's neither. The National Book Award has seen far better days.	2003-07-28
US	52184435	R32NWO8MS3N090	0300017103	426664496	In Bluebeard's Castle: Some Notes Towards the Redefinition of Culture (T. S. Eliot Memorial Lectures)	Books	5	62	62	N	N	Optimal Steiner	While reading this book I constantly had to remind myself that it was written in 1970-71, so prescient and prophetic were Steiner's insights.  As a study of Western culture, an investigation into where--and what--we are historically and globally,  it remains absolutely critical reading.  Steiner read right what continue to be the major issues of our time:  the generalized suspicions about the irrelevance of &quot;high&quot; culture when projected against 20th century political atrocities;  the role of literacy in a progressively visual culture;  the increasingly pervasive roles of various forms of music;  the emerging pre-eminence of  &quot;facts,&quot;  of a scientific mind-set and of scientific knowledge in general;   the ethical and intellectual risks posed by the scientific unknowns--to name but a few themes in this dense, richly thought-out essay.  <br />This is a thin book, unlike &quot;No Passion Spent&quot;;  rigorously and earnestly investigatory, unlike &quot;Errata.&quot;  Ironically I came to this book last, but it is by far the most satisfying.  In the former, only one essay, &quot;Archives of Eden,&quot; touches on the large cultural questions examined here, and then more in the form of a rant;  in the latter, what had by then become Steiner's familiar terrain seemed only to have been re-rehearsed, with no substantive new insights.<br />But here is Steiner at his least pretentious (he does have a tendency to flaunt his polylingual capacities), at his most profound and probing.  It isn't easy reading and isn't intended to be.  It has the earmark of a formidable mind investigating its time and space for its own sake, more out of its own curiosity and impulse to understand as of any desire to impress, or advance its host professionally.  <br />Here is Steiner at the same amplitude as an Elias Canetti or a William Irwin Thompson--an encyclopedic generalist discussing  broad cultural questions with command, eloquence and erudition.	2003-07-15
US	52184435	RDV7L226LU06X	3893223754	59121125	Agnes Martin Writings	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	A wonderful voice behind the paintings	How many great painters have been eloquent on their work or methods, or, for that matter, on art or culture in general?  In recent times, only Ad Reinhardt compares with Agnes Martin, who has that rarest of gifts among the non-literary, a voice.  In a series of articles, some of which were apparently talks given to art students, she delves into consciousness, creativity, judgment, personal development, self-assurance, transcendence, meaning, value.  She takes on the big subjects with language that is gloriously unpretentious in a style epigrammatic and occasionally poetic.   <br />Visiting an exhibition of her pencil-grid paintings a few years ago, I experienced the transformative power of her paradoxically simple physical means to create shimmering, magical spaces.  The staying power of that work has inclined me to believe  that she's one of the greatest painters of the second half of the twentieth century.   This book of her writings is a delightful enhancement to that discovery.	2003-07-05
US	52184435	RCL2PHAX13MOA	0767909178	987531359	The Subject Steve: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Very entertaining	Jonathan Swift he ain't. Somehow Lipsyte's satire here is too quirky and contrived to skewer human foibles or fates with any telling resonance.  <br />I will, however, stay tuned--in the future he may find some  story line worthy of his talents.  As to craft, he is master of the one-liner, the joyously lunatic phrase, and the reading itself provided many, many laughs.	2003-07-05
US	52184435	RY1KQOI10GEHB	0300080956	882330281	Errata: An Examined Life	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Dense, Typically Provocative, Worthwhile	Lovers of intellectual autobiography, pounce.  True examples of this genre are scarce, certainly among living writers.  And Steiner's insistence on concision assures that this slim volume won't waste your time.   Typically, even when a theory or two seems wrong (as with his on the underpinnings of anti-Semitism), it can test your own, or stimulate you to more plausible ideas not otherwise occasioned.   <br />The relative dearth of this genre among professions other than the writer's own stuffy vocation is annoying--I treasure Agnes Martin's &quot;Writings&quot; for that reason--but Steiner's eloquence, not to mention the intensity of his passions,  overcomes the familiarity of his perspective.  As has been pointed out in the editorial reviews here, Steiner does not emerge as particularly sympathetic, but then I would rather read him than meet him at a cocktail party, in any case.	2003-07-02
US	52184435	R3318KEISXDT3B	0375701370	477303001	Blizzard of One: Poems	Books	4	0	3	N	Y	Quite, quite fine	Is Strand John Donne?  Hardly.  Is he Yeats?  Alas, no.  But he may be among the very best of living poets, and this has several poems worth re-reading.  <br />I look for more from him of the caliber of  &quot;Keeping Things Whole.&quot;  Until then, this volume is a good consolation.	2003-07-02
US	52184435	R2B1L6XTBYUWHM	031229123X	771410297	Gilligan's Wake: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Laudable to Brilliant	Midway through the first chapter I congratulated myself on a marvelous find:  Carson's loony bin was as funny as his wordplay was riotous.  But alas, the second chapter employed a different narrator and a much less exuberant, less zany style, the third even less so, and so on.  By final count only one other chapter (\\"Professor X\\") had equalled the first.  Bear in mind that parody and satire--not to mention humor itself--are very difficult genres to sustain in prose;  one marvels and savors when it is done well.  ... I consider my money well-spent, even for two hilarious chapters out of seven.  In today's publishing climate, one takes what one can get.   <BR>By the way, more literary types may enjoy Carson's play on \\"The Great Gatsby\\"  (Chapter IV) and other, subtler forms of parody here, which I found prolonged and tedious, and many readers have obviously eaten the whole book  with relish.  I say good for them.  If you like political and social satire, are a fan of  Vonnegut or Joseph Heller, you'll probably finish the book and enjoy all of it.  If you want and expect to be dazzled by a book that compares itself implicitly to Joyce while manifesting a humor as dense as a Woody Allen in top form,  two chapters may alone be worth the fare.	2003-05-17
US	52184435	R19LWX6JZTOGSB	0060922834	897653726	Modern Times: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties, Revised Edition	Books	1	22	108	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time	\\"Pseudodionysius\\" is right:  this book poses as history but is no more than sourish, simple-minded propaganda.  As a historian, Johnson is a right-wing gossip.  If that's what you want, fine;  but if you want history, seen through a keen, sophisticated intelligence, there are many books far superior.	2003-05-03
US	52184435	R1FO83FOE154GW	0374173990	144062863	I Am Not Jackson Pollock: Stories	Books	4	3	7	N	N	An author to watch	Publisher's Weekly (editorial reviews) describes the nature of this book far better than the previous customer review.  Haskell is ambitious, knows this work is perversely anomalous, but isn't motivated by difference for its own sake.  He's winnowed down what really interests him in fiction and is relying on myth, news accounts, and film scenarios the way a composer might riff on familiar melodies.<br />None of these pieces (though in a sense the complete book has an inviolate structure of its own) was transcendent, however.  I was interested but not rapt.  No sirens or fireworks went off.  But Haskell is nonetheless an artist in the best sense;  he is after something beyond the familiar confines of fiction, is following his own muse without apology or a need to ingratiate himself with the reader, and I have a strong hunch that his best efforts lie ahead.  He is original, focused, and definitely a writer to watch.	2003-04-24
US	52184435	R1DKNE6MRN62JC	0670031313	120502197	Agape Agape	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	A compressed delight	An old man's Beckett-like disjointed rant is a forum for satisfyingly inconclusive and erudite musings on art, music, and individual inspiration in our \\"age of mechanical reproduction\\" and mass-market pandering. This small book is full of a wealth of crisscrossing themes. Unlike Gaddis's larger tomes,  this is simply structured, has blistering forward momentum and can be read in a few hours.  In prose alternately profound and profane, Gaddis has contrived a perfect device to exercise his lifelong preoccupations, creating an impassioned but infirm narrator whose very disorganization engagingly mocks the author and his sprawling subject. Parts are excruciatingly funny. This is a must-read if you're a Gaddis or Beckett or Thomas Bernhard or David Markson fan, or if you ponder the nature of art in this--or any other--age.	2002-10-20
US	52184435	R3S07VF31D91OL	0226224813	222377620	The First Moderns: Profiles in the Origins of Twentieth-Century Thought	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A comprehensive accomplishment	As a &quot;general reader&quot; I have to take issue with the reviewer from Cambridge.   The advantage of a book is that, where discussion gets too particular or specialized, one may content oneself with the general idea--in this case, without penalty.  Everdell's grasp of fields as diverse as mathematics and painting may try the expertise of all but a few specialists, but his unifying theses will not.  And this is more than a work of &quot;intellectual&quot; history:  the author deals with the practices and discoveries of various forms or art and science and avoids the trap of their a priori reduction to intellectual principles.	2002-10-14
US	52184435	REO85ZL80HWTV	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Curiously unaffecting	The world of literature is rife with outrageous and funny coming-of-age stories (Winterson's &quot;Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit&quot; comes immediately to mind, as do David Sedaris' biographic essays), and though this qualifies on both counts, it's curiously unaffecting.  Neither as funny as it could be, nor as moving, the book is authored by a merely so-so, not great, writer who seems to keep his emotions--and us--at arm's length. Could have been both wrenchingly poignant and hysterically funny, and it's neither. Too bad.	2002-10-10
US	52184435	R3DTGHLYYUZBH	0375725059	408763793	The PowerBook	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Winterson at her best	No one can take a metaphor and run with it like Winterson.  Flawless, lyrical prose, carried off with the virtuosity of a now fully mature talent.  Made me wish I were younger and more romantic, to be wholly swept away by the novel's love-smitten heroine.  But then no one in Winterson's generation seems wiser in her observations on love, death, life, and work.  A book so well written as to be almost effortless reading.   The previous reviewer states the case in more detail, and quite well.	2002-10-05
US	52184435	R1YV7VZT565C08	1582431337	34638107	This Is Not a Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What's the problem?	This reads like a companion volume to \\"Reader's Block.\\"  Like the former book, this is a compilation of often fascinating, curious and humanizing facts and quotations of  great artists, writers, philosophers, indirectly limning the \\"author's\\" concerns with morality, health, and fame.  Irrelevant to its enjoyment are considerations of (a)the amount of work entailed in creating it;  (b)its nature as novel or anti-novel;  (c)the degree to which all its entries are news (\\"Wagner was an anti-Semite\\" was not intended to enlighten the reader, but in that case to reflect the \\"author's\\" consciousness);  (d) the degree to which the form of the book is ground-breaking.  Perhaps because I am in a similar situation to the author's in my own career, I identified and found a wry humor in the proceedings, and a genuine modesty in the economy of its style.  (Note:  There is a bit of  \\"dumbing down\\" here compared to \\"Reader's Block\\", as if Markson [at the bidding of his editor?] didn't quite trust his audience to figure out what he was about and had to spell it out in a few passages,  but that can be easily enough overlooked.)  For what it is--which is no less than what it attempts to be--it's a very interesting, instructive read, and well-nigh perfect:  hence 5 stars.	2002-10-05
US	52184435	RWSOOY4CWRQ0T	0679401849	480597111	The Captain's Fire	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Cartography of the Mind	In the stories in \\"The Art of Cartography,\\" his delightfully original earlier book, Marcus made an artform of a constantly shifting focus, stories that began as an account of one person but then shifted to another, then another, rather like the meanderings of a bubble-headed gossip on speed.  That chattering, miniaturist style, with its interweaving threads and outlandish divagations, has metamorphosed here to an interior monologue par excellence, darker and at the same time more substantive, with a seemingly undisciplined series of digressions, wheels within wheels, to make even \\"Wittgenstein's Nephew\\" sound linear and conventional by comparison.  The narrator, a bookish young American Jew living in post-wall Berlin, full of observations variously geographic, familial and intellectual, was no doubt too worldly and literate to appeal to much of the American reading public,  and this may account for the book's relative lack of success, in spite of a bookjacket encomium by Walter Abish.  But make no mistake:  Marcus is a major talent, a heavyweight in a generation with seemingly few of them, and moreover one of few writers around with the wherewithal to push language and novelistic form in a bracingly new direction. This work is a success in every important way. <br />Why wait until the world catches up with Marcus?  Buy a remaindered copy of \\"The Captain's Fire\\" and enjoy him now.	2002-05-23
US	52184435	R3PQFBMSYYXEUM	0312420315	727127766	Upside Down: A Primer for the Looking-Glass World	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Truth, at once devastating and exhilarating	All the 5-star reviews here are on target.  I would only emphasize Galeano's great gifts as a phrasemaker--an ability to skewer the truth about our global madness entails, in his case, a devastating way with words.  <br />The book is a tad repetitious, but who could fault the author?  The reader is buoyed along by Galeano's obvious passion and understands, given the pattern of interweaving horrors the so-called haves have visited upon the have-nots,  the necessity for re-statement.  Written in the late 90's, the book is sadly, sadly as relevant as when it was first published.	2002-05-23
US	52184435	R15OKMUXNOQDK0	0316353299	53525621	Blue Highways: A Journey into America	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Simply a Masterpiece	I expected a vivid travelogue, one with interesting historical asides and recondite facts about the places visited. I didn't expect Heat-Moon's poetic facility with language or intellectual depth, called upon occasionally but not insistently, nor the emotional arc of the book as a whole, which seems, against all odds, to have a structure, a beginning, middle and satisfying end.  The author has written other books, but there is so much obvious love and care in this one that it reads like his magnum opus.  Written in the 70s, it wears well even into the twenty-first century and is sure to become a classic.	2002-02-07
US	52184435	R3R602VHUKIQ0J	0380713810	957780736	Made in America: An Informal History of the English Language in the United States	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	History as Dish	No, it's not really about the American language, but if you're apprised of the fact going in you shouldn't feel swindled.  It IS a gossipy history of highly selected and often little-known facts about politicians, inventors, robber barons and ad men, and it reads as if Bryson had spent 20 years doing the research and couldn't wait to get it all down. History class was never like this.	2002-02-07
US	52184435	R218ONOFCMD90W	0312158343	368325517	Coming into Being: Artifacts and Texts in the Evolution of Consciousness	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	A scholar and intellectual, at full gallop	At a time when the question, \\"Who are America's intellectuals?\\" was circulating, and the mention of Susan Sontag in this regard left me queasy, I remembered my exhilaration reading Thompson's books in the 70's and 80's and wondered what he was doing lately.  I didn't finish this book--some of the \\"texts\\" weren't of that much personal interest--but the first three-fourths were wonderful. The introductory essay, which was prophetic in its emphasis on the terrorist-fundamentalist forces at work in the world--is alone worth the price of admission.  A brilliant, incisive mind with an insatiable curiosity to expand its range, and we are the beneficiaries.   <br />With Thompson in the lists, I think we Americans can hold our own with intellectuals the world over.	2002-02-06
US	52184435	R1Z55AVJJ2BI3O	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Original and Brilliant	I've read the one- and two- and three-star customer reviews of this book and remain totally convinced of my own assessment.  The book is so witty and original and moving as to make even the professional reviews sound plodding by comparison and any criticisms beside the point.  Anyone who winces when the President of the United States says \\"nu-cu-lar\\" when he means \\"nuclear\\" should read this book:  it is a valentine to learning, reason and imagination.  Dewitt pulls off the considerable feat of introducing non-geniuses--like me--into the mind of two geniuses--the mother and her son--and making us believe it.  Reader flattery out of mind, though, this is a wonderful, inventive, streamlined pleasure of a book, as resonant as it is entertaining.  If I read another as good--from any period--this year I'll consider myself quite lucky.	2002-02-06
US	52184435	R2S5BUSO06GL6M	0871138115	204276964	Yonder Stands Your Orphan	Books	5	20	24	N	N	From an underrated master, his edgiest yet	As a solid Hannah fan, I looked forward to this latest with great anticipation and wasn't at all disappointed. To the contrary, I think he's reached a new pinnacle. All of the editorial reviewers comments here are a propos, with the possible exception of the remark that the \\"plot fails to hold [the characters] into a cohesive story.\\" That reviewer may not have understood that a \\"plot\\" isn't needed in this intentionally meandering crazy quilt of a story whose intricate interweavings themselves form the glue of the piece; the linear structure (such as it is) is quite secondary. The trip's the thing, not the destination. Hannah combines his well-known ear for language with a gift for trenchant observation. A reviewer once remarked that every sentence Hannah writes is a surprise, and with this novel the remark is no hyperbole. Every phrase moves along the action, or defines relationships, or conveys insight and/or laugh-out-loud humor. He compresses whole philosophies into throw-away lines. His verbal richness and economy makes for slower reading than with most books (not a problem for me since I like to chew things over anyway), but it's well worth it. Hannah doesn't waste your attention with pap, or filler, or lead-in sentences. It's all meat. <br />And a caution: reviewers who compare Hannah to McMurtry or Faulkner or other Southerners, if not being downright patronizing, do him a disservice. He's quite aware of literature beyond the confines of the South, thank you. The violence in this novel, while sinister and redolent of that in the larger culture, wants to be read like the over-the-top, Post-modern Pulp Fiction variety. Hannah is a fascinatingly original prose stylist whose world is as unique as Nicholson Baker's or Peter Handke's (two other favorites). Hannah's subjects may be rural and Mississippian, but he's a cutting-edge writer, make no mistake, and one of the very best alive, in my view. <br />For those still reluctant to part with the purchase price, check the riotous--but typical--excerpt in July's Harper's.	2001-07-12
US	52184435	RFX1N2J2LTT5A	1585670065	791345836	Black Angel: The Life of Arshile Gorky	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Worthy of a great artist	Allow me to add an &quot;amen&quot; to the previous reviews.  Matossian's background in Armenian culture is a great advantage in exploring Gorky's childhood, and her obvious patience in organizing material from the many first-hand interviews of Gorky's survivors pays off in a vivid, scrupulously detailed account of his rise and cataclysmic final years.  As an arist I brought a huge respect and admiration for Gorky's work to the book, and wasn't disappointed to find that the Gorky the author describes matches the intensity and dazzle and complexity of the works.  So vivid was her writing that the ending left me moved almost to tears.  This is our American Van Gogh, a giant arguably greater than Pollock, and his story is one of the great tragic--and ultimately triumphant--dramas in all of biography.	2001-06-25
US	52184435	R3Q7MIYRIEO6L7	0394573471	628887507	The Orient-Express	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Von Rezzori - sadly underrated	The Kirkus reviewer of this book missed the point--calling Von Rezzori's prose &quot;overwritten&quot; is a bit like calling Pollock's painting &quot;busy.&quot;  He is a writer very conscious of the excesses of his style and in the post-Joycean era might argue that reasonableness in contemporary literature is an anachronism.  Unlike the last reviewer, though, I found &quot;The Orient-Express&quot; middling Von Rezzori.  Far better, for different reasons, are &quot;Oedipus at Stalingrad&quot; and &quot;The Death of My Brother Abel&quot;--now scandalously out of print, at least in this country.  Personally I believe Von Rezzori superior to both Thomas Mann and Robert Musil as a European novelist of ideas--but I won't take the space to justify that assessment here.	2001-03-24
US	52184435	R14KDF1FKL9XD	0060975571	210414807	Lost in the City: Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amen.	The previous two reviews are absolutely on target, and it is criminal indeed that this is out of print. (for New Yorkers:  I saw one remaining copy at Strand Book Store)  I would only add that this book was listed for the National Book Award in 1992 and won the PEN-Hemingway Foundation Award for best first fiction.  These are moving stories that capture a time and place but transcend both, and reach beyond ethnic boundaries to larger truths.  Maybe it's not a stretch to say that Jones does for D.C. what Joyce did for Dublin in &quot;Dubliners.&quot;	2000-12-28
US	52184435	R1Q8UXNUD6DOKK	0374175470	473543038	On a Dark Night I Left My Silent House	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Handke's Characteristic Alchemy	The editorial review here is pretty accurate, insofar as summations can ever do justice to a Handke novel, which rely little on plot or human characterization for their power.  The novel really takes off when Handke puts his protagonist on the \\"steppes\\"--which turn out to be the plains of north-central Spain--and has him explore and experience himself in nature.  Readers who liked \\"My Year in the No-Man's Bay\\" or \\"Weight of the World\\" will like this;  here are long passages equally evocative and magical.  Undoubtedly there are significances here that literati will find resonant, and perhaps metaphorical parallels that students of European politics will identify, but as an exploration into consciousness, into human interactions with nature and time and memory, this small novel delivers an experience that is very satisfying indeed.	2000-12-03
US	52184435	RBRKVBJTOUEOP	1883285186	328948853	Modern Art	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Richly Entertaining	Knowing the author was also an essayist and critic, I was prepared for a scholarly and rather literary work.  Wrong!  Though the central character, Belle Prokoff, is a subtle, fully-dimensional portrait of the long-suffering widow of an alcoholic genius (based on the Jackson Pollock/Lee Krasner saga), the world she inhabits is fraught with pretentious, loopy and/or greedy art-world denizens that Toynton dispatches with flair and obvious relish.  The author has an gift for economical, vivid writing that wastes no time and is full of invention.  This is a book about the art world that--rarely enough--needn't make insiders wince, but you don't have to care about art to enjoy reading it.   An appreciation for colorful dialogue, for well-drawn, ultimately moving characters--in short, for excellent writing--is enough.	2000-09-30
US	52184435	R35JFW2UHR5AO2	0374287457	41385438	The Weight of the World	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Optimal Handke	Ostensibly a year's worth of notes from the writer's journal, consisting of personal reflections and diurnal observations of the author's life and  environment, this book can also be construed as a novel in the form of a  journal, and as such, a work of genuine innovation.  Handke's miniaturist  style lends itself perfectly to these discrete entries, each a completed  essay or prose poem;  the book is a perfect match of temperament and form,  and arguably Handke's finest work to date.  Some entries speak to the power  of language--even in translation--to evince startlingly fresh images of  time-worn subjects, e.g., trees in wind;  others transform the banalities  of contemporary experience, e.g., the sound of the television from a  neighboring house, suburban detritus, etc., into indelible literary images.   These are not rough notes but polished paragraphs in Handke's finest  style.  Though this book is a gift to readers with small amounts of free  time or short attention spans, it has a de facto dramatic structure,  central to which is the author's confinement in a hospital and relationship  as a single father to his son.  The work is, finally, moving as well as  eloquent.<br />This book made Harold Bloom's Western Canon as one of the  achievements of the century;  it's one of the few I have read twice.   Except for his controversial politics, Handke has tended to be overlooked  in this country, but he deserves the attention of everyone who considers  him/herself a serious reader.  I consider Weight of the World optimal  Handke.	1999-12-13
