US	52195402	R25Q98PRSWTNQZ	0736000151	107869787	NSCA's Essentials of Personal Training	Books	4	134	136	N	N	Highly recommended as an NSCA-PT study guide, or reference  book.	This is pretty much the only book I've been reading for the past couple of months as I prepared for the NSCA's personal trainer exam.  I am fairly sure I passed the exam, and I doubt I could have passed without the help of this book and NSCA's exercise techniques DVD which is sold separately.  [Update - I DID pass the exam!  :-) ]  This 674 text is packed full of information and can not be breezed through Harriet Klausner style.    For the most part, I like the book, both as a study guide for the NSCA-PT exam and as a reference for someone in the fitness industry.  Each chapter is written by one or more experts on that area of fitness or nutrition.  Since the table of contents is not provided on the product page, I've listed the contents at the end.  Most of the content is fairly well written, although it could use some tightening up in spots, or additional clarification in others.  Being a visual learner, I appreciate the multitude of illustrations, drawings, and tables, and I can't think of any I didn't find helpful.  For example, they don't just tell you what partner-assisted and partner-resisted towing are, they provide photographs of them.  They don't just tell you what the barbell grips are, they provide illustrations of four grips.  Tables are not just in black and white, but alternate rows have tan or light blue backgrounds, making it easier to read.  Information in the tables is detailed, for example table 9.1, Coronary Artery Disease Risk Factor Thresholds from ACSM.  Through no fault of the publishers, some of the information in this table is already outdated, as the latest data for hypercholesterolemia uses LDLs at >100 mg/dL (instead of >130 mg/dL) and the low HDLs is considered <40 mg/dL, not <35 mg/dL.  That is the only information in the book that I know is out of date.  Overall, it's a practical book, both for studying for the exam and as a reference book.      Unfortunately, this book has enough flaws that when combined, knock it down a star:  * Editing - I found scattered typos throughout the book.  In addition, in the plyometrics chapter, when I was reading the paragraph titled \\"Pretraining Evaluation,\\" on page 442, I experienced a deja vous.  I had read the exact same paragraph on page 434.  * Study Questions - Many 21st century textbooks are packed with study questions and features to help the student learn and retain the material.  Each chapter contains four multiple-choice study questions, which approximate the difficulty of the NSCA exam.  That's okay, but I think there should have been more, perhaps 10 per chapter.  The four study questions barely scratched the surface in covering the material.  In addition, several study questions had typographical errors.  * Some of the material on the exam was not covered in the textbook.  Please don't email me about this as it is not ethical for me to share those questions.  In my opinion, if the material is important enough to be on the exam, it's important enough to include in the textbook.  *Difficulty of using the index.  Throughout my studying and after the exam, there were some things that I know are in the book that I tried to look up-unsuccessfully.  I tried several different words or phrases to find a concept, and still couldn't find many of them.  For example, they briefly discuss water aerobics in the text, but neither \\"water aerobics\\" nor \\"aquatics\\" are in the index.  I think the index needs to be fleshed out with more words that are likely ways one would phrase a concept.    Despite the flaws, it's a book worth having for the reasons mentioned earlier.  After reading the NSCA textbook, I felt much more knowledgeable in certain aspects of fitness compared to when I read the ACE personal trainer manual (the edition used in 1999) or  ACSM's Guidelines for Exercise Training and Prescription, 6th ed.  These areas include special populations, plyometrics, exercise techniques, and the specifics of putting someone on a weight training program (choosing the exercises, determining reps and weights, progressing the weights), etc.      Since there is no table of contents provided on the product page, here's an abbreviated version:    Part I. Exercise Sciences  Ch. 1.  Muscle, Nervous, Skeletal Systems  Ch. 2.  Cardiovascular and Respiratory Systems  Ch. 3   Bioenergetics  Ch. 4.  Biomechanics  Ch. 5.  Resistance Training Adaptations  Ch. 6.  Aerobic Training Adaptations  Ch. 7.   Nutrition  Ch. 8.   Exercise Psychology    Part II. Initial Consultation and Evaluation  Ch. 9.  Client Consultation and Health Appraisal  Ch. 10.  Fitness Assessment Selection and Administration  Ch. 11.  Fitness Testing Protocols and Norms    Part III. Exercise Technique  Ch. 12.  Flexibility, Body-Weight, and Stability Ball Exercises  Ch. 13.  Resistance Training Exercise Techniques  Ch. 14.   Cardiovascular Activity Techniques    Part IV. Program Design  Ch. 15.  Resistance Training Program Design  Ch. 16.  Aerobic Endurance Training Program Design  Ch. 17.   Plyometric and Speed Training    Part V.  Clients With Unique Needs  Ch. 18.  Clients Who Are Pregnant, Older, or Preadolescent  Ch. 19.  Clients With Nutritional and Metabolic Concerns  Ch. 20.  Clients With Cardiovascular and Respiratory Conditions  Ch. 21.  Clients With Orthopedic, Injury, and Rehabilitation Concerns  Ch. 22.  Clients With Spinal Cord Injury, Multiple Sclerosis, Epilepsy and Cerebral Palsy  Ch. 23.  Resistance Training for Clients Who Are Athletes    Part VI. Safety and Legal Issues  Ch. 24.  Facility and Equipment Layout and Maintenance  Ch. 25.  Legal Issues in Personal Training	2005-08-07
US	52195402	RICX5YOW6L32L	1578633109	854840830	Darkside Zodiac	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Amusing but hard to read says bossy pig-headed fusspot :-)	As astrologers know, each sign has its positive and negative qualities.  What if an astrologer with a dry sense of humor looked only at the negative qualities?  (And as a double Capricorn myself, is there any other kind?  :-)  The result is the sometimes hilarious, sometimes mildly amusing, but always funny \\"Darkside Zodiac\\" by Sheila Hyde.      Much like any beginning astrology book, Hyde begins with a discussion of the four elements (fire, earth, air and water) and the three qualities (cardinal, fixed, and mutable).  According to Hyde's take, as a Capricorn, I'm a bossy pig-headed fusspot.  My last boyfriend, a Scorpio, was a stubborn moody whiner.  The boyfriend before him, a Pisces, was a fickle moody whiner.      After the brief intro section, there's a section for each sun sign, where among other things, you can match your ascendant with you sun sign to determine your personality, check where your Mars is to determine how you mishandle aggression, check where your Venus is to determine how unfortunate you are in love, match yourself up with your partner's sun sign to see what disasters will ensue, and even how you handle toothpaste.  I laughed at how Capricorns handle toothpaste which is to tightly roll it from the bottom up, then when it's finished to unroll it, cut it open, and scrape off the last smears.  I've actually done this!  Some of Hyde's funniest writing is in the \\"Dream Jobs\\" section.  One of the dream jobs for Aries is firefighter, \\"fire, danger, big sharp axes, shiny red appliances to ride on...\\"  Another amusing thing is the pictures of the zodiac signs, clever but dark interpretations of their traditional pictures, which are found on the cover and at the beginning of each sun sign.  Virgo is wearing a chastity belt, the bottom Pisces fish is a fish skeleton, the Gemini Twins are frowning, and poor Cancer the crab has been boiled in a pot.  If you don't know your moon nor rising sign, there's a rough ephemeris chart in the back to determine moonsign, and instructions on how to approximate rising sign.  But to have the exact information on these and other planets, it's best to look at a chart (there are places on the internet where you can get them for free) or consult a dedicated ephemeris.    One big problem for this over-40 reader was that the pages all have colored backgrounds and black print, some of which were quite difficult to read unless I was directly under a light source.  The deep blue background of Pisces was especially difficult to read and the dark red of Aries and hot pink of Taurus were also challenging.  The challenge of reading some of these pages detracted from my enjoyment of the book.     Overall, the book is amusing and worth checking out of the library.	2005-05-20
US	52195402	RFOGXC3WKTWRD	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Important Lessons from the Vertical Titanic	I visited the World Trade Center twice as a tourist, admiring the view of Manhattan and New Jersey from the visitor's center atop the South Tower.  But I had an uneasy feeling in my chest both times.  On one of those visits I commented, \\"This place is a fire trap.  I would never work here.\\"  Little did I know how much of a fire trap those towers really were until I read \\"102 Minutes.\\"  The WTC Towers were not only a fire trap--they were the equivalent of a vertical Titanic, which the creators proudly proclaimed could withstand plane crashes and fire.<br /><br />In the best book I've read on September 11th to date, journalists Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn did a spectacular job of chronologically piecing together the stories of 352 people who had the misfortune of being at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001--people from all walks of life, some of whom survived and some who did not.  In addition, they provide diagrams of the buildings, including one that showed the buildings much like a 3-dimensional bar chart labeling the buildings' floors, with the floors of impact in a darker gray.  Another diagram showed a cross section of the South Tower stairwells.  I was shocked to see that all three stairwells were bunched up in the middle of the building, rather than spread apart as common sense and safety would dictate.  The book was full of such shockers, which showed that there could have been many more survivors had there not been design flaws, lax fire and building code, and logistical problems among the fire- and police departments.  Among the things I was shocked to learn:<br /><br />* The Empire State Building was built under the 1938 fire code which required five stairwells placed far apart, including a \\"fire tower\\" which functions as an air lock to keep out smoke, and building columns able to withstand fire for 4 hours.  The WTC was built under the laxer 1968 code which required only three stairwells (would have needed six under the 1938 code),  with no fire tower, and with building columns believed to provide  2 hours of fire protection.  One can't rent out stairwell space to tenants, so in 1968, the quest for the almighty dollar won out over safety concerns.<br /><br />* As I watched the South Tower collapse on TV, I thought that surely the emergency workers would radio to the personnel inside and tell them to get the bleep out of there!  Wrong!  The emergency command center had no video monitors, no radio communications with other agencies, no way to get reports from police helicopters, and only a limited ability to communicate among themselves, as the radios were working sporadically and the police department and fire department had radios on different frequencies and couldn't communicate with each.  It appears the delay in their finding out was 8 minutes, valuable time that could have been spent evacuating the remaining tower.  Once they found out, they issued immediate evacuation orders that appeared to only reach some of their personnel.<br /><br />* When people in the office buildings called the Port Authority for advice on what to do, they were told to either evacuate or stay put depending on who they spoke to.  Different people who called at the same time were given conflicting instructions.  There was no coordinated emergency procedure.<br /><br />*Various elevator safety mechanisms that would ordinarily keep people out of harm's way caused a lot of people to be stuck in elevators.  Some were never rescued.<br /><br />There were heroes that day, as well as people who used remarkable ingenuity to escape.  Port Authority Construction Manager, Frank DeMartini grabbed a crowbar and along with Pablo Ortiz saved over 70 lives, but lost their own.  There were various accounts of civilians, Port Authority personnel and fire fighters carrying disabled individuals who could not walk down the steps.  And a group of people stuck in an express elevator which opened only to a wall, were able to slowly break through the drywall to escape through a restroom.<br /><br />This book is a fitting memorial to all who perished in the World Trade Center on September 11th.  I hope many will read this book and learn from it.k is a fitting memorial to all who perished in the World Trade Center on September 11th.  I hope many will read this book and learn from it.	2005-05-20
US	52195402	R2EHZH5QT6GCXG	0060799250	42714979	Witness: For the Prosecution of Scott Peterson	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Some redeeming value as a manual on unsafe dating.	If I were ranking Amber for her common sense prior to finding out Scott Peterson had been a married man with a missing wife, I'd give her one star:  sleeping with a guy on the first date, sending him to pick up her daughter from pre-school, having unprotected sex shortly thereafter.  After she found out however, her common sense level, as far as Scott Peterson was concerned, shot up to four or five stars, when she went to the police and helped them by recording her phone calls, and later helped the prosecution to put a sociopathic murderer behind bars.    However, this is not a review of Amber Frey, nor her common sense, nor the skeletons in her closet.  This is a review of her book.  In my opinion, her book is ranks about 2 1/2 stars, right at the border of where I would recommend it or not recommend it.  I think it has redeeming value to several audiences:  (1) Anyone wanting to find out all they can about the Scott Peterson case.  Trial followers may have read the transcripts of their telephone calls and Amber's trial testimony.  But this book fills in a few gaps about what was going on their end:  how they got together, what happened on their dates, the lies Scott told Amber.  Also, she describes her meeting with Laci's family and friends.  They did a far more generous job of accepting Amber as a human being than some of the reviewers of this book.  (2)  People in the dating world.  Amber violates every rule of safe dating and rationalizes away some glaring red flags.  Lonely and tired of being single, Amber wanted Scott to be the right guy so much that when she felt discomfort about things Scott had said, done, or that others had found out about him, she ignored her own feelings and was quick to buy Scott's implausible explanations.  For those who think they could never be charmed by a handsome (or beautiful) smooth talking sociopath, they're most likely wrong-even if they do follow safe dating protocol.  (3) People who want to know how a sociopath operates.  Scott's half sister, Anne Bird, does a better job (better writing and more insightful) of conveying this in her book \\"Blood Brother.\\"  But Amber's book provides information on this as well.  Also, I found Amber's book interesting in its brief descriptions of how real life detectives coach witnesses to talk to a suspect who doesn't know he's being recorded, on how attorneys coach witnesses to prepare them for the courtroom, and how an ordinary person deals with fame suddenly thrust upon them.  So I certainly don't think this is a one-star book with zero redeeming value.    This being said, the book is nowhere near a four- or five-star book.  The beginning, up until the 16-page photo spread which starts after page 55, has matter-of-fact average writing.  Then, after the photo spread, out of nowhere comes an autobiography where Amber tells us, \\"I was born in Los Angeles on February 10, 1975, the second of two girls...\\"  After 12 pages of autobiography, the writing remains fairly average, until the last few chapters  where the rambling gets out of hand:  transcripts of phone conversations repeated in an earlier part of the book, long Bible quotes, too many emails quotes about what a fabulous job Amber did as a witness, etc.  Also, I think that given the unfortunate murders that prompted this book, some of the photos of Amber are in poor taste, particularly the modeling photos and the glamour shot.  I think Amber should have only included the photos that have a direct bearing on this case:  the photos of herself with Scott Peterson her picture with her attorney on the first day of the trial, the courtroom sketch of Amber testifying, and perhaps the photo of the letter she wrote to Scott and never sent.  The rest, in my opinion, are extraneous.     Should you read the book?  Only if you're a Scott Peterson trial junkie and want to know every side of the story, or if you're fascinated by tales of woefully bad dating mistakes.  Otherwise, I would pass.  Should you buy the book?  I vote no.  Get it from the library, or read it in one of those cushy chairs at a bookstore.      P.S.  Amber Frey has done the world a big favor for helping to put a sociopathic murderer behind bars.  In addition, despite being a single mother who could use the money, she resisted the temptation to do interviews, particularly paid interviews, until after the trial.  She checked with Laci Peterson's family first who told her that media interviews would likely hurt the trial outcome.  So she followed that advice and did not give interviews.  I think she is to be commended for both, rather than ridiculed for her mistakes.  I'd like to see the reviews focus on the book, rather than judging Amber as a person.	2005-05-08
US	52195402	RFZGN9KPMRY28	0761112146	285397455	Jokelopedia: The Biggest, Best, Silliest, Dumbest Joke Book Ever	Books	2	72	87	N	N	Some material not appropriate for children.	\\"If a nut on the wall is a walnut, what is a nut in the bathroom?  A pee can.\\"    \\"Why did the baby cross the road?  She was stapled to the chicken.\\"    Billing itself as \\"the mother of all joke books\\", The Jokelopedia has the apparent goal of turning your child (or grandchild, etc.) into a comedian.  Categorized by subject matter such as a monster jokes, classroom distractions, family funnies, etc., the book contains riddles, jokes, cartoons, and tips from famous comedians.  Many of the riddles have pun-ch lines consisting of puns:  some that I consider funny, and many of which adults will consider groaners, but will get a lot of giggles from 8 year-olds.      Although I tend to like puns more than the average person, as a practitioner of non-violent communication, I don't recommend giving this book to children.  I am concerned that roughly up to 10 to 20% of the laughs come at the expense of becoming desensitized to the suffering of animals and humans.  For example, there's a joke about a woman who buys a parrot, and to get the bird to talk, she buys a mirror, a ladder, a bell, etc.  She goes back to the store and reports that the parrot died.  The clerk expresses his sorrow over her loss and asks if the parrot ever said anything to her.  The woman replied that just prior to dying, the parrot said, \\"Doesn't that store carry any food?\\"  So the joke is that the parrot starved to death because the woman was too stupid to buy food in addition to all the accessories.  There are riddles that have punch lines at the expense of animal suffering, for example, \\"What's black and white and flat? A panda that's been run over.\\"  And the tacky frog in a blender joke, mentioned by a previous reviewer, could give a child the idea to actually try this (likely very few children but it's possible).  Although much of the egregiously tacky material is in the \\"Snot funny\\" section, there is some in other sections of the book.    Another reason I don't recommend the Jokelopedia is becauseof the practical joke recommendations.  The child who tries out these suggestions will probably think he or she is being funny, but those laughs come at the expense of being rude and crude to other people, and insensitive to their feelings.  For example, one of their slumber-party jokes is to pour cold water over the shower curtain rod on someone using the shower.  Another is to put another child's hand in a glass of warm water to get him or her to wet the bed.  Yet another is to put some fake plastic vomit in the sink.  One of the elevator practical jokes is to bet the other passengers that you can fit a quarter in your nose.  Yuck.  Another joke encourages lying:  \\"Tell [your big sister] that one of her friends called (for this to work, be specific--use the real name of someone your sibling is close to and say one of the coolest kids in school is having a party tonight, but you can't remember all the details.\\"  In case your budding comedian runs out of practical ideas to play on siblings and parents (yes, a parental practical joke idea involving the kitchen sink sprayer is provided--don't say you weren't warned!), there are five suggestions for tormenting the pizza guy.    One could, as another reviewer did, rip out some of the pages prior to giving the book to a child, or perhaps cross out portions with a thick dark marker like it's a government document.  (But if you rip out the page of slumber party practical jokes, the blurb on Lucille Ball is on the other side.)   Had I received this book as a child with pages ripped out, I would have been extremely curious about what was missing and sought out another copy!  Unless the authors write a new edition that takes out the practical and insensitive to suffering jokes, I don't recommend rewarding them by purchasing this book.  That's unfortunate, because I think some of the puns are very clever, and encourage children to have fun with the language.	2005-05-01
US	52195402	RQ0O723A6JG29	0683300911	449425022	ACSM's Health & Fitness Certification Review	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent review for HFI exam - written portion only.	ACSM's Health & Fitness Certification Review is a mostly excellent preparation for the written portion of the ACSM HFI (Health/Fitness Instructor) exam.  I'm also finding it a valuable for portions of the NSCA-PT certification exam (National Strength and Conditioning Association personal trainer), which has a great deal of overlap in material.      Chapters 1 - 10 contain a generally excellent \\"Cliff's notes\\" type outline of the highlights of their 10 KSA topics found on the written exam:  (1) Anatomy and Biomechanics, (2) Exercise Physiology, (3) Human Development and Aging, (4) Pathophysiology/Risk Factors, (5) Human Behavior and Psychology, (6) Health Appraisal and Fitness Testing, (7) Safety, Injury Prevention, and Emergency Care, (8) Exercise Programming, (9) Nutrition and Weight Management, (10) Program Administration/Management.  Each chapter was written by one or two experts in that area.  The chapters on anatomy, physiology, and pathology (1, 2, and 4) contain helpful, skillfully done, black and white illustrations.  For the most part, I'm impressed with the quality of these outlines:  thorough and easy to understand.  Chapter 10, however on Program Administration/Management is very bare-bones and could stand a little more detail.  At the end of the book is a list of sources of more information on each chapter.    Following each outline is a multiple choice quiz, typically 25 questions with four choices.  To inventory my knowledge and areas that needed more study, I took all the review quizzes before reading the outlines.  Having taught college, I was impressed with the questions:  they were straightforward, usually with plausible distractor choices.  There are  about a dozen errors in quizzes, and a few in the outlines, so be sure to go to the certification section of ACSM's website to obtain their corrections.    Although overall, I find this study guide impressive and helpful, here's why I've deducted a star:    * Although the book bills itself as a certification review, it does not state on the front cover or anywhere else that this review is for the written portion of the HFI exam only.  But as HFI candidates know, this exam has a practical lab portion where candidates have to take skinfolds, conduct a bicycle ergometer exercise test, and demonstrate exercise techniques.  This book is of very little use for the lab portion.  For example, the outline on skinfold measurement says \\"(1) Locate the sites to be measured. (2) Measure the skinfold thickness. (3) Use the measurements of skinfold thickness in the appropriate equation to predict body composition.\\"  The bicycle ergometer test is barely mentioned.  For detailed information on these tests, I highly recommend ACSM's Health-Related Physical Fitness Assessment Manual.    * I found chapter 11 on Metabolic Calculations to be extremely confusing.  For me, the only value of the chapter was in the discussion of what to expect on the exam:  from 6 to 10 met calc questions and which formulas are provided, and the 23-question review exam.  The technique on how to perform met calcs was virtually useless to me.  It left out the system of multiplying by conversion factors with the units left on until you can cancel them out.  That system is well explained in the book, \\"Practical Math for Health Professionals\\" by Dennis K. Flood, which I highly recommend for learning met calcs.  Without the checks and balances of the proper use of conversion factors, doing problems involves much more memorization, greater difficulty, and there are many more places for errors.    * Although I didn't deduct a star for this, as of April 2005, the food pyramid data presented in the Nutrition and Weight Management chapter is now out of date.    Overall, I highly recommend ACSM's Health & Fitness Certification Review to HFI candidates.  Just be sure to get the corrections off ACSM's website, and if you want excellent resources on the lab portion and metabolic calculations, to supplement with additional resources.  ACSM does not intend for this book to be a primary study resource.  Best of luck on the HFI exam!  :-)	2005-04-30
US	52195402	R37CP894YWSVID	0060838574	229727476	Blood Brother: 33 Reasons My Brother Scott Peterson Is Guilty	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Fascinating Insight into a sociopath & his enabling family.	If you're interested in learning all you can about sociopaths, the family that enables them, and domestic violence as I am, \\"Blood Brother\\" is well worth the read.  Full of detail and insight,  and with better than average writing, Anne Bird's 214 page book on how she hooked up with her biological mother (Jackie Peterson), half brother (Scott Peterson), and his wife (Laci Peterson) and then gave Scott refuge in her home, was one I could not put down.  Athough I had closely followed the details of the Peterson case, becoming a faithful reader of the Modesto Bee and Laci's website, this book added a lot of insight into personalities and interactions of the principals of the case.  There's a big difference when Scott and Jackie are media interviewees, telling the world what they want us to hear, and when they're being observed by family and friends.  Here are some of the insights I gained thanks to Anne's book:    Laci Peterson - The world knows Laci as the smiling photogenic woman in the photographs, but what was she like as a person?  And given that it's extremely unlikely that her first experience with domestic abuse would be her murder, why hadn't she apparently complained of abuse, be it verbal or physical beyond hinting of trouble?  One of the positive points of this book is that it brought Laci to life.  Bubbly and talkative, Laci was a perfectionist when it came to floral arrangements, table settings and the like.  As I read about Laci, I was haunted by observations in the book, \\"Not to People Like Us - Hidden Abuse in Upscale Marriages.\\"  Upscale, well educated, perfectionist type women who to outsiders seem to be married to the perfect guy, don't like to admit to themselves that their relationship has serious problems, much less to others.  With family, friends, and strangers they maintain the illusion of the perfect relationship as best they can, keeping their \\"dirty laundry\\" private.    Scott Peterson -  It's well known that sociopaths can be extremely charming , lie when it's convenient for them, lack empathy, and are amazingly self-absorbed.  Observed by his half sister Anne, her husband and friends, it is clear that Scott Peterson is a textbook case of a sociopath.  The search for Laci was in full swing, yet Scott was making \\"flirtini\\" drinks for the Anne's babysitter, fixated on cleaning his pool, and complaining that police were cramping his style.  Not exactly the behaviors of a grieving husband.  Anne provides many examples of his lies and self-absorbed behavior.      Jackie & Lee Peterson - With Scott as a textbook sociopath, it's no surprise that Jackie is one of those \\"my son can do no wrong\\" type of mothers.  Anne fills in the details of just how much Jackie will lie, deny, and instruct others to do the same to protect her precious golden boy son.  Jackie to Anne:  \\"If anyone calls and asks you about Scott and the babysitter, deny it.\\"  When Jackie said that to Anne, Lee in the background said, \\"Just say you don't recall.\\"  Less high strung than Jackie, Lee's parenting style was the same.  It's not surprising that Jackie had pattern of bailing Scott out of trouble throughout his life.  Untouched by the consequences of his bad behavior, it's not surprising it got much worse and that he apparently thought he could get away with murder.    Anne Bird - Anne strikes me as a nice, rather nave, honest, somewhat people-pleasing kind of person in her book.  She freely tells you when she drank too much, used anti-anxiety pills, or used bad judgment.  I didn't get that she was out to glorify herself or her husband, nor vilify Scott or Jackie.  Having grown up with a happy sheltered life, apparently the kind of person who sees the best in people, and charmed by Scott and Jackie; the idea that Scott could have killed his wife was the last thing on her mind.  As evidence trickled in and then snowballed that Scott was doing some major lying and really could not care less about Laci, Anne still would not allow herself tobelieve that Scott was guilty--long after her husband and the other (non-Peterson) people around her realized he was.  She came up with her list of the 33 ways Scott's behavior was inappropriate to help herself process that this and admit to herself Scott may be guilty.  On the one hand, I think calling this list 33 reasons Scott is *guilty* is misleading book marketing.  Individually, some of the reasons don't necessarily point to murder, for example reason #3 (upgrading his porn channel while his wife is missing) or reason #10 (mysteriously left college and ran to his parents).  But collectively, the 33 reasons do add up to the portrait of a sociopath and murder suspect with enabling parents.  Based on some of Anne's comments, including her comments to her therapist about wanting to her children to know that she morally did the right thing, I think Anne's primary motive in writing this book was not financial.  In my opinion, Anne wrote this book to convince herself that Scott is guilty, and to convince the world that she is no longer in denial about this, and is a morally decent person.	2005-04-07
US	52195402	R1WT4QLHVAYHL	0736907122	844883920	365 Things Every Woman Should Know	Books	1	5	6	N	N	What one man would like women to know	Here are some of the 365 things that Doug Fields, founder of Youth Ministry Online, wants all women to know: <br /> <br />* How to help her husband achieve his goals. <br />* What brings her husband joy. <br />* A good wife is like a crown for her husband.  But a disgraceful wife is like a disease in his bone.  (Proverbs 12:4) <br />* The appropriate moment to bite her tongue. <br />* Vacuuming burns seven calories a minute. <br />* The best product for getting rid of shower fungus. <br />* What colors look fabulous on her. <br />* How to removed chipped nail polish. <br />* A good hair stylist. <br />* When to ask for beauty advice.  <br />* How to iron a blouse while wearing it.  [Yee-ouch!] <br />* Breast cancer is the leading cause of death in American women.  [This was not true when the book was published in 1992 and is not true today.] <br /> <br />With a selective use of scripture and his own wishful imagination, Fields instructs women on how to be an uncomplaining happy little homemaker, helping her husband achieve his goals while subverting her own--unless it really IS her goal to look fabulous while removing shower fungus.  If it were a leap year, tip #366 would likely be how to peel grapes and feed them to her husband while cooing, \\"anything you say, dear.\\"   <br /> <br />I considered giving this book a second star because there are some practical tips, for example knowing where the fuse box is, how to de-ice the car window, and checking the back seat for bad guys.  But these things are common sense, and given the context of the rest of the book, it seems condescending to list them as if a woman wouldn't know these things.  Although it can't hurt to know tip #177:  a dozen ways to disguise tofu. <br /> <br />Perhaps someone should write a book like this for men so that they can have six-pack abs while removing shower scum.  :-) <br />	2005-04-02
US	52195402	R3XEL9JU1L828	1570670919	336351959	The Saucy Vegetarian	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Inspiring!  You'll never go back to bottled dressings.  :-)	I have several shelves full of vegan and vegan-friendly cookbooks.  The Saucy Vegetarian is one of my favorites, not just for the delicious 100% vegan recipes, but for the creativity it inspires.  The recipes generally involve processing about 6 to 8 no-cook (with occasional stove-top roasting) ingredients in the blender, and in some cases a food processor.  Using this simple technique, I've made many awesome sauces and dressings, both Jo Stepaniak's recipes, and variations based on her recipes.  A couple of ingredient substitutions I make that work well are 1 tablespoon chopped onion for each teaspoon powdered onion, and 1 teaspoon maple syrup for each teaspoon sugar.  Unlike Jo's earlier works, some of these recipes call for sugar rather than a more natural, lower glycemic index sweetener.  Fortunately, this isn't a problem as the maple syrup works fine, and there is a section listing recommended sweeteners and describing how they work in recipes.    My favorite recipes from the book include:  * Instant Alfredo Sauce - Very cheesy and smooth.  And you would never know it contains only 13 calories per tablespoon and 0 grams of fat!  * Walnut Pesto Sauce - Delicious and very quick to make.  No need to chop the walnuts first, just pile them high in the measuring cup.  Works well with 1 to 2 teaspoons of Bragg Liquid Aminos (similar to soy sauce) in lieu of the salt and water.  * Carrot-Dill Sauce - I add a secret ingredient of celery seed and cut down on the water a bit for a thicker sauce.  Delicious over rice and vegetables.  * Tahini, Tamari & Onion Dressing - I was afraid when I first made this raw onion dressing it would be overpowering, but the tahini and olive oil combine with the onion to make a mild oniony dressing that won't make your eyes tear.  I always double this one and cut down on the water a bit to thicken it.  I imagine that with mint or dill, it would make a great falafel sauce.  * Herb and Onion Vinaigrette - Makes a restaurant-quality house dressing.  I double this one and substitute an equal quantity maple syrup for the sugar.  Works great with balsamic vinegar in lieu of the wine vinegar.  * Sunflower Seed Dressing - This makes an interesting ranch-style salad dressing or dipping sauce.  But it excels as a sandwich spread or pita bread filling with vegetables.    Of the dozen or so recipes I've tried in the book, there's only one I didn't like--the Miso Citrus Sauce.  Tasted like salty orange juice.    Two helpful features with each recipe are the nutrient listing (calories, protein, fat, and carbohydrates) and the listing of foods in the margin to try the sauce on.  But, this cookbook contains an amazingly helpful feature rarely found in cookbooks:  In addition to merely giving you her recipes, Jo teaches you how to put together the six basic tastes (sweet, salty, bitter, sour, pungent and astringent) to develop recipes of your own.  She goes into a lot of detail about these tastes, which raw ingredients to use, styles of no-cook sauces and dressings, and even how to correct flavors if you don't like the concoction you invented.  She also provides information on planning vegetarian menus, along with sample menus.  Whether you're a novice or experienced vegetarian or vegan, it's worth reading the nearly 40-page educational section to get the creative juices flowing.  Then follow Jo's advice to be innovative and consider her recipes as a starting point, altering as you see fit.  That's what I do, and receive a lot of compliments in the kitchen.  :-)	2005-03-20
US	52195402	RZCNLDLCKGK2E	0071403094	550206211	UpDating! : How to Get a Man or Woman Who Once Seemed Out of Your League	Books	3	162	169	N	N	An unintentionally hilarious guide to gold digging.	Want a wealthy mate?  Here are some dos and don'ts from \\"Updating\\" by Leil Lowndes (LL):  * Get the National Geographic and Scientific American magazines off your coffee table!  Those are middle class!  Only display literary or foreign magazines.  And forget about National Enquirer or Sports Illustrated-those are low class!  * Never wear bright colors!  Red is a proletariat no-no!  (Didn't anyone inform Nancy Reagan of this?)  And natural fibers only, please. (Note - in the 21st century synthetic fibers don't exactly look like John Travolta's leisure suit in Saturday Night Fever.)  *Never wear a baseball cap or a tee shirt with writing on it.  (I saw a picture of Bill Gates the other day wearing a baseball cap.)  *Never have a second hand on your watch.  \\"The leisure class doesn't need to track seconds.\\" page 118.  * Have a threadbare oriental rug in your living room and dcor alluding to \\"Mother England\\"   *If you must lower yourself to owing a television, keep it hidden.    *\\"Royals\\" never use a euphemism such as \\"restroom\\" or \\"bathroom\\".  Only use the word \\"toilet\\".      As you can probably tell from the above, LL is advising you on how to pass yourself off as an old money blue blood.  She offers this as serious advice, but I find this chapter outrageously funny.   She even gives you a quiz to tell how high class your living room is.  (Subtract 3 points for each color photograph you display.)      I'm not sure that I, being of Eastern European Jewish ancestry, could successfully pass myself off as being blue blood, having been at Hebrew school when I should have been at the debutantes' ball.  And someone of African ancestry might have even more trouble.  Subtle (and some not so subtle) ethnic and regional prejudices abound in this book.      Another piece of advice on landing a wealthy mate is to move to a wealthy neighborhood.  LL tells the story of a middle income gold digging friend who moved out of her nice apartment in Queens to an expensive neighborhood inManhattan where she paid big bucks to rent a closet-size apartment.  But a year or so later, the friend told the author she had good news that she could only deliver in person.  So LL goes to her friend's new apartment which is the penthouse of the same building.  Her friend had married the multi-millionaire art dealer she met in the elevator!  Gold digging success!  This gambit paid off handsomely for LL's friend, but if you don't meet your megabucks mate this way, oops!  There goes your retirement money.     Any book on gold digging worth its ink should give advice on how to land new money!  Afterall, is a gold digger fussy about whether she (or he) lands a nouveau rich Microsoft millionaire?  But there's zero advice on how to land Bill Gates' single friends.    I don't want to mislead you into thinking this is only a gold digging manual, however.  You also learn (chapter 3) \\"How to Find a Drop-Dead Gorgeous Mate\\". The trick here is to give no indication that you are swooning over them for their looks.  Instead, feign (oops that was my word) an appreciation for their kind heart or integrity.  Don't let on that you landed them for their looks.       The book rather implies that good looking and/or wealthy people are better specimens of humanity than the rest of us, although LL acknowledges that even beautiful people can have flaws.  She gives the example that you're with your ho-hum (read average looking) date when you spot an extremely attractive stranger who smiles at you and dines alone.  Well gosh dang it, you're stuck with a frog!  LL recommends you give all frogs (and frogettes) their hopping papers to free yourself up for \\"royals\\".  Frogs, according to the context of this book are anyone not rich enough, beautiful enough or otherwise not good enough for you.  LL uses a bit of evolutionary biology to justify gold digging and looks-ism, see page 2 \\"Bugs and Beasts Are Smarter When Choosing a Mate.\\"  Afterall, animals choose mates based on looks and ability tobring food for the offspring.    There's also a bizarre chapter on \\"How to Capture a Magical One-of-a-Kind Mate\\" which is basically a quirky artist type with unusual sexual habits.  Another seriously intended chapter I recommend only for entertainment value.     Ironically, after the chapter telling you how to pass yourself off as blue blood is the chapter, \\"How to Find an Honorable Mate,\\" which preaches impeccable honesty at all times.  It's one of only two chapters that in my opinion give good dating advice, if taken in isolation from rest of the book.  The other bit of good advice is the section in the last chapter, \\"Be Careful What You Wish For (You Just Might Get It!).  Here she quotes studies showing that finding your rich or beautiful partner might not make you happier!  For instance, the former hippy chick who married a wealthy blue blood and lived in a mansion in the 'burbs with a maid, cook, and gardener.  With no job and nothing to do, she turned to alcohol and drugs.  Wow, so after writing a manual on gold digging and landing gorgeous people, LL tells you you might not want to be doing this after all!  A fine unintentionally comic ending for a dating book that belongs in the humor section.	2005-03-08
US	52195402	R34ISX3S2RXL03	0740727389	624345798	Do Unto Others...Then Run:  A Little Book Of Twisted Proverbs	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Kind of cute.  Might work as a stocking-stuffer gift.	This palm size book contains 123 humorous (or attempting to be humorous) proverbs, many of them spin-offs of the originals.  Some categories of proverbs are: <br /> <br />Sick - \\"Women: Can't live with them, can't bury them in the backyard without the neighbors seeing\\" - Sean Williamson <br /> <br />Wishful Thinking - \\"Time Wounds all heels\\" - Jane Ace <br /> <br />Inspirational - \\"He who laughs, lasts.\\" - Mary Pettibone Poole <br /> <br />Funny - \\"A journey of a thousand miles begins with a delay of about three hours.\\" -Milton Berle <br /> <br />Depressing - \\"Dead owls don't give a hoot.\\" - Milton Berle <br /> <br />Huh? - \\"People who live in glass houses have to answer the door bell.\\" - Bruce Patterson <br /> <br />This small volume is quite a mixed bag of what I would consider 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5-star quotes, most in the middle.  It's not something I would buy, but it was a nice dumpster dive find by my roommate.  :-) <br />	2005-03-01
US	52195402	R30661YKD594CT	0028638352	676736449	Complete Idiot's Guide to Publishing Magazine Articles	Books	4	48	50	N	N	Good content-- in between the jokes & verbose chatty writing	If jokes and verbose trying-to-be-clever writing were advertising, this book would be Oprah Magazine.  But more on that later--I just needed a lead as per chapter 19 \\"Hook 'Em Early, Hook 'Em Hard.\\" <br /> <br />\\"The Complete Idiot's Guide to Publishing Magazine Articles\\" is like an introduction 101 survey class to this topic.  Among many other things, it covers the basics of the entire process from generating article ideas, to writing query letters to conducting interviews, writing basics, and even how freelance writers deal with taxes.  Like a 101 class, this book provides breadth but not depth.  Most beginning magazine writers will likely need more of the material on earlier parts of the process such as studying the market and writing query letters rather than dealing with taxes and contracts.  However, as a survey course, they do have their place, with the exception of the chapter on writing books and book proposals.  For an excellent, more in depth treatment of query letters, a topic a novice will definitely need, I recommend \\"How to Write Irresistible Query Letters\\" by Lisa Collier Cool. <br /> <br />Having published a handful of freelance pieces and knowing the basics of the process, I can tell you the information is provided is good, sound advice.  My problem with the book is that you have to wade through so much verbose trying-to-be clever chatty writing to get to the basics you need as a freelance magazine writer.  It's like the authors, unbridled from the tight word counts and no nonsense editing of magazines went nuts trying to be cute and clever.  For one of many examples, there's a section called \\"Ratatatatat:  Machine Gun Writing\\" which begins, \\"Do you feel like Bruce Willis in 'Die Hard' right about now?  What the heck do we mean when we say machine gun writing?\\"  Then there's another paragraph before they get to the definition.  I think this book could have been edited by about 1/3 with no loss of content. <br /> <br />None-the-less, I appreciated the content in between the jokes, even though some of it was not in depth enough to my liking, such as the brief section on how to get clips.  I especially liked the interviews with magazine editors discussing what writers need to do to break into writing for their publications.  If you need an intro 101 survey of the career of freelance writing and don't mind wading through all the chatty wisecracking writing, this is the book for you. <br />	2005-02-27
US	52195402	R37XYV5KA1N6H	0877799156	211621092	The Official Scrabble Players Dictionary (Third Edition)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Annoyingly outdated, but you most likely need it.	Recently I was playing my computerized Scrabble opponent Mavin (Atari's Scrabble Deluxe game) when I put down the word \\"email\\".  ZAP!  I lost my turn.  Why?  Because this word is not in the Official Scrabble Player's Dictionary (OSPD).  But had I played the word \\"kerb\\" (to provide with curbing) or kex (a dry, hollow stalk), or \\"syren\\" (an acceptable spelling for siren), I would have been able to play out my turn.  I also learned the hard way that you can't use \\"FAQ\\"* as in \\"frequently asked questions\\" but you can use \\"hath\\", \\"a present 3d person sing. of have\\" that probably hasn't been used in a sentence since Samuel Morse invented the telegraph in 1844.  And don't even think of playing the word \\"spam\\"!    But, it's important to play Scrabble with a standardized lexicon of acceptable words, so I begrudgingly use the latest third edition, a decade old though it is.  And how else would one know that \\"outcurse\\" (to surpass one in cursing) and \\"outbleat\\" (to surpass one in bleating) are acceptable Scrabble words?      As you can tell from the definitions I've listed, the OSPD is not a conventional dictionary.  They don't give the year the word was coined, the etymology, or multiple definitions.  You just get a part of speech and a bare-bones common definition, along with acceptable suffixes and forms of the word.  For example, acceptable suffixes for outcheat are  -ED, -ING and -S.  It's extremely easy to use, with the words listed in all capital letters, just like in the Scrabble game.    One fine use of this dictionary, other than settling disputes and debunking the phony words my human opponent likes to make up, is improving my game.  Memorizing a bunch of the Q words has come in quite handy.  Even memorizing a word or two a day from the OSPD would help.    Recommendation: If you can get all your opponents to agree on another dictionary, you might not need the OSPD. However, if you play the computerized version of Scrabble, want to eventually advance to tournament play, or simply want to use the standard official dictionary for Scrabble play, you'll need the OSPD.      *Yes, I know FAQ is technically an acronym, but so is \\"scuba\\" which is an official scrabble word.    P.S.  As pointed out in some previous reviews, do not use this dictionary for school!  (Nor for business writing, medical school applications, etc.)  You don't want to be kicked to the kerb!	2005-02-27
US	52195402	R1DW5LXGAQQFL5	159030134X	606106715	At Hell's Gate: A Soldier's Journey	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Let there be peace on Earth and LET IT BEGIN WITH ME.	\\"Let there be peace on Earth and let it begin with me.\\"  Buddhist Monk, Claude Anshin Thomas, doesn't mention this song in his book, \\"At Hell's Gate,\\" but this is the song that went through my mind as I read it and which beautifully sums up Thomas' main message to his readers.  Thomas writes, \\"Ultimately, all responsibility and all action begin with the individual, and so it is here that we must start.  In it's simplest form, nonviolence is rooted in the knowledge that we have the capacity to act violently and aggressively and that we make a conscious choice not to do so.\\"   <br /> <br />Claude Anshin Thomas knows the evils of violence first hand.  \\"At Hell's Gate\\" is his story from his personal hells of child abuse, Vietnam combat, and post traumatic stress disorder, to his futile attempts to cope which made his life more of a hell which included drug abuse and alcoholism and which helped lead to chronic unemployment and homeless.  His healing began when he attended a meditation retreat for Vietnam War veterans lead by the distinguished Vietnamese Zen Monk, Thich Nhat Hanh.  Here he learned tools that truly brought him peace including telling his story, and meditation.  Also, he unlearned his war indoctrination where anyone Vietnamese was seen as the enemy.  To get the most out of this book, don't just read this as Thomas' story, but use his story as inspiration and guidance for healing your traumas and for changing how we think and act as a citizen.   <br /> <br />Thomas points out that everyone has their Vietnam, their war, their hell, their suffering, be it child abuse, domestic violence, street violence, etc. When we don't come to terms with our suffering, we often unconsciously are violent against ourselves and against others.  Reflecting on his father abusing him many years before, Thomas realized his father didn't intend to do any harm, but was acting out his suffering.  Thomas provides us tools which worked for him on how to come to terms with our suffering, which include specifics on deep listening and mindful speech and meditation.  Even Thomas, a Buddhist Monk, still finds it challenging to avoid using foul language and giving a certain finger gesture in traffic, and he provides specifics for calming ourselves in traffic.  For this reason alone, everyone should read this book! <br /> <br />Thomas' self-help advice to the reader goes beyond dealing with our individual suffering, but rethinking and changing how we think and act as citizens, which is brilliantly illustrated by a memory from Thomas:  When arrived back in the States after the Vietnam War, a beautiful young woman came up to him.  Thomas assumed she would hug him or kiss him or perhaps thank him, as was the experience of his father's generation when they returned from World War II.  Instead, she spat on him.  Thought question:  For those of us who espouse peace, are we behaving peacefully?  Are we poster children for peaceful behavior?  Thomas writes, \\"We [Vietnam vets] were the scapegoats for an entire country, for an entire culture that didn't want to take responsibility for its actions and decisions.\\"   <br /> <br />Wars don't just happen, they're sold to us by our government, by officials we as a group elect (or whom we allow to be elected by others when we don't vote).  \\"Many people continue to believe that in certain circumstances we should kill to prevent further killing.\\"   <br />Thomas points out that \\"that argument has been used to justify preemptive strikes, to maintain a nuclear arsenal that could destroy the planet a hundred times over, to uphold the death penalty.  It is being used as a rationale for the current occupations of Iraq and Afghanistan-and it was also the argument that the Fascists and the Nazis used to justify their agenda in Europe.\\"  Thomas writes \\"my hope is to help people discover what a terribly dangerous argument this is.\\"  Part of selling war to our society is the dehumanization and scapegoating of others.  Thomas pointsout that \\"When we dehumanize others, we lose our own humanity.  This doesn't just happen in the military:  It happens through television, in the movies, in magazines; it happens on the street, it happens in stores and in the workplace.\\"   <br /> <br />Through his informally written yet powerful story and the tools he provides, Thomas invites us to wake up, to work on healing our suffering, to help others heal theirs, and to do our part to create a truly peaceful society within ourselves, our personal relationships, and our nation.  \\"Peace is not the absence of conflict; it's the absence of violence within conflict,\\" says Thomas. <br />	2005-02-27
US	52195402	R4CG3G94LE82O	0425191656	7600365	Why Does He Do That?: Inside the Minds of Angry and Controlling Men	Books	5	1189	1215	N	N	A MUST-READ if you are or were ever abused by your partner.	This book is by far the best I've read on angry and controlling men, and how to deal with them.  Controlling and abusive behavior can be quite confusing as well as infuriating, as abusers tend to use a large repertoire of manipulative tactics such as lying, projection, blackmail, denying being angry, and putting on a \\"Mr. Wonderful\\" act to the outside world, etc.  \\"Why Does He Do That\\" is exceptionally well written, carefully explaining among other things:  nine types of abusers; tactics abusive men use to manipulate their partners; early warning signs of abusive relationships; myths about abusers (such as the one that alcohol consumption causes abuse); the legal system and mental health professionals; the effect of abuse on boys and girls; how some families and certain aspects of society grooms boys to be future abusers; and how to help abused women.  Bancroft even describes what to look for in men's groups for abusers and how to tell if the abuser is changing for real or is just pretending to change.       Prior to writing this book, Lundy Bancroft had been in the trenches for 15 years as a counselor in an abusive men's program.  As a seasoned veteran of dealing with manipulative abusive individuals, Bancroft does an outstanding job of alerting the reader to their tactics and debunking common B.S. claims they make.  His stories about his clients and the clients of colleagues are fascinating and provide poignant lessons for the reader.  One woman had been in couple's counseling for 6 months with her husband and finally revealed that he was abusing her. Appearing on the verge of tears, the husband told the therapist that he had been in denial about his violence and hadn't been facing how badly it was hurting his wife.  On the way home from the session, the husband kept one hand on the steering wheel and in the other clutched a large handful of his wife's hair, repeatedly slamming her into the dashboard as he gave her a screaming, expletive-filled lecture for revealing the abuse to someone outside the family.  Bancroft strongly recommends against couples counseling for abusers and any program which recommends that the abused individual unilaterally changes her behavior in hopes he'll change too.  This type of therapy doesn't work and can even be counterproductive for reasons Bancroft explains in detail, and the abuser often ends up charming the therapist who may end up siding with the abuser.  Besides, abusers often are fairly well versed in anger management skills and conflict resolution.  They simply don't respect their partner enough to bother using these skills.    Other books are often good at describing abusive behavior, but this book describes not only what they do, but why they do it and how these men think. When Dr. Phil sees an undesirable behavior, he asks, \\"What's the payoff?\\"  I.e. what rewards is the perpetrator reaping from behaving this way?  Unlike the other books I've read on abuse, Bancroft thoroughly explains what these abusers are getting from the behavior.  Unfortunately, the rewards are so powerful, that many abusers refuse to do the hard work of changing their attitudes and behavior.  Another important reason the behaviors are so entrenched, Bancroft points out, is that is that abusive men were often conditioned from an early age to feel entitled to be a privileged character in relationships where the partner caters to them.  The abuser's high entitlement leads him to have unfair and unreasonable expectations, as well as double standards.  One common double standard is that only the abuser is allowed to express anger in the relationship, but not his partner.     This book provides good news and bad:  The good news is that abusive behavior is understood like never before and is a solvable problem.  The bad news is that it generally requires a serious commitment by the abuser to go through every step of a quality program for abusers.  Even for abusers who enroll in a such a program, only a small percentagebother to do every step of the difficult, uncomfortable work of change.  If your abuser doesn't think he has a problem, his prognosis for change is ZERO.    A couple small quibbles, but these in no way detract from the book:  (1) I'd like to see more writing devoted to the tactics of passive-aggressive abuse.  Bancroft mentions that it's common for men in his program, once they realize abuse will no longer be tolerated in their home, to switch tactics from overt abuse to passive-aggressive.  But beyond that, he doesn't cover it much.  (2) Bancroft mentions other professionals in the abuse field whose work he admires, and also some things in the literature he disagrees with.  I would have preferred it if he named the authors and books he disagrees with.    I can't recommend this book highly enough, particularly to individuals who are or suspect they are in an abusive relationship and the individuals who care about them, women with have a history of abusive relationships who want to break the pattern, mental health and legal professionals who deal with abuse, and parents of sons who don't want them indoctrinated by the media, family and friends to be abusers themselves.    P.S. Thank you Lundy Bandcroft for writing this book.  You've done humanity a great service.	2005-02-24
US	52195402	R1FS58IHMFWZBW	1577311477	17086364	The Bhagavad Gita : A Walkthrough for Westerners	Books	5	138	139	N	Y	Gita-phobes fear not!  Hawley spoon-feeds you the EZ way :-)	Have you heard of the Bhagavad Gita, but that's the extent of your knowledge about it?  Are you interested in reading this ancient text but are less than confident in your ability to understand it?  Are you not exactly a religious or ancient history scholar?  Are you more comfortable with reading paragraphs of prose than stanzas of poetry?  Have you read or tried to read the Gita before but aren't quite sure you \\"got it\\"?  Then this may be the Gita for you!<br /><br />Jack Hawley's \\"A Walkthrough for Westerners\\" is the version used in my beginners' \\"Intro to the Bhagavad Gita and Tao Te Ching\\" class.  The instructor has read many versions of the Gita and figures we semi-clueless westerners are most likely to understand this version.  :-)<br /><br />This version reads like a novel/sermon.  If you can read the newspaper, you can successfully read and understand this version of the Gita.  Helpful features for beginners include:<br /><br />* A discussion of why to read the Gita - The nutshell version is that the Gita is full of advice for living--timeless advice and wisdom that is as relevant to 21st century westerners as it was to ancient warriors.  And besides, we all have inner warriors.<br /><br />* Advice on how to read it - Hawley tells us to be receptive, to not immediately dismiss things we read, to not take things literally, to apply the advice to our own inner battles, and to not get wrapped in issues such as whether war is justified.  His discussion is worth reading, no matter which version of the Gita we select.<br /><br />* Setting up the story - Hawley doesn't just launch into the Gita without explanation.  He tells us, \\"The year is 3141 B.C.E.  Arjuna, an esteemed warrior-prince at the height of his powers...is readying to go into battle.  It is a righteous fight to regain a kingdom rightfully his....\\"  Hawley doesn't provide the detailed dysfunctional multi-generational feuding family saga, but just enough to understand the Gita.<br /><br />* Mysterious Sanskrit words are explained - Don't know your dharma from your karma?  Not to worry!  Hawley explains the Sanskrit words, often in parentheses where the word appears in the text.  The reader doesn't need to break the flow of reading to look up a term.  Some terms are explained many times such as jnana (spiritual wisdom or knowledge) and atma (the true self within).  A beginner could turn to any page at random and probably understand what's on the page.  A seasoned Gita scholar might find so much explanation a little annoying, but it's rather seamlessly done and doesn't detract from the reading.<br /><br />Is there a downside to reading this version?  Possibly.  Ironically, the upside of writing the Gita in easy-to-understand prose might also be a downside.  The Gita is an epic poem, which is generally translated stanza-by-stanza into a poem in English and other languages.  We lose the poetry feel and rhythm in this translation.  But this is a tradeoff, because this version is highly understandable and not everyone is a \\"poetry person.\\"  To picture this tradeoff, imagine the Shakespeare plays have been translated into modern English prose.  Instead of \\"To be or not to be\\" we have, \\"Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, paces back and forth contemplating suicide.\\"  The reader doesn't have the confusion of \\"what the heck is he talking about?\\" but the reader doesn't have the AHA! moment of, \\"Ah yes, he's contemplating suicide.\\"  If you're a reader who likes to read poetry or symbolism and to try to figure things out for yourself, this spoon-fed version might not be best for you.<br /><br />If you want to maintain the best of both worlds--a poetry and cadence closer to the original Gita but with the easy-to-understand prose of Hawley's version, you might want to read a poetry translation of the Gita such as Stephen Mitchell's translation alongside Hawley's translation.  I would begin with the poetry translation, read a section, meditate on it and process it, then read Hawley's version for the plain English lowdown.<br /><br />Hawley writes that his mantra in writing this version of the Gita was \\"clarity and flow\\".  He has certainly achieved that!  I recommend this version for beginning and intermediate \\"gitatologists\\", preferably with a poetry version alongside.sion for the plain English lowdown.<br /><br />Hawley writes that his mantra in writing this version of the Gita was \\"clarity and flow\\".  He has certainly achieved that!  I recommend this version for beginning and intermediate \\"gitatologists\\", preferably with a poetry version alongside.	2005-02-01
US	52195402	R35E3PQOTNI1Y0	1582701148	708651576	The Hidden Messages in Water	Books	5	44	55	N	N	Hoax or not, Love & Gratitude are a good idea.	\\"If we fill our lives with love and gratitude for all, this consciousness will become a wonderful power that will spread throughout the world.  And *this* is what the water crystals are trying to tell us.\\"  p. 146      I began this review with the above quote, because in the speculation of whether Emoto's work is legitimate or a hoax, this message often gets lost.     Masaru Emoto is a science hobbyist in Japan, who photographs ice crystals under a microscope using a technique described in the book's prologue.  (His doctorate degree is from a 2-year alternative medicine correspondence course in India.)  He says that when he exposes the pre-frozen water to positive energy such as classical music or the words \\"love and gratitude,\\" the crystals are beautiful and well-formed.  On the other hand, crystals exposed to negative energy such as heavy metal music or the words \\"you fool\\" are ugly and malformed.  Forty percent of the book is devoted to photography of crystals exposed to various music (including Elvis' Heartbreak Hotel and Austrian yodeling), energies (including the words \\"You make me sick!\\") and crystals from various polluted and non-polluted bodies of water around the world.     The one-star reviews claim this is not science, end of story.  Having read every word of this book, I conclude this:  Emoto's claims, whether legitimate or false are too important to be ignored.  If they are true, then here is tangible evidence that our thoughts and the words of others can change our body chemistry, given that our bodies are approximately 70% water.  This would make sense in light of other research on the effects of prayer and on the mind/body connection.  If his claims are false, than hundreds of thousands of people have bought books showing beautiful crystal photography and have held the vibration of \\"love and gratitude\\" in their hearts.  Emoto has a degree in international relations, so it's possible he's embarked on a creative way to reach world peace one reader ata time.  The way to judge whether this is a hoax is to attempt to replicate Emoto's research.  In this book, Emoto himself invites people to replicate his work.  This invitation, as well as the rest of Emoto's book strike me as sincere.  While it's premature to say whether this is a hoax, faulty science, or legitimate, I think it is a good idea to hold the vibration of love and gratitude and listen to soothing music.    This book also discusses related experiments, such as British scientist Rupert Sheldrake's work on morphic fields and telepathy, experiments of hundreds of individuals standing around lakes attempting to improve the water quality through chanting and prayer, and experiments where dozens of Japanese families exposed grains of rice to positive or negative energy or simply ignored the rice.  Whether a water crystal, an entire lake or a grain of rice, positive energy was found to have a positive impact.  It makes sense, after all, positive energy positively impacts other humans and family pets.  Yet it's thought-provoking that positive energy can positively impact plants and seemingly inanimate substances.    I'm giving this book 5 stars.  The experiments are original, the text thought-provoking, and the photographs (most of them) beautiful.  And whether the scientific claims are true, false, or something in between, holding the vibration of love and gratitude in one's mind and heart is an excellent idea.     P.S. #1  Although the crystal exposed to the Austrian yodeling is much prettier than the fractured crystal that had the misfortune of listening to Heartbreak Hotel, this reviewer would rather risk listening to Elvis.  :-)    P.S. #2  Check out the crystal on p. 34 that was shown a photo of a crop circle--it's really cool.  :-)	2005-01-23
US	52195402	R9BEEZCR2H5W2	1878736043	971958966	Sprouts: The Miracle Food: The Complete Guide to Sprouting	Books	3	256	258	N	N	Not a complete guide; Somewhat confusing; Mostly good info.	Steve Meyerowitz, a.k.a. Sproutman has been sprouting since the 1970s, and owns a company selling sprouting equipment and seeds.  I've read several of his books and chatted with him in person about sprouting.  Sproutman knows his stuff, and IMO, anything he writes about sprouting is worth reading.  I have grown magnificent sunflower sprouts by using a Sproutman Sprouthouse (a bamboo basket in a plastic house) and following Sproutman's instructions.   If you have good sprouting seeds and follow the instructions in this book, I suspect you too will grow awesome sprouts.    Unfortunately, the book is not that well organized and the instructions for sprouting, a fairly simple process, are unnecessarily confusing.  There are many methods of growing sprouts, such as baskets, sprouting bags, glass jars, open-ended glass tubes with screens on both ends, trays, etc.  This book gives instructions for only 3 methods:  baskets, bags, and trays.  Sproutman doesn't explain that upfront, however.  If you want to use one of those 3 methods, the instructions are knowledgeable and detailed.  BUT:   I suggest that when you choose one of these methods, you read through the entire chapter first, because if you try to follow along step-by-step, it's easy to mess up.     For example, in the chapter titled, \\"The Technique\\", Sproutman launches into instructions for using a sprouting basket, without first explaining that this technique just ONE of many sprouting methods.  For this technique he says to soak 5 rounded tablespoons of seeds.  He doesn't explain until 7 pages later that you use 5 tablespoons of seed for an 8 inch basket, 6 to 7 tablespoons of seed for a 9 inch basket, and 2 to 3 tablespoons of seed for a 6 inch basket.  A beginning basket sprouter who tries to follow his instructions without reading the entire chapter first, could easily make the mistake of using the wrong amount of seeds for the basket size.    In the next chapter, Sproutman gives instructions for how to use a sprout bag, a different technique.  The first thing I would want to know about this is, what are the best seeds for growing in a sprout bag?  That information is there, along with days 'til maturity-in the middle of the chapter.       Another thing that's important to a good sprout book is information about seeds.  What are the varities, the days until harvest, the uses and tastes, etc?  There's chart near the end of the book which gives this information, but the seed varities are not in alphabetical order.  I can't figure out any logic to the way the chart is sorted, so if you want to look up a seed variety, you have to read down the entire list.  Also, there are some types of fairly popular sprouting seeds missing from the chart, for example, broccoli sprouts.    Although I think most of Sproutman's information is excellent, albeit a bit disorganized, one thing I take issue with are his frequent sermons about why sprouting jars should not be used.  I first used a sprouting jar in 1984, and my jar sprouts have always turned out just fine, without all those immature yellow sprouts Sproutman warns of.  If you are careful not to use too many seeds and to shake your sprouts back and forth so they drain well and lay the jar on its side, your jar-sprouted sprouts will turn out just fine.  Also Sproutman says a jar requires cheesecloth, screens and rubberbands.  Back in 1984, a decade prior to the book's publication, I used a lid which was a plastic screen and have never had to hassle with cheesecloth, screens and rubberbands.  In addition, he says automatic sprouters sell in the range of $450 to $1000.  It's somewhat possible that information was accurate in the 1990s, but in the 2000s, one can find new automatic sprouters for a lot less than $450.    Some of the book's strengths include the chapter discussing which type of water to use on sprouts, the nutritional information scattered throughout the books, and the presence of an index.  I personally think the book's dumbpuns are a strength, but I'm sure the majority of readers will not.  :-)    Despite my qualms with this book, Sproutman is outstanding in his field, and I still recommend it to anyone who wants to sprout via vertical sprouter (basket), bag, or tray, or learn about sprouting in general.  If you're using either a vertical sprouter or a bag, I suggest first reading the succinct review of instructions on page 173 for the vertical sprouter and p. 175 for the sproutbag.	2005-01-20
US	52195402	RQKRPA68X3KPT	1575000458	592702021	Stealing Time: The New Science of Aging	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating introduction to the anti-aging research.	\\"Stealing Time, The New Science of Aging\\" is a captivating, easy-to-read and understand introduction to the field of anti-aging.  His language is highly descriptive--he shows you, not tells you.  I felt transported onto a field trip led by science journalist and television producer, Fred Warshofsky, who took me to the labs of top longevity researchers and delved into their work.  I felt I was on a field trip for good reason:  this is the companion book to the PBS documentary of the same name.  I didn't see the documentary, but this book is complete in and of itself.  Sprinkled through the book are interesting discussions and questions Warshofsky goes on to answer.  For example, why are men able to father children at any age, whereas women go through menopause?  Why are elderly folks revered in pre-industrial tribal societies, but not in the United States?   The book, published in 1999, provides a great overview of the important anti-aging research up though the end of the 20th century. <br /> <br />Below are the eight chapter headings, along with some commentary and take-home points: <br /> <br />1. The Aging Paradox - Why are the people who make it past 85 a generally hardy and healthy group?  Warshofsky cites a 1995 study which found \\"that medical expenditures for the last two years of life average $22,600 for people who die at seventy, but just $8300 for people who live to be one hundred.\\" <br /> <br />2.  Other Species - This chapter contains many interesting discussions of the longevity of many species, including mice who may live to age four, to the giant tortoise who can live to be well over 100, the latter with showing signs aging.  An especially fascinating study was zoologist Steven Austad's study of opossums.  Why do opossums on an island off the coast of Georgia age more slowly and live 50 percent longer than their mainland cousins?  (See page 64.)  <br /> <br />3.  The Genetics of Aging - Genetics can be complicated, but Warshofsky simplifies them enough so the educated layperson can understand the research in this field.  One interesting study discussed is Michael Rose's work on fruit flies, which mate at about 14 days and typically live for a month.  For generation after generation of fruit flies, Rose only let eggs hatch from the oldest flies.  The generation of flies visited by the author mated up to 50 days and lived for up to 5 months, giving hope that extending life is possible. <br />  <br />4.  Extending Life - Caloric restriction is examined in depth in this chapter, which includes an interview with Dr. Roy Walford, then age 74 and on nutritionally dense caloric diet expecting to extend his lifespan by 15 to 20 years.  Although Walford subsequently died at age 79 of ALS, there is still plenty of evidence that nutritionally dense caloric restriction has the potential to significantly increase longevity. <br /> <br />5.  Exercise and Hormones - If you just read one chapter, read this one!  Cardiovascular and strength training physical activity are important for staying healthy and reversing part of the aging process.  Among the exercise researchers Warshofsky interviews is Dr. Miriam Nelson at Tufts University, who found that people can build muscle and increase their strength and activities of daily living even in their 80s and 90s.  Also, this chapter discusses human growth hormone (HGH) which was found to improve tissue repair, bone strength and brain function among other things.  It's been found that people can increase their HGH naturally through physical activity. <br /> <br />6.  Mastering the Mind - People (and rats) who are successful at aging keep their minds mentally challenged.   <br /> <br />7.  Alzheimers and the Chemistry of the Aging Brain - This chapter briefly explores theories of dementia, and discusses the Nun's study.  The Nun's study found that the more highly educated nuns with bachelor's degrees or higher live about four years longer than the less highly educated sisters, with better mental and physical functioning.  One caveat about this chapter:  About half the chapter discusses estrogen, found to help improve memory in menopausal women, only in glowing terms.  Several years after publication of this book, the National Institutes of Health halted their estrogen replacement due to increased risk of stroke and lack of improvement in heart disease.  The downside of estrogen replacement therapy, including increased risk of breast cancer is not discussed. <br /> <br />8.  Tomorrow - This brief chapter covers some odds and ends not discussed in other chapters, such as that people who live to be 100 tend to have strong, mentally tough personalities along with deep spiritual beliefs. <br /> <br />Some take home points for living longer and healthier lives emerge from the research in this book: <br /> <br />* Stay physically active, with regular cardiovascular exercise and strength training.  In fact, women who exercise four hours a week reduce their risk of breast cancer by more than one third. <br />* Eat a healthy diet which includes at least five servings of fruits and vegetables daily.   <br />* Stay mentally active. <br />* Reduce stress. <br /> <br />Overall, if you want to learn about anti-aging and longevity, this book is a great place to begin. <br />	2005-01-17
US	52195402	R1LCRT3J6ZW7MY	0873227581	422996265	Practical Math for Health Fitness Professionals	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Need to learn Met Calcs?  Get this book!	As I study for the ACSM HFI exam, \\"Practical Math for Health Fitness Professionals\\" is the most valuable resource I've found to date for learning metabolic calculations.  (I haven't checked out any met calc software, which I don't think I need, thanks to this book.)  Unlike the met calc chapter in \\"ACSM's Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription\\" or in \\"ACSM's Health & Fitness Certification Review,\\" this book provides extremely thorough explanations of all the math needed for HFI exam (plus some additional exercise physiology math), and is impeccable about leaving on the units (such as mL O2/kg/min or meters/min) as you work through the problem, until you can cancel them out.  I find leaving the units with all the numbers, along with using conversion factors (thoroughly explained in the book) crucial to navigating through and following what's going on in complex problems, and increases the chances of obtaining the right answer.  I think it's best to learn the problem solving methods with the units intact, and only consider leaving them off later after one understands the conversion factors and concepts. <br /> <br />ACSM-certified exercise physiologist, Dennis K. Flood, is gifted at explaining the math for exercise metabolism, cardiovascular and pulmonary function, and nutrition problems to the layperson.  His practical comments throughout the book show that he has a thorough understanding of kinesiology and is not just a math guy.  He begins with three chapters of introduction and review which includes basic math, cancellation of units, and conversion factors.  Even though I have fairly good math skills, I found those chapters quite valuable for both ramping me up to the skills needed for solving met calcs and in providing information needed for the HFI exam.  For example, Flood tells the reader to memorize the conversion factor 26.8 m/mph = 1 mph, and that speeds below 4 mph are walking speeds, while speeds of 4 mph and above are running speeds. <br /> <br/>The rest of the book is the nitty gritty on physiological math and metabolic calculations with chapters on:  Cardiovascular Dynamics and Calculations, Pulmonary Function Calculations, Resting Energy Expenditure and Bayes Theorem, Energy Cost of Level Walking, Energy Cost of Uphill Walking, Oxygen Consumption During Running, Cycle and Arm Ergometer Metabolic Calculations, Calculations for Bench Stepping, Submaximal Exercise Testing and Related Math, and Nutrition Math.  (The Karvonen formula and converting METS to kcal are included in the Resting Energy Expenditure and Bayes Theorem chapter.)  Each chapter contains explanations of the concepts within, problems for the reader to work along with Flood, and practice problems at the end of the chapter, which get progressively harder and which have detailed yet easy-to-follow explanations in the answer section.  As I work through every math problem related to the ACSM HFI exam, I find the explanations of each problem quite helpful.  My only complaint is that in explaining complicated problems, Flood dives in explaining that you do A then B then C, without giving the reader a big-picture overview of what he's trying to accomplish.  Here's where \\"ACSM's Health & Fitness Certification Review\\" comes in handy, which has a diagram on page 175 showing that one converts from METS to Relative VO2 to Absolute VO2, etc.  I think adding that diagram would add to the helpfulness of this book. <br /> <br />Regardless, I think that working through this book's problems with pencil, paper and calculator would help any student learn the math for ACSM certifications, as well as help aspiring exercise physiologists learn the math in their field.  In addition, some of this math can benefit exercisers who like to estimate how many kcals they're burning on a treadmill or exercise bike.  This book might be hard to track down, but if you're studying for ACSM certifications, it's well worth it. <br />	2005-01-03
US	52195402	R3RLVGWEW1O8WG	0446676926	909012272	Messages from the Masters: Tapping into the Power of Love	Books	5	278	286	N	N	Universal wisdom, Amazing stories, Practical advice	The \\"Masters\\" are highly evolved souls not in physical form who pass along messages of love, wisdom and universal truth. Psychiatrist Brian Weiss, famous for his books on reincarnation, received these messages through various means including his own meditations and the past-life regressions of his patients. Whether someone is a long-time spiritual seeker or just beginning their spiritual journey, there is so much of value in this book! <br />In each chapter, I'm impressed by 3 things: (1) the quote from the masters that opens the chapter, (2) the amazing stories Weiss shares, and (3) the plethora of practical advice. <br />(1) Each chapter begins with a quote from the masters about 1 to 2 paragraphs long-a lot of wisdom packed into a few words. These messages include the importance of love, forgiveness, patience, meditation and visualization; and information about reincarnation and life in spiritual form. Although these messages corroborate other spiritual and metaphysical books I've read, it's great to have messages on so many topics succinctly boiled down to their essence in one book.<br />(2) Each chapter contains fascinating stories that reinforce the masters' quote which begins the chapter. The stories come from many sources including Brian Weiss' life, his regression patients and workshop participants, and experiences with talented mediums such as James Van Praagh. The stories are truly amazing, and if the reader believes the author is telling the truth, provide incontrovertible evidence the existence of the soul outside the human body via out of the body-, between life-, and reincarnation experiences. I recognized several stories from Weiss' previous books, but most were new. There were numerous cases of hypnotic regression patients, mediums, and workshop participants accessing information that no one would know except an individual and his or her deceased loved one, plus some spine-tingling \\"coincidences\\". <br />(3) \\"Messages from the Masters\\" is far more than wise quotes and cool stories. I'm impressed by the depth and wisdom of the advice. For example, in his chapter on psychics and mediums, Weiss devotes 4 pages discussing 10 rules of thumb for separating real ones from the fakes. Likewise, his chapter on teachers discusses discerning real teachers and gurus from pretenders. I'm impressed that the book doesn't just preach \\"peace and love\\" but provides so much practical advice one can use on a day-to-day basis. In addition, Weiss' commentary on the fallacies of modern psychiatry is quite interesting.<br />(4) Bonuses - Appendix A provides 7 spiritual teachings, each followed by passages from the sacred writings of major religions: Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, and Judaism. Appendix B provides 2 meditations one can read into a tape recorder: a past life meditation and a healing meditation with dolphins. <br />Bottom line: this book is full of wisdom, fascinating stories, and practical advice. I highly recommend it to beginning spiritual seekers, long-term spiritual seekers, and skeptics alike.	2003-04-21
US	52195402	R7RLBDX9E52L6	0761123008	301692679	Curly Girl	Books	4	129	147	N	N	5 stars for fun &amp; attitude; 3 stars for advice &amp; recipes	If you have curly hair like me, then you've likely had more than your share of bad hair cuts, bad hair days, and frizz. \\"Curly Girl\\" (CG) gives lots of good advice (and a bit of questionable advice) for getting good hair cuts, good hair days, minimum frizz, and maximum shine. Beyond all the advice, CG is a celebration of curly hair, complete with a time line, celebrity pictures, and \\"confessions\\" of women who used to hate their curly hair, but then learned how to take proper care of it and love their hair. <br />I wish this book were around when I hated my hair in the \\"long and silky\\" days of the 70s. I blew it dry, and it fanned out just like Roseanne Roseannadanna! On page 37, there's a picture of Roseanne Roseannadanna, with the admonition that curly girls who blow-dry their hair often end up looking like this! I know that much of this advice is good, because I learned it the hard way! <br />The one piece of advice I with which I take the most issue is Massey's recommendation not to wash curly hair, but to use conditioner instead. While it's true curly hair is often quite dry (mine is), conditioner lacks the necessary surfactants to clean hair. Conditioners, depending on the formulation, are designed to do jobs such as moisturize, reconstruct, and detangle, but not clean. Despite my very dry hair, when I've had to go a week or more without shampooing, my hair got greasy. Also, when I use hair gel, which the author recommends as a frizz-buster, I absolutely need to shampoo it the next day. For dry curly hair, I recommend finding a good shampoo and separate conditioner for dry hair, and shampooing and conditioning once or twice a week. Also, Massey says the only way to receive a good hair cut for curly hair is to cut it dry. A good hairdresser like mine can give a good cut for curly hair with the hair wet. <br />Part of my reason for deducting a star is the homemade hair care product recipes. One of them contains glycerine, which draws moisture from inside of the hair strands to the outside, paradoxically drying out the hair. Another recipe is baking soda and water, which Massey claims will remove heavy product build-up and leave hair shiny and clean. A baking soda and water mixture is basic (pH higher than 7). It is the slightly acidic products that remove product build-up and leave hair shiny. Even worse, basic solutions can spilt disulfide bonds in hair, which weaken hair and reduce curl. Others of the recipes are harmless to your hair, but will leave it a sticky mess.<BR> <BR>Despite my qualms about the recipes and the no-shampoo advice, I like the book for its fun positive attitude, curly hair education, photos showing many of the author's points, and curly girl confessions. As part of my Curly Girl education, I learned there are 3 types of curls: corkscrew, botticelli, and wavy. Wavy curls.  (Which my hairdresser says is a bit of an over-simplification.)  Massey goes into a lot of detail about how to tell which types of curls you have and how to care for them. Even if you just have a small amount of wave to your hair, but don't really think it's curly, you can benefit from the book. As for the Curly Girl confessions, I had many aha moments as women talked about hating their hair, making horrific mistakes with it, straightening it, and finally learning to love it. CG is a definite self-esteem booster. :-) I give this book 5 stars for fun, visual appeal and attitude; and 3 stars for advice and recipe quality.	2003-04-06
US	52195402	R5LQ2OJUB1OJS	0618164723	392143634	Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World	Books	5	106	117	N	N	Skinny volume throughly investigates why Americans are fat	Back in the 1970s and before, about 25% of the American population was overweight.  But in the late 80s, the rate of overweight spiked upwards, and is now around 60 percent.  Also, the rate of obesity in children has doubled in 30 years, with about 25% of Americans under age 19 overweight or obese.  Why?  What has happened between the 1970s and today to cause this dangerous and dramatic increase in overweight and obesity?  Journalist Greg Critser does a thorough job of answering this question in just 176 pages (the appendix begins on page 177).  In addition, he presents the above statistics and more, discusses the hazards of obesity, the politics behind overly lax weight and exercise recommendations to the American public, and discusses why the low income people are more obese as a group than high income people.  <br />Theres the obvious answer as to why Americans have a huge weight problem:  We eat more and exercise less.  But Critser digs much deeper than this.  Why do we eat more?  For one thing, fast food restaurant meals and movies theater snacks are supersized.  And Critser quotes research studies that people tend to clean their plates, regardless of how big the plate is.  So why are meals supersized?  Critser describes the history of supersizing, (the brainchild of David Wallerstein of the McDonalds corporation), with the skill of a master story teller.  Each of Critsers discussion topics, such as childhood obesity and lack of exercise, is treated with considerable depth.  Critser ends on a positive note, presenting some solutions that have worked on a small scale in areas of California, and are worth trying in other parts of the U.S.<br />As someone who has taught nutrition and weight management to college students, I was impressed with the thorough job Critser did of researching and explaining these issues.  He summarizes studies in the peer-reviewed weight loss literature, quotes from the popular media, interviews some of the top weight loss researchers in the U.S. and others who shed light on the obesity problem such as California school officials.  Far removed from the dry prose of the scientific literature, Critser presents his material in an entertaining and occasionally sardonic style.  <br />My problems with Fatland are minor:  My biggest problem is there are no footnotes in the body of the book, making it difficult to cross reference the studies presented in the 37-pages notes section at the end.  Also, the organization of the book can be a bit awkward:  each chapter begins with an anecdote, some longwinded, and it can take several pages to ease the anecdote into the chapter topic so that the reader knows why the anecdote is presented in the first place. Also the chapter What the Extra Calories Do to You, would make logical sense for chapter 1, but instead is chapter 6 of 7 chapters. <br />Overall, this is an excellent, well-researched, and entertaining read.  I highly recommend Fatland for anyone wishing to gain a deeper understanding of why Americas overweight and obesity problem has spiraled out of control.	2003-03-15
US	52195402	R32T4ZEEDIIGBY	0971120714	621006336	Finding Your Soul Mate Journal: Insights and Inspiration on the Journey to Discovering Real Love	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Over 300 blank pages for the price of a book!	The \\"Finding Your Soul Mate Journal\\" is essentially 372 blank and mostly blank pages.  You get:<br />Pages 1 and 2 - Title page and publishing information.<BR>Pages 3 and 5 - Introduction telling you the journal is based on the \\"Four Rivers of Life\\" by Angeles Arrien, and why journaling is helpful.<BR>Page 6 (and all even pages thereafter) - 23 blank lines for writing.<BR>Page 7 (and all odd pages thereafter) - The page is split into 4 questions, each with 4 blank lines underneath for your answer:  What inspired me?  What challenged me? What surprised me?  What deeply touched me? <br />That's it.  Essentially a blank book.  Admittedly, I bought this journal sight-unseen without the benefit of any reviews, and feel ripped off.  These are great questions to journal about, but I would have preferred for Evelyn Rice to simply have give these journaling instructions in her \\"Finding Your Soul Mate Handbook\\".  There's no need to pay the full price of a book for blank pages.	2003-03-10
US	52195402	R1IDWEWR3H4IT5	0140235140	143022246	You Are Special: Words of Wisdom for All Ages from a Beloved Neighbor	Books	5	25	26	N	N	This special book should go back in print!	You Are Special (YAS) is a 171 page compendium of Fred Rogers wisdom in small doses gathered from his other books, newspaper columns, speeches, songs, and television programs.  YAS consists of 11 short chapters of bulleted sayings, observations, and mini-essays, ranging from 1 sentence to a 15 line paragraph.  The 11 topics are:  You Are Special; Relationships; Childhood; Creativity and Play; Discipline; Learning; Difficult Situations (such as death and divorce); Communicating; Parenthood; The Partnership Between Parents, Child-Care Providers, and Teachers; and Growing in Adulthood.  Each chapter opens with an original Mr. Rogers song.  Although this book is dedicated to children of all ages, it is primarily a book for adults who want to improve the lives of children and their own lives.  Roughly 80 of the material relates to children, even factoring in the sections on relationships and adulthood.<br />It was fascinating to read Mr. Rogers take on various topics one typically doesnt associate with Mr. Rogers such as children swearing, sex and violence on television, and even fitness.  His take on fitness is that people need to love themselves enough to motivate themselves to exercise.  Just about everything I read not only rang true, but filled me with a sense of peace and comfort.  A couple samples:<br />*There is no normal life that is free of pain.  Its the very wrestling with our problems that can be the impetus for our growth.  <br />*We want to raise our children so that they can take a sense of pleasure in both their own heritage and the diversity of others.<br />In addition to his own wisdom, Mr. Rogers, who was an avid reader, quotes from other sources including his grandfather, parents he had met, poets, and even scientist/theologian, Pierre Theilhard de Chardin.  Often he adds his own interpretation to the wisdom of others.  <br />I was very impressed with the depth, compassion, and in some cases, the originality of Mr. Rogers wisdom.  I gained a lot from this book, even though I dont have children.  However, I think parents, grandparents, and other adults who regularly interact with children will gain even more.  If you can find this book, it would make an excellent gift for new parents.  My only complaint is that YAS doesn't have an index, so my copy is full of bookmarks.  :-)	2003-03-07
US	52195402	R144L4ELJSGN5Y	0966358007	656109504	Glynis Has Your Number	Books	4	56	57	N	N	I learned a number of things...	Impressed with Glynis McCants' knowledge of numerology that she shared on the radio, I read and worked with her book to see what she could teach me.  I learned quite a bit from this chatty, first person book filled with celebrity examples.  I feel like I now have a good grounding in the basics of numerology, including life path number, power of the name number, soul number, personal year and month, master numbers, and which numbers are compatible and incompatible.  Also, she throws in many extras, including attitude number, intensity number, the energy behind your phone number and address, affirmations for various numbers, names of pets, and even tips on playing the lottery.  Glynis answers many questions such as whether in calculating one's numerology a person should use the name they're called or the one on their birth certificate, and how changing ones name at marriage affects their numerology.  Also, I appreciated her detailed explanation of what each number vibration from 1 to 9 means, and then her explanation how to apply the number vibration to the life path number, soul number, etc.  However, that system did require lots of flipping through the pages as I worked with the various numerology concepts.<br />I could have learned even more from this book, had parts of it been better explained.  There were several confusing areas in the book.  For example, in the relationship section, Glynis discusses a couple where one partner is a \\"5\\" and the other a \\"4\\".  But she fails to tell us which number she means: Life path?  Power of the name number?  Then she goes on to discuss every possible combination of couple:  1-1, 1-2, ... 9-9.  But not knowing which number she means, this section is totally lost on me.   Celebrities would be given numbers, such as Bill Clinton:  68512, and Hillary Clinton 55183.  Then Glynis would launch into an explanation of the numbers, without always being specific about which type of number (personality, soul, etc.) she was discussing.  I had refer back to page 10 to see what the sequence was.  In several places throughout the book there's an asterisk, but no matching footnote.  The book is not visually appealing, and looks, and in places reads, like a manuscript.  I do not consider it to be worth the full list price.<br />Despite my qualms, I'm giving this book 4 stars because so much of it is well explained, a wide range of material is covered, and because I was able to learn so much.  Helpful hint:  Rather than tediously convert numbers to letters and do lots of addition, I suggest using one of the many numerology calculators on the internet and simply typing in names and birthdays. <BR>~Reviewed by Groovy Vegan	2003-03-02
US	52195402	R2B15RALXWY8HF	0060099089	427256056	Among the Heroes: United Flight 93 and the Passengers and Crew Who Fought Back	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Respectful, Inspiring Tribute + Flt. 93 Events Reconstructed	As I read \\"Among the Heroes\\", I was inspired by the lives of the passengers, their loved ones, and by the author, Jere Longman.  Longman, a New York Times reporter, seamlessly integrates the story of United Flight 93 (preflight check to post-crash recovery effort) with the lives of the passengers and hijackers in a well-written book that I couldn't put down.  \\"Among the Heroes\\" successfully achieves the author's 3 goals described in the preface:  to recreate the actions aboard Flight 93 in as much detail as is known, to commemorate the crew members and 40 passengers, and to understand how hijacker pilot, Ziad Jarrah, became radicalized to the point of suicide terrorism.  Longman does an excellent job reconstructing the story of Flight 93 from numerous interviews, flight records, recollections of family members who heard the data voice recording, taped phone calls of passengers, media reports, and eyewitness accounts of the crash.  He also debunks speculation that the plane was shot down.  Toward the end, we hear from some of the family members on how they're coping with their loss, and their thoughts on September 11th and the war on terrorism.  Longman also does a very good job reconstructing the activities of and influences on Jarrah based on interviews of landlords, family members, flight school classmates, and even the instructor who taught him street-fighting at the gym. <br />For me, what makes this book a 5 star, highly inspirational book are the lives of the passengers and crew.  This was an amazing, incredibly talented, highly intelligent group of people. Old or young, married or single, every passenger and crew member appeared to live his or her life to their highest potential.  The stories and achievements of these people are remarkable, showing achievements in every area of life:  loving families, overcoming challenges, fulfilling careers, personal growth, physical fitness/sports, appreciating nature, spiritual growth, intellectual development, developingone's talents, travel and leisure, helping others, and giving back to the community. Among the passengers were environmental attorneys and environmental activists, a disability rights activist, writers, people successful in socially responsible business such as making airplanes safer and selling life-saving medical supplies, a teacher, emergency medical technicians, an ironworker who helped build the World Trade Center, and two pilots.  But we see these people beyond their careers and athletic trophies.  We see stories of them showing the kinds of people they were, accomplishments and imperfections alike.  Even the youngest people on the plane were highly accomplished, for example, college student Deora Bodley, well-read and accomplished at academics and sports, tutored third and forth graders, educated people about AIDS, and volunteered at an animal shelter.  And Deora's was just one of dozens of stories of impressive accomplishments, service to humanity, and love of family.  Beyond their resumes, I was struck most by the love these passengers and crew members had for their families and the love their families have for them.  There is story after story of passengers and crew members regularly taking time out of their busy lives to share in the lives of loved ones and help other people.  For instance, Captain Jason Dahl would plan spectacular anniversary surprises for his wife, and several businessman dads designed their careers so they could spend more time with their children.  Lauren Grandcolas, pregnant with her first child on the flight, not only had a successful career in marketing and advertising, she kept physically fit by a variety of activities and still found time to volunteer for 5 different causes including AIDS walks and food distribution centers, and to even give her husband Jack a facial.  In their darkest hour, knowing they were likely to die, Lauren and many of her fellow passengers, called their loved ones seeking to comfort them and tell them they loved them one last time.<br />Upon reading this book, I'm more inspired than ever to manage my time better, set and accomplish goals, live my life to the fullest, make time for loved ones, and as time management guru Stephen Covey says, \\"leave a legacy.\\"	2003-02-25
US	52195402	R1WSENTT492PWK	0307340155	977591541	Four Little Kittens (Little Little Golden Book)	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Cute & clever, but romanticizes the life of stray alley cats	\\"Four Little Kittens\\", first published in 1957, is the story of Mother Cat who lives in a barn, and her litter of four kittens, Tuff, Ruff, Luff, and Muff.  When the kittens are old enough to live separately from Mother Cat, she tells them it's time to decide what kind of cats they want to be.  She describes the lives of three different types of cats:  alley cats, farm cats and ship cats.  As she describes the life of each type of cat, one of Muff's siblings decides that's the life for him, and runs off to become that type of cat.  I'll leave Muff's destiny as a surprise.<br />The story is clever, and the illustrations are adorable.  Unfortunately, I don't recommend this book because the life of the stray alley cat is romanticized and presented in a positive light:  a long lean wild clever cat who gets to do whatever he likes, and makes fine music at night to the moon.  Unfortunately, in real life, the life of a stray cat is not nearly as much fun as it is in \\"Four Little Kittens.\\"  Various spay and neuter organizations estimate that a pair of feral cats can generate about 3000 cats in their lifespan of 2-5 years, and that's after considering the deaths - approximately 1/3 of feral kittens die after 2 months.  Housecats, however, typically live into their teens.  Many feral cats are hungry and sick.  I have a problem with romanticizing this tragic situation to young children.<br />The book's description says it's for readers aged 4 to 8.  The book appears to be one a parent would read to preschoolers aged 3 to 5, while kindergartners and first graders might like to read it themselves.  However, 2nd and 3rd graders would likely find the book too childish.  If you are going to read this book to a young child, I suggest mentioning that alley cats are often sick and hungry, so alley cat life isn't as much fun as Tuff thinks, before going on to read about farm and ship cats.	2003-02-20
US	52195402	R28ZO9Q47IRCVW	0374310904	50796379	Carl's Masquerade	Books	2	2	24	N	N	Clever visual humor but bad role-modeling	Carl's Masquerade is a beautifully illustrated, clever and humorous book aimed at preschoolers.  On page one, the parents announce that they're going to a masquerade party, and tell their Rottweiler, Carl, \\"take good care of the baby.\\"  Therein lies the problem.  In real life, parents who leave their baby unattended by humans and go off to a party, are guilty of child neglect.  But this book presents this scenario as being cute and funny.  Adults and older children reading this book can make the distinction that this is inappropriate behavior in real life, but the book's young target audience cannot.<br />Once the parents leave for the party, Carl takes the baby to the same big party, where they get admitted because the greeter at the door thinks they're in costume.  Once in the door, the story is told only with pictures.  At the party, Carl and the baby (who appears to be about a year old) see many interesting costumes and have fun adventures.  The pictures are quite amusing and clever, such as when Carl sees what he thinks is a cat, but is really a human in a cat costume.  Visual humor is the book's major strength.  Although the baby spots her parents, the parents are always looking the other way and don't see the baby.  Carl manages to get the baby home and safe in her crib just before the parents come home.<br />Although I wish I could recommend this beautifully illustrated, clever, humorous book, I simply can't, because of the parents' irresponsible behavior.  I just don't count on preschoolers being able to make a distinction that this is a fantasy.  Also, it might play on fears they have of being left alone.  However, it's worth a quick \\"read\\" for adults and older children to enjoy the clever visual humor of Alexandra Day.	2003-02-13
US	52195402	R3Q8TQW5RMF5HJ	0060392622	702491703	Raw: The Uncook Book: New Vegetarian Food for Life	Books	2	654	678	N	N	Juliano over-exposed; Recipes under-explained.	I'm new to raw foods \\"cooking\\", so I'll start with the first salad in Juliano's \\"Raw\\".  Let's see, the ingredients include:  anise hyssop, borage, bronze fennel, chickweed, meadow rue...  What the heck is meadow rue?  Let's check the glossary, \\"a delicious leaf\\"...Thanks Juliano.  I'll also need mizuna, salad burnet, society garlic and summer purslane.  I've heard of some of these items, but I've never seen them in Seattle natural markets, and Seattle's a very vegetarian cuisine savvy city.  Unless you can grow these things yourself, good luck finding them.  I must admit that despite the fact that I prepare food from scratch quite a bit, I found Juliano's recipes too complicated and under-explained to attempt a single one.  Other raw foods \\"cookbooks\\" explain raw foods prep in considerably more detail, such as \\"Warming Up to Living Foods\\" by Elysa Markowitz, and \\"Sproutman's Kitchen Garden Cookbook\\" by Steve Meyerowitz.<br />Juliano writes that the purpose of the book is to introduce or reacquaint the reader to raw foods, and to provide the tools to eat this way.  Unfortunately, I'm not sure Julanio succeeds in these goals, although he certainly gave himself a nice modeling portfolio.  Since most readers will be unfamiliar with raw foods, he needs to provide more guidance than most cookbooks in what are the ingredients, how to shop for them, the kitchen equipment needed, and how to prepare the foods.  The guidance is too sparse and at times inadequate in these areas.  A few of the many examples of inadequate instruction:<BR>* Many recipes require a dehydrator, yet there's zero guidance on how to select one.<BR>*Several recipes call for \\"coconut meat\\", such as the carrot cake which calls for 2 cups.  Approximately how many coconuts will I need to buy or find on the beach to yield 2 cups?  Will one do, or do I need to buy a second one?  Juliano doesn't say.<BR>* Rejuvelac is common fermented beverage among raw fooders.  However, as the Sproutman points out in his rawfoods book, \\"there can be good fermentation or bad fermentation.\\"  There should be guidance on how to tell if the liquid has fermented, and when exactly should you discard it and start over.<BR>* Sprouting seeds is an important prerequisite to many of Juliano's recipes, yet he briefly outlines only one method of sprouting, and one of the less common/less effective methods.  It would be nice if he discussed and provided photographs of several options.  Afterall, there was room in the book to provide several full-page pictures of Juliano.  (The book contains about 8 pictures, several of them full-page of Juliano doing something other than food preparation.)<br />Which brings us to book's design.  Some call it beautiful, and it's true it's full of beautiful colorful food photography.  However, overall, I find it busy, wasteful and extravagant.  The designers seemed to go wild displaying every design element they could.  Every page is glossy and has multi-colored striped horizontal rules of varying thicknesses running through it, often bisecting an otherwise gorgeous plate of food.   Some pages have writing at a 90 degree angle running up the page.  I could go on with examples, but my point is, what could be a very visually appealing coffee table book is loud and annoying with a multitude of inconsistent design elements.  <br />Despite the busy design elements, it certainly was inspiring to look at glossy photos of delicious-looking raw foods.  (And if you like that Romance novel cover look, you might find it inspiring to look at glossy photos of Juliano. :-) However, I'm sticking to less expensive raw foods books that do a better job of explaining how to prepare this healthy, but often complicated cuisine.<BR>~Reviewed by Groovy Vegan for Amazon.com	2003-02-11
US	52195402	R1HUM76IYE0XGH	0609608045	696718872	May the Angels Be with You: A Psychic Helps You Find Your Spirit Guides and Your True Purpose	Books	4	14	14	N	N	I followed the book's advice & had a healing experience. :-)	Psychic Gary Quinn's \\"May the Angels Be with You\\" can be read on 2 levels, which I'll describe more fully later (1) the literal or factual and (2) the experiential.  Broken hearted after a difficult unexpected breakup with my boyfriend, I picked up this book hoping to have a healing experience, and absolutely did!  So I give the book 5 stars for the experiential component.  However, having read metaphysical material for nearly 30 years, I had some issues with some of the material presented as fact, and give the book 3 stars for the factual component.  <br />(1) The literal or factual level:  Information presented in metaphysical books can be difficult to corroborate.  One often has to rely on personal experience and other authors of metaphysical sources.  Although I believe I've seen an angel myself, and have read several other books on angels, this book is the only place I've seen some of this material.  Although Quinn tells us angels are messengers, which agrees with everything I've read about angels, he also says they have no opinions and no free-will.  Given all the documented stories of angels, this doesn't make sense to me.  To do all their good deeds, angels would need to possess some judgment and free-will, and not function as automatons.  <br />Also, Quinn tells the reader he won't complicate the matter of angels by explaining about heavenly hierarchies, and then goes on to explain that there are 7 angels whom you should petition for help in this order:  The Angel of 1. Vision, 2. Wisdom, 3. Purity, 4. Strength, 5. Love, 6. Peace, 7. Victory. This information is not contained in any other book I've read on angels, and all internet searches of this matter lead back to Gary Quinn!  Quinn tells us he received this information from a wise spiritual teacher who told him he would understand the nature and the sequence of these angels if he meditates on this, allowing each angel to \\"speak\\" to him.  Quinn did, and this was revealed.  Although he reveals to the reader the nature of each angel, and provides anecdotes about clients who were helped by each of these angels, he refuses to disclose why the sequence should be in the order given.  Instead, Quinn teases the reader, asking questions like, \\"Wouldn't it make sense to have the Angel of Love first?\\"  He doesn't answer these questions and tells the reader to meditate on it.  I found Quinn's coyness on this matter annoying, as I did his periodic reminders that it's perfectly okay to seek material wealth for it's own sake.  <br />Although I had some questions about the existence and sequence of these particular angels, there was wisdom in each section of the book devoted to them.  For example, Carrie attracted her soulmate by becoming a loving person who healed a long-standing rift with her brother and then radiated happiness, love and fun with everyone she encountered:  friends, colleagues and even her dry-cleaner.<br />2.  Quinn says that one doesn't need to see or fully believe in angels to receive their help:  Just act \\"as if\\" angels are real and take a leap of faith in seeking their guidance.  In seeking my healing experience, I didn't bother petitioning specific angels in order, nor did I use the 4-page meditation provided in chapter 10.  Instead, I observed the pattern of Quinn's readings to his clients and decided to give myself one!  Admittedly I was skeptical.  Each client gets a reading from Quinn and like magic seems to attract love, fabulous career changes, improved health, and inner peace.  I'm reminded of the chain emails that promise all this stuff if you simply forward the email to 20 people.  None-the-less, I relaxed myself the way Quinn helps his clients relax, got into a semi-meditative state, asked for heavenly help, and posed a question to my angels:  \\"If you're supposedly helping me, why did I suffer this breakup with G?  I listened for the answer in my mind, which was, \\"we are always with you.  We removed you from a bad situation...\\"  Beyond the answer,I actually felt a sense of peace and healing in my heart that I didn't previously have, which has stayed with me several days so far.  I wasn't instantly healed of a broken heart, but I felt better and am much further along in my healing process.  So while I still have no idea whether the bulk of Quinn's material is factually true, the healing I achieved using this book was worth the read.<BR>~Reviewed by Groovy Vegan for Amazon.com	2003-02-10
US	52195402	R1G8NY8ETP9HT8	1576737519	57843073	Pro-Life Answers to Pro-Choice Arguments Expanded & Updated	Books	4	252	273	N	N	A prolife, non-Christian liberal feminist take on this book:	As a non-Christian, non-religious, feminist liberal, I arrived at my pro-life position not by opening up a Bible, but by reading the reproduction chapter in an anatomy and physiology book, and studying the photos. I volunteer this information about myself, because I share a demographic with many of the pro-choice folks who are at the receiving end of Randy Alcorn's answers in this book. <br />ProLife Answers is impressive: well organized and easy to use, well referenced, easy to read, and is largely based on good science and logic. First I'll tell you why I like the book, and discuss why I deducted a star.<br />What I liked:<BR>* Well organized and easy to use: The book is divided into sections for each category of argument: (1) life humanity and personhood, (2) rights and fairness, (3) social issues, (4) health and safety, (5) the hard cases, (6) the character of prolifers. Each argument is numbered and has anywhere from 4 to about 11 rebuttals, which are numbered and lettered for easy reference.<BR>* Well referenced: This book contains 789 references. Not all are primary sources, but he does cite peer-reviewed medical journals when discussing scientific matters. Other references include popular media, other books, and personal interviews. Note that in trying to debunk his arguments, some may take issue with some of the personal interviews, because these sources are difficult to verify.<BR>* Easy to read: Alcorn writes in a conversational, first person, non-inflammatory tone, which is refreshing on such a hot button topic. He shows how women who have abortions are often pressured and mislead into doing something they don't realize is horrific. I believe readers of this book will save more babies by taking on Mr. Alcorn's tones of compassion and logic, rather than tones of angry rhetoric.<BR>* Personal testimonials: The story of the young women who, with a group of other young women, had a saline injection abortion was heart wrenching. Combine this with the information Alcorn provides on the pain unborn children feel, and the heartbreaking photo of the perfectly developed unborn child burned and killed by saline, and we have the side of the story not told in \\"Our Bodies Ourselves\\". Hopefully, this section alone can save some lives.<BR>* The fact he included some photos: Obviously, I did not like the photos themselves by any means. Some are of aborted or miscarried babies, and of course they're very disturbing to look at. But as Alcorn points out, \\"What is hideous is not the pictures themselves, but the reality they depict.\\" These pictures demonstrate the horrors that all the words in the world cannot adequately describe.<BR>* Alcorn provides valuable inspiration to pro-life activists by comparing their struggles to anti-slavery activists in Britain and the U.S., who were initially dismissed and ridiculed by those who believed folks should have the choice of whether or not to own slaves.  After decades of hard work, the abolitionist position was seen as morally correct by the vast majority, and slavery was outlawed. <br />Why I deducted 1 star:<BR>Although I agree with the vast majority of Alcorn's arguments and science, there is a handful of questionable arguments not directly related the central abortion = killing a baby issue. Note that in trying to debunk the book, pro choice folks might gravitate disproportionally to these arguments:<br />*Alcorn argues that abortion significantly increases the risk of breast cancer, but cites a meta analysis not from peer-reviewed medical journals, but an AOL member's website. I did a Medline search on this issue and found several large well-conducted studies in peer-reviewed journals such as the British Journal of Cancer, and respected institutions such as Seattle's Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research center that convincingly refute the link between abortion and breast cancer. It's possible that in combination with Alcorn's evidence, the jury's still out on the abortion/breast cancer link, but it cannot be stated as a fact, as Alcorn insists.<br />*Alcorn correctly points out that \\"even if it were true that prolifers are undesirable and offensive people, this is not a logical argument against their position.\\" He then goes on to defend the character of many prolifers who adopt children and assist needy families. Yet he fails to acknowledge the reason why arguments about prolifers being unsympathetic to already born children are so common in the first place. Many who support the prolife position also consistently vote and speak out against social programs that help feed, and provide economic necessities and opportunity to impoverished children and unwed mothers. Many pregnant unmarried women believe they're in a dilemma of abort or be condemned to a life of poverty. <br />*Alcorn argues that it is perfectly consistent to have both prolife and pro capital punishment positions. Alcorn's logic would make sense if only guilty criminals were being executed. Unfortunately, as has been shown in the state of Illinois, a significant number of innocent people were on death row for reasons including incompetent attorneys and people being tortured into making phony confessions. Given that the death penalty kills innocent people along with the guilty, it's actually not consistent to hold both these positions.<br />*Alcorn also argues that over population is not a problem, although he correctly points out that even if it were, abortion would not be an appropriate solution. Many environmentalists, including myself, disagree with his assessment of over population.<br />*Alcorn argues that we need more babies being born to financially support and take care of the folks who will be elderly when they're in the prime of their life. There are many good reasons to have babies, but taking care of the elderly is not one of them. This is inconsistent with Alcorn's view that it's wrong to have babies to be bone marrow donors for family members.<br />Note that my problems with thebook are peripheral to the central issue of abortion = the morally wrong killing unborn babies, (saving the mother's life excepted). Overall, I highly recommend this book, and believe the diplomatic use of it will help save lives.	2003-01-30
US	52195402	R2IP8EBH4ZWSSL	0671870742	316412553	Living with the Passive-Aggressive Man:  Coping with Hidden Aggression - From the Bedroom to the Boardroom	Books	3	461	480	N	N	Walking on Eggshells 101, but great description of PA males.	\\"Living With The Passive Aggressive Man\\" is a significantly flawed book, but one that has helped me tremendously in my post-breakup healing process with a passive-aggressive (PA) man.  The book's greatest strength is describing what the PA man is like.  I had many \\"aha\\" moments as clinical psychologist Scott Wetzler described the multitude of mind games PA people play including excuse making, obstructionism, and an old favorite:  the PA person intentionally pushes your buttons, but if you get angry, they claim you're the one with a problem.  This last example is of projected anger, which Wetzler explains quite well.  <br />Wetzler's discussions of arguments and apologies also ring true for me.  He explains that a fair fight is not in the repertoire of a PA partner.  He'll be sarcastic or sulk or bring up distracters, but will not tell you what's bothering him.  Furthermore, in many cases, they won't apologize at all, or will quickly issue an insincere apologize to change the subject.  Wetzler asks you to gauge whether your partner actually changed their post-apology behavior.  The section on parenting also was tremendously helpful.  Wetzler states the biggest parenting problem for the PA parent is difficulty disciplining their child, which was certainly true in my relationship.<br />Other parts of the book did not ring true for me, although they certainly might for another reader.  For example, he talked about the childhood experiences typical to PA people that helped make them that way, but my partner had generally positive things to say about his childhood.  An alternative explanation could be that some people may consider themselves &quot;too spiritual&quot; to get angry, so they vent their anger passive-aggressively.  Wetzler discussed \\"Who falls for the passive-aggressive man?\\" but this section did not help me at all, as I did not identify with his descriptions of \\"victim\\", \\"rescuer\\" or \\"manager.\\"  An alternate possibility is that many PA people present themselves as calm, likeable people, but after you fall in love with them, they slide into PA behavior rather insidiously.  <br />My biggest problem with the book is the premise suggested by the title, \\"Living With The Passive Aggressive Man.\\"  The PA person often has a significant personality problem and is emotionally abusing you with his mind games, yet the concept of getting him or both of you into counseling is not even mentioned until the epilogue.  This strikes me as odd, considering Wetzler is a clinical psychologist.  Instead, much of the book is dedicated to teaching you, the non-PA partner, how to jump through hoops and walk on eggshells, so you can live with these mind games and hopefully gradually get your partner to change.  Too much of this tip toeing is yielding to the PA partner's needs at the expense of your needs, and possibly sanity.  For example, give the guy all the space he wants sounds like great advice, but what about women in relationships where the guy is around in body only watching TV, or avoids her for weeks at a time but has time for his buddies?  Wetzler says, if he says something rude to you that angers you, YOU have to not get angry and prove to him that you're on his side.  In a nutshell, to make this work, you the reader are expected to do considerably more than your fair share of the relationship work and keep your cool while he irritates you to his heart's content.  Often times, that's what women are already trying to do in relationships.  Instead of all this \\"do it yourself\\" while you cater to his needs while yours go unmet, all this time having the patience of a saint, why not go into counseling?  There's a real danger that the woman attempting Wetzler's approach without couple's therapy would eventually explode due of frustration and exacerbate the problems.  Wetzler says if you're spending years (!) using his approach, but you find it to be ineffective, your only option might be to leave.<br />My other problems with the book are:<BR>1. The book is not backed up with research, as all information is derived from his patient's experiences in his clinical practice.<BR>2. About half of it did not ring true to me, but that of course would vary with different readers.<br />Bottom line - I highly recommend the book for the incredible insight into what PA behavior is, how it operates in a relationship, and how it makes you feel.  But Wetzler's approach to dealing with this is a long hard road, and likely not the best path.	2003-01-17
US	52195402	R2TS6BIR2M8MR	074340582X	513731847	The Other Parent: The Inside Story of the Media's Effect on Our Children	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Have kids who watch TV?  Time to get media savvy...	\\"If another adult spent five or six hours a day with your kids, regularly exposing them to sex, violence, and rampantly commercial values, you would probably forbid that person to have any further contact with them.  Yet most of us passively allow the media to expose our kids routinely to these values...and do virtually nothing about it.\\" - James P. Steyer in \\"The Other Parent\\"<br />James Steyer does a fabulous job examining how sex, violence, and commercialism in the media affect children; why the media is full of these things; and what can be done about it.  Steyer, a parent, child advocate, and Stanford professor of constitutional law and civil liberties/head of a children's media company, is well qualified to address these issues.  His data comes from studies, personal interviews with key media figures and politicians, personal experience in the media industry, and parenting 3 children.<br />Many of Steyer's points really made me think.    Here are just a few:<BR>* Over the past 30 years, more than 1,000 studies by reputable sources which Steyer names, have concluded that media violence impacts children in four ways, specified on p. 72.<BR>* PG-13 rated movies have a lot of sexual content, foul language and violence, that would have been restricted to R rated movies prior to 1984.  p. 57 <BR>* Children who play with media action figures \\"are bypassing their own imaginations, substituting prepackaged commercial characters and story lines for their own creative efforts.\\" p. 105.<br />Steyer's solution to protecting children from harmful effects of media, begins at home with his 10 steps for parents, whom he calls the \\"first line of defense.\\"  Children I know, who are brought up in homes where parents follow most of these steps, are more engaged in activities other than TV and video games, and pester their parents less frequently for toys and junk food advertised to kids.  An earlier review complains that one of these steps, \\"teach media literacy in school and at home\\" fails to provide specifics on how to do this.  This is true, but Steyer explains that these techniques are well documented in other books which he names.  He also provides 10 steps each for the media industry and citizen activists.<br />After reading this book, I feel a lot more knowledgeable about what goes on the other side of the TV and other media.  I learned more about how to protect children from harmful media effects, and felt supported in what I do know.  I highly recommend this book to all adults who have an influence in a child's life.	2002-12-17
US	52195402	R168PKFNIR2I5Q	0761100350	405959615	Restaurant Confidential: The Shocking Truth about What You're Really Eating When You're Eating Out	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Restaurant food fat &amp; calories may be higher than you think:	Without mentioning brand names, did you know that:<BR>* a popular fabulous smelling cinnamon bun found in shopping malls is 670 calories and 34 grams of fat, 14 of them saturated?  (p. 261)<BR>* a typical restaurant serving of French toast is fried in shortening, and contains 800 calories with 26 grams of fat, 8 of them saturated? (p. 71) <BR>* a typical order of moussaka in a Greek restaurant is 830 calories with 48 grams of fat, 25 of them saturated? (p. 184)<br />Since restaurant-, fast-, and mall food doesn't come with nutritional labels, &quot;Restaurant Confidential&quot; (RC) provides some of the label information for you:  calories, total fat, saturated fat, (and in most cases trans fat and sodium).  Rather than rely on the restaurant-provided data, the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) had the food laboratory analyzed.  Categories examined are breakfast foods, popular ethnic cuisines (Chinese, Italian, Mexican, Greek), other popular restaurant choices (pizzerias, sandwich shops, seafood, steakhouses, dinner houses, family style restaurants), fast food, mall food, movie theater snacks, and beverages.  Missing from the list is Indian food, Thai food, and a popular ice cream establishment with 31 flavors.  <br />Upon reading page after page of dietary analysis, I was shocked.  I knew these foods were high in calories and fat, but despite my nutrition degree, I had no idea how high.  Given that a CSPI study of 203 dietitians found they underestimated caloric content of popular meals by 37% and fat content by 49% (study described on p. 8) it's likely that most readers will be in for a whopping surprise.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who eats out at or takes their children to the types of restaurants listed above.  (BTW, there are 2 pages of suggestions on eating out with children.)  RC helps you navigate through restaurant menus dish-by-dish, suggesting how to order a dish to make it lower in fat, or whether it's best to avoid thatselection entirely. And yes, some of the comments are a bit sarcastic, but I found the effect humorous rather than annoying. Each section provides a reminder of the suggested total fat grams, saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium for a 2000 calorie diet, which assumes  the reader is an average size adult following the RDA recommendation to consume up to 30% of calories as fat.  If your caloric and fat gram goals differ, you might want to write those numbers on your copy of this book and take it with you when you eat out.  Remember to keep your own eating patterns in mind when using this book.  I don't know anyone who eats an entire 1620 calorie order of Kung Pao chicken by oneself!  If &quot;Restaurant Confidential&quot; had been out when I did nutritional counseling, I would have recommended a copy to all my clients who frequently ate out.	2002-12-12
US	52195402	R3L9CY7ALIYSS9	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Extremely powerful and worth reading on many levels.	Malika Oukfir's powerful true life story of her life as a princess followed by her life as a prisoner held my interest entirely.  She details her experience in vivid detail, up until her last 3 years of imprisonment, which are less descriptive.   Malika inserts her commentary throughout, so there's the effect of watching a movie with a narration about how an event shaped her life or how she's changed since then.<br />The first part of the book details Malika's upbringing as an adopted princess in the Royal Palace at Rabat.  It's unfathomable that when the King Muhammed V asked Malika's mother, (a married woman who could afford to raise her daughter and apparently loved her), if he could adopt 5 year-old Malika, she automatically said yes and left her with the King that afternoon.  But this was a society where women were raised to be subservient to men, and no one said no to the King.  King Muhammed V treated Malika like his own daughter, as did his son Hassan II (with a few notable exceptions) who became King a few years later.  This section also includes fascinating descriptions of the lives of the King's 40 concubines, who at one point pedal bicycles behind the King in single file.   Life as a princess may have seemed like a fairy tale with fabulous food, expensive clothes, horseback riding, and a private cinema, but Malika desperately missed her mother and her family.  Ironically, for 20 years from age 18 to 38, she would be imprisoned with her mother and siblings.<br />As a teenager, Malika returned home to her family, and lived the life of a wealthy student, which included international travel, partying at posh nightclubs with celebrities, and shopping extravaganzas.  The good times ended when an assassination attempt was made on the King, her father was executed, and Malika age 18, her 5 siblings aged 3 to 16, her mother, and 2 family friends were sent into exile without a trial for what they were told would be 2 weeks, but turned out to be 20 years.  The conditions of their lives in several prisons became increasingly wretched and difficult to read:  rodent and flea infested cells, rotting food, slow starvation, illnesses, zero reading material, and thoughts of everything they were missing out on.  But the love of the family, their sense of humor, their sense purpose in devising and implementing their escape plan, Malika's imagination in inventing a fictitious soap opera to entertain the family, and their ingenuity to make the most of their meager resources, helped them survive.  Some of the things they invented in prison reminded me of the professor's inventions on Gilligan's Island!  It was also interesting to read about the guards, some of whom were ashamed of what they were doing, while others were \\"just following orders.\\"  If not for their meticulous escape plan and mailing of pamphlets detailing their ordeal, the Oukfir family would likely still be in prison.  <br />The book is worth reading on many levels.  One learns about:<br />* Human coping and dignity under the most challenging circumstances.<BR>* Human rights abuses that still go on to this day and the effectiveness of international pressure in making a difference.<BR>* A culture unfamiliar to most readers<BR>Also, this book helps one gain renewed appreciation for things we may take for granted such as a simple meal or hot running water.<br />My only complaint is I wish Malika had included more about the post-prison healing process of her family.  Thank you Malika for sharing your story.	2002-12-12
US	52195402	R1T1V0QP3Y8G38	0913990426	152373270	The Uncheese Cookbook: Creating Amazing Dairy-Free Cheese Substitutes and Classic "Uncheese" Dishes	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Cured my dairy withdrawal!  Highly recommended!  :-)	When I gave up dairy products more than a decade ago, I immediately felt healthier, became congestion-free and lost 5 pounds.  Unfortunately, I suffered psychological withdrawal for most things cheesy and creamy-until I discovered \\"The Uncheese Cookbook.\\"  Wow.  I like these recipes BETTER than the real thing, and have never felt dairy-deprived since!<br />Here's why I highly recommend \\"The Uncheese Cookbook\\":<br />* Delicious nicely textured recipes - I've made a whole bunch of these over the years, and they've all turned out well.  Non-vegans like them too.  :-) My favorites include parmazano cheeze (great on bagels, pasta and popcorn), boursin cheeze (simple and tastes like the real thing), chedda fondue (makes great nachos), spinach ricotta balls, and peanut butter fudge pie.<br />* I think these recipes taste much better than all the prepared vegan cheeses I've bought.  They're fresher, too.<br />* Caloric, fat and protein info. is provided for each recipe.  While the recipes are not all low fat, the uncheezes are lower in fat than their dairy cheese counterparts, as the chart on page 17 shows.  Joanne provides instructions in the introduction for reducing the fat content of her recipes.<br />* Instructions are very clear and specific regarding what to buy and what to do.  There's a glossary explaining ingredients that might be unfamiliar.<br />* Recipe yield is provided both in volume and number of servings, so it's easy to figure out how much to make for the people you'll be serving.<br />* Creativity - Joanne is a pioneer in making concoctions of non-animal ingredients such as cashews, nutritional yeast, tahini, etc. and turning them into delicious, creamy comfort foods.<br />* There's a good essay on the dietary, environmental and animal cruelty hazards of dairy.<br />Some things to know about this book:<br />* Some recipes are quite simple, whiles others require a lot of ingredients and steps.  Most are in between.<br />* Do not expect all the uncheeses totaste exactly like the cheese it was named after.  Some are quite close, like the boursin and parmazano.  However, others, (e.g. \\"gooda\\") does not really taste like the cheese for which it's named, but are quite delicious in their own right.  Appearance and texture are quite similar to the dairy counterpart.<br />This is one of my favorite cookbooks of all time!  I highly recommend it to anyone wishing to eliminate or reduce their dairy consumption.	2002-11-12
US	52195402	R1YRLVHZJ8WBZR	0375756663	293318194	The Travel Detective: How to Get the Best Service and the Best Deals from Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Ships, and Car Rental Agencies	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Lots of $$$ saving tips mixed in with sardonic anecdotes	I'm mostly impressed with Peter Greenberg's \\"The Travel Detective\\", but first I'll get my gripe out of the way:  The back cover provides a bulleted list of insider secrets you'll learn from reading this book.  While these \\"secrets\\" are all covered in the book, a couple are given such an incomplete treatment that you might not find what you're looking for:<BR> Which coach seats on which planes are better than first class:  Some airplane types on about half a dozen airlines are covered.  However, I'm an Alaska Airlines frequent flier and could not find my airline nor the planes I fly on.<BR> Which cruise-ship brochures lie:  This is not even close to an all-inclusive list.<BR>Also, Greenberg does not cover train or bus travel.  <BR>  <BR>There IS a lot of useful information, but it's intermixed with anecdotes, many of them Greenberg's humorous tales of grievances with airlines, hotels (like the one who charged him for receiving a FedEx package), and rental car companies.  Some reviewers complain about Greenberg's sardonic writing style, but I find Greenberg's tales of his predicaments both outrageously funny and informative.  <br />While every reader will have a different level of travel knowledge and savvy, there's so much information in the book that I think the vast majority of readers would learn something useful and money saving.  In addition to the topics on the back cover, Greenberg covers the hazards of putting dogs and cats in a plane's cargo section, airport scams, things to look for when choosing a hotel room, the most economical way to make phone calls from a hotel, rental car rip-offs, helpful travel and weather related websites, and much more.  I found the back-to-back ticket concept especially ingenious, but Greenberg cautions the reader that this strategy can result in being bumped from your flight if the airline finds out about it.<br />Some complain that the information in the book is dated since September 11, 2001.  At a September 2002, Seattle-area book lecture, Greenberg said everything in the book still applies.  Well, almost everything applies, even in the air travel section, although Greenberg's comments on the safest place to sit on the plane in the event of a hijacking sound awfully flip, and of course the packing tips for carry-on bags need updating.  Also, some airlines will no longer allow you board a plane for for no extra charge later in the day if you miss your flight.  <br />If you don't mind a smart-allecky writing style, there's a lot of useful travel information in \\"The Travel Detective\\".	2002-10-06
US	52195402	RY9M0ZGG0AQJJ	187798826X	151242089	Don't Go Shopping for Hair Care Products Without Me	Books	4	110	113	N	N	Paula's reviews match my experiences with hair care products	For years I purchased expensive salon shampoos touting moisturizing properties for dry hair, only to have them dry out my hair.  Finally I stumbled across a shampoo for dry hair that along with its conditioner, not only doesn't dry out my hair but leaves it looking shining.  If I had first consulted Paula Begoun's book, I would have save myself a lot of money and bad hair days!  I looked up all those shampoos claiming to moisturize dry hair, and Paula writes that they can dry out hair.  I looked up the shampoo that worked and Paula not only gives it a favorable review, she lists it in \\"The Best Products\\" chapter under \\"Dry to very dry scalp and hair of any thickness.\\"  I appreciate that her product reviews contain a smiley, frowning or neutral face for quick reference, price per volume, a listing of what's in the product, and a statement or 2 about product, often with a mention of the type of hair it will or will not work well with.<br />In addition to 362 pages of product reviews and a 62 page section listing the best products for shampooing, conditioning and styling all types of hair, 191 pages provide an education about hair and the hair care industry.  Among the topics covered are: Common ingredients in shampoos and why they're there, scientific causes of bad hair days, hair care basics, perming hair, coloring hair, and many more as you can see in the index.  I'm not a cosmetologist, but Paula's information basically agrees with what my trusted hair stylist tells me.  Also, I appreciate that Paula devoted a chapter to animal testing and gives a 1999 list of companies that do and do not test on animals, along with a website for getting a more up-to-date.<br />I'm giving 4 stars because of my one reservation about buying the book:  as new hair care products become available and old ones go off the market or change their formulas, this book becomes dated.  My January 2000 edition is nearly 3 years old and already I couldn't find a new shampoo that I tried, althoughsince she gave all the other shampoos in that line a good rating, I correctly assumed it was good.  If you're considering buying this book, I recommend buying a recent edition, or checking Paula's website, cosmeticscop.com, and seeing if a new edition is forthcoming.  Other than that one hesitation, I wholeheartly recommend this book to everyone who has hair!	2002-10-03
US	52195402	R36LGTNH89JQZR	1559721200	903243856	Stepmothers: Keeping It Together With Your Husband and His Kids	Books	5	10	10	N	N	"Group therapy" with women who have walked in my shoes.	As the future stepmother of an 8 year-old boy who sees me as a threat to his relationship with custodial dad, I did not need a book telling me to smile and be nice to the boy, and everything would be all right.  I needed a book of true-life accounts of women who have walked in my shoes, dealing with the challenges of dealing with a resentful child, a difficult ex-wife, and a husband who doesn't fully understand what his wife is going through.  I felt like I was in group therapy with women dealing with, or who dealt with challenging children, lax discipline by guilt-ridden bio-parents, jealous ex-wives, husbands who don't seem to fully understand the plight of stepmom, the prospect of writing a will, and other issues I'm experiencing.  In addition, the book deals with issues I don't have such as blending a family with stepmom's kids + husband's kids, the dynamics of seeing the stepkids every other weekend, and hostile adult stepchildren.  <br />I found the book therapeutic not only by all the \\"aha's\\" of finding women who have had similar experiences, but by studying how the stepmothers and their husbands handled the situations.  Some folks handled the situations with impressive common sense and maturity, while others were at the opposite end of the maturity spectrum, like the stepmother who refused to even meet her stepchildren and resented the time her husband spent with his own kids.  I was able to learn from the mistakes and triumphs of others to help improve the relationship with my partner and future stepson.  Also, I shared the experiences of some of the husbands in the book with my partner, pointing out how they helped or hindered the relationship with between stepmom and stepchild.  For example, there were husbands in the book who totally ignore their wives when the child is around or who gave their wives no authority in the discipline of the children, yet expected things to go smoothly when they left the child alone with stepmom.  Now he's more conscious ofnot ignoring me in the presence of his son, and allowing me some disciplinary authority, and family dynamics have improved considerably.<br />Another helpful feature of the book is that at the end of each chapter dealing with stepparenting issues:  expectations, legal issues, coparenting, etc., is a list of advice pointers from stepmothers.  I found the advice compassionate, and full of common sense, striking a realistic balance of being true to oneself and a good parent and partner.  I highly recommend this book to future, novice, and experienced stepmoms.	2002-09-29
US	52195402	R3MD182GW9JQ8	0786889942	239566302	What Women Want Men to Know	Books	5	37	47	N	Y	Amen!  I'm sending a copy to my boyfriend!	Wow, if my female friends and I came with an instruction manual, Barbara DeAngelis' \\"What Women Want Men to Know\\" would be it!  I frequently found myself nodding in agreement. I'm so impressed, I'm sending a copy to my boyfriend post-haste! <BR> <BR>Barbara doesn't blame men for the difficulties in male-female relationships, but she does acknowledge that men and women tend to think and behave differently, causing misunderstandings (which she explicitly describes).  This perceptive and entertaining book is aimed at the male reader to help him understand us women and alter his communications and behavior a bit if he wants a better relationship with us.<br />Barbara astutely explains and gives examples of common male communication and behavior patterns, how they affect us women, and simple things a guy can do to improve his relationship with his partner while still being true to himself.  For example, there's the typical situation of the woman wanting to discuss something with the man, but the man withdrawing and avoiding her.  Instead of immediately withdrawing, Barbara suggests men practice the \\"three R's-1. Recognize her desire to communicate with you. 2. Respond in some way.  3. Reschedule.\\"  Thus, the man will still get to discuss the situation at a time convenient to him, but this way he's acknowledging and respecting his partner.  The 3 R's and all the specific actions women would like men to take are written in gray boxes so the guy (hopefully) won't miss it!<br />I found nuggets of wisdom in each of the book's three sections:  (part 1) What women want men to know about us, (2) What women want men to know about love, intimacy and communication, and (3) What women want men to know about sex.  I especially liked the \\"seven myths men believe about women and why they are absolutely wrong\\" in part 1, and \\"the top ten male communications habits that drive women crazy\\" in part 2.   <br />I recommend this book for:<BR> Women who feel misunderstood in their relationships to pass on to their partner.<BR> Men who would like to understand women better and/or become better lovers.<BR> Any couple going through typical \\"male/female stuff\\": Such as woman wants to spend more time with the man, but the man thinks we're being needy and insecure, or the man casually makes and forgets a promise, but can't understand why the woman is so bent out of shape about it.	2002-09-25
US	52195402	R32KTCZ0W1M2I1	0684857421	647535218	Whining: 3 Steps to Stop It Before the Tears and Tantrums Start	Books	4	42	44	N	Y	Good main ideas + a few bad ideas	The main ideas of the Whining book are good and from what I've witnessed, effective not only for stopping whining, but for the personal growth of the child.  Unfortunately, some of the secondary points and applications of the main points contradict the main points, and can even be harmful to the child, short and long-term.  Overall, I recommend the book, however, a parent must be careful in picking and choosing which of these principles and applications to follow:<br />Strengths and good points:  <BR> Clear, concise writing. <BR> The book does a fairly good job defining whining, its purpose and the disservice this does to the child and the family.<BR> Good idea:  When a whining incident occurs in public, remove the child from the scene.<BR> Another good idea:  Parents announce ahead of time that whining will result in an automatic \\"no\\".  It's important not to reward whining.<BR> The authors recommend logical consequences for whining, no second chances.<BR> The recommendations for assertive and respectful communication to children are excellent ones.  Do not yell at children or sink to any disrespectful communication with them.<BR> The chapter on providing children with responsibility in the family (chores) so they'll feel like important contributing members is an excellent one.  Important contributing members are less likely to seek attention in negative ways.  Furthermore, they learn responsibility and become less self-centered.<BR> <br />Weaknesses and bad points:<BR> Bad idea:  The authors instruct parents to ignore children completely when they whine at home.  This undermines the idea that parents are to treat children with respect.  The silent treatment is completely disrespectful whether the person on the receiving end is a child or adult.  And I'm sure parents don't want to encourage their children to tune them out!  The parent can do a modified form of ignoring by saying, \\"I'll be happy to talk with you, when you talk to me in a respectful manner.\\"  THEN they can ignore whining, but reward respectful communication with talking. <BR> The example of ignoring the 5 year-old boy who refuses to go to bed merely allows him to get away with the behavior.  There needs to be a consequence, such loss of TV or Gameboy privileges.<BR> In recommending consequences be accomplished with a minimum of words, the authors err in under-explaining consequences to children.  Explain once and clearly so the child knows exactly why the consequence was enacted.  Do not be drawn into a battle, but do explain!<BR> A few examples contradict authors' own points.   They say to use logical consequences when tasks are not completed, yet the 13 year-old who refuses to bring groceries in the house is cheerfully told, \\"Well maybe next week.\\"  No consequences at all!<BR> Food should NEVER be withheld as a consequence, unlike some of the examples in the book.  This is cruel and unusual punishment in the short-term, and can contribute to eating disorders in the long-term.<BR> The sample 14-day \\"Parent Progress Diary\\" is 14 pages of filler.  It would suffice to provide one blank page and suggest the parent reproduces it. <br />Despite the weaknesses, I still recommend the book based on the strength of the main ideas.  However, since there are some faulty examples, I recommend discretion in applying the concepts.	2002-08-20
US	52195402	R2AM25JAR2D0F3	0440503744	895200780	Speed Cleaning	Books	4	45	48	N	N	My house is much cleaner, much faster. :-)	I was a clueless housecleaner, absentmindedly pushing a sponge or rag, without much thought as to where to start, which cleaning tools to use, when to use powders vs. liquids, how to economize motion, etc.  I knew there had someone who figured all this stuff out, so I picked up Jeff Campbell's \\"Speed Cleaning\\" book. Jeff runs a cleaning service and is an efficiency expert, who has cleaning down to an economy-of-motion science. His book is an easy, entertaining read, with well-explained instructions and many helpful diagrams. He makes a good case for his methods, although he does come across with the attitude that his is the only and right way to clean. <br />I decided I would give his system a try, so I bought the cleaning apron, cleaning cloths, small cleaning tools, and Jeff's own brand of non-toxic, cleaning agents (free of animal products and not tested on animals) available on his website. Then I put on my cleaning apron and followed the book nearly to the letter. I'm delighted to report that his system absolutely works! My bathrooms and kitchen especially are cleaner than before, and his system is much faster and easier than what I was doing. It is not necessary to use a cleaning apron or Jeff's cleaning agents to improve one's results, but I do find the apron convenient, and the two cleaning agent bottles that hang from it are the 16 ounce size, so they're not heavy even when full. <br />I have several issues with the book that prevent me from giving it 5 stars: <BR>1) He often tells to reader to only clean what is dirty--not to clean phantom dust nor wipe surfaces where you don't see dirt. However, not all dirt is visible, such as germs and dust (complete with dustmites) that builds up before it's visible to the naked eye. So it's actually a good idea to wipe and where appropriate disinfect surfaces that don't look dirty. Why not be proactive and prevent visible dust?<br />2) Jeff encourages people to dust with an ostrich feather duster, which only moves dust around.  He reasons that you move the dust to a lower level & vacuum it later.  I disagree that this is the most effective system for removing dust.  Also ostrich farming is a very cruel industry where the feathers are removed with pliers or electric shears from the birds *before* they are slaughtered, to protect the commercial value of the hide, which makes expensive leather.  <br />3) Twenty pages of the book (10%) is a Spanish summary. Like many non-Spanish-speaking readers, this part of the book is useless to me. Why not publish a Spanish-speaking version of the book or sell the summary separately as a booklet?<br />Overall however, I'm very happy with this book and cleaning system, and have a cleaner home and more time on my hands to show for it. :-)	2002-03-12
US	52195402	R3L8Y8PGXRQH3O	1878718304	758104201	Healing the Wounds of Emotional Abuse: The Journey Worth the Risk	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Doesn't live up to the title, (but some good observations).	As I read the 76-page booklet (chapter 1 starts on page 11 and the last chapter is all resources) \\"Healing the Wounds of Emotional Abuse\\", I kept waiting for valuable advice and direction on how to do just that.  Unfortunately, there was very little practical information to help the adult who was emotionally abused as a child.  Benvenga does a good job of explaining what emotional abuse is, describing the difference between abuse and discipline, and identifying children who have been abused.  Unfortunately, these insights are not coupled with information to help adults heal the pain of their own abusive childhoods.  She also tells some hair-raising tales of abuse from her own childhood, and how as a result she ended up in an abusive relationship, but didn't think to leave.  The story jumps to how she went on to be in a good relationship with a wonderful guy, but she doesn't tell you what she did to heal the past and transition into a healthy relationship.  She makes the excellent point that there are two vicious cycles to be broken:  the abused child must not become an abused nor abusive adult.  Unfortunately, information on how to avoid perpetuating these cycles is scant at best.  She does provide a chapter of resources one can turn to help heal from an abusive childhood and some advice on how to choose a counselor, but unfortunately, this book in and of itself is not a resource on how to heal the wounds of emotional abuse, other than 10 paragraphs of valuable insight and advice on forgiveness.  Benevenga is a religious Catholic who states that turning to God is an indispensable part of our healing journey, and sprinkles her book with quotes from Jesus and the Catholic Church.  An entire chapter, 13% of the book, is devoted to religious meditation and prayer, which may or may not match the orientation of the reader.  Unfortunately, despite some good observations, resources, and religious inspiration for the religious, the book doesn't live up to its title.	2002-02-25
US	52195402	R1KTYSBQP8SDY5	0961816163	987442298	Personal Trainer Manual: The Resource for Fitness Professionals	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Read this book to pass the ACE Personal Trainer Exam!	I read the ACE Personal Trainer Manual cover to cover (except the nutrition chapter since I have a nutrition degree) and did the exercises in the workbook (separate purchase).  I easily passed the ACE Personal Trainer Exam on the first try, even though the exam is notorious for trying to be tricky.  This 500 page textbook provides the information needed to pass the exam and a description of the exam's four sections.  The seven parts of the book are (1) Exercise Science (chapters in anatomy, exercise physiology, biomechanics and nutrition), (2) Screening and Evaluation (includes health screening and fitness testing), (3) Principles and Methods of Training (includes cardio, strength training, and flexibility), (4) Individualized Program Design (healthy adults and special populations), (5) Leadership and Implementation (motivation, communication, and teaching techniques), (6) Injury Prevention and First Aid, (7) Legal Issues. Each chapter is written by a well-known fitness industry professional.  The concepts are explained well enough for the beginning personal trainer student to understand, and in sufficient depth to get one started in the industry.  The book can also serve as a reference of basic concepts, for example, as a refresher of the muscles of the rotator cuff, or the table of cardiorespiratory fitness level classifications in METS.  The visuals, although in black and white, are extremely helpful,  especially the anatomical drawings, and the photographs showing many common stretches and exercises (machine, free-weight, and floor) to work various muscles, along with the proper spotting technique.  There's a helpful glossary as well.  <br />I recommend this book for anyone who will be taking the ACE personal trainer exam, fitness and personal trainer students, and personal trainers getting started in the field or who otherwise could use a basic reference.  <br />Note to fellow college instructors:  This would be a suitable text for an undergraduate vocational course in personal training, as it does an excellent job explaining what personal trainers need to know.  However, it lacks the scientific depth and research review needed for an exercise physiology course.	2002-01-25
US	52195402	R3OG7E59VDT4PF	1890694045	861734512	Buyer Be Wise! The Consumer's Guide to Buying Quality Nutritional Supplements	Books	3	7	7	N	N	An Overpriced Mixed Blessing	Buyer Be Wise is a 93 page book intended to be a consumer's guide to buying quality nutritional supplements:  vitamins, minerals, herbal supplements, hormonal products, homeopathic remedies and glandular extracts.   (The description says 108 pages, so they must be counting the acknowledgements and forwards.)  Four of the pages are either entirely blank or have only one quote on them, and many other pages have extremely wide margins occupying 1/3 of the page!  The bulk of the book is interviews with experts in natural medicine who explain what to look for in nutrition supplements.  Although the information on choosing vitamins and minerals, is good, it's incomplete, and not consolidated into an easy to use format, such as a bullet pointed checklist.  There are also some omissions re. the other types of supplements, that I find irresponsible.  Although the description lists Alan Gaby (a well respected holistic M.D.)  as a co-author, he only wrote the forward.  <br />The chapters are as follows:<br />Introduction - A 3 page lengthy explanation of the book, which could have been made in 3 paragraphs.<br />Chapter 1, \\"General Guidelines\\" - This awkwardly written chapter takes 4 pages to make the point that cheaper products are usually not the best quality products.  However, there are several excellent quoted paragraphs from experts in the field explaining why this is so, and a good interview explaining label reading.<br />Chapter 2 &quot;Building a Strong Foundation&quot; - Scattered throughout this chapter is information on choosing quality multivitamins/minerals.  While this information provides a basic foundation, one could follow all this advice, still be confused at the supplements counter, and still choose a poorly absorbed supplement.  The important topic of choosing minerals that will be well absorbed is not addressed.  The chapter also contains pretty good discussions of why supplements are necessary in the author's opinion, and natural vs. synthetic.  However,while the reader is told to choose the natural forms of vitamins D and E, there's no mention of how the natural form of vitamin D is listed on the label.<br />Chapter 3 \\"Buying herbal supplements\\" - About half the chapter is an excellent discussion of the different forums of herbs such as tinctures, fluid extract, standardized extracts, capsules. However, there are several pages on what herbs are used for what conditions, which seem to be filler that's readily available in other books.<br />Chapter 4, &quot;Buying hormonal supplements&quot; is the largest chapter (20 pages), but doesn't give much information on how to buy these supplements, other than dosing.  Furthermore, there's zero mention of the fact that hormonal supplements cause your body to down-regulate (decrease) production of the supplemented hormone.  Instead, there are very gung ho discussions on the benefits of DHEA, progesterone, melatonin and other common hormonal supplements.  Not once is it suggested to see a physician and get these hormonal levels tested before messing with one's endocrine system.<br />Chapter 5 discusses homeopathy and glandulars.  If I hadn't read several books on homeopathy, I probably would have been confused by this chapter.  There is not enough information in this chapter for one to choose the proper homeopathic remedy for their health condition.  However, if a doctor prescribes a particular homeopathic remedy, say rhus tox for poison ivy, this chapter can help the patient choose from several rhus tox options.  The discussion on glandulars is very pro-glandular, and makes no mention of the fact that these animal products can come from sick and contaminated carcasses.  <br />Chapter 6 is a very brief chapter containing a good discussion distinguishing credible supplement literature from sales hype.  The book also contains a glossary/index of terms.  There's also a 2 page recommended reading list, mostly entire books on individual supplements.  My favorite book on this topic(not on Gazella's list) is Michael Murray's \\"Encyclopedia of Nutritional Supplements.\\"<br />Overall, this book is an overpriced mixed blessing with the best information in chapters 1, 2, 3, and 6.  The book is worth checking out of the library or buying used at half price or less.  I definitely do not recommend buying this book at full price.	2002-01-05
US	52195402	R8JC1VORSG8RO	0917086430	408052759	003: The Only Way to Learn Astrology, Vol. 3: Horoscope Analysis	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great Book on House Rulerships!	This excellent book is called &quot;The Only Way to Learn Astrology: Horoscope Analysis,&quot; but the bulk of it focuses on one facet of horoscope analysis, house rulers.  If you're looking for a either a beginners guide on how to interpret a chart, or an all-around horoscope analysis guide that blending many elements of chart interpretation such as planetary patterns and aspects, you'll probably be disappointed.  However, if you have a basic understanding of the planets and houses, and you're looking for one of the best guides around on house rulerships, this is the book for you!  The first half of the book (Part I) is devoted to house rulerships.<br />What is a house rulership?  Example:  Marilyn Monroe had Leo (ruled by the sun) on the ascendant.  Marilyn's sun was in her 10th house.  The reader can go to lesson 1, First House Rulers,\\" look up \\"Ruler of the 1st in the 10th\\" and find out what this means.  Marilyn Monroe had Virgo (ruled by Mercury) on her 2nd house cusp, and Mercury in her 10th house.  The explanation is in lesson 2,  \\"Second House rulers\\" under \\"Ruler of the 2nd in the 10th.\\" Volume 3 of \\"The Only Way...\\" series helps one go around the wheel, house by house, figuring out what it means to have that house's ruler in each of the houses.  The best way to learn from this book is to begin with one's own chart (and then loved ones) and read the introduction to that house, determine where the ruler is, and then try to figure out what the house rulership means before reading the description.  Each of the 144 rulership patterns is well explained and uses an example of a famous (or infamous) person-everyone from Mohandas Gandhi to Charles Manson, that really helps emphasize the point.<br />Part II, \\"The Art of Chart Interpretation\\" provides detailed chart interpretations of four famous people (charts provided in this volume):  General George Patton, Ernest Hemingway, Princess Diana of Wales, and Barbra Streisand.  In this section, March and McEvers throw all their fancy stuff at you yods, dwads, decantes, part of increase, and the like.  While there's benefit in reading how two skilled astrologers interpret a chart start to finish, this section is of limited \\"teach you how to do it for yourself\\" value, for which I recommend the first volume of the series. Rulerships are discussed quite a bit in this section, so it provides a review.<br />Part III, \\"Delineating for a Purpose\\" is an interesting discussion of astrological associations with health/illness, physical appearance, relationships of many sorts (preview of coming attractions for volume 5), and vocational aptitudes.  Each of these chapters is a well-explained, good introduction to the topic, but not a complete treatment.  Unlike the house rulership information, I've seen much of this information elsewhere.<br />I primarily use and recommend this book as a guide to house rulerships-the best I've seen.  However, as this book, written in 1982, and the series age, chances are that younger astrologers will not identify with the famous people given as examples, as much as the babyboomers of my generation.  I like the fact that when they refer to a chart in this volume, they provide the page number.  However, some of the chart discussions will refer you to charts in other volumes in the series.  Despite a detailed table of contents, the book lacks an index.  I'm giving the book 5 stars, primarily based on the strengths of sections 1 and 3.row all their fancy stuff at you yods, dwads, decantes, part of increase, and the like.  While there's benefit in reading how two skilled astrologers interpret a chart start to finish, this section is of limited \\"teach you how to do it for yourself\\" value, for which I recommend the first volume of the series. Rulerships are discussed quite a bit in this section, so it provides a review.  <br />Part III, \\"Delineating for a Purpose\\" is an interesting discussion of astrological associations with health/illness, physical appearance, relationships of many sorts (preview of coming attractions for volume 5), and vocational aptitudes.  Each of these chapters is a well-explained, good introduction to the topic, but not a complete treatment.  Unlike the house rulership information, I've seen much of this information elsewhere.<br />I primarily use and recommend this book as a guide to house rulerships-the best I've seen.  However, as this book, written in 1982, and the series age, chances are that younger astrologers will not identify with the famous people given as examples, as much as the babyboomers of my generation.   I like the fact that when they refer to a chart in this volume, they provide the page number.  However, some of the chart discussions will refer you to charts in other volumes in the series.  Despite a detailed table of contents, the book lacks an index.  I'm giving the book 5 stars, primarily based on the strengths of sections 1 and 3.	2002-01-04
US	52195402	R2HE6V08JIGWA5	0688120253	623917259	The Breadman's Healthy Bread Book	Books	4	62	65	N	N	Great recipes but 100 unneeded pages	Pro's: <BR>* The recipes work and are delicious. I especially recommend the Italian herb bread.<BR>* There's an emphasis on whole grains with about 70% of the recipes containing no white flour, white sugar, eggs, or animal fats.<BR>* Contains a lot of information a bread machine owner might want, such as how to care for the machine, how the machine works, how to mill and store grains, nutritional information about the various grains, all about yeast (buying, storing, measuring, etc.). Most of the bread machine info is generic and applies to other machines as well as the Breadman.<BR>* Detailed glossary of ingredients.<BR>* Bonus recipes for spreads, such as salsa, hummus, and jam.<BR>* Although recipes are only for 1- or 1  pound loaves, you can double the 1 pound recipe if your machine has a 2 pound capacity.<br />Cons:<BR>* My biggest pet peeve: for each bread recipe, the 1 pound and 1  pound variations are listed on separate pages, unlike other bread machine books which list several size variations on the same page. So if you want orange walnut bread, for example, the 1 pound recipe is on page 230, and the 1 pound variation is on page 231. I counted 97 extra pages that didn't need to be in the book, had both sets of measurements been on the same page. This amounts to purchasing 34% extra pages, inflating the price and wasting trees.<BR>* Although the book emphasizes how healthy it is to eat whole grain breads, there is no nutritional information for any of the recipes-not even fat grams or calories per serving.<BR>* Every bread recipe contains powdered milk or whey powder. Many people don't consume dairy products, yet there's no mention of how to substitute for it or if it's okay to leave it out entirely. (It is.) You can also leave out the liquid lecithin, a sticky ingredient that's hard to get off your hands, without adversely affecting the results.<BR>* Setting and cycle information is provided for over a dozen models of bread machines-all state of the art in 1992 when the book was written. The bread machine operator with a more recent machine should easily be able to figure out the appropriate machine setting for any given bread. But the tally of unneeded pages is now 100, (or 104 if like many bread machine operators you never intend on making bread by hand, so will not need chapter 7).<br />Despite the cons, I still recommend the book for the great recipes and the comprehensive bread machine and ingredient education.	2001-12-26
US	52195402	R4L8FCY51QYQ3	1558505822	37880475	The Verbally Abusive Relationship: How to Recognize It and How to Respond	Books	5	25	31	N	N	One of the Most Empowering Books I've Ever Read!	This book has changed my life, helping me emerge from the repeating pattern of verbally abusive (VA) relationships.  The book spelled out how I was both overtly (e.g. name calling) and subtly verbally abused.  Furthermore, it helped me understand verbal abuse dynamics.  Evans' observation that abusers live a reality of \\"power over\\" while the victim's reality is \\"mutuality and co-creation\\" really resonated with me helping me understand how someone could so callously.  <br />The chapter listing the categories of verbal abuse including withholding, discounting, and verbal abuse disguised as jokes was one of the most powerful for me.  There were many \\"aha's\\" as I realize I had experienced them all and the accompanying deflations of spirit and ego, often without fully realizing at the time what was happening.  Thanks to the revelations of this chapter, I can usually detect VA as it happens, allowing me to more consciously deal with it and better avoid the detrimental, often insidious effects. These include a loss of self-confidence and a distrust of future relationships to name 2 of many.  Just the revelation the detrimental effects I had experienced helped me undo some of the damage.<br />Although I gained some value out of the chapter on how to respond to VA, it puts too much onus on the victim to memorize all sorts of different responses for the various abuse categories.  My feeling is that an abusive jerk is an abusive jerk, so memorizing these responses isn't likely to do much good, especially since abusers generally could care less about what their partners say and think.  However, her discussion of when/whether to stay or leave was very thought provoking.<br />Overall, this book has helped me so much that I cannot recommend it highly enough for both the abused and the abuser.  A recovering verbal abuser going through anger management counseling borrowed this book, and told me he cried as he realized what he had done to his wife of 20 years.   As for the comments about Patricia Evans \\"hating men\\" or having a bad attitude toward them, I never got that impression at all.  The first sentence in the introduction is \\"this book is for everyone\\" and she goes on to acknowledge that some men suffer verbal abuse from their mates.	2001-12-23
US	52195402	R3MR4ZLP1FSFG5	0312289316	208428907	File...Don't Pile: A proven filing system for personal and professional use	Books	5	218	220	N	N	I've used this system more than 10 years &amp; love it!	I bought this book when I was buried in papers and had a chaotic filing system.  I was attracted to the subtitle, \\"A Proven Filing System for Personal and Professional Use,\\" and not wanting to reinvent the wheel, decided I would faithfully follow this system step-by-step for a month.  If I didn't like it, I didn't have to stick with it.  That was more than 10 years ago.  I followed her easy 5-step plan and it works beautifully.  It only looks complicated when you skip around the book. <br />Recently, I had some furniture delivered to a consignment shop and the store owner called and asked if I could possibly find my original receipts.  I told her to hold a moment, and within seconds, pulled the receipts from my files and told her how much I paid.  She said, \\"You must be a very organized person to have found those so quickly!\\"  I said, \\"No, I just have a very good filing system!\\"<br />I liked that once I planned the major file categories, I had quick visible results by sorting the papers into the appropriate boxes.  So my mess was cleaned up right away as I was implementing the system.  The system's easy to maintain as well.  I also like the fact Pat Dorff's a librarian who understands the filing needs of folks like me who save paper in our many areas of interest.<br />One reviewer recommends Julia Morgenstern's \\"Organizing from the Inside Out\\" instead of this book for filing.  I've read Julia's book twice and am in the process of implementing Julia's system for overall household organization.  However, when it comes to paperwork, I much prefer Pat Dorff's system.  I find Pat's system strategizes the paper problems better, is easier to implement and maintain, and is more flexible when new categories come up.  Also, Pat has an extensive discussion of all sorts of filing problems, such as presorting, you can't decide how to label an item, an item is too big to fit in a file folder, etc.  Finally, Pat's numerical system nicely deals with the lining up the tabs problem,while Julie's straight-line system (all tabs lined up in the same position) looks nice, but is harder to on the eye to use, and wastes the folders with center tabs.<br />Summary of my experience with this system:  Great for filing, retrieving papers, &amp; keeping the place neat for over a decade!	2001-05-14
US	52195402	R3BOFJ5KDIIPYZ	0805349898	601873562	Human Anatomy & Physiology (5th Edition)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	The Mercedes of Undergraduate A&amp;P Books	I used this book as a student, and refer to it frequently as a reference.  This 1000 + page text explains the structure and function of the complicated, detailed human body in a logical, easy to understand manner.  Everything about this book is user friendly including the presentation order, the writing, and the graphics.  In each chapter, Marieb presents the big picture before zeroing in on the details.  For the body's systems, (digestive, endocrine, respiratory, etc.) Marieb overviews the system, and then explains the gross and fine anatomy and associated physiology.<br /> Here are a few of the many features I find impressive: * Graphics:  Very impressive photographs and illustrations.  The electron micrographs are spectacular.  * Tables and charts - These greatly simplify the learning of complex concepts.  For example, in the immune system chapter, there's a good table explaining the first and second lines of defense. * Medical applications - Common diseases are overviewed in the appropriate chapter, for example epilepsy is discussed in the neural integration chapter.  There are occasional basic pharmacology and sports applications, such as diuretics and blood doping, respectively. * Making connections feature - Marieb shows how the system being studied relates to the other systems in the body.<br />This is an absolutely state of the art A&amp;P book, and each edition is better than the last.  It's expensive, but you get a lot for your money.  It may be too detailed for some, who would be better served by her \\"Essentials of Anatomy and Physiology\\" text.  If you're an A&amp;P student, I recommended you use her workbook as well.  I've found that working through the exercises really helps this information stick.	2001-05-13
US	52195402	R1U95HSCNOR95W	0962994405	275192560	Clutterology Getting Rid of Clutter and Getting Organized	Books	2	17	17	N	N	Mostly Clutter	&#8220;Clutterology&#8221; lacks a strategy or plan for getting the reader organized, unless &#8220;get rid of clutter&#8221; counts a plan.  Although the chapters are generally divided by rooms, the content of those chapters is not well organized.   It&#8217;s a bunch of random tips, in no logical order, many of them annoying trivial.  An early topic in the paperwork chapter is &#8220;paper clips vs. staples.&#8221;  Filing comes later.  And the first bedroom topic is bed linens--generally not the source of the mess in most messy bedrooms.<br />The book is full of clutter, such as cute little anecdotes about Nancy and her husband Mike, and tidbits about the British Royal family, having nothing to do with organizing.  Does the reader need an entire paragraph about how many pillows Nancy and Mike like on their bed?<br />I got a few useful things out of the book:  the chapter on how to prevent junk mail, a good list of questions to ask about each piece of paper, and the reasonable time periods for keeping various types of business records (bank statements, cancelled checks, and such).  But I don&#8217;t think this book is worth anywhere near ....	2001-05-10
US	52195402	R162QR70PLP7N2	0873227328	580132994	Preparing for the ACSM Health/Fitness Instructor Certification Examination	Books	2	35	37	N	N	Full of Errors!	Edit 4/19/05 - My review below was for the FIRST edition of this book, published in 1997.  I just discovered today that there's a second edition, published in 2004.  I see that Amazon put this review with the new (second) edition.  I don't know whether the errors mentioned below were corrected in the second edition.  Thus, please only take this review to apply to the first edition. ~Groovy Vegan    This book is study guide for ACSM's Health/Fitness Instructor (HFI) certification exam, considered the \\"gold standard\\" certification for personal trainers.  I'm quite familiar with this book, because I used it as a study aid in my HFI exam study group.  The bulk of this guide is practice multiple choice questions, organized in categories found on the exam:  functional anatomy, exercise physiology, emergency procedures/safety, etc.  The authors developed these questions from the same references ACSM used to construct the exam.  For each multiple choice question, Isaacs and Pohlman provide the \\"correct answer\\" and the reference + page number from which they developed the question.    Unfortunately, this book is a poor execution of a good idea.  Although it has some positive qualities, such as an explanation of how the ACSM exam works, the reasons not to buy outweigh the reasons to buy.    Reasons not to buy in order of importance:    (1) The book is full of errors.  Two dedicated HFI students checked EVERY reference of every question.  Many of the questions in this book give the wrong answer and in other cases, all the answers are correct or the authors' choice is highly debatable.  About 20 to 25% of my book is marked up with corrections.  The error rate is too high to be acceptable.    (2) Some of the material is out of date.  In 1998 when this book was published, ACSM's primary exam reference was \\"ACSM's Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription, 5th edition,\\" 1995.  ACSM now uses the 6th edition, year 2000, and has revised the exam accordingly.     (3) This is anindependent book, not produced by ACSM, as the authors state on the copyright page.  That is not necessarily a bad thing, given that Human Kinetics generally produces quality material.  But all things being equal, I would prefer a study guide prepared by the certification agency that constructed the exam.    Please note that the book is a study guide for the written portion of the exam only.  They give an overview of the practical portion and tell where to find the study information, such as the correct bike test protocols.  But this book does not provide the detailed information necessary to pass the bike test nor the other practical stations.    Due to the 3 reasons above, I recommend that you don't buy this book.  The HFI exam is too important and expensive to take your chances studying from so much incorrect information.	2001-05-08
US	52195402	RMKSA2FV2XQIN	0895295717	637088626	Vegetarian Journal's Guide to Natural Foods Restaurants in the U.S. & Canada	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Outdated Material (I agree with the previous reviewer.)	I agree with the last reviewer who found this book out of date.  I've had the same experience in my cross-country travels of finding closed/non existent restaurants, and I'm one of the contributors to the book!  I've crossed out many of the entries in my copy and know of several new vegetarian restaurants that opened since.<br />It's not that this is a bad book.  On the contrary, it contains the names, addresses, phone numbers, descriptions, prices, etc. of restaurants, plus information on vacation spots.  But like an old phone book, this type of information quickly goes out of date and needs frequent updating.  There are websites where you can get up-to-date vegetarian restaurant information for free.	2001-05-07
US	52195402	R3A4DPXJIQMJML	0826942733	635600216	Instructional Analysis and Materials Development	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Useful Info for Vocational Educators - Awful Writing	I never would have purchased this book if it hadn't been the textbook in my \\"Occupational Analysis and Course Organization\\" class for my vocational teacher certification.  The main point of the book is to help vocational educational instructors plan their curriculum and classes.  The book is highly specialized for vocational education, and except for chapter 8 on lesson plans, would be of limited use for other educators.  It was published in 1976, but my instructor, a Ph.D. in vocational education, assured me it's still up-to-date and state of the art.<br />There's a 10-step flow chart in chapter 1, titled, \\"a systems approach to instructional materials development\\" explaining course planning.  Subsequent chapters explain these steps in detail.  Topics covered include:  identifying learning tasks, writing performance objectives (which I find especially helpful in course planning), and preparing written instruction sheets.  There's also a chapter on vocational education philosophy.  If you want to know the distinction between \\"vocational education\\" and \\"occupational education\\", this is the book for you!  The book is packed full of useful information and examples.<br />Unfortunately, this book is so poorly written, I can't stand reading it:  run-on sentences, high-falutin polysyllabic words, passive voice, annoying lack of commas.  One must wade through many words to get to the verb.<br />Example:  \\"The selection, sequencing, and detailing of tasks and the identification and development of instructional support materials need to be further organized beyond mere inclusion in an instructional schedule for effective instruction to result.\\"  Ugh. I think they make people read books like this in hell.<br />The useful, well organized information is countered by the horrendous writing, thus 3 stars.  If you need the information badly enough, it may be worth slogging through the verbosity.  But if you can find it elsewhere, I encourage you to do so.	2001-05-04
US	52195402	R1RZ3UTS3EXM3A	0062516507	111325682	The 100 Simple Secrets of Happy People: What Scientists Have Learned and How You Can Use It	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Short, Sweet, &amp; Inspiring	Many of these secrets are common sense, such as #54 \\"Get a good night's Sleep or #6 Cultivate Friendships; a few are debatable, such as #72 \\"You always have a choice.\\"  Overall, however, I find this little book fun and inspiring.<br />Each \\"secret\\" follows this formula, as found in one of my favorites #50, \\"Cherish Animals.\\"  Niven gives a brief explanation of how animals have much to teach us about love.  After the explanation is an anecdote:  the story of an animal shelter that brings a vanload of small dogs each week to cheer up nursing home residents.  Each entry concludes with a research finding:  \\"Those with a loved pet are 22 percent more likely to feel satisfied than those without. - Barofsky and Rowan 1998.\\"<br />Most folks probably won't go looking up the references in the back, but my inner scientist is pleased by how Niven, a Ph.D. handled the research.  Each reference is:<br />1.  alphabetically listed in the back by author (with journal information), so curious souls can easily look up the study.<br />2.  a meta-analysis (an analysis of multiple studies of the same topic).  So when Niven says, \\"regular readers are about 8 percent more likely to express daily satisfaction\\" compared to non-readers, this is based on multiple studies, not just one.<br />My only complaint about the book is that there's so much empty space.  Many pages have 3 to 4 inches of empty space, well over half the page.  <br />Conclusion:  Fun, inspiring, easy reading.  A great gift idea when you don't know what to give.	2001-04-17
US	52195402	R167NK6WO5YCB9	0380719010	447904617	May All Be Fed: 'a Diet For A New World : Including Recipes By Jia Patton And Friends	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great Recipes and Much More!	A friend kept bringing delicious vegan dishes to potlucks.  Every time I asked her for a recipe, it was out of \\"May All Be Fed: Diet for a New World.\\"  I pulled this book off the shelf and into the kitchen, and now people are complimenting my cooking and coming back for seconds--even meat eaters.  At a recent party, meat lovers kept coming back for seconds of the Vegetable Tofu Loaf, and I knew I had a goldmine of a cookbook.  Every recipe I've tried has worked out great.  I cut the oil in half in the Lemon Rice and Peas, because it didn't need 2 tablespoons for 4 servings, and it was still delicious.<br />The cookbook portion is the second half of the book.  The first half is full of well referenced, easy-to-read information on a variety of nutritional and health topics, including protein (ch. 3); chicken, fish, dairy, and eggs (ch. 5); the marketing of infant formulas (ch. 6); and what individuals can do about the problems discussed in chapters 2 - 6 (ch. 7).  I found the charts and graphs great for concisely conveying Robbins' points.  Although he discusses serious societal and individual problems, the tone of the book is positive:  all these problems are correctable and here's what you can do to help solve them.<br />Whether one uses this as a just a cookbook, a reference book, or both, this book is worth having!	2001-04-06
US	52195402	R1VUNCS5VPYDB0	0743204441	607215606	The Surrendered Wife: A Practical Guide To Finding Intimacy, Passion and Peace	Books	1	45	68	N	N	Surrender is Unhealthy	Let your husband have his way 100% of the time.  Like magic, the arguing stops.  But at what cost?<br />* By putting hubby in a superior position 100% of the time, the wife's loss self esteem is all but inevitable.  Her ideas, opinions and preferences no longer have merit.<br />* Both partners lose the opportunity to develop healthy communications/negotiating skills.<br />* By putting her husband in charge of the finances, the wife can find herself destitute and clueless if her husband mismanages the money, or if she becomes widowed or divorced.  I've seen this happen.<br />* By saying, \\"whatever you say dear\\" to ALL her husbands ideas, he loses a collaborating partner, and she loses out on having say in how her life and her children's lives are run.  I've known women who have done this, then stop knowing what they want and value in life, then have left their husbands to \\"find themselves.\\"<br />* The silent partner can build up resentment over having to walk on eggshells and not feeling free to voice her opinion.<br />* The husband may value his wife LESS for suddenly turning into a child-like Stepford wife<br />Yes, surrendering can stop arguing, but the cost of such \\"peace\\" is high.  It may be harder to develop healthy communications and negotiations skills than simply keep one's mouth shut, but healthier and more rewarding in the long run.	2001-04-04
US	52195402	R2YWU431KZOC	2831557208	927589346	Berlitz basic German	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Needs Updating	Berlitz theory, in practice since the 1870s, believes the best way to learn a foreign language is the way a baby learns a language, through listening to/repeating after native speakers.  Berlitz Basic German comes with 3 hours of campy dialogs on 3 cassette tapes.  I can imagine the actors in a 1940s radio studio, ringing bells, playing tapes of car engines, etc.  First you're supposed to just listen to the tape to get a feel for the language, then participate with the actors, then follow the dialog in the workbook.  The black and white workbook is a disappointment.  Individual words are defined in the margins, instead of right over or under the German words, so it's time consuming to figure out the exact translation.  An occasional grammar rule (such as a verb conjugation) as it applies to a particular word is given in the margin, but not in a way that you can easily generalize across the board.  Words that are exceptions to rules are presented here and there, but not as a list where one can learn many at a time.  Furthermore, grammar rules are often awkwardly written, so one must read them several times to figure out what's going on.  I'd prefer a learning system that made more use of visual learning, with a colorful and more helpful workbook.  Also, I'd prefer the tapes to contain some English, so one can easily learn German in situations where one can't consult the workbook such as driving or walking.	2001-03-31
