US	52196241	R503FZBZ98VBS	0767913744	543858044	Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod	Books	3	7	13	N	N	It's not the Cape Cod of the Andrews Sisters!	Forget Chappaquiddick and the Kennedys, this is a tale of money, sex, politics, privilege and murder that will hold your attention no matter where you spend your summer vacation.  Maria Flook's &quot;Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod&quot; grabs the reader out of the gate,  leads them up and over the sand dune to the Truro cottage where fashion writer and heiress Christa Worthington was murdered and illuminates for those unfamiliar with Cape Cod's secrets the puzzle surrounding this unsolved crime. <br />The book is chock full of facts about Cape Cod and its inhabitants that make Gatsby's Newport seem like a department store knock-off.  While Newport had its time with Claus von Bulow, Flook talks up Truro as  where the action really happens when the summering rich and famous mix it up with the locals. Where else but in Truro would a \\"fashionista&quot; like Worthington hook up with the off- the- rack shellfish warden and others. Truro is high society's pirates cove. <br />Flook's book has its limitations- she admits that only Worthingtons talk about Worthingtons. She probably places too much dependence on the District Attorney's &quot;investigation&quot; that went no where. The book suffers from poor editing as many facts are repeated and notables have their name misspelled-(it's former UMass President Bulger not Bolger!). I also had trouble trying to decide who Flook really was and what she was up to. Her penchant of revealing her private thoughts makes for good conversation about her at cocktail parties, but given the book's topic, the revelations and experiences of this thoroughly modern millie throw the reader off course. But I'll admit, Flook's digressions  make her someone you want to get to know.<br />When you take that next vacation, pack a copy of &quot;Invisible Eden&quot;. If you're on the Cape, you'll be sure to visit those landmarks and taverns described in the book; if you're somewhere else, you'll be calling your travel agent.	2003-09-29
US	52196241	R1GK6GR1EDFPZL	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	7	11	N	N	&quot;No Fee, Unless Successful&quot;	&quot;The King of Torts&quot; is a fast paced, enjoyable read of the meteoric career rise of Jarrett Clay Carter II, Attorney-at Law. Trained in criminal defense law at Washington DC's Office of the Public Defender, Carter stumbles into the world of high priced mass tort lawyers when a defendant's random street crime is attributed to a wonder drug's hidden side effects. Having had enough of low pay and indigent clients, Clay signs on for the ride with the &quot;big boys&quot;, deposits the contingent fees and never looks back.<br />Grisham paints a good picture of the excesses associated with successful plaintiffs lawyers, but he does a disservice to the system whereby contingent fee services allow playing field equality for injured victims of corporate shenanigans. The system isn't perfect as Grisham shows us, but no one would ever believe for an instant that Clay Carter, ex-public defender would become the King of Torts in just six months.<br />In any event, Grisham can write. He moves you through the story with deftness and good characters. Of course, Carter's dad is a disbarred attorney living on a sail boat in the Bahamas; of course, Carter's love interests are the daughter of a wealthy DC scion and a Russian model; of course, Carter takes his staff to Paris for a celebration; of course, Carter buys a Gulfstream jet to visit his plaintiff lawyer pals for dinner; and of course, Carter gets himself into a heap of trouble.	2003-09-25
US	52196241	R22ORLV071MK4L	0060933291	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"Now Pitching for Los Angeles..."	Jane Leavy's biography of Sandy Koufax is like that box of baseball cards in your garage, attic or basement that you have held on to for the last 25 years - something to be treasured. Although Koufax pitched in era far different from today's world of major league baseball, his brillant career sparkles throughout the pages of Leavy's writing. This is a well researched effort that rekindles the memories of a talented, classy, ball player who wore Dodger Blue, refused to pitch on the Jewish holy days, pitched 4 no-hitters, including the perfect game in 1965, staged a salary holdout with teammate Don Drysdale, retired at 30 and kept a private life that was important to him.<br />Baseball is just a game. Sometimes there are players who epitomize the purity of the game; players who master their position; players who are so good that everyone has at least heard of them. Everyone has heard of Sandy Koufax; some know he was a Dodger; some know he was a lefty; some know he was a Jew; some know he threw a perfect game. With Leavy's book, you will get to know just how good a player Koufax was; and you get to know about Koufax's life - a lot more than you could get by reading the back of his baseball card you keep in your box in the garage.	2003-09-08
US	52196241	R182SX5AY8TAT5	0060086629	603736518	Barracuda 945 (Robinson, Patrick)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	&quot;Now Hear This...All Hands On Deck...&quot;	Patrick Robinson comes roaring back in his latest naval adventure, &quot;Barracuda 945&quot;. After vacationing with last summer's &quot;Slider&quot;( a romp with the Cape Cod summer baseball league), Robinson returns to his roots with an action packed, page turning thriller about terrorism on the high seas after 9/11/01. Once again America's defenses are wide open to attact from a Middle Eastern terrorist with a proper British upbringing and training in the UK's special forces. The plot involves an attack on America's energy supplies with a plan to use a silent nuclear submarine's launch of off-shore missles.<br />Robinson creates believable scenarios and solid characters with his descriptive prose. The reader is propelled along the story line with swift moving scenes and a sense of urgency all Americans recognize after 9/11.<br />Robinson's latest isn't without fault. For some unknown reason other than to highlight his visit to Hollywood's Kodak theater, Robinson detours the thriller into an Oscar ceremony interrupted by the terrorist's attack on America's energy supply. Robinson must like to travel, but his editor should have suggested he write a scene about the havoc the attack could cause on an American military base instead of letting a good novel be lessened by a cheap thrill. <br />Robinson doesn't disappoint with this one. He reclaims his place among the best writers of military adventures.	2003-08-29
US	52196241	R21SAL6NG9QASE	0345444892	646331214	Murder at Ford's Theatre (Capital Crimes)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Inside the Beltway Thriller	In her latest novel, Margaret Truman stages \\"Murder at Ford's Theatre\\" with a cast drawn from recent headlines and past novels in her Capital Crime Series. The murder of Senate intern Nadia Zarinski, romantically linked to her boss, outside the historic theatre now run by the senator's ex-wife and Hollywood producer, Clarisse Emerson, who is preparing for her confirmation hearing as the next chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts sets off a media frenzy all too familar in the nation's capital. The case is so sensational that Truman's favorite Washington couple, George Washington University law professor Mackensie Smith and his wife Annabelle, are compelled to play leading roles once again.  Supporting cast members and Lincoln buffs, detectives Klayman and Johnson, representing the Metropolitan Police Department, and Sydney Bancroft, aging British thespian and Ford Theatre artistic director, add colorful moments to this fast paced drama.<br />It is impossible for me to criticise Truman's work. Her attention to detail especially about local landmarks and legends in Washington, DC provides the reader with a sense of place that locals recognize and visitors remember. I don't doubt that Truman strolled the cafes and galleries of Dupont Circle sipping latte at Kramerbooks & Afterwoods researching the details about historic Ford's Theatre that she got correct right down to the spelling.<br />Above all, \\"Murder at Ford's Theatre\\" is first rate suspense. Whether you live inside the infamous beltway or not, add this book to your list right away.	2003-04-15
US	52196241	R3A0OJ8XEIEHD8	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	4	6	7	N	N	All Aboard the Polar Express for Adults	It didn't take me long to purchase The Christmas Train at an airport bookstore of all places during my end of the year travels. I purchased it because I thought maybe it might be just what Dr. Baldacci prescribes for a bad case of the holiday-rush-arounds. I was right.  <br />Baldacci knows that train travel appeals to all of us--if we had the time. He recognizes that weary travelers fantasize about relaxed travel during the holiday season;and he fashions a story that weaves the thoughts of going home for the holidays with an adventure.<br />When your busy schedule permits, pick up a copy of &quot;The Christmas Train&quot; and find yourself a little nook and cranny to read it in. You will enjoy the holiday a little more.	2003-01-06
US	52196241	R3SZHGBETN6JGP	0060510269	103340626	Slider	Books	4	6	9	N	N	As Good as a Ground Rule Double	Patrick Robinson's \\"Slider\\" is like a cool glass of lemonade on a warm summer's night. It satisfies. If you are looking for a baseball book, look someplace else. This is a summer story about a   Louisiana farm boy who pitches summer ball in the Cape Marlin League. It is a story about his Farmer's Almanac dad struggling to make ends meet from  the sugar cane harvest while waiting and praying  for the drilling crews on the western end of the farm to find a natural gas strike. It is a story about his teammate, the catcher from Chicago, and his music teacher mother who detests that baseball is drawing her son away from law school and an escape from poverty. <br />The book is chock full of late inning heroics by collegians trying to get noticed by the major league scouts who camp out in the summer on Cape Marlin (Cape Cod) claiming to work for a living charting players  and clocking the speed of pitches.  The innings  and games move quickly through the book, never lingering too long to be dissected by baseball purists.<br />I like Robinson's work. He doesn't overpower you with a fastball, but his \\"Slider\\" is good enough stuff to keep you reading and enjoying until the end.	2002-10-17
US	52196241	R3KTBKOH3ACWMK	0743226070	565555697	The Rehnquist Choice: The Untold Story of the Nixon Appointment That Redefined the Supreme Court	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An Excellent Choice-- You Be the Judge!	John Dean has written an insider's book that chronicles President Richard Nixon's appointment of William Rehnquist to the United States Supreme Court. It was without doubt a Presidency filled with history, and the appointment of William Rehnquist to the Supreme Court is an often forgotten part of that Presidency. The book is well researched and throughly documented with first hand material from the National Archives, including several verbatim passages transcribed from the infamous White House tapes that otherwise doomed the Nixon Presidency.<br />Dean brings us inside the \\"vetting\\" process used by the White House staff and Justice Department to select nominees to the Court. Dean floated the name of Rehnquist to several in the administration, including then Attorney General John Mitchell, as a possible conservative candidate for the Court as Dean had worked with Rehnquist in the Justice Department and learned of the Rehnquist's strict constructionist interpretation of the constitution. What was fascinating was that Rehnquist while toiling away at the Justice Department was tasked with \\"vetting' the other possible Court nominees chosen by the White House. Sounds much like the recent scenario of the selection of Dick Cheney as Vice President.<br />The book details the other nominees Rehnquist beat out for the coveted position. If anyone believes that politics plays no part in the selection of the members of the Court, then this is required reading. At times humorous and at times self-serving, this book is well worth the purchase. If you are not a Court watcher don't worry, you don't have to be to appreciate this book. Dean is a good writer and the text flows easily. Add \\"The Rehnquist Choice\\" to your summer reading list - you will gain an appreciation of the importance of Presidential nominations to the Court.	2002-06-30
US	52196241	R28NRUMNKV1J16	031228327X	10488731	Joe College: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Where have you gone Holden Caulfield ?"	Tom Perrotta's \\"Joe College\\" depicts dorm living, cafeteria dining, townie  problems and summer job doldrums that surround college life about as honestly as any writer who dared to reveal  those experiences to unwitting parents. \\"Joe College\\" lives where it happens for the 18-22 year olds today. \\"Joe College\\" is the moniker many a male student has been dubbed with during spring breaks and summer vacations working at jobs that pay for books and pocket money by those guys we all know. Perrotta's novel is a humorous and fun to read memoir of one Joe College's experiences at New Haven's Ivy League campus and behind the wheel of his dad's lunch wagon during breaks.<br />Behind the humor and tongue-in cheek criticism of post secondary education, \\"Joe College\\" offers a glimpse into the myriad of issues faced by college students living away from home for the first time. There are the social circles to avoid, parties to attend, high school sweethearts left behind, alcohol and drug issues, relationship and commitment issues and somewhere there are the academic reasons for attending college lurking in the shadows. Perrotta guides the main character Danny, aka Joe College, through situation after situation, sometimes humbled, other times confused. <br />I enjoyed this book immensely. While it conjured up certain  memories better forgotten, it reminded me of a time in life when the day's  issues seemed so important,  people seemed  so energetic  and friendships were built so strong that they would  last for a lifetime. Buy a copy of Perrotta's novel and then call your old roommate.	2002-06-11
US	52196241	RNHKUT1DQDQKV	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Lucky to Know You	Whether it was Marty McFly in \\"Back to the Future\\" or Alex P. Keaton in \\"Family Ties,\\" America fell in love with the characters portrayed by Michael J. Fox.  Now in his autobiography, we learn how the boy became the actor became the man. In an honest, well-written and often revealing self-analysis, Michael J. Fox gives us a closer look at his life in \\"Lucky Man.\\"  From his boyhood days to his recent struggle with Parkinson's disease, Michael J. Fox opens up his scrapbook of family, friends, producers and directors for all to see. <br />Unlike many Hollywood bios, \\"Lucky Man\\" is written without the aid of a ghostwriter; telling us that his story is \\"too personal\\" for any one else to write, I thought that no one except the real Alex P. Keaton was competent enough to tell the story; I'm glad that Fox showcased his writing talent in this book. This story makes you laugh and cry; it is about a life filled with real people who made a difference in Michael's life - from the influence of his parents and grandmother to the devotion and love of his wife and children. <br />Fox takes the wrapper off his public image with this memoir only to reveal a considerate, gentle and genuinely funny man.   Fox describes with exceptional detail his encounter and treatment of Parkinson's disease and his commitment to help finding a cure. Anyone afflicted with Parkinson's would be devastated, but what about a big time actor at the pinnacle of his career? How would he respond? After much soul searching,  Fox finally realizes that his celebrity can be a help.  This book is so immensely readable and enjoyable that I strongly recommend it.  It could have been titled count your blessings.	2002-06-04
US	52196241	R5XBX3A6OAT4R	0060508094	846988628	Into the Mirror: The Life of Master Spy Robert P. Hanssen	Books	4	11	13	N	N	FBI Master Spy- A Shameful True Life Tale	Lawrence Schiller's \\"Into the Mirror\\" is a riveting, page-turning expose into the secret life of FBI agent turned spy, Robert P. Hanssen.  Hanssen's misdeeds and treason are depicted in a researched and documented book that conveys the dark side of betraying one's country. Schiller attempts to explain Hanssen's duplicity by creating a psychological picture of a very complex individual using literary license in an effective and believable manner. For those who do not want \\"just the facts\\" but seek some sort of explanation for Hanssen's betrayal of the USA, Schiller's book is the right stuff.<br />Schiller portrays Hanssen's life as full of contradictions; from his dogmatic membership in the Catholic society, Opus Dei, to his prurient pornographic pursuits; from his rise in the ranks of the FBI's prestigious counterintelligence squad to his indictment for espionage. Never before has the nation seen a traitor  like  Robert P. Hanssen gain access to  the halls of justice masquerading as a protector of liberty all the while posing as Ramon for his Moscow handlers.  We can only hope that it will never happen again.<br />I read this book in two short sittings finding myself pulled into Schiller's portrayal of Hanssen's clandestine life. You have to feel sorry for Hanssen's family for the pain and disgrace he brought on them, but you will feel no sympathy for Hanssen himself who you learn from the text took up spying to pay off credit card bills and live a more lavish lifestyle.  Hanssen will never see in his mirror the face of a patriot.	2002-06-04
US	52196241	R1HY5IEAO0TY5K	0375506063	686251239	2182 kHz	Books	2	45	63	N	N	Mayday, Mayday !!!	When an author cannot decide whether the theme of his novel is man's struggle against the harshest of nature's elements or man's struggle with his inner demons, then the reader will thrash around trying to decide what struggle to focus on.  While the novel's title refers to the broadcast channel of the  marine international distress signal, it really is just a metaphor for the protagonist's life which is in distress. Framed against the backdrop of life on Artic Sea tugboats, the reader is exposed to a life only a handful of humans would ever experience or want to experience for that matter. With all due respect to the men and women who toil on the high seas for their daily bread, this book is better skipped. <br />Proving that working on a tugboat exposes one to a technology, lifestyle and terminology that is foreign to even the most sea-faring  audience, the author loses his readers from the opening chapter. Descriptive writing shouldn't be confused with detailed writing; here all we have are endless details that contribute nothing to moving the story along; there are so many details that I almost gave up on this book after the first few chapters. Looking to pass the time on a two hour flight with this relatively short novel, I was sorely disappointed.<br />Not everything in this book is disappointing; the characters are intriguing  and I would have liked more of a story where these characters who spend months on end at sea were developed.  The author's eye for detail should be directed toward the detail necessary for character development. I had to remind myself that this was a novel, not a nonfiction selection about tugboats.	2002-04-23
US	52196241	R34YQ6ASQ32UGE	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Kudos--Bravo---More---Outstanding Writing!!!!	The greatest praise I can give to this book of short stories is to tell you to go out and buy the first copy you find. Don't order it, don't wait; go out of your way and find it somewhere. Then, find the closest café or coffee shop, order your favorite latte or tea and start reading. If I am right, your latte and tea will get cold as you become immersed in the lives and times of Author Jhumpa Lahiri's characters.<br />Writing prose is easy; writing good prose is not so easy. Where are the writers who know how to write well?  Have today's editors so few to work with, or are they dismissing the writers of good prose for the writers of best sellers? So much of today's writing is constructed of passages of words just cobbled together as if the story evolved from a bunch of scrabble boards.  Well to those readers who yearn for outstanding prose, I strongly endorse the 2000 Pulitzer Prize winner for fiction  \\"Interpreter of Maladies\\" by Jhumpa Lahiri. It has been quite some time since I enjoyed a book of short stories so much.  This one is a gem. Since this is the author's first book, I marvel at her skills, and those of us who are truly honest will admit our envy of those skills. After reading this relatively short volume, I eagerly await her next installment.<br />If there is any one thing that will grab the reader as they follow each tale in this volume of short stories, it is the author's remarkable ability to describe people and places with such accuracy and detail that the reader feels as if they are a familiar visitor in the very room where the story unfolds. You feel almost like a trusted neighbor who is always welcome in the characters' lives.  Author Lahiri dwells on her characters' surroundings; she makes the reader absorb the details to fully appreciate the characters' predicament; by the use of simple sentences chock full of details you can hear the water begin to boil in the kettle and feel the human situations resonate in each character. The importance offamily is a common theme running through each story; each story of the ethnic genre stands alone.   Most of the stories deal with Indians who have emigrated to the West. You do not have to be Indian to appreciate the people and culture depicted in these stories as Ms Lahiri's writing depicts human situations and emotions that transcend borders. You will not forget some of the stories and characters--- you'll want to  watch television with Mr. Pirzada; you'll appreciate Mrs. Sen's baby-sitting skills and remember a familiar aunt; you'll wonder if Sarjeev and Twinkle's marriage survives; families with immigrants will know somebody like Mr. Kapasi who interpts maladies for the doctor for foreign speakers. <br />If you do not like short stories, or wonder how the Pulitzer for fiction was awarded to a book of short stories, give this one a chance. After you read it, I guarantee that when you see someone in your favorite bookstore deciding whether to buy this one, you'll lean over  to them and heartily endorse this book's fine writing.  Can you give a better review?	2002-04-09
US	52196241	R2EBZE0BPPYKU	0060196254	751205471	The Associate	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Inside the World of High Stakes Litigation - Enjoyable	Philip Margolin has written a fast paced novel with an intriguing plot in The Associate. Set inside one of Portland, Oregon's premier law firms, young associate, Daniel Ames, already tired from a day's efforts at research and writing pulls an all-nighter to review documents from his pharmaceutical client's files that have to be produced the next morning to the opposing side in a lawsuit involving a drug that allegedly causes birth defects. Missing the \\"smoking gun\\" report that would cripple the drug manufacturer in the lawsuit among the thousand of pages he reviews that night, Ames stumbles into a scheme of epic proportions involving a flamboyant, high stakes plaintiff's attorney who redefines the expression \\"stopping at nothing\\" to win his case and a web of murders and kidnappings that keep the pages turning in this very enjoyable novel.<br />Rather than utilizing the traditional courtroom and witness testimony to reveal the plot's direction, Margolin chooses to unveil the mystery using a behind the scenes approach that is just as satisfying. We see how unfavorable documents can be shielded from disclosure by having employees write everything to the company's in-house lawyer and later invoking the attorney client privilege; we watch as private investigators chase lead after lead to uncover the facts; we see how the clever and devious can manipulate the system with a knowledge of the basics; and we see the tactics employed in high stakes litigation. The reader doesn't need the trial to reach a just verdict.<br />The novel's brevity causes some shortcomings. Too little time is devoted to character development; the protagonist's blue-collar background and rise to success should have been expanded. The author moves the story along so adeptly that it leaves the reader wanting more details about life inside the premier firm where the associate toiled. I'll admit that Margolin cheats about some finer points of legal practice that might cause practitioners to protest (Bates stamping documents with individual numbers is too routine in big case litigation to forget), but overall the novel delivers a high energy read that is sure to satisfy.	2002-01-27
US	52196241	R32GPGCI92DANF	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Step Up To The Plate And Leave Your Handlers At Home	If you are a fan of the FOX News show 'The O'Reilly Factor,&quot; then you will love this book. It is a compilation of his &quot;best&quot; interviews in the 'No Spin Zone' segment of the show where the guest is compelled to answer O'Reilly's interrogation without the &quot;spin&quot;  politicians are famous for. There is an obvious parallel between O'Reilly's No Spin Zone and Pat Buchanan's Crossfire days. <br />The collection of interviews presented in this short, very readable book comprise O'Reilly's glossary of controversy: he dissects Al Sharpton, James Carville, Dan Rather, Puff Daddy, Susan Sarandon, Sheldon Cohen and others. Each interview involves a headline topic: rap music lyrics, Jesse Jackson's foundation's tax status, the death penalty. O'Reilly is a good interviewer, he prepares and knows his topic - but often his guests are not good counterpunchers.<br />Much of O'Reilly's hype is designed to boost his show's ratings; but so what. He won't deny it - no spin. This book which you will read in one sitting(unless you're not a fan) sounds so  much like the TV show. There are those who believe O'Reilly is a nascent politician waiting for the right time and right election. If so, this book gives everyone a good look at the &quot;candidate's&quot; positions.	2001-12-14
US	52196241	R2V1MKYISD4SGD	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Starting Point to Understand 9-11-01	Holy War, Inc. is a first rate primer on Osama bin Laden and his al- Qaeda network that every responsible American should read after the attacks of 9-11-01. Author Peter L. Bergen, a CNN correspondent, does yeoman's work in detailing the structure of bin Laden's organization, its roots, its financing, its reach and its goals. With a gripping prologue that recounts the secrecy and precautions surrounding the author's 1997 televised interview with bin Laden, the reader is drawn straight into the web of today's terrorist.  It is compelling reading. In the ensuing chapters, Bergen sets out to make the case that bin Laden is the CEO of Holy War, Inc.<br />To most of us the origin of the ideology and historical details that culminated in the September attacks is confusing and complex. In this very readable text that provides a look, albeit cursory, inside the politics and cultures of Pakistan and Afghanistan, we see how the framework of a highly organized and sophisticated organization that employs and trains thousands in terrorism began. Bergen informs his readers that \\" the men who lead these movements are generally well educated and utilize the latest in technology in their various jihads.\\" Many Americans will learn for the first time while reading this book of the constantly updated web sites where the members of these organizations communicate, the faxes that deliver the \\"fatwas\\" around the world to the group's members and news organizations and the use of the internet and DVD's to propel the group's messages and training materials. These followers  are not just hiding in caves in Afghanistan, they are on line.<br />With bin Laden's wealth,the author asserts that terrorism has been privatized; it has cloaked itself under a corporate hierarchy; its foot soldiers are globalized connected by satellite phones; it possesses technological weapons some of which were provided to the mujahideen by the US during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. This book may not be the definitive treatise on the subject of global terrorism, but it is immensely readable, well documented and an honest attempt to explain the horror of 9-11-01.   You will not go wrong with this selection.	2001-12-12
US	52196241	R2W25KQ2COCQ3Z	0743212533	300018757	The Columnist	Books	3	8	8	N	N	MEET THE PRESS	Every once in a while you find a book like The Columnist that is more than just a story.  Staged as the tell it all autobiography of a Washington syndicated columnist at the nadir of his career, this short novel is both a parable of misguided egos and misplaced values and also a satire of high profile journalism.   The rags to riches story of Brandon Sladder, the consummate Washington journalist is told with a reflective message. In its pages, we learn the story of a widely syndicated newspaper columnist who rose from humble beginnings as a city reporter in Buffalo to become the confidant of Presidents and senators; the most sought after dinner guest at Georgetown dinner parties; the witty and engaging TV panelist beamed into millions of American homes every week; and the inquisitive and challenging intellect in love with the power of ideas. But hold on, there is a price to be paid for such fame. In his private life, Sladder is the last to know husband; the estranged son; the forgotten friend; the distant father; and a generally dislikeable figure.<br />In this well written volume, author Jeffrey Franks examines the less than noble connection between politics and the press. We learn why politicians cultivate members of the press; why political positions often gain momentum with the voters because of a favorable news editor or just a photo opportunity given to a reporter. You will ask yourself whether you are a \\"source\\" or a \\"friend \\" to a reporter. Author Franks does a fine job of satirizing the fourth estate and its elite ranks. \\"As my column became more popular, so did I, and I found myself drawn deeper into the social life of Washington. All at once I knew everyone (occasionally I even sensed a small stir when I entered a room)...\\" These are the thoughts of the novel's main character on the occasion of his 29th birthday; who else could fit into a room with him given the size of that ego?<br />As I read this book, which at times has some very dark and disturbing passages particularly involving the daughter of the main character, I had to put it down. I can appreciate satire and cynicism with the best of them, but some of the author's attempts to skewer go too far astray to be effective parody. Washingtonians will gobble up this book looking to find some veiled reference to themselves; \\"journalists\\" (who will purchase this book but never admit owning it) will sneer at the parody. When you're finished reading this one, you'll shake your head glad that you didn't make Mr. Sladder's acquaintance.	2001-12-11
US	52196241	R1GOQQQ8TGZLEQ	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;Laughing All The Way&quot;	This year there are no shortage of Christmas books on this site or in your local book shop to fill you with all the images of the holiday season: snow crested fields, roaring fireplaces, carolers, holly and ivy- you get the picture. There are newcomers like Grisham's \\"Skipping Christmas\\" and Mary and Carol Higgins Clark's \\"He Sees You While You're Sleeping\\" and \\"The Mitford Snowmen\\". Booksellers pile them right next to classics like Dickens' \\"A Christmas Carol,\\" \\"Twas the Night Before Christmas,\\"  \\"The Polar Express,\\" and Dr. Seuess' \\"The Grinch that Stole Christmas\\". Just like the annual search for the perfect tree, the search for the perfect holiday book is no less daunting.<br />So while browsing for my holiday selection, I was directed to a small paperback volume in David Sedaris' \\"Holidays on Ice\\".  It's been out for a few years, but I missed this one (after reading it, I think I missed it because the Christmas police must have ordered it off the shelves for fear of causing a national laughing epidemic). Forget the antisocial behavior of the Grinch, he's just an out of work elf compared to Sedaris. Nothing, absolutely nothing about Christmas is immune from the sarcasm and cynicism displayed in the collection of short stories that make up this small volume. After reading this book on my train ride to Rockefeller Center to watch the annual lighting of the Christmas tree, I don't think that I'll ever be the same. Imagine that Santa's `Ho, Ho, Ho' greeting is really his egg nog induced shout to a streetwalker; or that Macy's dresses ex-cons and thugs as its Christmas elves; ever receive a Christmas letter from a cousin inside the annual holiday card only to have him recount his indictment for murder and invite your family to his bail hearing; or what about a contest with the neighbors over who can donate more blood to show the spirit of giving.   Like I said, I'll never be the same.<br />If you like to laugh and can appreciate the acerbic wit of someone whom must have gotten too much coal in his stocking as a child to come up with this collection of irreverences, then this one's for you.	2001-11-29
US	52196241	R271U5ER0I0JQ1	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	53	69	N	N	&quot;To Preserve,  Protect And Defend... So Help Me God.&quot;	When I started to read \\"When Character Was King\\" by former White House speechwriter, Peggy Noonan I thought how apropos then candidate Reagan's quote from his debate with then President  Jimmy Carter \\"there you go again\\" would be to this work.  No book written about Ronald Reagan escapes the broadsides hurled from the liberals and intelligentsia who hate to admit they had it wrong in the 80's. Then again, there are the supply-siders, conservatives and exiled pundits who close their eyes to the cracks in the myth of the Reagan presidency. So I wondered, what could this book contribute to the debate over the Reagan legacy?  Instead of trying to convince the reader that those were the \\"good ol' days,\\" Ms. Noonan  attempts  a different slant  - what about the \\"character\\" of the person occupying the Oval Office - does it count for anything? Does it affect the way history will record that presidency?  With a deft pen and quick moving account of the life of the former actor, governor and President, Ms. Noonan delivers a knockout blow to the fallacy that history doesn't care about the character of the person in the highest elected office. Ms. Noonan makes the case well that the \\"something\\" that distinguishes presidencies and makes some great is the `character' of the man in the Oval Office. As Noonan says, \\"No one is ever trained to be president, and usually a president either walks in getting it or he doesn't. Some learn the role along the way, some never do. Reagan always comported himself as if he got it so easily, so effortlessly, that he didn't even notice that he had it.\\"<br />Noonan traces Reagan's peripatetic early life; his college days, his acting career and involvement with the Screen Actors Guild. She recounts well known facts and some new ones too that formed the foundation for much of Reagan's core, his personality and his vision. She uses anecdotes from former staffers, friends and even Nancy Reagan to show how Reagan evolved into the man America saw on the campaign trail and elected twice to the White House. Noonan asserts that time and again during his presidency, in dealing with the Soviets and with the Congress, Reagan's character counted for something.<br /><br /> Noonan recalls that Reagan delivered on all the big promises he had made when running for office: cut taxes, get the economy moving, name a woman to the Supreme Court, cut interest rates.  She doesn't duck the Iran-Contra scandal or the \\"Star Wars\\" controversy, but hits them head on.  There are many tomes on the Reagan years; some that provide much more detail than this work. This is, however, a well written book that should earn a place of distinction in the debate over the Reagan years.  Noonan closes the book by touching on the recent war on terrorism, its effect on the current occupant of the Oval Office and his views of the Reagan years. It does in the end give its readers something to think about on the way to the ballot box. It is very good reading.e campaign trail and elected twice to the White House. Noonan asserts that time and again during his presidency, in dealing with the Soviets and with the Congress, Reagan's character counted for something.<BR> <BR> Noonan recalls that Reagan delivered on all the big promises he had made when running for office: cut taxes, get the economy moving, name a woman to the Supreme Court, cut interest rates.  She doesn't duck the Iran-Contra scandal or the \\"Star Wars\\" controversy, but hits them head on.  There are many tomes on the Reagan years; some that provide much more detail than this work. This is, however, a well written book that should earn a place of distinction in the debate over the Reagan years.  Noonan closes the book by touching on the recent war on terrorism, its effect on the current occupant of the Oval Office and his views of the Reagan years. It does in the end give its readers something to think about on the way to the ballot box. It is very good reading.	2001-11-27
US	52196241	R2W516941R5PDW	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	36	44	N	N	The Gratuity Is Not Included	If you spend your time at Harry Winston's, Tiffany &amp; Co. or Cartier, maybe this isn't the book for you; or then again, maybe it is. If you ever eat at chain restaurants, stay in budget motels, use public restrooms or shop at Wal Mart, then read this book for sure. In Nickel and Dimed, author Barbara Ehrenreich leaves her ivory tower existence as a writer in Key West and takes a succession of minimum wage jobs in Florida, Maine and Minnesota to chronicle life from the position of the working poor. She works as a waitress, a maid and a retail clerk. She lives in \\"affordable\\" housing - trailers and weekly budget motels; she drives a Rent A Wreck; and she eats dinner at convenience stores. She doesn't do this to see if it's possible, rather she does it to show how millions of proud Americans live every day.  As you read this book you hear the anthem of the working poor in the recesses of your consciousness, \\"another day older and deeper in debt.\\" <br />The criticism of this book by other reviewers is too harsh.  This is a short book and an easy read filled with humorous episodes. You'll be surprised to learn that someone in corporate America has even gone so far to deem talking to a coworker on the job as \\"time theft.\\"  Ehrenreich hasn't written the definitive treatise about the working poor; I don't think she ever intended to. Whether you're a supply-sider or a socialist, you can at least agree that she presents her point of view through her writing effectively. When many are talking of bull markets, stock splits and the dot.com revolution, she is unafraid to be the voice talking about the conditions faced by the working poor in the USA: low wages, no housing, no health insurance, no sick time, no benefits, no 401(k), no credit, no phones, no tenure, no vacations - a whole lot of nothing every day. Just show up, do your job and smile for the customers.  <br />Whether management reads it; whether business schools require it; or whether parents make their high schoolage children read it, neither this book nor its topic will go away. Read it if you've forgotten how the other half lives. What's that old expression? You're only a paycheck away from the poor house? Since it's a safe bet that an amazon.com reader probably is a little more affluent than the average bear, leave a little extra for your waitress the next time; you'll be glad you did.	2001-11-24
US	52196241	R1N6YKWATF1ZWL	0375413030	696613642	A Trial by Jury	Books	3	21	26	N	N	&quot;Have You Reached A Verdict, Mr. Foreman?&quot;	Kudos to this insightful portrait of the trial by jury. Very few books have revealed the inner workings of a jury's deliberations with such clarity and detail. The author sat as the foreman of the jury in the criminal trial of the People vs. Monte Milcray for murder in the second degree held in New York City.  In just 183 pages, the author takes the reader through the jurors and their backgrounds, the trial and the evidence and then reveals how all of this plays together for four days during the jury's deliberations and sequestration. You cannot come away from this text and not better appreciate the power of a jury and the valuable service it performs in our system of \\"justice.\\"  For this alone, you will be glad you read this book.<br />This book, however, is not without its flaws. Early on in the text, the author refers to Ockham's metaphorical razor as the philosopher's tool used to excise all but the most essential to arrive at the truth. This book's editor obviously misunderstood this concept, and allowed what is a good book to be lessened with the author's ruminations that do nothing to illuminate what this book is about except to reveal the author's intellectual prowess and his penchant for affected behaviors. Maybe that's the way the Princeton University history department likes its assistant professors (the book's jacket identifies the author as one) to appear in print, but since other reviewers on this site have also complained about how the author's smugness gets in the way, I cannot help but think that this book could have been so much better if a stronger editor had been assigned.<br />If you live in Manhattan or work in its court system, you will particularly appreciate this book. If you're a lawyer, you'd better listen to what the jury actually thinks is important. And if you're a casual reader who appreciates a book about trials and the legal process, I predict you'll like this book, but you probably won't invite its author to your next party.	2001-11-23
US	52196241	R2CVN6GENDXVG0	0743230051	948239698	He Sees You When You're Sleeping : A Novel	Books	3	30	36	N	N	Check Your List Twice Before You Buy	Sterling Brooks is marking time in the celestial waiting room watching everyone else get their wings. As a lawyer during life, described as the kind of person who was first in the lifeboat, who never went out of his way for anyone and who was too smug and self-absorbed to notice what was going on around him (trial lawyers won't like that portrait of one of their own), it's not going to be easy for Counselor Brooks. Summoned by the Heavenly Council and informed that his only chance for admission will be his participation in an earthly experiment to recognize someone with a problem and help them solve it, Brooks is off to earn his wings. Transported back to Rockefeller Center during the holiday season, Brooks doesn't have that much time to help seven year old Marissa get reunited with her father and grandmother.  The road to heaven may be paved with good intentions; but Brooks' trip takes him to the underworld of gangsters Junior and Eddie Badgett who have scared Marissa's father and grandmother into the witness protection program because of something they know.  <br />While this book may fly off the shelves this holiday season because of its authors' following, it's not destined to take up residence next to Dickens' \\"A Christmas Carol\\" or Capra's \\"It's A Wonderful Life\\" in this reviewer's holiday collection.  Sure, it's probably not expected to be a classic, but even as an afternoon read with Mel Torme crooning in the background and the chestnuts roasting on an open fire, it's a disappointment. <br />There's not enough humbug in me to say don't read this book during a free moment in the holiday rush.  It is short at 199 pages. It's just that I think mother-daughter authors Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark could have done much better if they lightened up on the sugar coating.	2001-11-20
US	52196241	R3S9HLNY0WY7VA	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Tree Tops Glisten and Children Listen...	Skipping Christmas is a hoot!  In a much lighter tone than Charles Dickens' \\"A Christmas Carol,\\" and possessing the sentimentality of the children's book, \\"The Polar Express,\\" John Grisham shows us again why he is a best selling author. Luther Krank, the tale's modern day Scrooge, decides that Christmas is too commercialized and too expensive for the Krank household after his daughter leaves for a stint in the Peace Corps that will keep her in South America for the holidays. Deciding to forgo the office party, christmas cards, outdoor decorations, mall shopping, tree trimming and the rest of the holiday chaos, Krank proclaims to everyone that he and his wife are going to take a cruise and \\"skip christmas\\" this year.  Bah humbug!  He doesn't know what he is in for!<br />If after reading Skipping Christmas you think that Grisham isn't very original and just updated the characters and town depicted in &quot;It's A Wonderful Life,&quot; you may have a point. Sure Luther Krank at times seems like George Bailey; Krank's Hemlock Street  neighborhood is a lot like Bedford Falls; and even police officers Salino and Treen resemble the loveable cab driver and policeman Bert and Ernie. But why complain; now you have two versions of the story to enjoy during the holidays! You can even decide whether  Jimmy Stewart would make a better Luther Krank than George Bailey.<br />The holiday season brings a lot of happiness to many who don't often have it during the rest of the year. This year we all need it; and we all deserve it.  So don't wait for someone else to tell you this book is worth the purchase, go out and get it now.  Light the fire, pour yourself a glass of eggnog, sit back and enjoy this book. By the time the fire turns to embers, you'll be glad you didn't skip this one. And if your name happens to be Ebeneezer, I promise that you won't have to admit you actually enjoyed the story.	2001-11-15
US	52196241	R177LIJ1I41XR9	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Whose Life is This? We need to talk.	A tenet of our civilization is that an education will prepare us to read, ponder and presumably enjoy the great writers of literature. And so, university diploma in hand, I reached out for Half A Life by the winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Literature, V.S. Naipaul. Admittedly not having read anything previously by Naipaul, I was anxious to read this relatively short work. Alas, there is a lot to ponder but little to enjoy in this book.<br />It doesn't take the reader long to realize that Naipaul is a master writer. The prose is simple; his sentences crisp and short; the tale easily unfolds. The main character is Willie Somerset Chandron, and his life is the tale Naipaul tells. Early on in the book, Willie is described as &quot;the mission-school student who had not completed his education, with no idea of what he wanted to do, except to get away from what he knew, and yet with very little idea of what lay outside what he knew...&quot; And so, the book traces Willie's aimlessness and his search to find his place in life as he wanders from India to England to Africa.<br />Naipaul overlays many themes to explain Willie's lack of engagement in life: the Indian caste system, racial prejudices, youthful rebellion to name a few and explores them in unique ways. The combination of them is overwhelming to think about, let alone live through, and perhaps that was Naipaul's thesis in explaining why Willie couldn't fully engage.<br />This is a difficult book not to discuss with someone. I think members of book discussion clubs would like it very much for the number of issues raised and the life it describes. Anyone who reads this book will appreciate fine writing, even if they don't come away entertained.	2001-11-11
US	52196241	R2PFCZ4WSCVQV7	0312253419	88732746	America: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	I Think The Man in the Gaberdine Suit is a  Spy...	The next line in the song is &quot;she says his bowtie is really a camera,&quot; and throughout this latest novel from Stephen Coonts I couldn't stop thinking about these lyrics from the old Simon and Garfunkel song. This novel reminds me that we have not travelled very far from the days of the sixties when the cold war was at its peak. Sure Coonts has thrown in a bunch of new technological gadgets to make the story contemporary, but it's the same old story - we have it, they want it. The &quot;it&quot; this time is the USS America, the latest, high-tech, ultra-expensive, nuclear submarine that the Navy has just commissioned. It's loaded with the best sonar, the best electronics and the most recent high tech gadgetry that Uncle Sam can buy, including &quot;Flashlight&quot; Tomahawk cruise missiles that release an energy pulse on detonation capable of disabling all things electrical, including automatic doorlocks on cars, commercial airliners' electronics and the White House communications systems; and to the chagrin of the USA, the sub gets hijacked. The hero in all of this is once again Jake Grafton, the naval officer who is connected in all the right places and written about in other Coonts' novels. Jake's character should have been expanded more in this book because if the reader is unfamiliar with Jake from previous novels, then his credibility as someone whom the USA would rely upon at a time of crisis is questionable. Other characters in the story making a return appearance from previous novels like Tommy Carmellini, the CIA operative whose irreverence at the bureaucracy seems believable, cry out for a bigger part. Coonts does, however, move the story along with his concise writing style and plot lines and before you know it, you'll be finished reading this book. If you liked &quot;Hong Kong&quot; and &quot;Cuba&quot; by this author, you'll certainly like this one.	2001-11-10
US	52196241	R1YYR4Q0VEY9JZ	0446527289	188084707	The First Counsel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	You have the right to speak with an attorney, Mr. President	Imagine yourself being at the top of your class in law school, starting your career in a &quot;white shoe&quot; law firm, working in a presidential campaign and then being rewarded with an office in the White House and the title of Deputy Counsel to the President of the United States. Pretty heady stuff even for the best and brightest. But then, find yourself flirting with the First Daughter at a social function, making a date with her, trying to ditch the Secret Service escort to please and impress the First Daughter and prove that lawyers can be cool too, and before you know it you have entered a world where no schooling or training could prepare you for what would happen next. Brad Meltzer catapults Deputy Counsel to the President, Michael Garrick, into the White House residence where drugs, deception and bribery operate like it's a banana republic after the First Daughter, Nora Hartson, enters his life. Meltzer knows how to snare his readers with a plot and characters that run to a finale the reader can't wait to reach. Code names, security badges that give access to only the most connected and briefing time with the President become the literary devices that give the plot credibility.  While we might be disappointed if these characters actually inhabited the West Wing, Meltzer can get away with a storyline that seems so unlikely because we all have grown accustomed to less than perfection in those who serve at the highest levels of government. You'll finish this book quickly and want the next book from Meltzer who is the envy of every young associate toiling away at their law firm writing briefs instead of novels.	2001-11-07
US	52196241	R328L4T4EK5OWC	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	106	115	N	N	A Lesson For Us All	I have several opinions about this book, and the first is that it should be placed on the mandatory reading list of every high school student in the USA; it is destined to become a literary classic in the same vein as Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. The themes introduced throughout this book are designed to elicit discussion and shatter stereotypes. The transformation of the book's main character, Jefferson- a poor, uneducated, young, black man who has been convicted of a murder he didn't commit and whose life is compared to that of a hog by his own defense attorney in the worst closing argument to a jury ever atempted, is remarkable to watch unfold. Jefferson is reborn on death row with the help of his teacher, Grant Wiggins, the university educated, local black school teacher who reluctantly agrees to visit Jefferson in his cell at the request of Jefferson's aunt, Miss Emma, who wants Wiggins to make Jefferson know he &quot;ain't no hog.&quot;  This book will evoke emotions in most of us; you will feel yourself react as you read. It is so very well written. Of course, the question remains is whether the book's themes will make a difference to its readers. Ernest J. Gaines, the author, must think that they will; I think that the book could have been titled, a lesson for us all.	2001-11-04
US	52196241	R3T4NG8AIUO105	0743417283	838262110	It's Only a Game	Books	5	14	15	N	N	It's A Wonderful Life	Don't let the title of this book mislead you. While Terry Bradshaw is best known as the four time Superbowl Champion quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers and a regular on the FOX Sunday football show, this is not just a book about football. It's about a life. Terry Bradshaw's resilency, humor, confidence and honesty are showcased in this book, and nothing in Bradshaw's life is too sacred for discussion. This book made me laugh out loud so many times that I had to read passages of the book to travel companions that were wondering what could be so funny. Bradshaw's account of his attempt at cattle ranching is hilarious. There is plenty of football in this book to satisfy any fan of the game as Bradshaw recounts his playing days from high school to his Superbowl victories with the Steelers. But there is so much more. Jimmy Stewart had to be saved by an angel to know it's a wonderful life. I'll let you decide for yourself if Bradshaw convinces you that it's only a game. If you read this book, come January you'll wish Terry Bradshaw was at your Superbowl party.	2001-11-04
US	52196241	R1QLZYELGCI6RN	0345432401	684734174	Omerta	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Sicilian Sound of Silence	Anyone who has read Mario Puzo's Godfather and has clamored for the release of the three films on DVD, will not be disappointed with this tale. If you're a viewer of the Sopranos or just want entertainment, you will enjoy this book. But if you cannot appreciate the differences between Don Raymonde Aprile's family and Tony Soprano's, then you're missing the point.The characters, the locations and the details are all what you expect from a Puzo novel. The tale runs back and forth between the hill towns of Sicily with their simple lifestyles and traditions to the complexities of corporate law firms, FBI investigations and network television. Puzo's language is so descriptive about Sicily that you'll find yourself rereading certain passages to experience their flavor again and again. As you read the novel you will come to realize that Omerta was a way of life where secrets were kept or else.	2001-11-02
US	52196241	R33OEK3SDF94PA	0060196319	442862530	The Shark Mutiny	Books	3	7	9	N	N	It's Not the Navy, It's An Adventure	I must confess a fondness for Patrick Robinson novels. I am sure I read them with less than a critical eye because the author spends a part of his time on Cape Cod each year, and professes a love for the Cape Cod Baseball League. Nimitz Class was the author's best. This novel is pure escapism; like going to a Saturday afternoon movie on a rainy summer day, the reader is forced to suspend reality and a critical eye to be entertained. Robinson spends an inordinate amount of time in the book dealing with the Chinese naval strategy and cultural desire to reclaim the island of Taiwan. The time would have been better spent developing the basis for the mutiny on the submarine. As it was, the mutiny was such a small part of this book that I wondered constantly throughout the novel why it was so titled. There are too many pieces to the puzzle in this story to have it hang together nicely; there is a submarine commander who thinks he is reincarnated; the too long to describe childhood relationship between the Navy SEAL and the submarine XO officer; the National Security Director's reluctance to involve the President in foreign policy decisions; and the Chinese navy's strategy to regain control of Taiwan. Look, if it's accuracy you want, then this isn't the book for you. But, if you want an adventure, this might be just what the doctor ordered.	2001-10-29
US	52196241	R2Q2X688FY5TX	0425172996	103559066	Vector	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Doesn't Seem Like Fiction Anymore	The anthrax letters sent to government and news organizations after 9-11-01 sent me reading Robin Cook's Vector. And I must confess, it is a page-turner! I picked it up in Penn Station waiting for my train, and I couldn't stop reading it all the way home. Cook's story line is frightenly similar to today's headlines;  in Vector, Cook unites a disgruntled Russian emigre cab driver in New York and two domestic terrorists working in of all places, the NYFD, in a plot to release anthrax spores in a federal building's ventilation system and over Central Park. When bodies start appearing as the bio-weapons are being tested, Medical Examiner, Jack Stapleton, becomes the dogged, underpaid, public health professional who won't let the coincidences go away unexplained. Cook's knowledge of biotech lends  credibility to the story. If it all seemed implausible when this book was first released, then the time to rethink those opinions has arrived. An easy read for anyone, you will not be disappointed.	2001-10-27
US	52196241	R3769BKWVGZFYA	0375500707	279766115	Murder in Havana (Capital Crimes)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Margaret Truman's Latest Connects Havana to the Beltway	Having read every one of Margaret Truman's Capital Crimes Series, I was surprised with the title of her latest novel. But while the story focuses mostly on Castro's Cuba, there is plenty of inside the Beltway intrigue to satisfy her loyal readers. In typical Truman fashion, she weaves a tale of murder, espionage, diplomacy, politics and suspense that forces the reader to turn the pages in rapid succession. Ex-CIA agent Max Pauling finds himself embroiled in a plot in today's Cuba involving anticancer research, pharmaceutical giants, the USA embargo, the White House and anti-Castro supporters. Truman manages to introduce once more her favorite husband and wife team, Georgetown art gallery owner Annabelle Smith and George Washington University law professor MacKensie Smith, to move the story along.  This latest Truman novel has plenty of action and suspense. It features locations in Cuba, DC, London and Germany. It does not disappoint. You won't put it down until you're finished.	2001-10-03
