US	52198833	R15YGW85I3X03L	0871138883	778854161	The Long Emergency: Surviving the Converging Catastrophes of the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	18	23	N	N	There is no free lunch courtesy at  "Chez Dame Entropy"	After reading all 48 reviews, it's apparent that JHK has caused a few people to think about a cultural future bereft of oil. As a biologist/geologist--long retired, but conversant with updates in both fields,I find Kunstler's views quite reasonable but not chiseled in stone. He, himself,again and again points out that he hopes he's too pessimistic about our chances of survival. However, for a long time, homo sapiens sapiens hasn't liked to think of itself as a contingent phenomenon, or welcome a view that its incidental existence will end up as a thin black line in the geologic column if it fails to adjust its behavior to physical reality and its abundant limitations on growth and insolent pride.	2005-08-22
US	52198833	RGYG6XBZHOPFE	0691096570	129519176	How the Universe Got Its Spots: Diary of a Finite Time in a Finite Space	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Glowing Example of Parabasis.  Seinfeld Eat Your Heart Out	Dr.Janna Levin, a physicist/mathematician/topologist, steps out of the halls of academe and her personal life, and takes center stage at The Riddle of the Universe Theater and shows herself to be a brilliant performer. She is a connecting link between the musings of Oswald Spengler, P. D. Ouspensky &amp; Alfred Korzybski on one side and Sir James Jeans, Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington &amp; George Gamow on the other.  It's a pity that James R. Newman (THE WORLD OF MATHEMATICS)is not around to comment on her performance. Like David Lynch's movie, she admits that &quot;The world (universe) is strange on top and wild at heart,&quot; but unlike an Edward Gorey character does not despair or lose her subtle sense of humor. Humor is an avis raris in cosmology, but here it shines like a dewdrop in a cesspool. Practicing eggheads will immediately realize that this book should be on the bookshelf next to Carroll's THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK along with the commentary upon it completed by F. C. S. Schiller in 1901.   <BR>Her professional modesty is refreshing.  She does not stand in the &quot;Chariot of the Intellect&quot; and shout, BEHOLD THE DUST I'M RAISING! The unstated conclusion of her performance can be summarized as: To assert or deny one &quot;shape&quot; for the universe<BR>is a mark of prejudice. The rational person will regard the question as open; but don't despair, a solution just might be on the horizon.	2002-08-31
US	52198833	R2QMF3CW48JRBC	0942258002	359614698	Quartered in Hell: The Story of the American North Russia         Expeditionary Force 1918-1919	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Heroes are made not born.	In this book, the face of war and political expediency are exposed like the Emperor in his \\"new\\" clothes.  The photographs, diaries, reminiscences and letters of the soldiers who served in that Arctic backwater tell an authentic tale of unrelieved military mismanagement. Indelible images of suffering and death emerge that give credence to war as \\"Idiot's Delight.\\"  There's the young Russian girl bleeding to death from an arm torn from her body by a random shell burst.  As her life flows away, she desperately clings to the hand of an American doughboy who shamelessly weeps.  There's the two soldiers who have just finished their  breakfasts and going on patrol.  One saves part of his food and asks his partner why he hasn't saved any of his for later, to which his friend relies, \\"There might not be any later.\\"  The speaker is killed in battle two hours later.  As the Americans abandon a position about to be overrun by Bolos, one of the rear guard hears loud prayers issuing from one of the bunkers.  He finds a young soldier with both legs mangled by a shell burst.  He stays with him and tries to comfort him before he died.  And then, there's an account of the futile and pointless Battle of Armistace Day at Toulgas. This work is an account that can still draw tears of compassion.	2002-02-27
US	52198833	R2AHCW1IQZMQ07	1566491231	939317100	We Were In Auschwitz	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Guided Tour of &quot;Hell&quot; by Three of Its Survivors	The reviewers of this book have done a masterful job. However, the paragraph on p.141 beginning, &quot;We work beneath the earth and above it, under a roof and in the rain, with spade, the pickaxe and the crowbar.&quot; ... and ending with &quot;Antiquity--the conspiracy of free men against slaves!&quot; deserves reading and rereading, after which the next six paragraphs should be read slowly and thoughtfully.	2000-11-18
US	52198833	R3TLWCC1RVIQ4G	1582015570	228705401	From the Hidden Way (The Collected Works of James Branch Cabell - 46 Volumes)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Chronic Laments for the Imagined Joys of Past Loves &amp; Time	This book could have been titled, &quot;The Last Troubadour.&quot;  In this collection of poems, the poet turns his back on his own time and draws  upon themes of the medieval and renaissance eras: the certainty of death,  the pain of unrequited love, the retelling of ancient history and legends,  commentaries upon abstractions, nostalgia for departed youth and fairer  seasons, and faith tempered with a sense of defeat.  These quotations from  the collection provide a sense of the whole:  &quot;My master, how wide is  the gulf between, That which we are and what might have been.&quot;   &quot;But Yesterday! for Yesterday! I cry a reward for a Yesterday, Now  lost or stolen or gone astray, With all the laughter of Yesterday!&quot;  &quot;I am contented by remembrances,-- Dreams of dead passions, wraiths of  vanished times, Fragments of vows, and by-ends of old rhymes,--Flotsam and  jetsam tumbling in the seas  Whereon, long since, put forth our argosies  Which, launched for traffic in the Isles of Love, Lie foundered somewhere  in some firth thereof, Encradled by eternal silence.&quot;    In a subtle  personal note, JBC evaluated his choice of work as a writer in the poem  titled, &quot;The Toy-Maker.&quot;  It ends: &quot;WHO, you ask, IS THIS  FELLOW?--What matter names?  He is only a scribbler who is content.&quot;     Sometime between 1920 and 1922, in the &quot;Yale Literary Review,&quot;  J. A. Thomas categorized Cabell as &quot;a writer for the elect--but for  the elect of all time.&quot;  For those, who want to get perspective on  James Branch Cabell and his work, and evaluate the generalization of J. A.  Thomas, the following books would be helpful. It is suggested that the  books be read in the order listed: 1 Cabell, James Branch, AS I REMEMBER  IT.  1955: NYC: Robert M. McBride &amp; Co.; 2 Wagenknecht, Edward  (Editor), THE LETTERS OF JAMES BRANCH CABELL.  1975, Norman, OK: U. of  Oklahoma Press; 3 Van Doren, Carl, JAMES BRANCH CABELL.  1932, NYC: The  Literary Guild; 4  MacDonald, Edgar, JAMES BRANCH CABELL and  Richmond-in-Virginia.  1993, Jackson, MS, U. Press of Mississippi; 5  Rascoe, Burton, BEFORE I FORGET.  1937, Garden City, NY: Doubleday &amp;  Co., Inc.; 6 Rascoe, Burton, WE WERE INTERRUPTED. 1947, Garden City, NY:  Doubleday &amp; Co., Inc.; 7 Starett, Vincent, BORN IN A BOOKSHOP.  1965,  Norman, OK: U. of Oklahoma Press.	2000-09-20
US	52198833	R1CHTCC2UVYK9I	1582015546	375159758	Cream of the Jest	Books	5	3	10	N	N	JBC's ego (Kennason) confronts his alter-ego (Harrowby)	The pragmatic Richard Fentnor Harrowby, wealthy manufacturer of Harrowby's  Creme Cleopatre and No. 7 Dental Delight, discussed the life and work of  the author Felix Kennason who rose to fame with the publication of  &quot;Men Who Loved Alison.&quot;  Harrowby's evaluation of Kennason:  &quot;At all events, I never quite liked Felix Kennason--not even after I  came to understand that the man I knew in the flesh was a very ill-drawn  likeness of Felix Kennason.  After all, that is the whole sardonic point of  his story--and, indeed, of every human story--that the person  you or I  find in the mirror is condemned eternally to misrepresent us in the eyes of  our fellows.  but even with comprehension, I never cordially liked the man;  and so, it may well be that his story is set down not all in  sympathy.&quot;    The book begins in Storisende.  Count Emmerick had  planned a wedding feast for La Beale Ettarre, his youngest sister, engaged  to marry Guiron des Rocques.  Horvendile, a servant of Ettarre, also loved  her, and attempted to sabotage the wedding.  He failed, and had to leave  Storisende.  Before he departed, Ettarre  took the Sigil of Scoteia which  hung around her neck, broke it in half and gave him one of its halves to  him and said, &quot;You will not always abide in your own country,  Horvendile. Some day you will return to us at Storisende.  The sign of the  dark Goddess will prove your safe-conduct then if Guiron and I be yet  alive.&quot;   After he had completed writing his book, Kennason took a  twilight walk in the garden of Alcluid, his estate.  He spied a shining bit  of metal along the pathway and picked it up and put it in his pocket.  The  metal was a half of a disk which was three inches in diameter with tiny  characters inscribed upon its surface. That disk enabled Kennason, in his  dreams, to be transformed into Horvendile and transported to many different  times and places in which he met Ettarre, but every time he tried to touch  her &quot;the universe seemed to fold about him, just as a hand  closes.&quot;  Kennason sought Harrowby's expertise in explaining the  occult aspects of his dreams with ironic results.	2000-08-21
US	52198833	R1TJYZP4ISB9BZ	1582015651	798466058	Straws and Prayer Books	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Epilogue to the Biography of Dom Manuel with JURGEN asides	The title of this book comes from a poem:&quot;Behold the child, by  Nature's kindly law, Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw. . . .  Scarfs, garters, gold, amuse his riper age, And beads and prayer-books are  the toys of age.&quot;<br />Before reading this book, look up the definitions  of &quot;arietin,&quot; &quot;epigoni,&quot; &quot;horary&quot; and  &quot;thrasonical.&quot;<br />JBC stated that he wrote the Biography for his  personal diversion, and maintained that that was the rationale for any  literary work.  Within such diversion, the writer plays with reason, common  sense and piety which is explored in Chapter 1 thru 3.  Chapter 4 returned  to Poictesme to relate the fate of Sir Anavalt of Fomor who quested for and  found Maid Vae, the Thin Queen of Elfhame. Chapter 5 discussed the change  of a writer's viewpoint with age and the negative and positive aspects of  the Puritan world-view on 20th century behavior.  His analysis of LA  ROTISSERIE DE LA REINE PEDAUQUE by Anatole France deserves careful study  and his remarks about &quot;celestial architecture&quot; are insightful.   Chapter 6 looked at the goals and idiosyncracies of established literary  artists.  Chapter 7 entitled &quot;Diversions of the Anchorite,&quot;  focused on Joseph Hergesheimer (1880-1954) as a shining example of that  concept.  Chapter 8 went back to Poictesme and followed the career of Sir  Holden of Nerac who had become enamored with the delta-framed picture of  the pagan Queen Radegonde who had died 1300 years before him. Sir Guivric  of Perdigon enabled Sir Holden to love and later marry the queen with  decidely mixed results. The final chapters focus on the work of George  Moore (1852-1933) and hint that &quot;the pen is a remedy against  oblivion.&quot;  An addendum to the book entitled &quot;The Author of the  Eagle's Shadow,&quot; has the young JBC asking the elder one if he should  become a writer.  The elder one discussed the positive and negative sides  to becoming a writer, but left the query unanswered.	2000-08-14
US	52198833	R14U6LCEOOBM4W	1582015538	463374239	Cords of Vanity	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Chivalry, Gallantry &amp; Poetry in a Relict Leisure Class	Robert Etheridge Townsend, a young writer, recounts his twelve amatory encounters on his path to a conventional life style.  Within his tales, he left an account of the behaviors of members of a relict leisure class in  which ancestry, snobbery and pride of place were kept alive by infusions of  wealth acquired  through marriages of convenience.	2000-07-31
US	52198833	R38G71TZ6KVRTX	1582015619	146425762	Jurgen	Books	5	17	22	N	N	JURGEN in Relation to the Law and Musical Creativity	In 1919, JURGEN, A Comedy of Justice was published by the Robert M. McBride Co.  One of its readers, Mr. Walter J. Kingsley, was offended by the book and sent a critical letter about it to the literary editor of a  New York newspaper.  He wrote: &quot;James Branch Cabell is making a clean  getaway with JURGEN, quite the naughtiest book since George (A.) Moore  began ogling maid-servants in Mayo (Ireland).  How come?  Dreiser had the  law after him for THE GENIUS and HAGER REVELLY came close to landing Daniel  Carson Goodman in Leavenworth, yet these volumes are innocent compared with  JURGEN, which deftly and knowingly treats in thinly veiled episodes of all  the perversities, abnormalities, and damn-foolishness of sex.  There is an  undercurrent of extreme sensuality throughout the book, and once the trick  of transposing the key is mastered one can dip into this tepid stream on  every page. . . . It is curious how the non-reading public discovered  JURGEN.  A few days after it appeared on the newsstands a male vampire of  the films who once bought Stevenson's UNDERWOODS in the belief that it was  a book of verses hymning a typewriter, began saying up and down Broadway:  'Say, kid, get a book called JURGEN.  It gets away with murder.'  This sold  the first edition quickly. . . .&quot;<br />A copy of Kingsley letter found  its way to the office of The New York Society for the Suppression of Vice.   John Saxton Sumner, its secretary, purchased a copy of the book, read it,  was morally outraged and on January 14, 1920, &quot;armed with a warrant,  entered the offices of the publishers, seized the plates and all copies of  the book and summoned the publishers to appear in court . . . on a charge  of violating Section 1141 of the Penal Code.&quot;<br />The trial began on  October 15, 1922 and after a three day trial, the book was judged a work  &quot;of unusual literary merit and the case was dismissed.  In January  1923, JURGEN AND THE LAW in an edition of 1080 numbered copies, was  published.  This work detailed the events leading up to the prosecution of  the book and reported the main points of the trial.<br />In a letter to Mary  Kennedy dated 12 Dec 1920, Deems Taylor wrote: &quot;I have finished  Jurgen: a great and beautiful book, and the saddest book I ever read.  I  don't know why exactly.  The book hurts me--tears me to small pieces--but  somehow it sets me free.  It says the word that I've been trying to  pronounce for so long.  It tells me everything I am, and have been, and may  be unsparingly . . . I don't know why I cry over it so much.  It's  too--something-or-other--to stand.  I've been sitting here tonight, reading  it aloud, with tears streaming down my face . . .&quot;<br />Walter Damrosh of  the New York Symphony Orchestra commissioned Deems Taylor to compose,  &quot;Jurgen, a Symphonic Poem for Orchestra, Opus 17.&quot;  It was first  performed in Carnegie Hall on 18 Novemver 1925.  After 1945, it disappeared  from the repertories. In 1999, Michael Keith, a Cabell enthusiast, secured  the original score for the Jurgen Symphony and recorded it on a CD. He  performed one version  on a Synthetic orchestra and another on a MIDI  piano.  Keith lists the CD for sale on his website devoted to the work of  James Branch Cabell.	2000-07-22
US	52198833	R80F62SWHG8SS	1582015503	60884432	Beyond Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Advocacy for the Romantic Basis of Literary Creativity	The story takes place at Willoughby Hall in Fairhaven, the home of John Charteris, a successful USA writer of the early 20th century.  A young writer, 22 years JC's junior, pays JC a visit.  The time is shortly before  the USA entered World War I on April 5, 1917.  JC gave his visitor a tour  of his library, then seated himself in a swivel chair and delivered an  extemporaneous lecture on literary creativity.  The visitor took notes of  what JC had said and turned them into a book entitled BEYOND  LIFE.<br />&quot;Many a man lives a burden to the earth: but a good book is  the precious life-blood of a master-spirit, enbalmed and treasured up on  purpose to a life beyond life.&quot;  That quotation provided the  justification for his theory of literary creativity.  The young writer  summarized JC lecture: &quot;And sometimes he talked concerning men who  have made great literature, and spoke sensibly enough although with a  pervasive air of knowing more than anyone else ever did.  And sometimes he  discoursed enigmas, concerning the power of romance, which he pretentiously  called &quot;the demiurge,&quot; as being a world-shaping and  world-controlling principle . . .&quot;  &quot;His notion, as I followed  him, was that romance controlled the minds of men; and by creating  force-producing illusions, furthered the world's betterment with the forces  thus brought into being: so that each generation of naturally inert mortals  was propelled to a higher sphere and manner of living, by the might of each  generation's ignorance and prejudices and follies and stupidities,  beneficently directed.&quot;  JC continually harped on the unfairness  inherent in existence and finally admitted that for him the great unsolved  question of the universe was: &quot;What is it all up to?&quot;<br />The work  provides a critical commentary  on many of the popular USA writers of the  early 20th century, many of whom have faded from view or survive as relict  faunas nurtured by scholars and antiquarians.  Harold Bell Wright  (1872-1944) was one of those early writers discussed.  Wright was the first  USA novelist to earn a mllion dollars from his writings and his &quot;The  Winning of Barbara  Worth&quot; (1911) was the first USA novel to sell one  million copies.	2000-07-16
US	52198833	R5EC2KPYYLYAO	1582015635	290713566	Rivet in Grandfather's Neck	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Chivalry/Gallantry sited where old times are not forgotten	The title of the book is derived from a fairy tale in which the carved figure of an unusual looking man on a cupboard door fell in love with a pretty little china shepherdess who loved a little chimney-sweep china figure that stood beside her.  The carved figure asked the figure of a Chinaman who could nod his head and claimed to be the grandfather of the shepherdess if he could marry her.  When the &quot;grandfather&quot; nodded his head in consent, the couple tried to flee the area by going through the stove and up the chimney to get into the outside world.  But once outside, the shepherdess found the outside world &quot;too much,&quot; so the lovers returned to their places.  When they returned, they found that the Chinaman had fallen to the floor and had broken into three pieces.  The owners of the Chinaman had him repaired with rivets.  However, the rivet in his neck kept him from nodding. The next time the carved man made his request to the Chinaman to marry the shepherdess, he no longer could give his consent, so the lovers remained together until they were broken into piece.<br />The story was set in early 1900 Lichfield. Col. Rudolph Vartrey Musgrave b. 1856, was the unmarried scion of a family that had settled in the area in the early 17th century.  Like all the inhabitants of Lichfield, Col. Musgrave's public life was governed by the rules of chivalry while that of his private one was governed by the rules of gallantry.  He spent his time in honorific activities and doing genealogical research.  His life changed drastically when Patricia Stapylton, his wealthy second cousin, came to visit him and his sister Agatha before she married an English Earl.  After a series of fortuitous events, the Col. and Patricia were married and had a son they named Roger.  The story is woven around the Musgraves and various inhabitants of Lichfield and their relationships.  Three enduring themes in these stories are: frustrated youthful love, personal stagnation, and the hiding or denying of unpleasant social realities.	2000-07-09
US	52198833	R3HE3JI1DXR0TL	1582015589	125188716	The High Place (Collected Works of James Branch Cabell)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Dream within a Fantasy via Legend, Tradition &amp; M. Perrault	One afternoon in 1698, Florian, the 10 year old son of the Duke de Puysange, decided to explore the Forest of Acaire which he had been emphatically forbidden to do. He entered the forest and was greeted by  Melusine, the sorceress who took him to the enchanted Castle of Brunbelois  and showed him Melior, her sister, who had been asleep for over 500 years.  Upon seeing the sleeping beauty, Florian fell deeply in love with her.  Next, he was aware of being in his bedroom and wondering if he had dreamed  his adventure. His father assured him that he had.  <br />At age 35, Florian  exiled his mistress, poisoned his favorite male companion and set out on  horseback on a four day journey to the home of Mlle. Louise de Nerac, his  affianced and soon to be 5th wife. As he was passing the Forest of Acaire,  Marie-Claire, his half sister, emerged from it and greeted him. He chided  her for her lack of interest in following logic and precedent and her  casual life-style, and she, in turn, sowed seeds of doubt concerning his  upcoming 5th marriage. She mentioned the name of &quot;Janicot&quot; to him  and made some cryptic references to him. Florian decided to amuse himself  by finding Janicot in the forest and watch him work. After entering the  forest, he soon came upon Janicot. He began talking with him and quickly  realized that with Janicot's help he could have Melior for his bride  instead of Louise. He made a Rumpelstiltskin-like deal with Janicot, and  learned how to disenchant the Castle of Brunbelois, after which he married  Melior. From that point on, Florian lost control of events, found his  belief system under siege and saw his fantasies and crimes come to life and  mock him. However, thanks to a deal between Janicot and the Archangel  Michael, Florian was able to return to the path of logic and precedent and  act upon his father's mandate: &quot;Thou shalt not offend against thy  neighbors notions.&quot;<br />In this work, satire, fantasy and social  criticism run amuck in a uniquely fluent literary style. If the tale has a  moral, it's: &quot;You can't go home again!&quot;	2000-07-03
US	52198833	RV84N3UC1IT8F	1582015562	773901743	Figures of Earth	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Tale of Obligations, Magic, Deceptions &amp; Social Mobility	Manuel, a swineherd for his brother-in-law the miller, was a resident in the area ruled by Count Demetrios d'Arnaye. His girlfriend was the lovely Suskind. On her deathbed, Dorothy, his mother, told him that she wanted him  to make himself a figure in the world that was a splendid and admirable  young man in all respects.  After her death, he spent much time at the Pool  of Haranton using its marsh clay to make a figure of earth of himself.  After he had an adventure with Miramon Lluagor, the wizard, which netted  him a lover named Niafer who was then taken by death to the pagan paradise,  he decided to seek his fortune elsewhere.  He did the following: provided  wisdom for King Helmas, turned the wicked King Ferdinand into a saint and  ended up engaged to Alianora the Unattainable Princess, the daughter of  King Berenger of Arles.  The princess taught him her magic and he saved the  life of a stork that became indebted to him.  He relinquished Alianora to  the King of England and found a way to turn Queen Freydis of Audela into a  woman permanently. That queen gave life to one of his figures that ran away  fom them and became Sesphra, the god of the Philistines. After Queen  Freydis taught him how to invoke Misery to free Niafer from the pagan  paradise, he invoked Misery and served him for 30 of Misery's days which  turned out to be 30 years for Manuel.  Misery returned Niafer to him and  they were married.  For a time, they lived with Queen Freydis on her  enchanted island where the stork delivered Melicent, their first child.   With the aid of Queen Freydis and Miramon Lluagor, Manuel became the Count  of Poictesme which had been granted to him by King Ferdinand, but had been  occupied by the Northmen.  As count, he founded The Fellowship of the  Silver Stallion and turned Poictesme into a prosperous place.  He gave one  of his stork invoices to Queen Alianora so that she could have a son. The  stork added Emmerick and Dorothy to his family.  After succeeding ateverything, Manuel vanished and legends about him began to form.<br />This  work is a treasure-trove of subtle parodies, satires and social criticism  that are unique for their fluency and urbanity.	2000-06-28
US	52198833	R1TVYAEJWW33O8	1582015511	156589882	Certain Hour (The Collected Works of James Branch Cabell - 46 Volumes)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Poets Provide  Time and the Commonplace with immortality	. . . &quot;They of Poictesme narrate that Queene Freydis thereafter did giue Lyfe to these muddie Ymages, eche at a certayne Houre, and that her sotyll scyaunce of Ergomancy sett these x to liue among Mans Kind,&quot; .  . .<br />Poets and bottles come in different shapes and sizes, but both should  be judged by their contents not their labels.  The poets in these ten  stories range in time from the early 13th century to that of the 20th.<br />In  1210, the chivalrous Raimbault de Vaquieras, a 30 year veteran of the  Crusades, returned to France and made peace with a long time enemy. When he  was told by Dona Biatritz, his long time friend and lover, that his enemy  was planning his murder, Raimbault refused to negate his oath and take  action. However, Dona B.was not restrained by any such an oath.  In 1533,  the beautiful Graciosa Balthazar not yet 16, attracted the attention of  Duke Alessandro de Medici and Count Eglamore,the duke's hatchet man, and  found herself forced to make a choice between two evils. In 1609, William  Shakespeare found his talents waning, but found new inspiration in the  creed of Judith, his unlettered daughter. In 1674, Robert Herrick, the  eccentric clergyman and poet, disappeared.  His friends Sir Thomas Browne  and Philip Borsdale learned that RH had dabbled in magic with tragic  consequences. In May of 1680, Robert Wycherley, poet, fop and social  gadfly, failed to make a remunerative marriage and was saved from drowning  by an unexpected turn of events. In 1718, Alexander Pope, the small,  disfigured poet and satirist, tried to bestow a generous gift on a young  couple, but failed to do so.  In 1681, Robert Calverley resigned an  important state position to save the life of his wife Honoria who he had  literally stolen from the Marquis of Umfraville before their expected  marriage. He returned to England despite warnings from friends that his  actions had outraged many in high places and now,they wanted revenge.  He  was saved fromruin by an unselfish act of a scheming relative. In 1795,  Richard Sheridan, poet-politician, married Miss Esther Jane Ogle known as  &quot;the irresistible Ogle,&quot; after being rebuffed by her many, many  times.  On Sheridan's turf, Miss Ogle proved to be no match for the wily  politician.  In 1803, Crown Prince Hilary of Saxe-Kesselberg, staged his  funeral, changed his name to Paul Vanderhoffen and fled to England to  become a poet and writer. After a series of events, one of which almost  ended in his death, he married Mildred Claridge and became a writer on Grub  Street. John Charteris, a distinguised writer and lecturer, gave a  Commencement Speech at his alma mater and thought he had a chance to  rekindle a relationship with Pauline Romeyne, a former lover, until his  friend Rudolph Musgrave ruined his plan with a dose of reality.  <br />The 21  page &quot;Auctorial Induction&quot; should be read both before and after  reading the ten tales.  In it, JBC makes a number of penetrating  observations about the 1916 literary scene in the USA. The ballad at the  beginning of the book and the one at its end, both bear rereading.	2000-06-24
US	52198833	R2CT1I5L693FQE	0345280725	143994931	The Silver Stallion	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Legends and heroes are made, not born	Emile Durkheim (1858-1917) wrote &quot;All social realities--values and processes--are created by humans.  The social and ideational world represents no entity without humans.  Such a world is the reflection of the  socialization experienced by each individual in his/her cognitive  development.  This novel is an inadvertent fictional demonstration of the  validity of Durkheim's statement.<br />This book provides a major key for  getting perspective on Poictesme and its varied inhabitants.  In 1239, Dom  Manuel, Count of Poictesme disappeared. At Storisende, his young daughter  Melicent said that she had seen her father on a black horse riding to the  west in company with Grandfather Death on a white one. Young Jurgen,  another child who was the son of Coth, reported that at dusk,in Upper  Morven, he had seen Dom Manuel partake of a fearful eucharist, who was then  transfigured into the glowing clouds of the sunset. Dom Manuel had founded  the Fellowship of the Silver Stallion, and since it had lost its leader,  Niafer, his wife, summoned the nine remaining members of the group to come  to Storisende for its final meeting.  After they all had arrived,  Horvendile addressed them as follows, &quot;The master who held Poictesme,  under my whims, has passed.  A woman sits in his place, his little son  inherits after him.  So begins a new romance; and a new order is  afoot.&quot;  Next, he assigned each of the nine a fate and ordered that a  fire be kindled.  The banner of the fellowship was burned and each lord of  the Black Stallion broke his sword into fragments and threw them into the  flames, so that their swords could never defend any other standard.  The  nine, Gonfal of Naimes, Donander of Evre, Kerin of Nointel, Ninzian of  Yair, Holden of Nerac, Anavalt of Fomor, Coth of the Rocks, Guivric of  Perdigon and Miramon of Ranec, returned home and made ready for the new  order.  In this book, the fates of Gonfal, Miramon, Coth, Guivric, Kerin,  Ninzian and Donander are told.  Alongside their stories, a parallel history  is given of the birth and triumph of the great legend about Manuel the  Redeemer as it developed in Poictesme.	2000-06-19
US	52198833	R1HUWLUD76CHQN	0345020677	857077503	Something About Eve: A comedy of Fig-Leaves	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Tale of Manhood, Dreams, Reality, Routine, Games &amp;Compromise	The story began on the evening of April 30, 1805 in Lichfield. Gerald Musgrave was in his study working on a manuscript about his ancestors Dom Manuel and Madame Niafer. However, he couldn't concentrate on his work  because he wanted out of his illicit love-affair with Evelyn Townsend, his  second cousin.  He wanted to become a major author and an accomplished  magician but his time spent with Evelyn was taking too much of his time.  However, she did not want to end the affair, and the conventions of that  time placed the choice for ending it upon the female.  A Sylan materialized  in Gerald's study and offered to take his place in Lichfield and Gerald  could take his in the spiritual world.  Gerald agreed and found himself on  the road of greater myths to Antan where he was to become its ruler.  Horvendile, Lord of the Marches of Antan provided him with a silver  stallion named Kalki for him to ride.  On his way to Antan, he met Eradne  who invited him join her in the rites of pleasure.  He declined. In  Doonham, he met Princess Evershah from whom he secured a vial of six drops  of water from the Churning of the Ocean, but was forced to destroy her. In  the land of Dersam, he met Evarvan of the mirror, but managed to escape  from her after a series of adventures. In Lytreia, he saved the holy relic  of the Temple of the Holy Nose, but outraged its devotees by pointing out  that it was really a tongue; however, before he left Lytreia, he destoyed  Evaine, a sorceress who held the Veiled Mirror which he found to be a  painting. In the country of Tourine everyone was so concerned with   learning to become a better sorcerer that no one would talk to him. Next,  he encountered the Sphinx with whom he had an unsatisfying conversation. On  Mispec Moor, he met Maya of the Fair Breasts and settled down with her for  30 years. When he wasn't engaged in domestic activities, he amused himself  by talking to poets, gods and the eminent on the way to Antan. He  especially enjoyed his talk with the Emperor Nero, Francois Villon and  Merlin. Gerald never arrived in Antan and became responsible for its  destruction.  After Maya disappeared, Horvendile gave Gerald a word of  power that enabled him to return to Lichfield.  Back in Lichfield, Gerald  learned that his body had become an ethnographer of great reputation and  had a son by Evelyn.  Gerald returned to his body and sent the Sylan on his  way, and took up where his body had left off.	2000-06-17
US	52198833	R1FUO8SCKS6648	0151005141	965202333	The Headless Bust: A Melancholy Meditation for the False Millennium	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Edward Gorey (1925-2000)  RIP	Edward Gorey died in the Hyannisport Hospital on April 18, 2000 from heart failure.  On April 23, 2000, Charles Osgood on &quot;Sunday Morning&quot; (CBS) aired a final interview with Gorey and gave a short memorial to him.  Gorey final interest featured finials, and his final stuffed creation was  the figbash. Gorey's first work was THE UNSTRUNG HARP (1953) and THE  HEADLESS BUST (1999) appears to be his terminal one unless he has left some  manuscripts for posthumous publication.  Let's hope that he did. He's gone,  but he is now draped with the robe immortality and on his way to take his  place in the Pantheon of Literature next to Edward Lear and Lewis Carroll.  A fitting poem for his mausoleum would be one by Walter Hamilton: &quot;I  never had a piece of toast, Particularly long and wide, But fell upon the  sanded floor, And always on the buttered side.&quot;	2000-06-12
US	52198833	R1HRPCMO2FKQ8L	1582015643	673476417	Soul of Melicant	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Woman-Worship: A troubadourian philosophy, theme &amp; malady	This was the original 1913 title of the book which in 1927, was changed by JBC to DOMNEI.<br />In &quot;Le roman de lusignan&quot; (1546), Nicolas de Caen illustrated the concept of DOMNEI in the tale of Perion and Melicent.  Unfortunately, the original work only survived in fragments, so in the 20th  century, James Branch Cabell conducted a search of the literature from the  15th century to the 19th, and found 20 sources which shed light on the  events chronicled in the fragments.<br />Perion, the embodiement of Chivalry,  took the blame for a crime and became a forest outlaw.  Once, to avoid  capture, he waylayed and assumed the identity of the Vicomte de Puysange  and secured entrance to the palace of Count Emmerick of Poictesme where the  betrothal of the count's sister Melicent to King Theodoret was being  celebrated. Before the celebration had ended, Perion asked Melicent's help  to flee the country. She was smitten by love for him and agreed to do it.  She tried to flee with him, but her cousin, the warrior-bishop Ayrart de  Montors, managed to prevent such an event and Perion boarded a ship to take  command of a band of mercenaries. Before the ship reached its destination,  it was attacked by three ships of the pro-consul Demetrios--an embodiement  of Gallantry, and Perion became his prisoner and assigned to perform menial  tasks for the pro-consul.  Demetrios was the pro-consul of Naucaria in  Anatolia--a surviving fragment of the Roman Empire in which the pagan  religion still flourished. Melicent learned of Perion's  capture, disguised  herself as a young man and sought out Demetrios. She tried to ransom Perion  with jewels, but Demetrios saw through her disguise and forced her to marry  him to secure Perion's release. From that point on, Perion and Demetrios  became two dogs fighting over a bone with dire consequences for many. The  twists and turns of the story with its wealth of characters and events  never falters.	2000-06-10
US	52198833	R33MBQGZGKCGBB	158201552X	559155908	Chivalry	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A gentleman will always serve God, his honor and his lady	These ten stories are attributed to Nicolas de Caen who wrote them in 1470 while serving as the priest and secretary to Philippe, Duke of Burgundy. The stories begin in the 13th century and end in the early years of the  15th. During this time the English Kings are struggling to retain their  French possessions.  In the &quot;Sestina&quot; chapter, Alianora of  Provence, the wife of King Henry III, enlists the aid of Osmund Heleigh to  help her secure the escape of her son Prince Edward whom the barons have  imprisoned.  The bookish Osmund helps her with disasterous consequences to  himself. In the &quot;Tenson&quot; chapter, Prince Edward defeats the  barons at the Battle of Evesham, after which he goes to Spain to get his  wife Ellinor who he married ten years earlier. Several try to get him to  set aside his claim to her with dire consequences for his opponents. In the  &quot;Rat-Trap&quot; chapter, Prince Edward, now Edward I, arranged to  marry Blanch, daughter of King Philippe of France.  When he goes to France,  King Philippe has second thoughts about the marriage and arranges to have  Edward assassinated. Edward discovers the plot and humiliates the French  king then departs France with a wife but her name is not Blanch.  In  &quot;Choices,&quot; Queen Ysabeau spends a holiday toying with Sir Gregory  Darrell and Rosamund Eastney. In &quot;Housewife,&quot; Queen Phillipa,  wife of Edward III thwarts a conspiracy against him and inspires the  English army to defeat the Scottish forces invading England. In  &quot;Satraps,&quot; Dame Anne of Bohemia, wife to Richard II, prevents  Richard's uncles from placing his brother Edward Maudlain on the throne by  having Edward M. leave the court and go into hiding. In  &quot;Heritage,&quot; Edward Maudlain with the help of Richard II's 11 year  old wife, Isobel Valois, takes his brother's place in prison and is slain,  after which Henry of Derby becomes King Henry IV.  In &quot;Scabbard,&quot;  the deposed Richard II changes his surname to Holland and makes a long tour  of the continent. On his return to England, he has a chance to recover his  usurped throne but opts to settle in Wales at Caer Idion, marry a peasant  girl named Branwen and become a shepherd.  In the &quot;Navarrese,&quot;  Antoine Riczi remains loyal to Princess Jehane de Navarre.  In the  &quot;Fox-Brush,&quot; King Henry V traveling incognito in France as Alain  Maquedonnieux the Irish harpist, kills a fox near the Convent of Chartres  and has a chance meeting with Lady Katherine the Fair.  He falls in love  with her, and after an angst-filled courtship they become betrothed in the  Cathedral of Troyes. In his &quot;Epilogue,&quot; Nicolas de Caen gives the  authorities for his tales and apologizes  for being unable to confirm  solidly the facts of the first three tales.   As the events in the tales  take place, the Hundred Years War blossoms and the seeds for the War of the  Roses are sown.	2000-05-26
US	52198833	RXKP3ZHHK7D3Q	1582019681	796333690	Gallantry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Accept life's pleasures but shrug off its inconveniences	The story is set in southern England and northern France and takes place between March 25, 1750 and  May 3, 1755. It begins at Stornoway Crag on the Island of Usk, moves to Tunbridge Wells, continues at Havergate House, then  crosses the channel at Dover and goes to Bellegarde in Poictesme, then to  Paris, to Manneville, to Breschau and ends at Ingilby in Westmoreland.  In  the historical background, King George II was on the English throne, the  Jacobite faction in England still had hope for a Stuart Restoration, the  Marquise de Pompadour was calling the shots in France and the King of  Prussia and Maria Theresa were rising continental powers. The story begins  with wealthy Lady Anastasia Allonby a guest of Lord Rokesle at his island  home.  Lord Rokesle tries to force her to marry him with disasterous  results to himself, and his vicar, Simon Orts. On her return to her home at  Tunbridge Wells, Lady and Dorothy Allonby, her step-daughter, are beset  with suitors and at one point become involved in a farcical elopement  scenario. Captain Audaine, one of Miss Allonby's suitors becomes involved  in a plot to restore the Stuarts to the English throne, is discovered and  jailed , but is saved by Miss Allonby who meets and outwits the Duke of  Ormskirk, one of His Majesty's advisors. The Duke of Ormskirk began life as  the penurious John Bulmer, but through luck and ability rose to great power  and authority in English politics.  One of his duties was to spy upon and  thwart the efforts of Gaston, Duc de Puysange to injure England.  However,  those two long time adversaries developed a grudging admiration for one  another,and Jack eventually married Gaston's sister Claire and retired to  his English estate. The story abounds with intrigues, vicious acts and  self-serving betrayals, while the theme of nostalgia for youthful love  provides new exemplars.  Jack Bulmer summed up his generation  as being,  &quot;In neither good nor ill pre-eminent; Grant none of us a Nero,--none a  martyr,--All merely so-so.-none a  martyr,--All merely so-so.	2000-05-17
US	52198833	R748CMU33V2KT	1582015554	893156064	The Eagle's Shadow	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Complications of great wealth fueled by vanity	The &quot;eagle's shadow&quot; is a metaphor for great wealth: &quot;The Eagle suffers little birds to sing, And is not careful what they mean thereby, Knowing that with the shadow of his wing, He can at pleasure still  their melody.&quot; The Romans were keenly aware of the effect of the  &quot;eagle's shadow&quot; as evidenced by the translation of the Latin  quotation on the title page of the book: &quot;Futhermore, in that place  under the shadow of the eagle: The mob trembles, the Senate dawdles, the  nobility gaze on impotently, the judges are compliant, the theologians  remain silent, and the lawyers are obsequious while law and custom are  ignored.&quot;      The story is a narrative by Richard Fenton   Harrowby  who called his tale &quot;the comedy of Margaret Hugonin and the eagle.  A  story which he completed on 14 April 1923.  Margaret Hugonin was the  daughter of Col. Thomas Hugonin, an English cavalry officer, and Margaret  Musgrave. The colonel's wife had a twin sister named Martha Musgrave who  had married Frederick R. Woods, a stock trader on Wall Street who had  amassed a fortune. Harrowby wrote: &quot;For the scene of this comedy  is  laid in the ineffably remote strange days of Colonel Roosevelt's first  presidential term.  Looking backward, I can remember, but not quite believe  in, the queer world we then inhabited: and most droll of all do I find our  faith in its stability.  For it seemed a fixed and eternally ordered place,  a place which was, with minor improvements here and there, to last forever:  yet neither Sidon nor Sumeria appears--now--to be more remote than is the  America of that day.&quot;      In the early 1880's, when Frederick R.  Woods turned 65, he retired from Wall Street and moved to a site near the  Lichfield town of Fairhaven that had once belonged to a 17th century  ancestor named Lt. Gervase Woods.  On that site he built a handsome Tudor  style home which he named Selwoode Mansion.  He hired a genealogist who  traced his ancestry back to Woden, and determined that the family arms of  the Woods sported an eagle.  The eagle so fascinated him that he had it  carved into the woodwork, set in mosaics, chased in the tableware, woven  into the napery, and glazed into the China of Selwoode.     Frederick and  his wife were childless, but his brother William had one son named Billy  Williams, and Frederick named him as his heir.  However, when Billy turned  18, he informed his uncle that he intended to study to become a painter,  much to his uncle's disapproval. Billy went off to college, earned his  degree in fine arts and returned to Selwoode to find that his uncle had  invited Col. Hugonin and Margaret to be long-term guests at Selwoode.  Frederick ordered Billy to wed Margaret Hugonin.  Billy refused to marry  her and left Selwoode.  In turn, Frederick named Margaret as his heir and  when he died Margaret came into a fortune, after which, she struggled to  come to terms with her vast wealth while supporting an entourage of  hangers-on, and warding off marriage proposals.  Later Billy returns to  Selwoode, conflicting wills are found and Margaret and Billy struggle to  come to terms with one another.     The story line is fluent, entertaining  and contains gems of subdued wit.	2000-05-01
US	52198833	RI6XE8PC59E98	1582015627	68459478	Line of Love (The Collected Works of James Branch Cabell	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Troubadores, Courtships and Nostalgia for Youthful Love	The &quot;line&quot; extends over ten courtships from April 14, 1355 to May 27, 1559 and traverses northern France and southern England during the Hundred Years War,the rise of the French Monarchy and the accession of the Tudor Family to the English Throne. In the first courtship, Sir Adhelmar de  Nointel and Hugues d'Arques vie for the hand of  Melite de Puysange. Hugues  and Melite marry but have to flee to England to save their lives. From this  couple a line develops that goes back and forth from England and France.  Sylvia, Melite's daughter, and Falstaff are youthful lovers, but marry  others. Noel, Sylvia's son, vies with Francois Villon for the hand of  Catherine de Vaucelles and wins.  And so it goes.  The stories around  Falstaff, Villon and Will Sommers--court fool to King Henry VIII provide  pathos, wild adventure and wit in that order. Cabell makes a magnficent  summation of the line: &quot;For they loved very greatly, these men and  women of the past.  Nature tricked them to noble ends, lured them to skyey  heights of adoration and sacrifice.  At bottom they were, perhaps, no more  heroical than you or I: Indeed, Melite was a light woman, and Falstaff is  scarcely describable as immaculate; Villon thieved, and will Sommers was  but a fool . . . and yet to each in turn was granted to love greatly, to  know at least one hour  of pure magnanimity.  This work was a favorite of  President Theodore Roosevelt and his letter of praise of the work to the  author was one of Cabell's prized possessions.	2000-04-30
US	52198833	R1Y9MX8F8HGBWX	0940160528	524976854	The Betrayed Confidence: Seven Series of Dogear Wryde Postcards	Books	5	36	37	N	N	The Book Form of Seven Sets of Dogear Wryde Post Cards	&quot;SCENES DE BALLET:&quot; six cards which caricature the ballet, its exotic titles and its performers. MENACED OBJECTS: 16 cards featuring every day  objects with captions that turn the  commonplace into the grotesquely  sinister, e.g. &quot;Devilled egg beneath a leak starting in the  ceiling&quot;   ARMS FOR OBLIVION: 15 cards showing common objects within  frames with a minimum of  connotation e.g. &quot;Papier mache doughnut  (Diameter 4') made by D. Guest.&quot; or, &quot;Mourning veil and  cauliflower in the Uplift kitchen.&quot; INTERPRETIVE SERIES: 14 cards  featuring a Gorey-creature wearing shoes and gloves with an upper case  &quot;I&quot; prop, pantomiming the meanings of various words beginning  with &quot;I.&quot;  &quot;Insouciance&quot; and &quot;Idolent&quot; are  two examples. NEGLECTED MURDERESS SERIES: These 13 cards are subtle  reminders that the female as well as the male can be deadly.  &quot;TRAGEDIES TOPIARES&quot; is the tour-de-force of this collection.   Its 13 cards with their captions in French are brilliant visual oxymorons.  WHATEVER NEXT?  Its 13 uncaptioned cards with a variety of spaces with  objects, leave them open to interpretation.  I'm convinced that the card  with the frying pan setting on the edge of a table is a pictorial tribute  to the Three Stooges.	1999-04-20
US	52198833	R3QXU0AJ1B09RH	0810939886	779353370	The World of Edward Gorey	Books	5	2	13	N	N	Appropriate Writings to Accompany this Study	1973? &quot;Edward Gorey's Tantalizing Turns of the Screw&quot; by Selma Lanes in the NEW BOSTON REVIEW.   1974: PHANTASMAGOREY, Yale University Press. 1976: &quot;Edward Gorey: in CURRENT BIOGRAPHY 1976 1976: &quot;Strange Things Happen When Gorey is Afoot&quot; by Mary Rourke in the  week ending September 11, 1976 issue of the now defunct NATIONAL OBSERVER  1993: ARTIST OF MYSTERY brochure published for the April 21 - September 5,  1993 exhibition of original works by Edward Gorey at the Cartoon Art Museum  in San Francisco, CA. The annual listing of Edward Gorey's work by The  Gotham Book Mart at 41 West 47th Street, NYC, NY 10036.  This item is  available upon request.	1999-04-13
US	52198833	R1ZHC8WFSNNKLM	071030496X	870787660	The Golden Lotus	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Intrigue and Conspicuous Consumption in the Middle Kingdom	The CHIN P'ING MEI (A Sprig of Plum Blossum in a Golden Vase) is the great Chinese novel that speaks across  the centuries and cultural boundaries.  In English, this work is a four volume, 100 chapter, 450K word novel.  It  is attributed to Wang-Shih-cheng who died in 1593.  It was first published  in 1610, but was suppressed by Imperial Edict during the first years of the  Ching Dynasty (1644-1912), and ever since then  has been on the hit list of  the Chinese censor, whether he be an imperial mandarin, a religious zealot  of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, a revolutionary iconoclast, or a Communist  official.  Hypocrisy and obscurantism have long reaches as well as strange  bedfellows. This long time underground classic reflects Chinese culture and  history like a flawless mirror.      The novel is set on the Shantung  Peninsula during the Empire of the Great Sung in the reign of Hui Tsung  (1101-1126).  Hsi-men Ching, an inheritor of a vast fortune that his father  derived from a pharmacy business, is the main character of the novel.  As a  member of the leisure class, Hsi-men engages in extensive intimate erotic  activities, gives and attends elaborate parties, engages in giving and  receiving gifts, bribes officials for an assortment of favors, participates  in an occasional business venture,  exploits a family connection at the  Imperial Court to secure an appointment as a  military judge, and forms a  &quot;brotherhood&quot; with nine of the town's rascals to spice up his  parties and his brothel visits.      Hsi-men's household consisted of over  30 persons: six wives and their maids, his servants and employees and an  assortment of relatives and associates who come and go.  From that rich  assemblage, the story grows and branches. Golden Lotus, Hsi-men's fifth  wife, is the femme fatale of the novel.  &quot;Beautiful is this maiden;  her tender form gives promise of sweet womanhood, But a two-edged sword   lurks between her thighs, whereby destruction comes to foolish men.  No  head falls to that sword; its work is done in secret, Yet it drains the  very marrow from men's bones.&quot;      The novel is replete with erotic  scenes which Egerton has rendered tastefully into English by a judicious  use of archaic spellings, clever metaphors and subtle analogies.      The  entire novel can be considered a documentation of the author's conclusion  that of the four great evils: women, wine, wealth and ambition, that wealth  and women were by far the most destructive.	1999-04-05
US	52198833	R23Z6XD0ELE8S0	0700608990	535506720	When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Russian blood as the lubricant of the Allied Victory	This reviewer has frequently heard the remark that the Allies won WWII with American material, British brains and Russian blood. In a stark statistically manner,  this book documents, battle by battle, operation by  operation, the extent of such blood losses.  The documentation for the  losses comes from Russian sources  published in 1993 in a work by G. F.  Krivosheev having the heading of GRIF SEKRENOSTI SNIAT:.  To get  perspective on those losses, the reader should carefully read pages 292  through 307 before reading the main text.  On any shelf of books devoted to  Operation Barbarossa or The Great Patriotic War, this book should be next  to Ziemke and Bauer's MOSCOW TO STALINGRAD and  Ziemke's STALINGRAD TO  BERLIN.	1999-02-22
US	52198833	R153W0HIGVPIOQ	0399504206	142813637	Amphigorey Too	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Gorey's credo and short comments on some works in AT.	Unlike most writers, Gorey does not seek publicity and goes his own way with classic unconcern.  His artistic credo scattered about in random interviews is the antithesis of verbosity.  &quot;There's a kind of style  running through the universe. I think of my books as Victorian novels all  scrunched up.  I write about everyday life.  It's dreadfully hazardous.  I  never could understand why people feel they have to climb Mt. Everest when  you know it's quite dangerous getting out of bed.  I think you have to rely  on chance an awful lot.  I don't believe in free will.  I've always been a  firm believer in the line from a Patrick White novel.  'Life is full of  alternatives, but no choices.'  . . . I haven't the slightest idea why my  work has taken the tack it has.  I just do what occurs to me--if it occurs  to me strong enough.  My philosophy?  I'm a Taoist if I'm anything.  They  believe  this is the way the world runs and you might as well go with it.   I stand by the idea that you can't prevent things.  The surrealist writers  thought the most mysterious thing of all is just everyday life.  I agree.   Everyday life is very discomfiting.  I'm trying to convey that discomfiting  texture in my books.  THE BEASTLY BABY is an illustrated commentary on the  nature-nurture issue.  In Gorey's view, some &quot;bad-apples&quot; are  such from the beginning.  THE NURSERY FRIEZE is an antiquarian's delight.   THE PIOUS INFANT showcases religious zealotry.  THE EVIL GARDEN might have  been inspired by Mirbeau's &quot;le jardin des supplices,&quot; Stutthof  Concentration Camp or the carbon-nitrogen cycle.  THE INANIMATE TRAGEDY is  an obvious parody of a classical Greek play complete with chorus, carried  out by inanimate objects.  THE IRON TONIC could be depictions of some of  the inhabitants of Lake Woebegone waiting for Godot.  THE OSBICK BIRD is an  example of commensalism.  THE DERANGED COUSINS is an example of  psycho-pathology in every day life.  Gorey's work is likean open window on  the ID which draws our attention to the ubiquitous dysphemism of human  activity.  This commentator who is a resident of  &quot;Fun City,  USA,&quot; has known six people who were murdered and three murderers, and  the list of personally viewed and experienced disasters is lengthy.   Gorey's work makes us think about the human condition as well as covertly  laugh at what we see as its stark shortcomings and irrationalities.	1999-02-19
