US	52203333	R3JGBQ70JS5KN4	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent, concise, and limited in scope	Professor McPherson has written an excellent and concise book about the battle of Antietam, and more accurately a book about the context of this battle in the overall Civil War.   Those history buffs wanting a detailed account of every troop movement, and an hour-by-hour account of each skirmish, should look elsewhere.  If they want a fairly quick read, and a strong argument that Antietam formed a true turning point in the war as early as September 1862, then this is book is right on target.    McPherson has long been known as a historian interested in putting events in context.  His excellent Battle Cry of Freedom, perhaps the best-known one volume account of the Civil War, doesn't get into the actual fighting until about page 300, and so McPherson's propensity to \\"set the stage\\" is characteristic of his writing.  After pointing out in his preface to Crossroads of Freedom the bloody toll of Antietam (more soldiers died in one day at Antietam than on Sept. 11 2001 or on June 6 1944, by a wide margin), McPherson spends a good deal of time detailing the events and the mood of the country leading up to the Autumn of 1862.    After several military victories in the first part of 1862, many in the North (including several reputable newspapers) assumed the Confederacy was on its last legs, and that by July 4, 1862, the rebellion would fail.  In particular, the loss of General Albert Sidney Johnston at Shiloh was demoralizing.  Plus Union naval victories and the capture of various river cities and ports (like Nashville and New Orleans) isolated much of the Confederacy.    However, McClellan's inertia and then his humbling defeat in the Seven Days Battle, followed by Pope's disastrous defeat at Second Manassas, changed all that. Coupled with some other victories in the South and West, by the summer of 1862 things were looking up for the South.  Lincoln and Halleck could not coax McClellan to attack Lee with the Army of the Potomac, the public lost confidence in the army's leaders, and leaders of Parliament in England, as well as Napolean III in France, began to openly discuss recognition of Jefferson Davis' regime as a legitimate government.  They waited on one more decisive Confederate victory, and Robert E. Lee marched into Maryland in Sept. 1862 (flush with victory from whipping Pope) to deliver a fight in the Union's backyard.    Antietam was a truly fascinating battle, with Lee gambling and defying conventional wisdom once again by splitting his army in 4 parts in the face of a superior foe (he was confident the tentative McClellan would not attack him piece-meal).  The famous discovery of Lee's battle orders wrapped around a few cigars is explored here, and McPherson expresses amazement at the puzzling delay by McClellan in siezing the initiative and attacking Lee's disjointed army upon learning of the deployments. As another reviewer notes here, this book often-times excoriates McClellan, and it is sometimes hard to believe in retrospect Little Mac escaped court-martial for his interminal delays, his refusal to obey direct orders to attack, and his petty refusal to come to the aid of Pope at Second Manassas.  In fact this book points out that in the summer of 1862, many (including some in Lincoln's Cabinet) thought McClellan should be court-martialed and even shot, but ultimately Lincoln  knew the only hope to bring his great army to battle after Pope's defeat was to once again reluctantly elevate McClellan.    Ultimately McClellan drove Lee from Maryland, and inflicted tremendous casualties, leading Mac to later consider this battle his greatest achievement.   His superiors were not as enthralled, upset at him for not bringing in his reserves (he never had 20,000 troops in action at any one time, despite having about 70,000 troops at his disposal) and for not pursuing Lee's beaten army and possibly bringing a quick end to the war. By letting Lee escape back over the Potomac, the Army of Northern Virginia would live to fight another day, and to make life generally miserable for Lincoln in early 1863 at Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville.     However the Union victory at Antietam did enable Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation, and it pretty much put an end to serious discussions of recognition of the CSA government by European powers.  When one considers the stakes of the battle, and the immediate ramifications once the one-day bloodfest was over, it is tough to argue with McPherson's thesis that the battle was the true turning point of the war, and a \\"crossroads of freedom.\\"      I enjoyed listening to the audio version of this book, and believe it covered the subject matter in McPherson's typical excellent fashion.  He uses extensive sources including newspaper editorials, private letters from McClellan to his wife as well as his telegraphs to and from Lincoln, and diary entries of people like Gideon Wells, etc. Highly recommended.	2004-11-03
US	52203333	RSCYUZGWVOF0Y	014100178X	307120444	Dark Eagle: A Novel of Benedict Arnold and the American Revolution	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Powerful but a little awkward	I am a big fan of well-written historical fiction, and since most historical fiction in this country seems devoted to the Civil War, reading Dark Eagle was a refreshing change of pace.  In this book, portions of the Revolutionary War come alive, in particular the Saratoga campaign, the British invasion of Philadelphia, and Arnold's treason and his botched attempt to hand over West Point to General Clinton. <br /> <br />I have always thought Arnold to be one of the more fascinating figures in American history.  His name has become so synonymous with betrayal and treason, that any turncoat is instantly labelled a \\"Benedict Arnold.\\"  Harr's account tells of Arnold's rise through the ranks, his valor on the battlefield, his injuries, his shameful mistreatment by the Continental Congress with Washington unable or unwilling to help, and his ultimate betrayal.  While Arnold's actions in the end inspire disdain from the reader, you can at least understand what led Benedict to his fate.   <br /> <br />The same cannot always be said of some other characters in the book, like Horatio Gates, who comes across as pitifully inept as a general, spiteful, vain and manipulative, willing to leave Arnold's exploits completely out of his account of the Saratoga victory to deprive the wounded Arnold of his just recognition.  The well-researched glimpses we get of characters like Schuyler, Burgoyne, Gates, Hamilton, Howe and others made this a worthwhile read. <br /> <br />However, the book is not without its problems.  The novel starts out ambitiously as an attempt to tell the story of Arnold, and of the war itself, with eye-witness accounts supposedly written years later, after long reflection, by aides to Benedict Arnold and General Burgoyne.  These supposed \\"letters\\" from aides such as Varick and Franks created a unique narrative tool, almost like the narrative of Burr by Gore Vidal supposedly written by Charles Schuyler years after the fact, when he knew the elderly Burr.  Harr's problem here is that his choice for narrative techniques can take him only so far, (for example none of these aides spent any time in the Shippen household), and so by the middle of the novel he largely ignores them.  The second half of the novel is largely a third person account of the Arnold betrayal, and the capture and punishment of John Andre, which at times seemed a little rushed.   <br /> <br />I also would have liked a little more information regarding post-treason Arnold.  Most authors,(even James Kirby Martin in his recent biography of Arnold, An American Warrior Reconsidered), give short thrift to the remainder of Arnold's career, his aggressive raids in Virginia late in the war, and his life in London afterwards.  Apparently Andre was such a popular and well-liked figure, and the aborted turnover of West Point was such a disaster from the British standpoint, that the redcoats never had much use for Arnold when the West Point plan fell apart.  I have yet to find a book that provides a really satisfying account of Arnold's remaining years, after that fateful attempt to send Andre behind the lines with plans for West Point hidden in his shoe.  <br /> <br />In any event, for readers of historical fiction who want a change of pace from the Civil War novels of writers like Owen Parry and Jeffrey Shaara, there is much here to recommend. I give it 4 stars.	2004-11-01
US	52203333	R34YS0A6NTBNZT	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good but occasionally bogged down	Caroline Alexander has written a very compelling and readable account of the Bounty mutiny, complete with an account of the heroic open water navigation feat of Capt. Bligh, and a detailed account of the court-martial trials of the surviving mutineers who were captured and tried in England.   Of course little can be written about the aftermath of the mutiny among the Pitcairn survivors, since sources of information do not really exist, and likewise any author would have a hard time getting into the heads of Fletcher Christian and his shipmates to study exactly what caused the mutiny.  I believe the author did as well, on those subjects, as anyone could ever hope even though the reader ultimately wants a little more information.    What I found curious in this book was the excessive number of pages devoted to Peter Heywood, his trial, and in particular the endless stream of letters between Heywood and his somewhat wacky sister leading up to his trial.  I think the author found Heywood particularly fascinating since he was a gentleman and an officer, unlike many who were brought back to Europe.  So much attention had been devoted to Heywood, and so little attention had been given to some of the other mutineers, that when the trial commenced I lost track of the other defendants and start confusing them.      Captain Bligh is a complex character, and I thought Alexander did a good job portraying Bligh's inherent courage, his skills as a captain, his sense of duty, his attention to detail and yet his stubborn inflexibility.  It was this last characteristic which may have pushed Christian and some of the others over the top after a lazy sojourn in Tahiti. The author also points out that due to the size of the Bounty, and the space needed for transporting the precious breadfruit plants (which were to be used for feeding slaves in the colonies by the way), Bligh did not have marines on board who would assist him in promoting discipline and keeping order.     All in all thiswas a very good book, and required reading for anyone wanting to know more about the Bounty mutiny.  Had the author presented a little more information about the other mutineers, and devoted a little less space to Peter Heywood and his family, I would give it 5 stars.	2004-08-19
US	52203333	R13B1HFGCC79IQ	0394757661	284972551	Playback	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Probably Chandler's Weakest Effort	Raymond Chandler didn't complete many novels, and even on a bad day he could write circles around most authors in the \\"noir\\" or detective genre.  I love his crisp style, his sharp dialogue, and his vivid picture of Los Angeles in the 1940's and 50's.  In fact, The Long Goodbye may be one of the best novels I have read in the past few years, and my favorite Chandler book. <br /> <br />With that said, Playback, Chandler's final completed novel from 1958, falls quite a bit short by comparison.  As in all Chandler novels, the protagonist is Philip Marlowe, a tough-talking but overall decent guy trying to make a living as a private eye in Los Angeles. In Playback, you sense Marlowe is a little more tired, and maybe off his game a little, like the author who died the year after it was written.   Marlowe is awoken with a phone call from the sharp-tongued assistant to a local lawyer, and retained to tail a redhead arriving on a train.   <br /> <br />Marlowe spots her easily enough, and when she continues on her voyage to San Diego (after a lengthy stop at the train station), Marlowe follows her, without really knowing why or who he is working for.  He ultimately disdains working any further for his lawyer client, and decides to try and help the lady, who goes by the name Betty Mayfield.  However in keeping with most Chandler novels, the characters don't reveal much of the truth to poor Marlowe, and so he is faced with mysterious murders, disappearing bodies, and a sinister fellow private dick who is also tailing the same woman. <br /> <br />The setting is not what we have come to expect, since most of the action takes place in a small coastal town near San Diego, and the plot moves slower than other Chandler novels.  I still liked it and looked forward to coming home to it at night, but after The Big Sleep, The Long Goodbye, The Lady in the Lake and Farewell, My Lovely, we know Chandler could do so much better.  I wish he had started writing earlier in life, or that he hadlived longer, since Chandler (like his contemporary Dashiell Hammett) left us too few books.  I give Playback a luke-warm recommendation, but if you haven't read his other books start with them, and read this one to finish out the collection.	2004-08-18
US	52203333	R3P9Q6OTOBO6EL	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Starts with a bang	Carter Beats the Devil opens with one of the most enjoyable, and downright thrilling, chapters I have read in the past several years.  Real-life magician and illusionist Charles Carter gives a nightly show in San Francisco, in which audience members are sworn to secrecy about the much-heralded final act, in which Carter and the Devil try to top each other's spectacular feats of magic.  In the novel's wild opening scene, President Harding is in attendance, and he agrees to come on stage where it appears he is eaten by a lion, only to be rescued from the lion's belly by Carter the Great.  Two hours later, in his hotel, President Harding dies mysteriously, and the secret service want very much to have a word with Mr. Carter.  How's that for a beginning?    Although the novel begins with a bang, and ends quite nicely, there are some fairly long passages here where the action drags to a halt, and the other characters in the novel (none of whom are drawn with the same careful attention as that given to Carter) fail to completely sustain our attention.  At times the novel drifts toward a love story, and since the Carter character is drawn as a very introverted and secretive person, the reader can't connect much with this storyline and the pages occasionally drag on.      However I loved the nostalgiac reminiscing about the childhood of Charles and his brother, and his early efforts at escaping dangerous situations.   There are several real-life historical figues like Francis \\"Borax\\" Smith, Harry Houdini and Philo Farnsworth who play prominent roles, and who add much to the authenticity and flavor of the novel.  I also loved the glimpse at travelling Vaudeville troupes of the 1920's, and in particular some of the less successful acts that Carter shared the stage with as he rode the circuit.    Despite an occasional dry patch past the halfway point of the novel, I give it an enthusiastic 4 stars, maybe 4 1/2.  Gold and his wife (Alice Sebold, who wrote the Lovely Bones) havewritten two books that could not be much more different, yet each of them have basked in well-deserved praise and plenty of sales.  I will happily read anything that Gold writes after this one.	2004-08-17
US	52203333	R3AM55JLWGUAX9	1400060516	278968536	Murder on the Leviathan: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good but not great	I really enjoyed the first book in this series, The Winter Queen, and so I eagerly picked up the next translated novel from Akunin to be released in the U.S.   Murder on the Leviathan has its moments to be sure, but overall I liked the first novel much better.       Here, after a description of a brutal crime scene in Paris, all of the action takes place aboard the luxury liner Leviathan, and particularly in a certain first class salon where French Investigator Gauche has arranged to gather all of his prime suspects in one place.  The comparisons to Agatha Christie are apropos, since we see the various suspects starting to get on each other's nerves and turn on each other when they realize one of them might be a killer.        Aside from the stagnant setting, I think for me the novel suffers in comparison to The Winter Queen because Akunin does not use his protagonist, Erast Fandorin, nearly enough.  In the first book, Erast is a great character, piecing together layers of treachery while narrowly escaping death on numerous occasions.  Here, he is more of an observer than a participant, barely interacting with the characters until periodically he has to burst Gauche's bubble and point out the flaws in the Frenchman's theory every time Gauche thinks he has solved the crimes.  The author changes narrative techniques here, getting inside the heads of different characters in different chapters (and sometimes simply reprinting letters home from one of the suspects), but the one character consistently ignored is Fandorin.       There were some amusing episodes, like the ridiculous bingo game (in which Erast kept winning to his embarrassment) and the pages devoted to the samurai Japanese suspect, but overall the story didn't fly at the pace of The Winter Queen.  I look forward to reading more of the series, but for those who haven't read either book, start with The Winter Queen you will like it better. 3 1/2 stars.	2004-08-16
US	52203333	R3I3DZKTIGEDMC	0743246020	525724505	The Prisoner of Vandam Street: A Novel	Books	1	4	6	N	N	A dismal, unfunny waste of time	I like Kinky's books, I really do - they revel in political incorrectness, and usually are full of witty observations, humourous if implausible adventures involving a likeable (and familiar) cast of characters, name-dropping and clever word-play.  This novel, Kinky's latest, has none of those qualities, it is instead a tiresome exercise in banality and repitition.    What plot there is relates to Kinky coming down with malaria after a drinking binge with McGovern, and after about 50 pages of him hallucinating and talking nonsense in the hospital, he is sent home with orders for rest and relaxation in his loft on VanDam Street. What follows is more of Kinky sitting around talking nonsense at home, and in the midst of his delirium he thinks he witnesses a crime of domestic violence in the building across the alley.  The police and the Village Irregulars are not sure whether this episode was the product of Kinky's feverish imagination, or a real crime.    The book ultimately includes line after line devoted to cat turds, and to throw in a little something different Kinky makes McGovern nearly deaf throughout the novel, (for no reason explained in the book), and so McGovern is constantly repeating everything said, although he of course never gets it right.  There was one chapter in the novel, more than halfway through, that had ABSOLUTELY nothing to do with the rest of the book, and I believe was borrowed from a magazine piece Kinky had recently done.  It involved the recent passing of one of his parents, and in it he reminisced about life in the family ranch in Texas, and the joy his parents brought to the kids who went there for camp.  Other than those few pages, it is clear Friedman's heart just wasn't in this book, as the whole thing seemed thrown together with no regard for his readers, just to deliver a manuscript to his publisher.  Let's hope Kinky cares enough about his many fans to put some effort into his next book.	2004-08-05
US	52203333	R2A6GU5T0ZGIMV	0374299862	480290555	The Havana Room	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Fast-Paced, Intelligent Urban Thriller	I had never read any of Colin Harrison's prior New York-based novels, and I picked up The Havana Room after stumbling across some favorable reviews. I must say this was an impressive read, and his style is instantly catching. The book reminded me a little of Tom Wolfe (although about 300 pages lighter than a typical Wolfe tome), and maybe a better-written version of Jay McInerny.      The book starts out with a bang, as high-powewed Manhattan attorney Bill Wyeth comes home early from a trip, and unwittingly causes a tragedy involving a child sleeping over his house for his son's birthday. The fallout from the event is swift and extraordinary, (yet believable), and soon Wyeth is on his own, without a job, and with his high-brow society friends shunning him as if he had the plague. You can't help but think of Conrad from Wolfe's Bonfire of the Vanities.      I thought the book would then disintegrate into a tale of a plucky lawyer forced to start over again and pull himself together when everything has been taken from him, and frankly wasn't looking forward to the rest. What a pleasant surprise. Instead the book got much more interesting, as Wyeth gets entangled in the lives of Jay Rainey and Allison Sparks (who he meets at a swank Manhattan steakhouse where he finds comfort in a routine of daily visits). Allison asks Bill to help her boyfriend Jay Rainey close a mysterious business deal, involving Jay's hasty purchase of a run down office building in exchange for some prime waterfront farmland on the North Fork of Long Island.      The more he learns about Allison, Jay, and both properties, the more Wyeth realizes he doesn't know, and the rest of the novel involves him peeling back the layers of mystery that surround the secrets buried at the farm, the curious interest Jay had in the office building, the secret passages in Jay's diary and his bizarre mood swings, and the ultra-confidential monthly gatherings in the restaurant's top-secret, invitation only &quot;Havana Room.&quot;      I must confess that I was a little underwhelmed with the sercrets of the Havana Room when those mysteries were ultimately revealed, but the actions in the room ultimately were crucial to the plot, and so I wasn't too disappointed. Ultimately Harrison wraps things up rather nicely, tying up loose ends and revealing most of the secrets of the book. While the novel worked on many levels, (some reviewers mentioned it as some kind of fable regarding the excesses of our society), I thought ultimately the over-riding theme of the novel involved the special, enduring bond that a parent has for his/her children. I couldn't wait to get to it every night, and blew through it in very short order. You will be hooked by page 25.	2004-08-05
US	52203333	R3UZ23ZSUDQU1S	0812968778	568965033	The Winter Queen: A Novel (An Erast Fandorin Mystery)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good start to the series	We learn from the book-jacket (and from the description above) that Akunin has sold millions of books in Russia, and that The Winter Queen is the first in a series of novels involving 19th century criminal investigator Erast Fandorin.  I stumbled across this book on a table in Harrod's, and if the rest of the series are as fast-paced, witty and well-written as this one I am a new Akunin fan.<br />   The book takes place in 1876 Moscow, where a good-looking, wealthy young gentleman approaches some ladies in the park and shoots himself in the head.  Some in the Criminal Investigation Department wish to close the file immediately, an obvious suicide by a lovesick youth, but young Fandorin, a newcomer to the department, takes the investigation seriously.  He starts uncovering all sorts of interesting secrets and conspiracies, taking him to London and back.  Along the way he must deal with attempts on his life, learn how to gamble for high stakes, preserve his honor by issuing a challenge to a duel, and decide whether an agent in London is trust-worthy or a double-agent.<br />   Some here have likened Fandorin to James Bond, or a Russian Sherlock Holmes, but he doesn't really fit either bill since he is too young, naive, eager to please and vulnerable compared to those classic characters.  At various times in the novel Fandorin prepares to meet his maker, including one chilling scene in London where he gets to take a swim in the Thames, Harry Houdini style.  We know he must make it to the next book in the series, but he seems to make it by the skin of his teeth. I agree with the reviewer who likens him more to the young protaginist from Caleb Carr's The Alienist, a much closer match in my opinion.<br />   The language of the novel can get a little wooden at times, common especially with translated works, but the dialogue occasionally sparkles, and Akunin is trying to emulate a late 19th century style.  Overall I enjoyed this book immensely, and will have to look for someof the later books in the series.  Four stars.	2004-07-19
US	52203333	RRJF16BX03D8O	B0001G0V7U	753507601	December 6: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another winner from Martin Cruz Smith	I will always gladly pick up anything new from Martin Cruz Smith, as he has never really disappointed me yet.  His Arkady Renko novels (including the classic Gorky Park, and fascinating but convoluted Havana Bay) have gotten plenty of praise, and I also loved Rose.  Perhaps more than anything, Smith is known for painstaking research. He developed a wonderful setting for each of his densely-plotted books.  Moscow in winter, a North Sea fishing boat, a grimy English mining town, and tropical Havana all come alive in the pages of Martin Cruz Smith novels.<br />   In December 6, he turns his trained eye upon Japan at the outbreak of WW II, and his character Harry Niles will draw inevitable parallels to Bogart's Rick of Casablanca fame.  Niles is a nightclub owner as well, and in a society where children aspire at an early age to &quot;die for the emperor&quot; Niles is always reminded that he is an outsider, or a &quot;gaijin&quot;, even among a society he loves.  He senses war about to break out, has a seat on the proverbial &quot;last plane out&quot;, but immerses himself in a ruse designed to try and trick the Japanese authorities into calling off the attack which he believes will doom the empire.  We all know the attack takes place, and the outcome (some here have criticized Smith for making his characters so sure of the exact outcome of the war on the day it breaks out), but how it happens still holds your interest throughout the novel.<br />   After reading a Martin Cruz Smith novel, and this one is no exception, you remember the setting, and you vividly remember certain scenes (a flashback to Nanking  involving a pivotal conflict with a fanatical general stick in my head), but you remember little about the various twists and turns of the plot. The tea houses, nightclubs and palaces of Tokyo come alive in his descriptions.  I was a little disappointed in the ending, as Smith is not a writer who likes to tie up everything with a bow at the end, but I still recommend the book as a great historical glimpse at a fascinating culture swept up in the hysteria of the war.  He made me care about the characters, including Harry and his pragmatic mistress Michiko.  5 stars, maybe 4 1/2 if Amazon let me, but a fast-paced and enjoyable read.	2004-07-16
US	52203333	R8Z5ES9610ULW	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An outstanding biography of a remarkable man	Walter Isaacson, former chairman of CNN and managing editor of Time Magazine, has written an immensely readable and informative biography of Benjamin Franklin that never gets too stuffy or bogged down in meaningless minutae.  Instead, we are treated to a fascinating glimpse at a man who was early America's greatest publisher, scientist, politician, inventor and diplomat.  <br />   We all have our pre-conceived notions of Franklin, including him out flying his kite to try and link electricity with lightning, or him dozing off during the lengthy and tedious deliberations at the Constitutional Convention.  Isaacson peels back the layers of the story a bit, reminding us how often our vision of Franklin derives from Franklin's own pen, such as the vision of the young teen arriving in Philadelphia with loaves of bread, looking ridiculous as he passed by the window of his future wife (a scene written by Franklin at age 65 when he penned his autobiography).<br />   The book does a very good job not only of recounting the many accomplishments of Franklin, but also of exploring his middle class ideals and values.  For example, Isaacson's book reminds us that while Franklin was never terribly pious or religious throughout his life, he favored organized religion because churches encouraged citizens to behave well, and to do good things.  There was always a sense of pragmatism and public service in everything Franklin did and believed in.  As a publisher, if he thought a public policy or official was wrong and needed to be criticized publicly, he would invent characters (to avoid libel suits) to write humorous and sometimes scathing attacks that were basically anonymous.  <br />   The book also dwells repeatedly on the Franklin's love and admiration of the  middle class as the real core of American society.  While Thomas Jefferson founded the University of Virginia as a college for southern gentlemen, Franklin founded the University of Pennsylvania to serve a much larger, and more low-brow, populace.  As a statesman, it is remarkable that Franklin (despite many years abroad as an effective French ambassador) was a participant and signer of virtually every key treaty/document in colonial history, including the Albany Plan of the Union, the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Peace Treaty with England, and the Constitution.  His spirit of compromise and his sage demeanor no doubt helped bridge the gap which sharply divided members of the Constitutional Convention.  He occasionally flip-flopped on an issue, including his views on the Stamp Act and his belief in the possibility of conciliation with Britain, but without his sense of compromise the Constitution would never have made it in its present, remarkable form.<br />   Isaacson also explores the personal side of Franklin, including his strained relationship (and ultimate lack of a relationship) with his loyalist son, who became governor of New Jersey, as well as his relatively harmless flirting with the ladies of French society while he was abroad.  The contrasts in his character, and that of John Adams (who was sent out to France to work with him on the French alliance), was remarkable.  Both great men to be sure, but they could not be more unalike, and their pairing was an unfortunate one.<br />   The book ends with a wonderful chapter titled &quot;Conclusions&quot; in which Franklin's place in history, and the changing attitudes towards his character over the years, are explored.  The Trascendentalists like Emerson and Thoreau had little use for Ben, as he was too practical and mundane for their &quot;rarefied tastes&quot;, but as the country became more industrial and Horatio Alger novels became the rage, Franklin's work ethic and maxims  were embraced all over again. Ultimately Isaacson points out that as a writer he was &quot;more Mark Twain and less William Shakespeare&quot;, and as a scientist he was more like Edison than Newton. Always witty and charming, if not profound, he probably did more than anyone in history to try and advance the common good, through civic associations, libraries, volunteer fire departments, post offices, etc.  I put the book down terribly impressed with Franklin the man, and Isaacson the biographer.	2004-07-16
US	52203333	R2L5ATLUFSH4E3	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An entertaining corporate thriller	Joseph Finder has found a wide audience with his new novel Paranoia, which is rapidly climbing the bestseller charts.  The novel is a very quick and painless read, kind of a less-wooden Michael Crichton meets the movie Wall Street.<br />The narrator of the novel, Adam Cassidy, has a fairly low-level job with Wyatt Technologies, which he jeopardizes by throwing an unauthorized retirement party for a blue collar dock worker to start the action.  The party costs about $78,000, and Adam needs to move some money around to surreptitiously pay for it.  When company boss Nick Wyatt finds out about it, he threatens Adam with jail for embezzlement, or a dangerous alternative: corporate espionage.  Of course Adam chooses the latter, and next thing we know he is being trained as a high-tech whiz kid, with the hopes that he can infiltrate competitor Trion and feed Wyatt secrets about their top-secret projects.<br />The novel moves at a brisk pace, and while some of the situations seem like we have seen them before (including father-son exchanges about the evils of quick wealth in a phony corporate world, right out of Martin Sheen in Wall Street), you find yourself rooting for Adam as he gets deeper and deeper into the Trion braintrust.  The heads of the two companies are great foils, as Nick Wyatt is relentless and heartless, chasing down Adam for information regardless of his personal need for time away, while Trion head Jock Goddard exudes a more democratic, fatherly concern for his employees, including Adam.<br />Finder is a member of The Association of Former Intelligence Officers, and for me the most enjoyable parts of the novel described Adam easily hacking into the computers of co-employees, figuring out secret codes and passwords, and effortlessly obtaining  top-secret information.  As Adam got wealthier, and as his buying habits got a little more outlandish, I thought the author piled on the brand names and goodies a bit, and it struck me that by then Adam could have repaid the $78,000, and paid a decent attorney to get him out of the mess he was in.  However, you have to suspend disbelief a little to really enjoy a novel like this, and I did.  I never stopped rooting for Adam, and other than some mild disappointment in the very last page of the novel, I have to commend Finder on a very enjoyable and intelligent thriller.  You won't want to put it down.	2004-02-20
US	52203333	R2NWOVDCPD64Y5	0679752617	14546790	Dr. Haggard's Disease	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Plot is a little thin, but mood galore	I have read most of Patrick McGrath's novels, and I enjoyed Dr. Haggard's Disease as much as any of them.  McGrath again explores the depths of obsession, and like most of his books you get the story from a somewhat unreliable narrator, who borders on mental illness.  This book is set in England in the 1930's, with ominous storm clouds of war starting to form.  Edward Haggard is an aspiring surgeon, and after a glance at a cocktail party he begins a passionate affair with Fanny, a colleague's wife.<br />The affair seems doomed from the outset, as the story is being narrated by Haggard years later at his sea-side house to Fanny's son, a young RAF fighter pilot  hungry for details about his mother.  Haggard frequently tells us that \\"Spike\\" is acting up or making noise, and only later do we learn that Spike is the name given to the metal rod holding together Haggard's shattered hip.<br />The plot of the novel is fairly uneventful, and I won't give away too many details, but suffice to say the story is an exploration of obsession.  Haggard, the narrator, is a literally broken man by the end, his once-promising career in ruins, tormented by his love for another's wife and haunted by the memory of his affair as he spills his heart out to her young adult son.  The ending of the novel, as many have observed, was astounding.  It took my breath away and had me re-reading the page several times.  <br />Like all McGrath books, the settings are a large and effective component of the story.  The author made the dreary, run-down manor house come alive in The Grotesque, and in Martha Peake the British moors and the wild New England colonies provided a perfect setting for the tale.  Dr. Haggard's Disease is no exception, here you can hear and smell the surf crashing against the rocks, and the wind whipping through Haggard's drafty house as our narrator sits by the window, watching the RAF pilots taking off to battle the Luftwaffe.  If you are a newcomer to the fiction of McGrath, Ithink this book would be a good place to start.	2003-09-03
US	52203333	R2FWJMTC2P22Z9	0375708448	840034938	Revolutionary Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Devastating yet readable	Yates is commonly regarded as a \\"writer's writer,\\" never enjoying the huge commercial success he deserved in his lifetime.  A recent biography has surmised that his refusal to insert happy Hollywood endings to his novels, which made adaptions of his books difficult, might have compounded the problem.  If American Beauty was written and set in the 1950's, Yates would have been the guy to write it.<br />Revolutionary Road is regarded by most (including Richard Ford in his excellent introduction) as Yates' masterpiece, a devastating look at the crumbling marriage and empty lives of a middle class couple living in the suburbs.  Frank Wheeler has a well-paying but mind-numbing job in the city, where he carries on a half-hearted affair with an office secretary.  His wife April is a bored housewife, after her effort to join a new theater group fails miserably in one of the novel's greatest (and most uncomfortable) moments.<br />Frank and April enlist the services of the same shady, over-eager realtor who convinced them to move to the suburbs, and try to sell their house so they can move to Paris and start afresh.  April and Frank seem to both doubt whether they will actually go through with the move, but their lives seem so empty to them in the suburbs they cling to the hope of a better life overseas.<br />Overall, the book is intense and yet very readable,  kind of a cross between Jonathan Franzen and a middle class Great Gatsby. The Wheelers see that green light but aren't going to reach it either.  I loved the scenes between April and Frank as they drove home from the ill-fated local theater premier, in which April seethes with anger and disappointment, and anything Frank says to try and help turns out to be exactly the wrong thing to say. You feel unsettled just reading the chapter, yet you can't put it down, like the desire to look at a car accident.<br />I am amazed that this book only recently came back into print, since the book seems as relevant today as 50 yearsago when it was written.  Maybe Oprah will rescue it in her rejuvenated book club.  Yates, the very embodiment of the destructive personality, was a chain-smoking alcoholic, who rarely ate anything but red meat. He put everything he had into Revolutionary Road, and it deserves to be read and re-read by modern readers.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-29
US	52203333	R25F485WR78ZLJ	015601422X	788659840	Crooked River Burning	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Don't have to be from Cleveland to Appreciate it	Aside from an airport connection in Cincinnati, I have never set foot in Ohio so I can confidently state that one need not hail from Cleveland, or be a Drew Carey fan, to appreciate this ambitious novel.  I couldn't wait to get back to it every night, and thought Winegardner's ambitious tale brought the city to life in my eyes.<br />The novel tells the story of Anne O'Connor and David Zielinsky,  a mismatched couple from divurgent backgrounds who drift in and out of each other's lives over a long span of years.  She is wealthy, daughter of a high-ranking politian, and a polished debuttante bored with the snobby rich boys she is expected to date.  David, on the other hand, is politically ambitious, awkward, and the son of a colorful hard-drinking union man whose mother took off years earlier to Hollywood where she went chasing a movie career.  The scenes in which David and Anne meet and get together at a vacation island in the lake, where David is visiting with his Aunt and Uncle, are wonderful and memorable.<br />The story of David and Anne is compelling, but not what I really remember and enjoyed most about this novel. Instead, I remember details of the Sam Shephard murder case (David's uncle is an investigator hired by the defense team, and David works on the case for awhile).  I also remember lengthy cameos by Alan Freed and his first rock n roll shows; the effort by the Cleveland Indians to integrate baseball (their African American player, Larry Doby, entered the league just after Jackie Robinson, the Dodgers' celebrated player who broke the color barrier);cameos by newscaster Dorothy Fuldheim and black mayor Carl Stokes, etc.  I loved the description of Art Modell buying the Cleveland Browns, pushing Paul Brown out to pasture, and essentially  guaranteeing a title in a &quot;win now or else&quot; mode a la George Steinbrenner and the Yankees years later.  David is a huge music and sports  fan, gets his feet wet in politics, and since Anne becomes a newswoman all of these historical figures and events are woven effortlessly into the plot.<br />The only thing I disliked about the book, and it DID get annoying, was the frequest bizarre second person asides which the author inserted.  In a chapter about a newscaster, for example, Winegardner would add footnotes indicating what the future holds in store for the character, as if the novelist were reading to the real-life Fuldheim and telling her what awards she would win, and when she would retire.  I don't remember ever seeing anything like it in any other novels.<br />Otherwise, I thought there was little to quibble about, and a lot to enjoy, in this grand novel.  Winegardner's generosity of spirit, his ability to manage a large canvas, and his sharp dialogue will serve him well as he writes a sequel to Mario Puzo's The Godfather.	2003-08-29
US	52203333	R17QV47XAS5KAL	0525946519	688489875	The Real McCoy	Books	3	5	5	N	N	More style that substance	I have to agree with some of the other reviewers here who opine that while Strauss definitely has a way with words, this novel left me wanting a little more.  The book presents a fictionalized account of the fighter \\"Kid McCoy\\", a bare-knuckles brawler and scam artist from the beginning of the 20th century.  I thought the novel would paint a real vivid picture of turn-of-the-century big city life, but ultimately the novel lost steam amid crazy twists and turns of the plot, until its wacky ending.  <br />The scenes of young Virgil starting out his career and assuming his identity (as \\"McCOy\\") on a fateful train trip were the highlight for me, as well as his curious first marriage to a poor midwestern girl who never had a clue what made her husband tick.  In that respect she was kind of like the reader, since we were similarly in the dark surrounding most of McCoy's motivations.  Once McCoy made it to the big time (with his bizarre Oriental side-kick Johnny Gold), I rapidly lost interest.  <br />Had the novel given a better glimpse of New York City at the turn of the century, rather than an occasional reference to Madison Square Garden or a famous hotel, I might have enjoyed it more just for the setting.  Instead, while often impressed at Strauss' writing style, I found the book to be a pretty forgettable tale written by a talented author yet to fully hit his stride.	2003-08-28
US	52203333	R3R77IW335T4SM	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Good Thriller, Not so Great Historical Novel	I read The Alienist after hearing praise for Caleb Carr's depiction of 1896 New York City, and for his use of a psychological \\"profiler\\" in order to catch a serial killer.  I found the novel to be a quick read, and an entertaining (although bleak) murder mystery/thriller, but as a period piece it left a little something to be desired.<br />Some of the readers have commented here at Amazon that the setting, turn of the century New York, was the real highlight of the novel for them.  That, and the inclusion of Teddy Roosevelt as New York's police commissioner, made me anxious to read the novel.  However I thought Roosevelt was sparcely used and a virtual non-factor, and I thought the novel failed to really deliver the goods setting-wise.  For example, early in the novel the \\"alienist\\" Laszlo gathers up his team for a dinner at famous NY restaurant Delmonico's,  which I thought was a nice touch.  However, for the rest of the novel, if anyone was to meet for dinner, they met at Delmonico's.  It was as if Carr researched, found one restaurant that was around in 1896, and popped it into his plot whenever he wanted a little color.  Overall the dialogue of the characters, and the Hell's Kitchen locale, could have been set in virtually any other decade over the past 100 years.<br />The minor characters were also a little wooden to me, and their motivations unclear.  We are to believe that the Isaacson brothers risked their careers at the police department, and basically went without sleep to assist in this investigation, because they were so overwhelmed with the delicacies they were fed at Delmonico's?  <br />However, in fairness if the local color was a little contrived, the hunt for a serial killer preying upon New York's young hustlers was very well-written.  I enjoyed in particular Carr's depiction of experimental use of fingerprints, psychological profiling (heresy at the time), and an unsuccessful attempt to retrieve a visual picture of the killer from the eyeballs ofa victim.  I suspect Carr did a great deal of research re the limits of criminology at the turn of the century.<br />In summary, I recommend the Alienist as a good historical thriller, capturing the subject of police psychology in its infant stages.  However, for those seeking an authentic fictional trip back to the NYC of the turn of the century, I prefer Doctorow to the picture we get here from Mr. Carr.	2003-08-28
US	52203333	R2VQRU4IXHMOH7	0312265077	244454532	The Black Flower: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Engrossing	An Amazon pal recommended I read this book, and I can't wait to get to some other titles recommended by the same reader since this one was top notch, and I would have never found it.  The novel has garnered some comparison to Cold Mountain and even to The Killer Angels, although I think it is a very different book than those two.  It reminded me more of The Red Badge of Courage, since it is also set in a short span of days, adjacent to a battle of the Civil War, but like Crane's novella the action here is mostly introspective and confined to a few characters.  There are a couple of historical figures, including a cameo by Nathan Bedford Forrest, but for the most part this novel skips the battle detail in favor of a small group of fictional characters who we come to learn very well.<br />Bushrod Carter, the main protagonist, is a well-educated rifleman (one of the Cumberland Rifles) who is weary of the war and who can't wait to get home, but who never considers shrinking from his duty.  He enters the battle of Franklin Tennessee, in 1864, with a couple of good buddies and an occasional enemy they have made over the course of the war (including one deserter who they temporarily buried alive).  We see little of the battle itself, the novel instead focuses on the agonizing wait (with the Confederates knowing full well that General Hood is about to hurl them in another suicidal rush at fortified Union positions) and the battle aftermath. <br />After the battle, Bushrod finds himself at a make-shift hospital, cared for by a sweet visiting cousin who is initially unprepared for the horrors of war dropped at her family's doorstep.  Bahr skillfully builds the suspense, although certain storylines don't seem to really go anywhere.  (For example, I was somewhat puzzled as to the space early in the novel devoted to the music professor, I thought he would ultimately play a bigger role in the rest of the novel. However the scene of the band heading into battle was worthwhile). Ialso would have preferred a little more of an account of the actual fighting, although I suppose Mr. Bahr would respond that is not the book he set out to write. <br />In any event, the book was a rare find, a thoughtful, well-written character study full of historical detail.  Civil War novels pop up as often as legal thrillers it seems, but this is one of the best I have read.   Bahr apparently spent years meticulously researching this book, and reviewers with more knowledge of Franklin Tennessee than I possess indicate that he hits the mark, and that much of the novel (including the house where the second half takes place) is based upon actual people and places.  If you are a fan of Civil War or historical fiction, you should pick up the Black Flower.	2003-08-28
US	52203333	R2LR1XVO9TXCHK	0688167411	660551460	Hell at the Breech: A Novel	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A Gripping Tale of Men Pushed to the Limit	Like many of the reviewers here, I was very impressed with Franklin's story collection Poachers, and especially the novella by the same name which dominated that award-winning collection.  Franklin's lean style, and his obvious familiarity with the rural Alabama landscapes he portrays, remind me a little of William Gay's equally-fascinating depictions of rural Tennessee.  When I saw that Franklin had a novel coming out based upon a real-life conflict set during late 19th-century Alabama, I couldn't wait to get my hands on it.   Hell at the Breech did not disappoint.<br />The novel takes its time setting the scene, and giving the reader a true sense of Mitcham's Beat, a tiny slice of rural Alabama where poor farmers have too much work to do to stop and grieve over something like a dead spouse.  Two teenage brothers, Mack and William Burke, sneak out for a night on the town and during a botched robbery, a man is accidentally killed.  The victim, Arch Bedsole, is a shop-owner and local politician, and his murder prompts Arch's cousin Tooch Bedsole to form a gang, with blood oaths, who would set matters right in this neck of the woods.  <br />We find out pretty early that the gang, calling themselves \\"Hell at the Breech\\", take their group quite seriously.  You are either with them or against them, and you don't want to be against them.  For obvious reasons, they don't handle rejection well since anyone approached about joining then knows their identity.<br />Over the course of the novel Franklin skillfully blurs the distinction between good and evil, creating some ambiguity in the reader as the violence escalates.  William joins Tooch's group right away, while Mack, who is considered too young, keeps a low profile while working in Tooch's store, torn between his natural curiosity and his fear at learning too much. Lev James, one of the more ruthless of the gang, suffers tragedy at home and at the same time it appears he is about to lose his farm to foreclosure, althoughhe claims to have made the required payment to the ruthless lender who is not about to cut him any breaks.  Tooch himself, who starts out hell-bent for revenge for his cousin's unsolved murder, may have some complicity in his death, the cover-up, and may have bent the rules to take over the store.  Even the widow, a mid-wife who raised Mack and William Burke,  knows a lot more about the goings on at Mitcham's Beat then we are first led to believe.  The self-righteos townfolk who comprise the \\"posse\\" demonstrate as much bloodlust as the gang they are after. Nothing is ever as black and white as we initially think.<br />Over the course of the novel, the tension escalates and a monumental conflict looms ahead.   I loved the \\"gun for hire\\" character of Ardy Fox, whose brutal method for dealing with the lawless gang, under apparent authority from a local judge, reminded me of the ruthless game warden from Poachers.  Sheriff Billy Waite is another character very skillfully drawn by Franklin, a fundamentally fair man with a weakness for whiskey, who is trying to make it to retirement in one piece, with a minimum of bloodshed on his hands.  As the murders pile up and the Hell at the Breech gang veer further out of control, Waite realizes he is powerless to stop the mob mentality gripping the townpeople, who want quick results.<br />I read some commentary by the author, in which he revealed that while the conflict depicted in this novel actually occured in Alabama in the 1890's, there are conflicting reports as to certain of the details.  After getting bogged down initially in the details of trying to sift through the evidence and get every fact right, a basically impossible task over a century later, Franklin eventually decided to use the known history as his roadmap, and tell the story his way.  I am glad he did, as his debut novel is one of the better reads I have come across in a long time.  Highly recommended.	2003-07-25
US	52203333	R1H8CDRZQNWZ18	0425141551	131422813	Paper Doll (Spenser)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Solid if not spectacular	In Paper Doll, Spenser is hired by Loudon Tripp, a local Boston businessman who is trying to help the police solve the apparently \\"random\\" killing of his society wife. Without any better ideas and stumped in Boston, Spenser heads to a sleepy South Carolina town where the victim was born to try and dig up something the police may have overlooked. In so doing, Spenser manages to alienate the local law enforcement authorities, get himself followed, and finds out that the victim may not have been who she appeared to be. In fact neither is the esteemed businessman Loudon Tripp, whose rubber checks bounce all the way to Brookline.<br />Along the way, Spenser is offered some dubious assistance by a hard-drinking Massachussets senator, who may have some skeletons in his closet to hide. There is the usual playful banter between Susan and Spenser, in their perrenial honeymoon-like lovefest, but a lot less Hawk than this reader would prefer. All in all I thought this was a pretty decent read, better than Potshot to be sure, but not exactly Dashiell Hammett either. Fans of the series will not be disappointed.	2003-01-12
US	52203333	R1LFTP2R56IVK3	0553712470	540217053	Potshot: A Spencer Novel (Spenser Novels)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Average at Best	I am a newcomer to Parker's Spenser series, which I know previously from the television series with Robert Urich.  So I recently picked up an audio version of Potshot from the local library, impressed by the relatively small size of this unabridged version, as well as the excellent narrator (Joe Mantegna).  While the adventures of Spenser and Hawk in this little Arizona town were sometimes entertaining, if this is indicative of the whole series I am in no rush to read (or listen to) the rest.<br />Every line of dialogue involving Spenser is either needlessly smug and sarcastic (when he talks to everyone except girlfriend Susan)or needlessly risque and romantic (when chatting with Susan).  The supposedly witty double entendres  and sexual boasting exchanged between Spenser and Susan at EVERY turn just struck me as nonsensical, as if the couple is on a perennial honeymoon and Parker thinks his readers just eat this stuff up.<br />Spenser seems jaded in every other exchange, the prototype \\"wiseguy\\", and after about 150 pages of it you yearn for a sincere line or two, like you might find in a Russo or McEwan novel.  I know this is detective fiction, not Booker Prize material, but isn't the idea to portray real human beings in your story, and make your readers so engrossed in the story that they forget for a few hours they are listening to a fictional account?  I never had that delusion here.<br />As for the story, Spenser is hired by a young widow with some shady connections to many other leading citizens of Potshot, a small town in Arizona terrorized by a lawless band of rogues known as the \\"Dell.\\"  Spenser's client believes her husband was killed by the Dell, because he would not pay them protection and stood up to them, and for a reason unknown to us readers Spenser decides to put his life on the line, and do what the local sheriff's office concluded was impossible, ie clean up the town.  <br />The whole thing had the ring of an average to below average movie which went direct to video, maybe starring Tom Skerritt and/or Chuck Norris.  Some of the other rogues brought in by Spenser (by calling in favors) to help him clean up the town made this story somewhat entertaining, but overall I think it was a pretty weak effort.	2003-01-12
US	52203333	R2CINHA06613RW	0449224740	612324617	The Long Lavender Look (Travis McGee Mysteries)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A top notch Travis McGee tale	Aside from the first Travis McGee story, this (the 11th in the series) may be the best. Here Travis and his buddy Meyer are driving on a remote road through the south Florida Everglades returning from a friend's duaghter's wedding, when trouble erupts. A girl runs across the desolate road, causing McGee to swerve and rollover into the swamp, and before McGee has gathered his wits he and Meyer are being shot at, and ultimately locked up and charged with murder. <br />The local sheriff, a \\"by the book\\" lawman with a history of deep personal loss, lets McGee out of prison while he investigates the case, confining McGee to the local county. Before we know it, McGee is bedding down a lonely but optimistic waitress, uncovering secrets about this sleepy little Everglades town including a call girl ring. <br />McGee is confident and clever, but there is a sense of vulnerability about him that is refreshing for a mystery series since you sense that he realizes the trouble he is in, as the bodies start piling up. I also thought some of the minor characters in the book, including the waitress Betsy Kapp and the evil Lilo, were very skillfully drawn. Without giving away any of the story, let me just say there were a handful of great twists and turns in the plot, with MacDonald building the suspense nicely. This is not War and Peace, but I give it 5 stars as one of the better mystery novels I have read in awhile.	2003-01-12
US	52203333	R1FHMB3SS2MICC	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	6	7	N	N	What Did Everyone Expect - Tolstoy?	Reading a John Grisham novel is not like taking on Melville or Henry James, his books are page-turners with short readable chapters and sometimes fantastic plots, usually involving lawyers or law students up to their necks in some gigantic conspiracy.  Perhaps the lack of such a fantastic plot is what disappointed many other readers, and by contrast made this book more appealing to me.<br />Unlike the \\"Mafia, FBI, and/or CIA is out to get me\\" plots of some earlier Grisham novels, this one involves a law professor, Ray Atlee, who loves nothing more than flying when he is not teaching at UVA law school in Charlottesville.  As an old UVA law student myself, the setting was a big drawing card.  Atlee is summoned home to his boyhood home and father's house in small town Mississippi, to find that his father has just passed away and left everything to Ray and his brother equally.  The mystery of the book comes with the discovery of $$ million dollars in cash squirreled away by Atlee's dad, a well-known judge in Mississippi.<br />At this point, Grisham sends his character on one of his famous paranoid goose chases, since Ray is afraid to report the money to a bank or trust company without knowing the source, but he is equally paranoid about anyone stealing it.  Instead he drives it around with the money in his trunk, convinced he is being followed.  Hardly the typical behavior of a law professor, but then again the typical professor's life wouldn't sell a thousand books, much less land a novel on the best-seller list.  <br />Overall, I thought the book was an entertaining diversion, buttressed by Grisham's choice of two strong and well-described settings for the majority of the action.  While some readers apparently like the sensational old Grisham better, I'll take this over the Pelican Brief anyday.	2003-01-11
US	52203333	R37VZQVOLIE508	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	5	173	182	N	N	Highly Entertaining, and Informative	Burr was my first introduction to Gore Vidal's panoramic vision of American history, and I have to admit that the first time I picked up the book I drifted off and put it down, disappointed by the early focus on elderly Aaron Burr's marriage to a wealthy widow.  I wanted an inside account (albeit fictionalized) of the revolutionary years, intimate portraits of men like Jefferson, Washington, Arnold and Hamilton, as well as accounts of the famous duel and Burr's subsuquent political travails and treason trial.<br />Alas, I should have given the book a little more time.  When it picks up and the mythical autobiographical journal of Burr begins, this novel becomes entertainment of the highest order.  Burr, through Vidal, writes a wickedly amusing first-hand account of many of the seminal points in our nation's young history, from the winter at Valley Forge to Benedict Arnold's early success as a general.  In telling his story, Burr never passes up an opportunity to point out George Washington's ineptitude as a field general or his plumpness, Jefferson's lack of military duty and his resemblance to the mulatto children living at Monticello, Ethan Allen's lack  of popularity with his superiors, etc.  Nobody is spared, nothing is sacred in a Gore Vidal novel.<br />As for the historical accuracy, Vidal points out in an afterword that with a couple of very minor anachronisms (which he details), every character in the book acts as he or she did in real life - their speech and writings are borrowed from actual correspondence, and the historical events depicted are painstakingly researched (Vidal took 10 years to write the book).  Even narrator Charlie Schuyler's girlfriend, the prostitute Helen Jewitt, is based upon a real life character. So while some graduate students might object to a phrase or two, and perhaps some Jeffersonians will object to the two-faced opportunist Jefferson portrayed here, for most of us with a casual interest in history the book educates as it entertains.	2003-01-11
US	52203333	R3BF2UM37U26NR	0786865334	22123758	The Pirate Hunter: The True Story of Captain Kidd	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gripping	Zack's well-researched account of the famous fall of William Kidd, and the parallel course of actual pirate Robert Culliford, makes for excellent reading and will change the way you think about Kidd.   For most readers, William Kidd was a notorious, blood-thirsty pirate who allegedly buried large stashes of treasure.  In fact, after examining many original sources, Zacks reveals that Kidd was actually a gentleman and well-financed mercenary, a man outfitted by leading merchants of the late 17th century to seek out and steal from pirates themselves.  It is touching to read about Kidd's confidence that his backers would support him, and his belief that the truth would come out if he was ever tried as a pirate.<br />By contrast, Culliford is a despicable rogue, leading Kidd's crew to mutiny on more than one occassion, and whose luck never seemed to run out even as he was captured and jailed as a pirate in London.  Zacks sometimes alternates chapters between Kidd and Culliford, detailing the public hysteria over Captain Kidd, despite his honorable deeds and charter to hunt down pirates, while the rogue Culliford gets away with much more.<br />Ultimately the biggest villain of the book has to be the legal authorities in London, who railroad Kidd and conveniently lose the most important documents for his defense, consisting of French passes which made Kidd's capture of two Moorish vessels legal spoils of war.  Kidd wastes away in solitary confinement with no formal charges against him for months, in despicable conditions at Newgate prison.<br />Overall, I thought this book did a very admirable job of portraying pirate life in great detail.  We learn what they wore, how they traded for goods with shady merchants in places like Madagascar, and how discipline was meted out.   I for one was also suprised by the \\"democratic\\" way in which decisions were made on pirate ships - captains did not hold as much authority as commonly believed.  I was likewise surprised to learn how supposedly greedy buccaneers would seek out the widows of slain comrades to deliver their \\"shares\\" of the plunder.  All in all, I was very impressed with The Pirate Hunter, and after skimming Zacks' sources (including the original commissions and letters reprinted in the pages of this book), it is tough to challenge any of his conclusions.  A first-rate read.	2003-01-11
US	52203333	R2MMQLKJFXOPCR	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Ultimately brilliant, after a rough start	I think any serious reader of contemporary fiction needs at some point to confront Franzen's The Corrections, and get past the hype and vitriol that marked its quick rise to the bestseller lists last year.  I myself was bemused and somewhat skeptical, thinking maybe Franzen was taking himself a little too seriously while laughing all the way to the bank on the heels of Winfrey's selection, wanting to be read by intellectual males who might theoretically balk at a book with the \\"Oprah's Book Club\\" sticker on it.  I finally got past my reservations, and after putting down the book for a month about a third of the way through, I just finished the thing and think I read a masterpiece.<br />Franzen does have his foibles as a writer, and some of his early scenes in particular I thought were pretty indulgent.  I hated the first page, in which he describes the metaphor of an \\"alarm bell of anxiety\\" for far too long, and I was put off by the name of a law firm (Bragg, Neuter and Speigh) that seemed like a childish trick which a \\"serious\\" writer like Russell Banks, John Updike or Ian McEwan would never pull.  Maybe Carl Hiaasen would name a law firm after operations to sterilize pets, but why mess up the Great American Novel?   And while I am griping, why begin the the section of the book introducing the character Denise with a 20 page history of the Passifaro family, which includes the lady that ultimately became the wife of Denise's boss? In a 568 page book, sometimes less is more.<br />Alright, enough of my criticisms - what did I really think?  Well, about halfway through the book each of the balls Franzen tossed in the air became more and more engrossing, and by the end I thought the novel simply breathtaking.  The author effectively tied up all the loose ends in satisfying fashion, and the book concludes the only way the novel really could end.  Any reader whose family has been touched by dementia will be moved quite a bit.<br />Most of you who have gotten here are familiar with the background of the novel.  Alfred and Enid Lambert live in the fictional midwestern city of St. Jude.  Alfred, a retired railway engineer,  is slowly slipping into dementia via Parkinson's Disease, while his wife Enid firmly believes all of the family's myriad of problems would be solved, or at least swept under the rug, if she can get all three grown children back to St. Jude for one last Christmas.  Franzen effectively changes the narrative focus, and we see that all is not well with any of the younger Lamberts, who each seem to be facing a crisis at home.<br />Youngest Chip is a poor aspiring screenwriter who realizes, to his horror, that the screenplay he just submitted a) makes little or no sense; and b) has a bizarre fixation on womens' breasts.  (Maybe Franzen had recently read John Irving's A Widow for One Year and had a little fun at his expense?)  Through a bizarre turn of events Chip ends up in Lithuania, helping the local government bilk money out of foreign investors.  Meanwhile middle child Denise, a renowned chef whose trendy Philadelphia restaurant lands her on the Food Network, makes a mess of her personal life with dire consequences to her career.  And finally there is eldest son Gary, a banker who is battling alcoholism and an increasingly antagonistic marriage, and who angrily campaigns for his parents to sell the old family house in St. Jude before the house's neglect and disrepair strips it of all value, or before Alfred accidentally burns it down.<br />Each of these mini-dramas is played out, in sometimes maddening detail, but by the end of the novel each of the Lamberts becomes entrenched in your subconscious, and you find yourself caring for the characters, foibles and all. I thought in particular the battles between Gary and his wife Caroline, including his stubborn insistence that she admit how she REALLY hurt her back,  were written with keen insight and biting humor.  I loved the scenes where his kids mock him in chorus withhis wife, asking him,in his drunken stupor, to make them a \\"mixed grill\\" for dinner.  I also loved the reminisces over past Christmas vacations at Gary's house, where his wife threw out a cheap robe given by his visiting mother before she even left town.  Franzen seems to have a remarkable sense for how chasms form in marriages over seemingly trivial events and disagreements, and how parents then use subtle means to enlist the kids as allies. <br />There are occasional rough patches to be sure, I suppose a novel of this size is bound to have at least a few, but overall I thought The Corrections was brilliant, funny, well-researched and most certainly worth the effort.  Five stars.	2002-10-16
US	52203333	R1KWBDUJE9LMU8	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A solid installment in the series	After the disjointed Mauritius Command, I found Desolation Island a refreshing change to the plot devices that maked this series worthwhile.  Instead of loosely commanding a squadron of ships as in the prior novel, Captain Jack Aubrey is again commanding a single ship here, the Leopard, accompanied by his good friend (and fascinating character), Stephen Maturin.  Stephen really takes center stage in the novel, since his on-again off-again relationship with Diana is explored early, and Stephen (with his intelligence background) is intricately involved in the action of the novel as American agents are aboard the Leopard, on the verge of the outbreak of the War of 1812.<br />Since the entire novel takes place, more or less, on board the Leopard we see more of the interaction among the characters, especially Aubrey-Maturin, an odd American stowaway, and a pretty female prisoner with ties to both Diana and the American stowaway.  There is a tremendous naval battle involving a much larger Dutch ship, and a desperate detour towards the Antarctic as Aubrey fights to save his ship among calamity and possible mutiny as the Leopard races to rescue the infamous Captain Bligh.  For fans of the series, there is a great deal here to like, and I thought the book was as good as anything I have read thus far by O'Brian.	2002-08-03
US	52203333	R3FKBH481KXT1S	0060081325	802156532	A Multitude of Sins	Books	4	11	12	N	N	I think I expected more	I usually jump at the opportunity to hear authors read their own works, due in part to curiosity as to what they sound like, but more for the nuances and inflections only they can give to their written words.  With that said, I found Mr. Ford's reading of his own short story collections to be a pretty uninspired affair.<br />Mr. Ford, one of our most celebrated and meticulous authors, is not blessed with a terribly strong reading voice, and he uses an odd, choppy style with numerous inopportune pauses that would indicate (if we didn't know better) unfamiliarity with the stories.  I liked Richard Poe's excellend reading of Ford's masterpiece Independence Day much better.  Poe breathed a lot more life into the characters.<br />As for the stories themselves, they were all good, and some were excellent.  I really enjoyed Reunion, about a man who stumbles across the husband of a woman he had an affair with, in Grand Central Station, and feels oddly compelled to confront.  Our protagonist doens't have anything particular to say to the husband of his former lover, who has slugged him in a hotel in St. Louis, he simply wanted to create an experience where before there was none.  Other stories explore similar topics of marital infidelity, and the bitter aftermath of doomed affairs.<br />I also really liked the story of the young married couple on the way to a dinner party in their Mercedes Benz station wagon, in which the husband is floored by an admission, by his young trophy wife, that she has slept with their dinner party host.  His reactions, and the stony silence that develops between them, are indicative of the strained relations between almost every couple in the collection.<br />My only problem with the stories, after reading about 5-6 of them, is that they are too similar to one another.  Ford keeps retreading the same ground, writing about lawyers, realtors, St. Louis and the Mayfair Hotel in a cool, detached third person narrative.  After awhile you forget you arereading (or listening to) fictional stories, and almost get a sense you are peeking at notes of a marriage counselor with a clinical sense of detachment.  Ford doesn't seem to experiment enough, and sometimes I would get in my car, pop in a tape about unfulfilled 40-ish adulterers, and wonder whether this is the story of the couple in a Canadian hotel, the Connecticut realtors on a business trip to Phoenix, or the Grand Central protagonist reminiscing about his affair at the Mayfair.  Each of the stories works well on its own, but reading them back to back you see patterns develop that frankly grow a little tiresome.  Read them one or two at a time to enjoy Ford's meticulous prose, and his sharp observations about middle class malaise.	2002-08-03
US	52203333	R3GWFNYXCUU8PE	0671724576	862639040	Gringos: A Novel	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A tiresome tour of Mexico	When I recently stumbled across The Dog of the South by Portis, I felt an excitement much like I felt when I came across Richard Russo's Straight Man at a bargain rack.  Here was a great comic novelist I had never heard of, and I couldn't wait to get my hand on more of his work.  Well, Gringos covers some of the same ground as Dog of the South (DOTS), but in this reviewer's opinion it lacked much of the humor, direction and cohesion of the earlier work, and I labored to finish it.<br />The book takes place entirely in Mexico, amid small towns and ancient Mayan ruins being picked over by salvage dealers and hippies along for the ride.  Unlike DOTS, which had a handful of very real and distinctive characters, Gringos is chock full of characters who do nothing to really distinguish themselves, and so about 100 pages in the reader starts to confuse Rudy, Roland, Doc Ritchie, Doc Flandin, Eli, Skinner, and a bunch of other male characters, together with a similar slew of unmemorable females such as Gail, Louise,Alma and Beth.<br />Narrator Jimmy seems to have as little purpose as humanly possible in life - he makes his living doing odd jobs, stumbling across valuable artifacts and selling them, and working on archeological expeditions but whenever he is given the opportunity in the novel to make money, (ie recover a reward), he refuses the money.  He cares more about his truck's welfare than his own.  He shows no interest in the opposite sex, and kind of falls into a marriage which is convenient because the woman cooks well and wakes up around the same time each day. He goes through the action in the novel with a very knowledgeable, but cool detachment, unlike the hilarious fastidiousness demonstrated by Portis' narrator in DOTS.<br />The main action in the novel concerned an expedition down a great river, to an ancient \\"holy\\" site where misinformed teenage beatniks seem to be converging, as our characters search for a missing planner named Rudy Kurle.  For no great reason, Jimmy and a handful of followers risk life,limb and liberty to find casual aquiantance Rudy deep in the jungle, and when it appears they have no hope of finding him they decide they are really looking for a teenage runaway girl from Florida, who was briefly mentioned earlier in the novel.  In fact, the bizarre reappearance of characters throughout the novel got a little ridiculous, since our characters kept running across others they had met earlier in the book, in remote areas, as if the entire country of Mexico was the size of Philadelphia.  If an old buddy comes to him with a new wife, of course it is some girl Jimmy (and ther reader) had come across 200 pages earlier. The first 50 pages introduced us to more characters than we can remember, and they all seem to keep reappearing. <br />There is some wry humor in the book, and Jimmy is a pretty reliable, if not charismatic, narrator.  I just miss the whole noble purpose behind DOTS, where our narrator pursued his wife, her lover and his Ford Torino to Central America, on the trail of their credit card receipts.  Here the whole novel seemed like a largely pointless tour through Mexico's roads less travelled, and while Portis playfully lampoons hippies and gringos seeking UFO landing sites, he never really hits the funnybone in Gringos. He is a talented writer, but this is certainly not his best work.	2002-07-11
US	52203333	R28ILYMPGB4YPM	0679742220	792511434	The Locked Room	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Another solid entry in the Martin Beck series	I have recently become a fan of this series of twelve detective novels, written in the late 1960's and early 1970's in Sweden by husband and wife team Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo.  Wahloo, who died in 1975, did some reporting and the no-nonsense style of these novels reminds one of good reporting.<br />The Locked Room is somewhat unique to the series, in that the authors frequently shift their focus to the minor characters and criminals, in omniscient narrator style, giving the reader more perspective than is usual.  The novel involves two crimes, a bold bank robbery in which a bank customer is killed, and the discovery of a retired man's decomposed body in his apartment, which appears to be locked from the inside.  Beck, who recently returned to the force after recovering from a shooting, is assigned the locked room case and we see him trying to fit the pieces together of a seemingly impossible crime to solve.<br />A NY Times critic has recently praised the grim realism of these novels; if Beck drinks too much coffee on an empty stomach, his gets sick.  After a broad daylight bank robbery, the police get starkly different eyewitness accounts, leading to a morass of seemingly unrelated clues, some of them way off.  The reader is constantly reminded that in the real world, this is how crimes are really solved by big city police forces.<br />Some readers are a little put off by the Socialist leanings of the authors, which rises to the surface occasionally as they discuss current events of Stockholm 30 years ago including strikes, poor health care/benefits for workers, etc.  However the rantings never seemed to me to get in the way of their story, and the novels are all written in a lean, sparse style with few wasted scenes or verbal flourishes.  I recommend the series highly, beginning with the great Roseanna.	2002-06-29
US	52203333	R3HJFDPYJ8IA61	0879519312	481632924	The Dog of the South	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A Rollicking Good Ride	Trying to describe Charles Portis' classic novel The Dog of the South is not easy, since this book doesn't fit nicely into any category I've encountered before. The book is sort of a cross between Confederacy of Dunces, and maybe a more accessible (and enjoyable) Pynchon. The narrator, Ray Midge, is a 28 year old fussbudget from Arkansas who has trouble settling down to a real job, and whose wife Norma has recently left him for her first husband, Guy Dupree, a hapless radical arrested for threatening the President. Midge wouldn't be THAT mad except the lovers on the lam took Ray's Ford Torino, and left him Guy's [run down] Buick filled with Heath wrappers, and reeking of dog.<br />This relatively sparse outline of a plot sets a wonderful story in motion, as Midge follows the trail of his wife's credit card receipts to follow them to Central America, ostensibly to get his car back. Along the way Midge meets a zany ex-doctor, named Symes, a loony Louisiana character who seems to me right off the pages of John Kennedy Toole's masterpiece Confederacy of Dunces.<br />It is difficult to explain the plot and the characters, it is simply a parade of oddball characters and circumstances. Ray looks out the window at some pelicans, and one gets hit by lightning. He makes polite conversation to a kid, asking him \\"How many states have you seen?\\" and the kid inexplicably snarls back \\"More than you!\\" Every meeting and social interaction takes a somewhat unexpected, but strangely believable turn so there was something to enjoy and chuckle about on every page. <br />The novel is also full of wry observations and bits of wisdom, like when the narrator warns readers to turn glasses or mugs with handles to the left, as if you were left-handed, since the side of the cup you are sipping has come into contact with fewer human mouths. Portis' outlook is offbeat to be sure, but there's a zany truth to much of it.<br />This was my first encounter with Portis' work, much of which is in the process of being re-released (the book was written in the mid 70's), and if Dog of the South is any example Portis is a writer who begs to be rediscovered by modern readers looking for a comedic road trip story.	2002-06-27
US	52203333	RPVA9CI6GJWAV	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Good but not the Best in this Series	I have read the prior three novels in O'Brian's masterful Aubrey/Maturin series, and thought the first three were uniformly excellent.  After a layoff, I returned to the series and while I enjoyed The Mauritius Command, I thought there was somewhat of a slip from the first few books of this 20 novel series.<br />The novel opens promisingly, with Aubrey suffering in a less-than-ideal domestic situation.  His mother-in-law lives with Jack, his wife Sophie and their cranky daughters, and his efforts to manage a farm are comical in his ineptitude.  When Maturin visits, and Aubrey tries to show him around and put a brave face on his domestic struggles, the comedy inherent in O'Brian's writing comes shining through.  While Jack (and the reader) itch to get to sea, it is there that O'Brian seems to lose control of the story.<br />Aubrey gets an order to go to the Cape of Good Hope, where he is sent on a mission to dislodge the French from the Mauritius Islands and help set up a British Colonial Governor by the name of Farquar.  As is usually the case, despite great achievements in the past, Jack is shackled and insufficiently rewarded by his superiors in the admiralty, and his supposed connections, through his father in the Parliament, are of little help.  <br />O'Brian seems to assume a good bit of nautical knowledge by the reader, and this landlubber sometimes got a little lost in the naval warfare scenes.  The most engaging aspects of the novel seemed to me the differences in character, and the seething one-upsmanship among the various ship captains under Jack's overall command including Captains Pym, Clonfert and Corbett.   The problem was, just when the author whets your appetite for some great internal conflict or drama between the brutal Corbett and the popular Clonfert, Corbett is sent from the area.  <br />Moreover, the final battle scenes are almost thrown together in summary form, as if the culmination of the mission did not really concern O'Brian as much as thehassles of getting there, and so there was a bit of a letdown at the end.  I look forward to the next novel (Desolation Island I think), but have to be luke-warm in my praise of this one.  I give it a fairly generous 4 stars, 3 and 1/2 if I could.	2002-06-27
US	52203333	R1OM36RJXOSVE1	1590070917	283946848	Farewell, My Lovely	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good, but I like Hammett better	I recently listened to the unabridged version of this book narrated by Elliott Gould, and while Chandler's glimpse of 1940's era Los Angeles was surely entertaining, I still like Dashiell Hammett's \\"Continental Op\\" novels better.   In Farewell, My Lovely, private dick Philip Marlowe starts out working for a barber on a minor job and unrealistically stumbles onto a murder by a hulk of an ex-con, looking for his old girl Velma in a club where she used to work.  Marlowe then is mysteriously contacted out of the blue to provide security for a shady jewel transaction, in which a rich dandy is to attempt to buy back some precious jade from the thieves who stole it.<br />The novel moves at a brisk pace, and while some of the plot twists seem a little forced, they are entertaining nonetheless. One of my main problems with the story is that Marlowe seems to spend most of the novel putting his life in danger, getting knocked out, shot at or drugged, without much of an incentive to get involved.   He often seems to be acting on his own, without a paying client, despite warnings from the police to stay away coupled with the obvious dangers.  Hammett's continental op, in novels like The Dain Curse, at least had a paying client ordering him to snoop into the multi-layered mysteries, with significant insurance money at stake.<br />Ultimately, without giving away too much of the story, Chandler does a pretty good job of throwing a lot of balls in the air and wrapping up most of the loose ends by story's end.  Some threads are left unresolved, like the whereabouts and motives of the mysterious doctor and psychic in Bay City, but most of the rest of the plot makes sense.  LIke another reviewer said, at the end of the novel, while you may have enjoyed the ride, you are left with somewhat of an empty feeling.<br />As for the narration, I expected a little more from Mr. Gould, an accomplished stage and screen actor who seems to sleepwalk his way through the beginning of the book as if he was handed a copy of the novel, a microphone, and told to read.  He later changes pace a little, adopting different voices for different characters, but I found the voices ill-suited to the characters and sometimes caricatures of policemen or gangsters, as if the novel was a scene from a \\"Bowery Boys\\" episode.	2002-06-05
US	52203333	R26ABD25EH64RF	0679492658	167686037	Independence Day	Books	5	82	85	N	N	A brilliant internal monologue	I agree with the reviewer (...) who raved about Richard Poe's brilliant reading of an unabridged, audio version of this book.  Having read many of the divergent opinions listed here by Amazon readers, and remembering some of my own struggles to read authors like Tim Parks (whose narrators internalize much of the story and who digress often), it occurs to me that perhaps this story is better enjoyed on tape.  I couldn't wait to get in my car every day and listen to Poe's witty, heart-felt rendition of Ford's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel.<br />Independence Day is essentially an internal monologue, set on the long July 4th weekend of 1988.  It is a sequel to Ford's earlier novel The Sportswriter, which I have yet to read, but I never got the impression I was missing anything due to lack of familiarity with the earlier novel.   The protagonist is Frank Bascombe, a divorced, well-educated former sportswriter who now makes his living selling real estate in the affluent New Jersey town of Haddam, while supplementing his earnings with a couple of rental properties he owns in the town's African American neighborhood.<br />Bascombe is at something of a mid-life crisis.   We learn that he has lost a son, and while he has been divorced from his wife for years, he still has feelings for her and secretly hopes for a reconciliation.  At the same time, he is seen carrying on a half-hearted affair with a presumed widow whose husband left years earlier and never came back. Bascombe has planned to spend the long weekend with his troubled teenage son Paul, who is apparently battling some sort of mental illness or depression; for some unknown reason Bascombe decides to pick up his son in Connecticut, and drive to the basketball and baseball halls of fame in Springfield, Mass. and Cooperstown, N.Y. <br />Although quite a bit happens over the course of the three days, the novel is not necessarily plot-driven,  and after you finish reading it (or better yet listening) you don't remember what happened nearly as much as you remember the characters themselves.  In that respect it reminded me a little of a book like Richard Russo's Nobody's Fool, which I loved, although I now remember few details of the story.  Frank's uneasy alliance with Paul, his guilt over taking him and not his sister away for the weekend, and his struggles to maintain his sanity over a long, stressful weekend were classic and very richly drawn by Ford.  We learn Frank's thoughts at every turn, whenever he confronts another character, and at times the thoughts are brilliant, sad, funny or all of the above.  For example, while trying to give his disinterested son a civics lesson on the meaning of Independence Day, Paul feigns confusion and asks a question or two, which the narrator Frank knows were really meant to mock him.  Paul delights at ridiculing the hall of fame during the trip, while narrator Frank tries to keep up appearances and generate enthusiasm for displays like \\"Bob Lanier's shoes\\" while leafing through the color brochures.  <br />There is an undercurrent of sadness and tragedy in the book, including Frank's own lost child and divorce, the earlier murder of another realtor at Bascombe's office, and even the death years earlier of a family pet in an accident, which still troubles Paul.   However the novel has an upbeat tone about it, as if Frank has benefitted from therapy and is destined to look on the bright side even as other characters accuse him of being hard and uncaring.  There is also plenty of humor in the book, made all the funnier by narrator Poe's excellent renditions of the character voices.  Frank tries desperately to sell a house to a picky Vermont couple, and his partner in a strange \\"birch beer\\" and hot dog stand remains vigilant with his shotgun, ready to blast some suspicious Mexicans who he believes want to rob him. <br />All in all, the book has a voice which I found refreshing and amazingly true-to-life, with observations and asides that often hadme laughing out loud or shaking my head at their poignant truth.  I don't know from experience what thoughts abound in the head of a middle aged, divorced father who is estranged from his kids and who desperately wants to connect with them before it is too late, but I suspect Ford, in writing this book, got them exactly right.  I recommend it highly, especially the audio version narrated by Richard Poe.	2002-05-21
US	52203333	R3DANG5ZLFMOSJ	1564581853	696270412	Paris (EYEWITNESS TRAVEL GUIDE)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A wonderful format for a guide book	I recently got back from my third trip to Paris, and of all the guidebooks I have brought with me over these past 10 years, this was the one I used, and enjoyed, the most.  Let's face it, every good guide book out there has helpful hotel and restaurant recommendations, and since individuals ofter have very subjective and different perceptions of the same places, you can never please everyone with those picks.  In advance of the vacation, I not only used these guide books but also browsed the web ... for info, and didn't always use picks from the Eyewitness book.  I also purchased metro and museum passes online before the trip, which I highly recommend.<br />So why did I like it so much?  While most books will suggest places to go and give you helpful information such as opening hours, price, etc., no other book can match these books for illustrations, descriptions, and unique three dimenional \\"cut-out\\" sketches to give you an idea of the scope or architectural design of places like the Pantheon, Basilica Sacre Couer, Saint Chappelle, etc.  The night before you visit an attraction such as those listed above, you can read a multi-page description, learning about the historical significance of the site, or of efforts to preserve it during WW II, etc.  I would consistently get stoked to visit ancient churches, plazas, parks, museums and other attractions after spending ten minutes reading about them in the Eyewitness guide.  Then, when standing in the splendor of St. Chappelle for example, you might understand the stained glass scheme a little better. <br />I should also point out that these books are everywhere in Paris.  It is the one guide book my wife and I consistently saw on other restaurant tables, or being held discreetly by other tourists at the Musee de Orsay, for example.   There are helpful maps, not only of the city in general, but of individual neighborhoods making small walking tours easy.  There are also very detailed guides to getting home from the airport, which made it easy to take the RER train into the city and avoid an expensive cab ride.<br />Some have snubbed their noses at the book as being for people with no knowledge of Paris who need pictures - I think that's unfair.  The 3-D cutouts and pictures are there if you want them, if you care to skip them you can, but the text is as informative and detailed as I have seen in others like Frommers, Fodors, Dummies Guide, etc.  The book is also slim enough to stick in a camera bag, or in a handbag of your wife, for discreetly plucking it out during your metro trips. Buy it as far in advance of your trip as possible, and thumb through it at night to get psyched for your trip.  Highly recommended. <br />P.S. And if you buy it and like the format, there is also an excellent Eyewitness Guide to the Loire Valley, with unparalleled information about Loire Valley chateaus, lodging and dining, that I used and really liked.	2002-04-30
US	52203333	R37TFN6TJUYPWY	0060168609	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A meaningful and important book	Russell Banks' Cloudsplitter is an important and engaging work of historical fiction, bringing John Brown and his family to life and exploring a period in American history in which the fate of the young nation truly hung in the balance.  Many novels have been written of the Civil War years, by writers such as  Jeffrey and Michael Shaara, as well as Charles Frazier.  Banks instead brings the turbulent 1850's to life, complete with New England abolitionists, the Underground Railroad, and the political struggles culminating in some dubious \\"compromises\\" as more states entered the sharply-divided Union.<br />The structure of the book is unique, as the novel is comprised of a long narrative by surviving son Owen Brown, his father's right hand man during the years leading up to the deadly raid on Harpers Ferry in 1859.  Owen is supposedly gathering his papers and setting forth his story to a fictional \\"Miss Mayo\\", who, along with her boss, is working on a definitive biography of John Brown several decades after his death.  Owen feels that his father has traditionally been misunderstood, branded an insane terrorist by some and a holy martyr by others, while Owen attempts to humanize him and the rest of the family.  <br />Russell Banks apparently spent years in painstaking research on this book, and you wonder how much of the story is pure fiction, and how much of Owen's narrative is based on historical fact.  Of course Banks would likely tell you that such inquiries are besides the point, although I will wonder whether John Brown really did write a Horatio Alger-like pamphlet for African Americans titled \\"Sambo's Mistakes\\".  I absolutely loved the scene in which John Brown realizes his son Owen has stolen something, and rather than whip the boy the elder Brown makes Owen whip him, as punishment for John Brown's failings as a father which would lead his son to commit such an offense.  Heavy stuff indeed.<br />Many reviewers have commented upon the length of the book, and while the language was never too difficult or tedious to get through,  I must admit the Banks takes his time setting up the story, as the pace does not really pick up considerably until about page 400.  There are meaningful episodes earlier, including John Brown's efforts to escort espaped slaves to Canada on the Underground Railroad, his family tragedies, and his land speculations and failures.  We also see glimpses of other historical figures including Frederick Douglass and Ralph Waldo Emerson, who probably did interact with Brown in some fashion in real life.<br />Banks moves skillfully toward the climax of the book, throwing in references to future events in \\"Bloody Kansas\\" or Harpers Ferry to give the whole book a sense of foreboding.  However the ultimate payoff was a little light to me, which is my reservation about giving the book 5 stars.  By making surviving son Owen Brown his narrator, and by telling us that Owen's job is not to chronicle historical events (about which much has supposedly been written) but instead to concentrate on personal reminisces, Banks limits himself a bit.  By the end, at Harpers Ferry, the reader (at least this reader) wants a little more historical detail than Owen can provide, due to his location and status during the culminating raid.  Everybody knows John Brown's fate, but after 740 pages leading up to the great showdown, I wanted a little more than I got, (maybe words to his captors or specific details as to the fates of other members of the party).  Ultimately what made the novel effective for the first 7/8ths of the book was the thing that brought the ending down a peg in my estimation.<br />Anyway, for those like myself who enjoy historical novels and who want to learn more about one of the most notorious and fascinating figures in American history, this is a monumental work.  In reading Cloudsplitter, you understand the family dynamics which led Brown's sons to follow him into a maelstrom, you get a glimpse into the beliefsystem of John Brown and his atheist son, and you wait with him for the great slave uprising which he thought would accompany his raid on the federal weapons arsenal at Harpers Ferry, as part of his campaign to rid the nation of the scourge of slavery.  I am glad I read Cloudsplitter, but unlike some of my co-reviewers here I sure don't plan on doing it again.	2002-04-22
US	52203333	R1RIJG1NX7XVIX	0060006897	488374722	Dirty Havana Trilogy: A Novel in Stories	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Oddly Enthralling	Pedro Juan Gutierrez will never be confused with Jane Austen or the Bronte sisters.  Instead of the English countryside, Gutierrez here delivers a no-holds barred, unflinching look at the dark side of Cuban culture in the 90's, in which sex, drugs and rampart poverty are prevalent.  Pedro Juan, the author and narrator, tell us probably more than we ever wanted to know about sweat, excrement and semen on the rooftops and hallways of crumbling tenements in the once beautiful apartments along Havana's Malecon district.<br />There is little narrative structure to the novel, which consists of three \\"parts\\" that all sound pretty similar to me, with titles like \\"Marooned in No Man's Land\\", \\"Nothing to Do\\", and \\"Essence of Me.\\"  Although translated from the native Spanish of the author,  the book has a ring of authenticity to it,  and the language never feels false or cardboard(as if anything was lost in translation). I forgot I was reading a translated book by page 3.<br />Gutierrez reminds me of a cross between Bukowski and Henry Miller, living day to day trying to survive in a society gone mad, with the help of Chango and other Santeria deities who he believes look out for him and present opportunities for him to succeed. The book is not for the squeamish, but if you approach it with an open and curious mind many will find fascination and an occasional flash of brilliance in the narrative. We see couples fighting then copulating in public, on Havana's streets or rooftops, while others on neighboring rooftops watch in amazement.  The narrator earns enough to buy a little rum and weed selling lobsters, \\"pig\\" livers and drugs on the black market,  and when those supplies dry up he (and most characters in the book) are not above selling themselves or demanding that their lovers hustle tourists with a few extra dollars in their pockets.  Old ladies sit in their apartments terrified that a tropical storm will tear their walls off,  and sometimes we see apartments left standingwithout walls, like a dollhouse.  Water supplies dry up,  and dozens of people live in cramped quarters with no water and predictable hygeine problems.  <br />Sound like your typical novel?  It is anything but.  However,  just as you have gotten your fill of two bit hustlers and husbands who have left behind families for a treachorous raft trip to Miami, Dirty Havana Trilogy throws you a little nugget of sardonic wit or irreverent philosophy that would make me laugh and reread the page.  Some examples include:<br />\\"Cuba may be the only place in the world where you can be yourself and more than yourself at the same time.  But it's hard.\\" (p. 220<br />\\"After socialism and don't bite the hand that feeds you, it was every man for himself.  To hell with compassion and all the rest of it.  We were having a good time.\\" (p. 186)<br />\\"My life is always being wrecked by the cursed trio: love, health, money.  Love is a lie, money slips through the fingers, health is ruined in a second.  That's the way it is for me.\\" (p. 348).  <br />If any of these little nuggets appeal to you,  and if you don't mind little chapters about cellmates picking their stinking feet in jail, then this is the book for you.  I found it a refreshing change of pace, and a very realistic if graphic glimpse into a Havana ravaged by the collapse of the Soviet Union.  Recommended, with a warning label.	2002-04-01
US	52203333	R1EISY5NL76HE4	0375415661	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Beautiful imagery, but a meandering mess	Perhaps Michael Ondaatje is more of a poet than a novelist, as his eleven books of poetry (compared with four novels) might suggest. Or perhaps I am just not a fan of his narrative style, which involves multiple characters and viewpoints, coupled with frequent and lengthy lapses into the past. All I know is that while listening to the audio version of Anil's Ghost over the past week and a half, I was frequestly lost and contemplated giving up.<br />The book is set in modern Sri Lanka, a country ripped apart by civil war, in which families endlessly seek word of their missing fathers, sons or brothers who have mysteriously disappeared amidst the chaotic violence. Protagonist Anil Tessera is an anthropologist and a native Sri Lankan, U.S. educated, who returns home as part of a human rights organization trying to identify the remains of victims and chronicle human rights violations. <br />One body in particular fascinates Anil and her partner Sarath, a skeleton they nickname \\"Sailor\\" who was apparently tortured and killed about 4 years ago, and then reburied in an area in which only the government might have had access. Although the government's role in the killings seems obvious to the reader, apparently Anil and Sarath believe that Sailor might provide important proof in the government's participation in the bloodshed. Therefore, the search for Sailor's true identity passes for mystery in this novel, amidst Ondaatje's trademark murky flashbacks, evocative settings and short glimpses of very poetic prose. However this great mystery is not terribly satisfying when ultimately solved,  since Ondaatje doesn't bother letting readers know exactly how our protagonists identified Sailor.<br />There are memorable scenes to be sure, such as flashbacks of Anil's days in the U.S. watching old movies with her friend and trying to rationalize the bulletwounds received by characters in western movies, or present-day scenes of Anil and Sarath bathing in remote Sri Lanka lakes and stumbling across tortured drivers on the roadway. The problem is the scenes don't go anywhere - the author spends so much time drifting back into the pasts of slight characters, the reader (or in my case listener) loses interest and frequently forgets exactly who is being discussed. (ie are we discussing the past of Sarath's brother Gamini, a doctor kidnapped from his family and forced to care for rebels a la Dr. Zhivago, or is this chapter still about Sarath's mentor Palipana - and who cares?).<br />... <br />If you loved the novel The English Patient, and didn't mind frequent passages where the author uses the male pronoun and you have no idea to whom he is referring, than this may be the novel for you. To make matters worse here, narrator Alan Cumming used virtually the same voice for every character in the novel, male and female, which often added to my confusion. Maybe the novel works better in a few longer sittings, as opposed to frequent half hour intervals which comprise my commute, but I ultimately found Anil's Ghost an occasionally mesmerizing, but ultimately aimless tale.	2002-04-01
US	52203333	R30R13L9KMGLRJ	0679452001	385773812	The Country Ahead of Us, The Country Behind: Stories	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A very mixed bag	This audio collection contains two cassettes and unabridged versions of many of the short stories in Guterson's collection, but not all stories are included in the audio version.  Sorry I can't tell you which ones are here, cause the cover for some reason has no contents listed,  and narrator Campbell Scott often moved so fast from one story to the next I never heard the title of half of them.<br />By and large,  I liked the stories on tape number one,  especially the poignant tale of two brothers growing up in the 1960's whose family leaves their Oregon coastal motel and moves to Seattle.  I think that one was titled  &quot;Day of the Moonwalk&quot; or something like that.   There is a real sense of nostalgia here, and the interplay between the brothers was heartwarming as they realized they didn't share a bedroom anymore, and as they scoured downtown Seatlle for a basketball hoop.  <br />I also enjoyed the duckhunting tale (probably &quot;Opening Day&quot;), as well as the doomed romance between a bookish young girl and a minor league pitching prospect.  I thought the book was narrated effectively by actor Campbell Scott (he of the movie &quot;Singles&quot;), who handled dialogue especially well.<br />However, especially once we get to tape two, Guterson sometimes lapses into an overly descriptive, somewhat experimental style that probably would give creative writing professors nationwide fits.  I was particularly appalled by the story involving the young guy who wanders over an old man's land in Massachusetts, on his way to a nursing home to care for the elderly.  Throughout the story,  Guterson bombards the reader with an endless array of adjectives and adverbs, over-extending his sentences with unnecessary verbal flourishes that ruined the otherwise mediocre story for me.  Hemingway,  always a proponent of lean, unflowery prose, would have spun in his grave had he heard this one.  <br />I really liked Snow Falling on Cedars,  and Guterson has a knack for writing about the Pacific Northwest and using the setting as an integral part of the story.   These stories show a young writer first experimenting and finding his voice, with a handful of successes surrounded by an occasional clunker.	2002-03-25
US	52203333	R26FVTVAH2OSC3	0736668020	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great story, bizarre reading	Checking out audio versions of Sherlock Holmes stories from the library is as close as you can get to a sure thing, since Arthur Conan Doyle's writing is generally superb even in the lesser tales, and the interplay between Watson and Holmes tends to be more entertaining in audio format. I therefore pounced on this unabridged recording of Hound of the Baskervilles read by David Case when I saw it at the local library.<br />Readers familiar with the Holmes canon are probably familiar with the story, as Holmes is hired to investigate the recent death of his client's uncle at Baskerville Hall, a gloomy old manor on the edge of the moor allegedly haunted by a vicious beast. The very first chapter sets a wonderful tone for the rest of the lengthy story, as Holmes and Watson use logic and a handful of clues to guess the age and employment of a visitor solely by examining the visitor's walking cane, left by accident at Holmes' flat on Baker Street while our hero was away.<br />The mystery at Baskerville Hall is an effective one, putting Holmes and Watson in the path of sneaky butlers, dangerous fugitives and con artists, while being watched and pursued themselves.<br />Although the story is very well-written, I was somewhat taken aback by the strange reading by David Case. His British accents for the characters seemed almost intentionally overblown, as if this whole reading was a Monty Python sketch about haughty British windbags. To his credit he does make each character's voice sound different. For some of the characters, Case resorts to a voice so bizarre it sounded as if he was speaking while inhaling. There is certainly some comic relief to this presentation, and after awhile you forget about the narrative foibles and get wrapped up in the story. I give the recording a lukewarm three stars.	2002-03-25
US	52203333	R15THPXUSC61DY	067946302X	754868365	Never Mind Nirvana: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not Quite Hornby, but Entertaining	You have to give author Mark Lindquist credit here for writing about subject matter that is familiar to him, since he is obviously immersed in Seattle's music scene, and as a special prosecutor he knows what he is talking about when discussing the prosecution of a rape case as well. I think if one approaches this book with an understanding of what it is, and what it is not, it may be a worthwhile read to many readers.<br />First, although the comparisons to Nick Hornby's High Fidelity are inevitable, this book doesn't quite measure up. Hornby's book was full of meaningful musical references most of us could get - when Rob was ripping U2, or putting some Motown R&B artists on his turntable, the reader could relate. Here, in Never Mind Nirvana, readers might get a little overwhelmed with the attention to detail given Seattle's 1990's grunge scene, since most of us don't know Temple of the Dog from Mother Love Bone. <br />Plus, in Hornby's book, the other characters have a lot more depth to them, especially the female ones. Here, women are seen more as targets for pick-up efforts by protagonist Pete Tyler and his prosecuting sidekick Scott Foss. Accordingly this book really strikes me as a guy book, that I would recommend to male friends but not females. Some reviewers have complained that the date rape trial which sets the plot in motion is given short thrift, and I must say the courtroom scenes were some of my favorite in the novel, but I don't think Lindquist set out to write a courtroom thriller about that subject. He set out to write a book about a 37 year old former rocker who is forced, by this case, to reassess his lifestyle and attitudes toward women. <br />As for the ending, which some have called unsatisfying, I thought the book ended perfectly.  Hollywood might tie things up a little more neatly if they ever adapted this to the screen, but I found the end of the novel dead on and consistent with the preceding chapters. <br />A couple of final trivial complaints. Lindquist uses smoking and drinking a little too much, like a writer's crutch, having Pete and his companions constantly reaching for a Camel or a scotch every two pages to give them something to do. I was getting headaches just imagining the smell of stale smoke and scotch whiskey. Also, while every character he meets seems to remember Pete and his band Morph, at one point several people in a club confuse a band member from Alice in Chains for a guy from Pearl Jam. In Seattle, we are to believe fans recognize a bassist from Morph and yet mistake a member of Pearl Jam? Finally, I found the present tense narrative style a little unsettling at the start, but once the novel got going I quickly settled into the author's pace and forgot about it.<br />In summary, I enjoyed Mark's book and read it very quickly (perfect airplane reading I might add). Had Lindquist concentrated a little more on the other characters, and a little less on obscure Seattle nightclubs and artists foreign to most of us, he'd be basking in more 5 star reviews.	2002-02-11
US	52203333	R1HGLDJMQY213B	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Very Good Historical Novel	I was turned on to this book by an Amazon reviewer who compared A Conspiracy of Paper favorably with Iain Pears' masterpiece, An Instance of the Fingerpost. While I still believe Pears' labrynth masterpiece of Restoration Oxford to be the superior novel, I was tremendously impressed with this book, especially as a first novel.<br />A Conspiracy of Paper is narrated by Benjamin Weaver, a Jewish ex-boxer living in London who has abandoned a life of crime, and who now makes his living chasing down debtors and generally \\"righting wrongs\\" for hire. He is like an early 18th century Travis McGee, smart enough to keep himself generally out of trouble, with friends and contacts in London's seemier neighborhoods. Plus, being an ex-boxer, he is not above beating information out of a recalcitrant character here and there, although he seems to try and avoid brutality wherever possible.<br />Weaver is hired early in the novel by nobleman Sir Owen, to retrieve some embarrassing letters in the possession of a prostitute which could reveal Owen's venereal disease to his bride-to-be. At around the same time, Weaver is retained to look into the apparent suicide of a businessman, Balfour, by his haughty son. The elder Balfour died within weeks of Weaver's own father, who was killed by an errant hackney. Are these cases related? Are the deaths of Balfour and Weaver's father connected to some secret about the financial markey they learned? Were they both murdered? The answers to these questions embroil Weaver, and the reader, in the early days of the British Stock Market, and the business of \\"stock jobbing\\", a term I suppose would relate to modern arbitragers.<br />Liss has obviously done his research, as the book jacket makes clear, and he steers the reader effortlessly through London's stock market, bawdy gin joints, coffeehouses and gambling dens of 1719. The narrative style is breezy and quick - the characters speak in a genteel tone reminiscent of the early 18th century, but the language is never difficult or arcane. To keep the reader informed and up to date, Weaver periodically summarizes his progress and poses questions to his friend and playright Elias, whose appearance in the novel was always a refreshing change of pace from the tight-lipped stock jobbers populating much of the story. Weaver never lets the reader forget that he is an outsider, a Jew in a society where Jews may not own realty, and where they are looked upon with disdain by many of the same noblemen who profit greatly by their dealings at \\"Exchange Alley.\\"<br />Ultimately, there were some interesting twists and turns of the plot, but after 400 pages the payoff at the end wasn't quite as shocking or fulfilling as perhaps I was hoping. I also didn't quite understand why, if the exploits of \\"Martin Rochester\\" were so well-known among jobbers at the Alley, only one person answered Weaver's anonymous ad. In summary, perhaps it is unfair to compare a book about early 17th century financial markets to a book like Instance of the Fingerpost, which dealt with juicier themes such as religious heresy, political intrigue and treason, medical breakthroughs, and the restoration of Charles to the throne after Cromwell's death, among others, narrated by 4 very different characters. Liss' book is nevertheless an engaging read, perfectly capturing an oft-ignored period and making a rather dry subject more interesting than I would have ever expected. If Liss comes up just short of Palliser's Quincunx or Pears' Fingerpost, he is nevertheless legitimately mentioned in excellent company. An enthusiastic thumbs up.	2002-02-11
US	52203333	R19Z02MIBZ1N15	0736623523	369857007	Rip Van Winkle & Other Stories By Washington Irving	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The First Great American Storyteller	Washington Irving has been called the father of American Literature, and without a doubt he appears to be one of the first great storytellers of our nation, later succeeded by Mark Twain in the late 19th century.  Irving's wonderful tales, presented here in a superb audio reading, remind us why Irving has been so immensely popular for 200 years.<br />The stories are quite diverse, and many take place in foreign locales such as Germany, Paris, and the Alhambra in Spain.  However readers will be most familiar with Irving's classic tales of the  Catskills and Hudson River Valley, Rip Van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.  For readers familiar with Tim Burton's recent gothic interpretation of the latter story, you may be surprised to learn that Irving's tale is more of a period piece about the battle for the affection of a young lady (Katrina Van Tassel) then a murder mystery starring the legendary headless horseman.  And while a modern reader might get a little tired of hearing about the culinary delicacies which tempted schoolteacher Ichabod Crane, anybody would enjoy the detailed settings and timeless narrative style employed in these tales.<br />Irving had a knack for effectively setting the scene for a story, describing the bend of the great river and the hamlets (such as Tareytown) which are depicted in these tales.  I believe they are best enjoyed in audio format, where a typical 30 minute commute might enable you to hear a single story during one sitting.  These tales are well-read by Donada Peters, whose voice struck me as a cross between Angela Lansbury and Vanessa Redgrave.  These tales are timeless, and while some tales are certainly better than others ( I thought the Tale of the Mason was pretty weak in particular) there is something to enjoy in each of them.	2002-02-05
US	52203333	R1AGUFR6WX79DX	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	18	28	N	N	Occasionally brilliant, but heartless and cold	I suppose any serious reader of post-modern fiction has to come to grips with Don DeLillo, one of the most celebrated novelists of the past 20 years in the U.S.   You have to give the author credit, no two of his books are remotely alike, and he tackles some heavy themes in White Noise, including death and fear of dying, as well as the emptiness of contemporary culture. I also appreciated the fact that White Noise does have some semblance of a plot, unlike the meandering mess Underworld.  <br />In White Noise, we are presented with the lives of Jack Gladney and his family, a modern American family complete with stepchildren from other marriages, adolescents and toddlers, etc. Jack teaches Hitler Studies at a small college, and is secretly ashamed that the nation's foremost Hitler expert cannot speak German.  His wife Babette teaches such esoteric topics as good posture and eating habits (ie. don't recline right after eating, and avoid swimming for at least an hour, etc.).  Babette also reads to the blind, although in a nice ironic twist she reads supermarket tabloid magazines to her blind listener.<br />Both Babette and Jack are gripped with an intense fear of death, and their battles to deal with mortality provide a good part of the novel's action.  While Babette suffers quietly and intently with her fears, lapsing into depression and forgetfulness, Jack walks around the campus having scholarly debates with his colleague Murray as they discuss the problem.  The appearance of a huge toxic cloud in their town, referred to as the \\"Airborne Toxic Event\\", brings all these fears to the forefront.<br />So why the lukewarm response?  Even though I thought certain passages of the book were brilliant, I couldn't help feeling frustrated at large passages of White Noise.  The characters all talk in a wooden, stale dialogue style that frankly got old very fast.  Jack and his son Heinrich have philosophical dialogues such as one maddening discourse as to whether it is raining, including wondering \\"what is rain?  How can we tell it is raining here when we are in a moving car?,\\" etc.  Enough is enough!  <br />Plus, except for the little tyke Wilder, all of the characters sounded the same to me. The kids seemed too smart and cynical for their age, and they all sounded alike. Every time a character makes an observation, the other characters in the scene attack the point from all angles, asking a series of questions as if you were back in Philosophy 101.  There is never any small talk, noone ever lets a point go unchallenged.<br />When Jack wishes to get intimate with his wife, the two of them sit in bed arguing over who will read erotic passages from books to whom, and what will they read. It sounded something like: \\"What should I read?  Whatever you like.  I want to read whatever pleases you.  I like whatever pleases YOU.\\"  After a while you want someone to grab a gun.  Jack also refers to his wife in the third person constantly, telling her: \\" This is not why I married Babette.\\"  Can the dialogue of two people, even a professor and his wife, possibly be this dull?<br />I know the novel is a satire, and so certain allowances have to be made for a novel attempting to trivialize American society, but some of the plot devices just struck me as odd and ineffective.  During a climatic trip to Germantown late in the novel, we are presented about seven times with a point by point summary of Jack's great \\"plan\\" for revenge.  You are constantly confronted with these little eccentricities, which seemed at times like a novelist trying a little too hard to be clever.	2002-01-27
US	52203333	R39RSKL8BJ9SE5	0743230000	845143749	Pafko at the Wall: A Novella	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A good read but why bother?	Having suffered through all of Underworld, and having concluded that I should have stopped reading right after the excellent prologue (which essentially comprises this book), I was amused to see that DeLillo has released this as a \\"novella\\".  Compelling reading to be sure, but why bother?<br />I suppose this book is easier to carry around and read in bed than the beginning of Underworld, amounting to less than a hundred pages.  But it is difficult to justify spending good money on a prologue to a longer novel with an eerie, attractive cover depicting the World Trade Center, that can be found for less money on bookstore bargain racks throughout the country.  Like P.T. Barnum once said,  . . . \\"there's a sucker born every minute.\\"	2002-01-24
US	52203333	R2MW1L6Q1UTARC	0316781142	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Ultimately a Waste of Time	I can understand the dichotomy of opinions about this book, and throughout the reading process my own preceptions sifted from being wrapped up in Shreve's talented prose, and enthralled at her depictions (especially of Kenya), to ultimately being very disappointed.  <br />The book is essentially a three part story of an over-powering, but doomed, love affair between two talented writers who meet at a literary festival in Toronto in their 50's.  The first part of the novel takes place at the festival, the middle section goes back to their adventures in Kenya decades earlier, and the ending brings us back to their adolescence in Massachussets.  So why all the hubbub?<br />Well I won't give away the ending, most of you who have read several of the reviews here can probably read between the lines and figure it out anyway but I won't be the one to spoil it.  Suffice to say that at least to me, after reading the last page of the novel and racing toward this &quot;big surprise ending&quot; much touted by the press, I was struck with the feeling that the entire novel was a skillfully-worded waste of time, a trick played upon the unsuspecting reader that forces the novel to ultimately crumble upon itself.<br />I am not always a fan of net tidy endings, I love to be surprised and blown away by an ending that makes sense within the confines of the rest of the book.  Charles Palliser's &quot;The Unburied&quot; was such a book.  Patrick McGrath's books are seldom tied up in a bundle.  A reviewer above from Nashville pointed out how Cold Mountain ended in agonizing fashion, but brilliantly, and I agree.  But here, recognizing as I do that all characters in novels are merely figment's of an author's imagination anyway, the thing just doesn't hold up.  You put down the book at the end and say &quot;what have I been reading for a week?&quot; <br />So anyway, see for yourself if you dare, enjoy the depths of the passion between Linda and Thomas at various times in their lives (whichsometimes struck this reader as a little overblown and &quot;Harlequin Romance-esque), and when you are done come back to these reviews and let us know how you feel.  I bet you feel cheated.	2002-01-23
US	52203333	R1T2S2QMIGNFO5	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great tale of cold war Berlin	The Innocent is my first encounter with the writing of Ian McEwan, whose considerable storytelling abilities have been applauded here by several Amazon reviewers.  The Innocent was a great read, a novel of post-World War II cold war intrigue in Berlin that is largely based upon a real-life event, the digging of a tunnel to intercept Soviet telephone communications.<br />Unlike some other &quot;international espionage&quot; writers like Lawrence Sanders or Ken Follett, McEwan is primarily interested in the lives and thoughts of his characters - the real-life historical context for the actions of these fictional people is an added bonus.  The novel chiefly concerns British communications specialist Leonard Marnham, a young, naive agent who never lived on his own before, having just left his parents' house to come to Berlin.  The maturation and loss of innocence of Marnham is the primary theme of the book, and I loved his daily letters back to his parents as he lived this wild existence in Germany, tapping Soviet phone lines and carrying on an affair with a beautiful German women he meets at a bar.<br />The novel also touches upon some interesting themes involving the decline of Britain's influence in the post-war world, as the Americans come in and virtually take over the tunnel project.  Britain and the U.S., although allies with a common purpose here, refuse to share information and generally mistrust each other.  <br />I thought the novel moved along at a nice rapid pace, with considerable suspense after the return of Maria's ex-husband spoils the idyllic mood.  I won't give away the ending but I loved McEwan's use of a letter, and Leonard's return to Berlin decades later, as a fitting conclusion to the book.  Four stars for a well-written, suspenseful novel.	2001-12-21
US	52203333	R3AAABMQVWQMUT	0679433724	420008687	Waterworks	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting Setting, could have been better	I recently finished the audio version of this book, well-read by veteran actor Sam Waterston, and have to say that while I enjoyed Doctorow's portrait of 1870's New York City I thought there was some sizeable gaps in the plot.<br />Without giving away too much of the story, the novel is narrated by a NYC newspaper editor, whose main &quot;free lance&quot; reporter Martin Pemberton has recently disappeared.  Martin is young, engaged to be married, and is the son of the late Augustus Pemberton, who is alleged to have made his fortune in slave trading and price-gouging during the Civil War.  After Martin confronts his father in a scathing school essay, he is ultimately disinherited.  Now, shortly before Martin disappears, he tells McIlvaine (the narrator editor) that he saw his late father riding in a great coach in Manhattan.<br />That all seems spooky and mysterious enough, and Doctorow skillfully reveals secrets as the story unfolds, but for me the real beauty of the novel is the depiction of NYC in the 1870's, dominated by Boss Tweed and his corrupt municipal police force, judges, senators, etc.  At the time of the novel Tweed's influence is starting to slip a little, and towards the end Tweed's exploits in Cuba, which had little to do with the story, were nonetheless entertaining.  However like many aspects of the plot, the political network and influence of Tweed was touched upon fairly superficially, without a lot of detail to enjoy.<br />Everything is tied up quite nicely at the end, perhaps a little too abruptly, but I was a little confused as to certain aspects of the novel.  What exactly happened to Martin, as opposed to the kids at the orphanage?  Why was the police informer who robbed the paperboys killed?  <br />In any event, for those of you who like historical novels, The Waterworks may appeal to you and certainly had some fascinating passages.  Doctorow is a skilled writer, even when not at his best.  If you haven't read anything by this author though,I would start with Billy Bathgate or maybe Ragtime first.	2001-12-20
US	52203333	R1NATMWYEMSJBN	0385021747	65629381	In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash	Books	3	7	15	N	N	I was disappointed	I thought this book was going to be a sure thing, as any huge fan of the movie &quot;A Christmas Story&quot; would think as he picked up the book upon which it was partially based. In the beginning passages of In God We Trust, we are treated to some of the great moments from the excellent holiday film, including Ralphie's desperate wish for a Red Ryder pump action bb gun for Christmas, his father's legendary battles with the basement furnace, and the delivery of dad's &quot;major award&quot;, a lamp resembling a cabaret dancer's sensuous leg. <br />But then the fictional memoir seems to veer off track, and by the end I had trouble staying interested. The novel is narrated by an adult Ralph, who has come back to his boyhood home of Hohman Indiana and finds his old friend Flick tending a neighborhood bar. Viewers of the film may remember Flick as the poor recipient of a &quot;double dog dare&quot;, who stuck his tongue to a frozen pole with dire consequences. The form of the novel is loose to say the least, and we are treated to Ralph's reminisces including a passage about trying to pick up girls at a New York art musuem, as well as a painstakingly boring chapter about a man who bought excessive fireworks for the Fourth of July and blew up the mighty &quot;Dago Bomb.&quot; <br />Quite simply, some of the stories (especially those portrayed in the movie) worked quite well, other times Shepherd's humor missed its mark. Maybe I am a little sentimental, and want Ralphie to perpetually stay about 12 years old, terrorized by bullies, and desperately wishing for his gun. However those of you who are expecting a book full of childhood reminisces like those portrayed in A Christmas Story may be disappointed like I was.	2001-12-20
US	52203333	R3C2Q4IISD5AR4	0425180433	817508098	Ten Thousand Islands (A Doc Ford Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A solid effort	This has been my first encounter with White and his Doc Ford novels, and it surely won't be the last.  White has written a compelling novel, loosely based upon some tragic events in the history of FLorida's southwest coast.  In the 1960's, a teen with a remarkable knack for unearthing ancient Calusa Indian artifacts committed suicide under very odd circumstances,  after uncovering a mysterious relic.  White takes that premise and weaves a compelling mystery involivng corrupt politicians, ruthless developers, gothic punk teens, graverobbing, etc.  <br />White is a fishing guide in Fort Myers, and so he and his protagonist Doc Ford seem most at home on or near the water, where much of this novel takes place.  There are also sojourns in the Florida Keys, Marco Island, and of course Dinkins Bay, where Doc makes his living in odd fashion collecting marine specimens when he is not risking life and limb on the heels of a mystery.  White is a fine writer, not exactly a master of dialogue but someone who effectively builds suspense while creating a very effective and believable environment.	2001-11-27
US	52203333	R1LALU44LDQ7AD	1556906536	76659216	Shiloh	Books	3	14	21	N	N	A rare miss for Shelby Foote	Fans of Shelby Foote's massive three volume Narrative History of the Civil War, (and I am the work's biggest fan), will surely find something they like in Foote's earlier novel about the battle of Shiloh.  I couldn't help thinking, however, that Foote's real calling is as historian and commentator, and his effort to write a novel here seems to be a bit off the mark.<br />Perhaps unfairly, novels of the Civil War tend to get compared to Michael Shaara's brilliant Killer Angels, a comparison that does not bode well for Shiloh.  Here Foote tries to tell the story of the battle by providing first person narratives by a number of foot soldiers and adjutants, who often spend most of the battle lost, since I think Foote was trying to portray the confusion of this first great battle of the Civil War, with about 100,000 soldiers on the field and almost 25% casualties.  However his narrative style ends up creating a jumbled mess, with no interaction between the characters, and not enough personal insight to make the reader remember or care about any of the narrators.  <br />It seemed to me that Foote the historian is effectively telling the history of the battle and providing  biographical info of certain major players, like Albert Sidney Johnston, Ulysses Grant and Nathan Bedford Forrest, and he occasionally throws in a forced reference to a girlfriend back home or a memory from school to remind the reader this is a novel.  In particular the very beginning, where assistants tell the reader all about the history of Generals Johnston and Grant (under whom they supposedly serve), seemed contrived.  If you enjoyed the campfire banter of Lee and Longstreet in Killer Angels, or the heroic determination of Lewis Armistead to do his duty without harming his good friend Winfield Hancock, you will find nothing comparable here.<br />I should point out that the audio version of this book had an excellent afterword by the author, where Foote puts the battle in context, discusses his views on literature and especially literature about war, and recounts a trip to Shiloh battlefield he made with William Faulkner in 1952 around the 90th anniversary of the battle.  Here is Foote at his finest, spinning a yarn and discussing topics including &quot;Grant was drunk&quot; - (which he denies) and &quot;Grant was surprised&quot; (Foote thinks surely he was, which is a testament to his genius as a general).  The excellent afterword, which I enjoyed a lot more than novel, elevated this audio set to 3 1/2 stars in my opinion.	2001-11-27
US	52203333	R26XJNASAYLPOO	0345408918	332926083	For Love of the Game	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Introspective and moving	This book, found in manuscript form among the author's papers after his death, is like an ode to the purity of the game of baseball.  The protagonist, Billy Chapel, is a throwback to the old glory days of the sport, when players spent their whole careers with one team, and had annual meetings with the team owner to iron out next year's contract.  <br />Chapel is about to take the mound at the end of his 17th big-league season, for a losing team, playing before 80,000 fans in Yankee Stadium (must have been the old, larger House that Ruth built) against a team desperately needing the win for a playoff berth.  Amidst personal crisis (Chapel hears a rumor that he's been traded, and his girlfriend is destined to marry another), he tries to block out everything and go out in style, giving it all he's got for one majestic, final game.<br />The book is written like an internal monologue, and especially in between innings Chapel reminisces about childhood, about his chance encounter with the beautiful Carol and their amorous adventures together, and about his departed parents.  The scene of Billy pretending to sleep in the backseat of his folks' car, while they marvel at his talent and discuss how special he is, was especially moving.  Chapel is so introspective that he is essentially roused out of his reverie to take the mound each inning by his catcher and best friend Gus. <br />I liked the interplay between the baseball game and the dream-like flashbacks, although readers should understand that this is more than just a novel about baseball.  Themes such as solitude, grace under pressure, camaraderie between the pitcher and catcher, and the recognition that Billy is an aging athlete playing what could be his last game are all explored in moving detail.  I read the book this past week, against the backdrop of a classic game 7 World Series matchup between two old warhorses Clemens and Schilling, and could appreciate even more the way pitchers ignore the pain and lay it all on the line in big games.  Shaara, whose masterpiece &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; explored the psyche of civil war veterans like Lee, Longstreet, Armistead and Hancock, does a good job getting inside the head of a hall of fame pitcher.  The book is also nice and short, susceptible of being completed in one long sitting if desired.  While some of his references may seem a bit dated (like athletes listening to Neil Diamond tapes the night before a game), the book is a winner.	2001-11-07
US	52203333	R2V8NR1EIR34Y8	0553574477	619244799	Armadillos & Old Lace	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Nice change of pace for Kinky	This book was a nice change of pace for Kinky, since he got out of NY and the somewhat claustrophobic environment of his little flat on Vandam Street.  Here Kinky goes back to the family kids ranch run by his dad in Texas, where he plans to help out and relax for the summer until he is dragged into a weird case involving old ladies dying under suspicious circumstances, all on their 76th birthday.  With the help of a talking car and a former political rival, Kinky forges ahead and battles bees, society women and hermits to save the day. <br />Kinky is his usual cigar-chomping, Jameson's swilling self, but with a tad more tenderness and a bit less sarcasm since he spends a lot of time around kids in this book, and the setting brings about some much-needed nostalgia.  Friedman is always funny, but in a very jaded way, so it was nice to read about his character reminiscing about childhood and his family a bit.<br />As for the mystery, like all Friedman books it is almost secondary to the author's trademark wit and uncanny observances.  I did enjoy seeing Kinky work his way through a mystery without having Rambam (his professional PI friend) solve the whole thing for him.  While some readers will miss the NY setting and long for more action involving the Village Irregulars, I for one enjoyed a respite from Ratso.  4 stars for an enjoying, very readable Kinky Friedman book.	2001-11-05
US	52203333	R2TCDPZPCFE787	0486275523	454318525	The Beast in the Jungle and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An engrossing tale	Henry James' Beast in the Jungle is surely not for everyone, there is little action in the novella (I suppose that is the point actually) and the title could give readers the wrong idea.  John Marcher, the protagonist, is re-aquainted with May Bartram, a woman he knew ten years earlier, who remembers his odd secret- Marcher is seized with the belief that his life is to be defined by some catastrophic or spectacular event, lying in wait for him like a &quot;beast in the jungle.&quot;<br />May decides to take a flat nearby in London, and to spend her days with Marcher curiously awaiting what fate has in stall for John.  Of course Marcher is a self-centered egoist, believing that he is precluded from marrying so that he does not subject his wife to his &quot;spectacular fate&quot;.  So he takes May to the theatre and invites her to an occasional dinner, while not allowing her to really get close to him for her own sake.  As he sits idly by and allows the best years of his life to pass, he takes May down as well, until the denouement wherein he learns that the great misfortune of his life was to throw it away, and to ignore the love of a good woman, based upon his preposterous sense of foreboding.  <br />James' language can be a bit stilted at times, and some of the dialogue may strike modern readers as out-dated.  However James was a master of the novella format, and with The Beast in the Jungle he has written an engrossing psychological drama, which left me speechless at the very end. Pick up a collection that  also includes The Turn of the Screw and Daisy Miller if you haven't already read them, they are accessible (more so than some of James' full length novels) and great examples of the format's potential.	2001-10-23
US	52203333	R3OPN3BILTD2B7	0802133606	173110939	Shear (Parks, Tim)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Over-analytical and tedious	Some writers can do a lot with a bare premise for a plot, expertly weaving interesting subplots and characters around in a mosaic that captures the reader's imagination even though the reader may ultimately remember little of the story.  William Gay and Richard Russo are examples.  Other writers, like Tim Parks, take what should be very entertaining premises for novels and turn them into psychological tales of guilt and deception, sapping almost all of the entertainment out of a good story.  Shear is an example.<br />I had previously read Europa by Tim Parks, and while that book didn't overwhelm me I recognized Parks' writing skills and thought I should give him another try, considering the acclaim he receives in England and elsewhere.  Having read Shear, I have to face the fact that maybe he just isn't my type of author.  Shear takes place on a sunswept Mediterranean island, although we seldom learn very much about our setting other than that.  The protagonist is geologist Peter Nicholson, sent from his home office to investigate a rock quarry and to write a report explaining a slab's collapse in a construction project that killed a worker in Australia.<br />Peter is not a terribly sympathetic character, he brought his 22 year old mistress Margaret along for a little fun in the sun, (he is 40 with a pregnant wife and kids at home).  Peter receives a fax from his wife announcing her pregnancy, and much of what constitutes &quot;drama&quot; in the novel surrounds Peter's guilt at his inexplicable failure to respond, by phone or even by fax, to his wife's announcement.  Peter is desperate to prolong his relationship with young Margaret, sensing that she is about through with him, and yet he wastes no time in bedding a beautiful interpreter on the island named Thea, even as he realizes she was probably put in his path to soften the blow of his report on the construction mishap.<br />You would think with all this infidelity, and with the drama surrounding a contructionaccident (the widow from Australia shows up demanding answers, and determined to find a guilty  scapegoat), that the plot would be fast-paced and dramatic.  Wrong.  Parks endlessly piles on these rock metaphors, and spends so much time exploring Peter's guilty psyche that basically every other character is simply along for the ride.  <br />We care little for Margaret or Thea, cause the author barely describes them. At times, when Peter is crawling in or out of bed with one of them, I had to go back a page or two to find out which girl he was sleeping with presently.  We know nothing of how the affair with Margaret got started, and have no real visual picture of any character in the novel.  As for setting, Joseph Conrad in Nostromo made his Central American mining locale a principal player in the story;  here there is nothing very unique or memorable in the locale. <br />The book was relatively short, at about 200 pages, but seemed longer to me since after about 25 pages a night I put it down.  Many love Park's psychological style, as the editorial reviews and positive Amazon feedback attests, but in this reviewer's humble opinion Shear was a swing and a miss.	2001-10-18
US	52203333	R1YJK6S165WN4C	0671582801	499305285	Gates of Eden	Books	4	2	3	N	N	If you like his movies...	If you like Ethan Coen's wacky films, and I am among their biggest fans, then you are bound to enjoy most if not all of the subject stories.  Unlike most audio collections, these stories are narrated by many of the actors who have starred in Coen Brothers films such as William H. Macy, John Goodman, John Turturro and Steve Buscemi.  I thought that was a great touch, and unlike another reviewer here I thoroughly enjoyed the vocal talents, never sensing that the stars had been quickly handed the stories and told to &quot;read&quot; by the director.  <br />As for the tales themselves, they were each very different, and ranged from typical Coen brothers slapstick crime stories to poignant tales of growing up Jewish in Minneapolis.  I really enjoyed &quot;Destiny&quot;,the story of an over-educated boxer with no fighting spirit, narrated by Matt Dillon, who becomes hopelessly involved in a battle between a couple of two bit hoods while getting pummeled throughout the story.  &quot;The Boys&quot;, a story of a father struggling to maintain his sanity on a camping trip with his two sons really struck a chord as well, since Coen displays his typical caustic wit and dead-on observations of family relationships.  <br />The stories are not for everyone, sometimes the language can get a little coarse (especially the Steve Buscemi narrated &quot;Have You Ever Been to Electric Ladyland&quot;, involving a music industry executive who tries telling the police the myriad of enemies who might have tortured his dog), and those easily offended may want to look elsewhere.  Even here Coen's biting sarcasm is evident, as he skewers thinly-veiled real stars including Cat Stevens.  <br />Overall, while Coen may never push writers like Raymond Carver out of the pantheon of American Short Story writers, these tales are an amusing bunch, made more entertaining by the considerable vocal talents of each of the narrators.  I recommend you give them a try, especially in audio format. The people inthe next car will wonder what you are grinning about.	2001-10-11
US	52203333	R2JY95VNFZJ3BI	1573221937	319964836	How To Be Good	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good idea that went off-track	I had read so many average and downright negative reviews of this novel, I started it quite convinced I would hate it and for awhile I was entertained to my surprise. You have to give Hornby some credit, he wrote two quite similar books, High Fidelity and About a Boy, which for all their differences both involved mid-30's male slackers as protagonists who lacked direction, but who were undoubtedly hip. In fact, the latter novel largely involved an attempt by the narrator to befriend an awkward kid and teach him to be in tune with contemporary culture, ie listening to Nirvana instead of Joni Mitchell.<br />Here, in How to Be Good, Hornby tackles new territory - a contemporary marriage, complete with boredom, adultery and guilt over the effect of the strife on the kids. He also uses a female narrator, Katie Carr, who keeps reminding us throughout the novel that she must be a good person because she is a doctor (even though I know certain categories of folks, including nurses and trial lawyers, who don't necessarily believe doctors walk on water all the time). <br />As the novel begins, Katie is having an affair, and is bored silly with her marriage to David, the self-proclaimed \\"Angriest Man in Holloway\\" who writes a scathing column in a local paper while lackadaisically working on an awful novel. David, on a whim, decides to visit a faith healer for help with his back pain, since none of his wife's traditional remedies has done him any good. He meets the odd DJ Good News, a man with a healing touch and radical ideas about how one should live your life in contemporary society. <br />Soon, amidst the chaos of a marital split, Good News is moving into David and Katie's house, to the dismay of their son Tom, and begins transforming their family life and ideas about worldly possessions. I thought the novel raises some interesting (and perhaps troubling) questions, such as why should a family have several computers while the local orphanage has none, and why should each family on the block have one or more empty bedrooms when there are so many homeless in London. Throughout it all, the novel explores the capacity for people to stop, re-evaluate their belief systems, and radically change their lives. David gives away toys and computers belonging to his kids, and when he sees a homeless guy on the street after a night out at the theater, gives the guy virtually everything in his wallet. Noble indeed, but it also means he and his wife have no cabfare to get home. Try that trick next time you are out with your spouse, and see what happens.<br />I think David's single-mindedness of purpose, and the blind devotion to the cause of his goody two shoes daughter Molly, were the factors that ultimately soured me on the last half of the novel. I don't know whether Hornby meant to write an absurdist novel, a la Thomas Berger, but it ultimately appeared that way. At one point, David and Katie are to attend a counseling session to try and salvage their marriage, and David wants to bring along DJ Good News because of his insights into relationships. Come on! And the appearance of Katie's lover at her house, in an attempt to win her away (or at least get her attention), was for me absurd. <br />If you look carefully you will notice Hornby's trademark wit, like his hilarious observation about Lee Harvey Oswald early in the novel, but ultimately he can't seem to pull off the weighty themes that he tackled in the novel's first half and his characters seem to spin out of control. Hornby fans will find passages they really enjoy, but for newcomers tackle High Fidelity and About a Boy first, they are superior in my opinion.	2001-10-10
US	52203333	R2Z57O2KFU49TG	0694522805	270121541	All The Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lean and spare	Like many readers, this much-heralded book has been my first encounter with the writing of Cormac McCarty. I enjoyed the novel, as narrated by Frank Muller, but I am going to walk, not necessarily run, to pick up the remaining volumes of McCarthy's &quot;border trilogy&quot; since this novel left me wanting a little more. <br />The tale is simple- John Grady Cole, a 16 year old Texan, leaves his home when the family decides to sell their marginally-profitable cattle ranch. He sets off for Mexico with his buddy Lacey Rawlins, with little more than the clothes on their back and a couple of sound horses. Along the way they encounter the younger, boastful runaway Jimmy Blevins, who is a great marksman but is terrified of lightning, and Blevins and his beautiful Bay mare tag along with dire consequences.<br />Lacey and Cole end up at a hacienda in Mexico where their hard work and considerable skills in the horse arena earn them the respect of the ranch, and where Cole falls in love with the owner's beautiful daughter. Although I won't give away any more of the plot, at times there is little plot to give away, as McCarthy often spends pages describing the sparse, dusty landscape or recounting the beans and tortillas eaten by our heroes seemingly at every meal. <br />The narration here by Muller is excellent, as he convincingly changes voices for every character and appears to speak in a convincing Mexican accent for the non-gringo characters. This was one of my pet peeves however, since there are fairly long dialogues in Spanish, which were largely lost on me with my mostly-forgotten, high school grade Spanish ability.<br />Also, Cole seems almost supernaturally cool and brave for a 16 year old kid, especially given the circumstances in which he is thrust by the author. Finally, while we hear minute details about landscape, meals, care and feeding of the horses, etc. throughout the novel, at times seemingly relevant details are left out. What happened to Cole's father forexample? It seems like Cole, at the end of the novel, didn't deem it important enough to ask, as he was more interested in the welfare of the poor former employees of his family's ranch. McCarthy can definitely tell a story, and I have heard that Blood Meridian is one of the best American novels of the past twenty years, but I suspect All the Pretty Horses is not necessarily his best work. I rate it a generous 4 stars, 3 1/2 if they'd let me.	2001-10-10
US	52203333	R3CS85E0K71J2	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A quick, suspenseful read	This was my first experience with Kathy Hepinstall, having read Absence of Nectar on the recommendation of my wife, who really enjoyed the suspenseful coming-of-age tale set in Texas. I must say I enjoyed the novel too, a suspenseful, captivating novel narrated by precocious eleven year old Alice. She lives with her mom, Meg, and older brother Boone together with stepfather Simon Jester. Meg is a beekeeper, and the gradual loss of her hives and death or abandonment of her bees (hence the title) obviously symbolize the disintegration of her family life.<br />We learn that Meg's husband (and the kids' father) has left, and that Simon had saved Meg from drowning at the local lake a while back. The kids come to believe that Simon is evil, that he plans to poison them, and they disbelieve his fantastic story about how he lost his own family in a drowning accident years earlier. Meg seems blissfully ignorant and believes they are imagining things, until one night (early in the novel) when she comes into their room and quietly whispers that they had better run. <br />The novel then takes many interesting plot twists, which I will of course not give away, keeping the reader entertained at all times. Hepinstall writes clearly, effectively setting the mood and the desperation felt by the two kids as their world crumbles around them. The book had its quirky aspects to be sure -I thought 11 year old Alice was a bit too precocious in her observations, (her reactions and thoughts always struck me as being those of a much older kid), and the mother Meg seemed a little too clueless and disbelieving for a long time, willing to believe Simon and discount anything the kids tell her about her new husband. <br />All in all, this is a strong effort, and for fans of the author who read and liked her debut The House of Gentle Men, you are bound to like The Absence of Nectar.  The subject matter will not appeal to everyone however, this is indeed a pretty bleak vision.	2001-09-17
US	52203333	R23PTDQIJCMH4D	0679434666	119887520	Stars in Their Courses: The Gettysburg Campaign (UNABRIDGED)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent account of Gettysburg	This book, distilled from Foote's excellent three part Narrative History of the Civil War, is the single best account of Gettysburg to my knowledge.  (Incidentally, the copy I listened to was the unabridged version, and the descriptions here at Amazon seem to differ as to whether this is an abridged or unabridged work so be careful).<br />Foote is a master storyteller, and listening to the gripping account of the battle in his clear, conversational voice made the words come alive for me, reminding me why I liked Ken Burns' documentary so much.  For many, like myself, who own and have read Foote's masterful trilogy, perhaps there is not much new here that cannot be found by picking up the appropriate portions of his second larger volume.  However, by listening to the audio version of Stars in their Courses, you can re-immerse yourself in the Gettysburg campaign, and listen to this excellent account of the battle,  as well as the events leading up to it, to and from work in the author's own voice. <br />There are a few odd details, like Foote's strange insertion of battle drums on a couple of occasions, which is startling after listening to hours of him speaking.  Foote doesn't tell you when the side is over or when to change tapes, so you are always waiting for a minute or two to see whether the tape has indeed ended or a new subject begun. Also, since this is taken out of a larger work, occasionally we are introduced to characters that have been more presented, with biographical data, earlier in the Narrative History but not here.  It helps to have a passing understanding of many of the key figures in the battle, but it is not essential to enjoying the work as a whole.  Overall, these are trifling objections, and this audio book, at least in its unabridged format, is about as good as it gets.	2001-09-11
US	52203333	RG79YHV1L2P9H	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A confident first effort by a skilled writer	Chabon's first novel perfectly embodies the sharp wit and developing writing style of Michael Chabon.  I had read a few of his stories, but this was the first novel of his I have read and I am a new Chabon fan. <br />The book has been called a &quot;coming of age&quot; novel, and the bookjacket has comparisons, which I suppose are apropos, of Fitzgerald's &quot;This Side of Paradise.&quot;  But while Fitzgerald's book can get a little tiresome and stodgy, with the author periodically stopping to show off his writing talents at the expense of his story, The Mysteries of Pittsburgh is always a fun, enjoyable read that the reader can effectively breeze through.  <br />Narrator Art Bechstein is recently graduated from college, a likeable, educated but unmotivated guy who takes a job at a dreary bookstore and waits to see what the summer after his graduation has in store for him.  Going back to the school library to finish some work necessary to get his degree, he catches the eye of Phlox, an oddly-named girl with overdone makeup and dress but who has a certain attractive charm.  He also soon meets Arthus Lecomte, a young gay man who wants to be a foreign diplomat, and who has a knack for getting housesitting jobs.  Soon he is in a convertible with Arthur and the cheerful Mohammed, driving too fast in a small convertible that Art is careful not to fall out of, on their way to a party that effectively kicks off the action of the novel.  <br />The entire novel takes place in the course of the summer after Art's graduation, and there is a sense that the events of those few months will define Art as a person - his relationship with his gangster father, his ambiguous sexuality, and his relationship with the troubled and fascinating character Cleveland are all put to the test.  Without giving away too much of the plot, I was surprised by many of the plot turns and got very wrapped up in the characters, all of whom I thought were well-developed by Chabon.<br />Perhaps the greatest joy in reading the novel to me was humor and dead-on accuracy of the observations and descriptions interspersed throughout the book.  One reviewer hit the nail on the head when he said there was a precious little nugget of wit or wisdom on every page.  When describing the soulless bookstore where he takes a summer job, Boardwalk Books, narrator Art tells us the owners have no interest in the books they are peddling, that it is just &quot;merchandise&quot; to them, and he imagines conversations between the owners along the lines of &quot;What are we going to do with all these books?&quot; You can imagine an antiseptic Book Warehouse, with fifty copies of Vanna White's autobiography or the latest John Grisham thriller stacked to the ceiling.  When Art is inside quirky Phlox's apartment, with its crude cat sculpture and its cheap French prints, he decides to rejoice in its bad taste, like bowling alleys and Elvis.  <br />Chabon has a keen eye and a skill at storytelling which shines through on every page of this very successful  debut novel.	2001-09-10
US	52203333	R1SSVZ1QM8EE3D	0394470818	767981593	Murder at the Savoy	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Average Compared to Roseanna	This was my second contact with Sjowall and Wahloo's Martin Beck police detective novels, and while I like the taut no-nonsense style of these novels, I think this one falls quite a bit short of Roseanna.  In Murder at the Savoy, a wealthy businessman named Palmgren is shot in the head and killed while addressing a group of people at dinner in the elegant Savoy Hotel in Malmo, a Swedish coastal resort town.  The killer calmly escapes out the window and leaves the scene on a bicycle, and we learn that  nobody at the table got a decent look at the shooter.<br />Martin Beck is soon brought in from Stockholm, since the case has political repurcussions arising from Palmgren's shady business transactions, including international arms sales.  I was a little disappointed in the way the crime was solved, since Beck was ultimately a bit player in the novel, and the interplay between the various Malmo detectives was a little stale since the authors had not given us much background information.  I found myself getting confused between &quot;Larsson&quot; and &quot;Kollberg&quot;, and not much caring who was who.  <br />As usual with this series, the crimes are solved by thorough detective work, including chasing some leads that go nowhere, without a lot of contrivances in the plot like extended gunplay, strange coincidences or mystical psychic citizens who identify the killer through hypnosis.  I am not a detective, but it seems to me these novels give a more accurate account of how crimes are actually solved by municipal detectives.  All in all a pretty good read, suspenseful and engaging at times, but not up to the level of the authors' best.	2001-09-10
US	52203333	R3I7DUVNTANBMQ	0385491212	263764879	What Salmon Know	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Occasionally great, sometimes not so great	Like most collections of short stories, Reid's What Salmon Know runs the gamut in quality. His ten stories here all have male protagonists, many of whom live in Alaska and work with their hands, contemptuous of the tourists who flock to Alaska in the summer and shoot anything that moves or excitedly point at the grizzly bears from their seat on the motor coach.<br />I really liked some of the latter stories, including &quot;No Strings Attached&quot;, about a working class guy who is picked up in a grocery store by a beautiful girl who knows him, and who has an unusual living arrangement with her husband. &quot;Laura Borealis&quot; was another good one, named after a dancer who befriends our hero as he helps build a lodge for a wealthy divorced Texan who has escaped to Alaska following a nasty divorce. The Texan hires two carpenters, including our narrator and another guy with a reputation as having the foulest smelling dog in the state, from his habit of napping with his feet under the dog.<br />Some stories don't work so well, such as the last tale called &quot;Random Beatings and You&quot;, which uses a bizarre present tense narration style that served no purpose. The title story, &quot;What Salmon Know&quot;, reminded me of Reid's powerful novel Midnight Sun, in which two characters head up to a lodge in Alaska for some salmon fishing and encounter some brutal, clueless military guys who catch and then filet a live fish. Fans of tough guy short stories like Tom Franklin's Poachers and Larry Brown's Big Bad Love will undoubtedly find something here they like, as well as an occasional clunker.	2001-08-29
US	52203333	R2VXAKNRSDKBCA	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Another Russo Classic	Russo's latest novel, Empire Falls, is another master mosaic of small town life reminiscent of Nobody's Fool. After he punched out the very funny, obligatory Straight Man (it seems like most authors who teach on the side at one time are compelled to write an academic satire, a la Wonder Boys by Chabon and Moo by Smiley), Russo here returns to the small diners, old taverns and fading churches he depicted so well in Nobody's Fool and The Risk Pool. In fact this new novel reminded me so much of Nobody's Fool at times, I was expecting to encounter Hattie at the Empire Grill, or see Sully, Rub and Wirf sitting on barstools at Bea's bar. Having just finished this novel and having read some accolades in the New York Times and elsewhere, I am somewhat puzzled as to the lukewarm response given this book by Amazon readers. Narrations problems? rushed ending? in my humble opinion this novel was sweeping in saga, offering glimpses into infidelity,father-daugher relationships, family breakdowns, parental abuse, adolescence, the oppresive weight of lofty expectations and the guilt felt by Miles Roby knowing that he did exactly what his dying mother dreaded he would do, namely leave college and return to his hometown to work for old Mrs. Whiting. As in all Russo novels, he paints a picture of small town life with a very keen and detailed eye. The dialogue is pitch-perfect, and even the most minor characters are ingrained in your memory as real people, not just names on a page. You can picture Horace with the fibroid tumor protruding from his forehead, or ridiculous &quot;silver fox&quot; Walt Comeau in his muscle t-shirt, playing gin and forever asking Miles to arm wrestle him while he overtly takes Miles' wife and wonders why anyone would let her get away. Russo seems to understand exactly how priests, old men, teenagers, and concerned parents feel, and so his writing about these characters always has a ring of truth about it. Every now and then a scene unfolds, such as a high school football game in which Miles encounters an old pal who still lived in town and they wonder why they didn't stay in touch, and you just marvel at Russo's subtlety and his insight into human nature. If you are expecting another satire/spoof along the lines of Straight Man, you might be disappointed. There is humor in Empire Falls, but it is not laugh out loud funny. However if you are interested in a sweeping, well-written novel which explores relationships with genuine emotion, set in a realistic small town in Maine, you'll enjoy Empire Falls immensely. I hope we don't have to wait many years for Russo's next creation.	2001-08-28
US	52203333	R38C7D5AZ9BQ5	0736621652	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic Hemingway	There is a certain purity of language, a freshness of style present in The Sun Also Rises that is noticeably lacking in Hemingway's later works. As pointed out very capably by Mr. Mitchell in his earlier review, the plot of the novel itself is not likely to draw many readers, as the drunken revelry of the characters does tend to get a little old. Plus, I have my doubts that anyone can consistently consume as much booze as Jake Barnes, Lady Brett, and especially the &quot;hangers on&quot; did in this novel. Jake's fishing buddy Bill and Brett's fiance were in a state of inebriation virtually throughout the novel.Here the audio format works well, because listening to a good actor speak the words of a drunken character might be easier to endure than trying to read drunken dialogue. <br />For me, the novel works in a number of ways. Hemingway clearly loved the subject matter, and I thought the beginning of the book, as did his later masterpiece A Moveable Feast, provided a fascinating glimpse of post-WWI Paris. Then, when Hemingway and his friend catch the train for Pamplona to go fly fishing and catch the bullfights, the book really takes off. Hem loved to fish and he loved bullfighting, and his enthusiasm for these sports clearly shines through. Every year someone gets gored in Pamplona during the running of the bulls, and until reading this book I could never discern why anyone would put themselves in that position. Jake Barnes is clearly a true fan and &quot;aficianado&quot; of bullfighting, and his narration points out the many subtle ways to distinguish between a true master, and an overrated matador trying to make it look dangerous while he remains out of harms way. <br />All the while, Hemingway portrays a doomed romance between Jake and Brett, all the more painful for him since he has to watch one man after another follow her around and get caught in her web. The pathetic Robert Cohn is the most striking example, since the married Cohn sent his wife to Englandto visit &quot;friends&quot;, so that he could follow Brett around Paris and Spain like a wounded puppy after she makes the mistake of sleeping with him. Cohn is clearly an unwanted companion, and the blowups between him and Brett's fiance were memorable. I also loved the scene at a Paris cafe where Cohn's wife bitterly denounces Cohn for sending her off. <br />In summary, this novel affords a real opportunity to see a good writer perfecting his craft. Hemingway hated phoniness in all things, bullfighting and writing among them, and for any serious student of twentieth century literature much time should be spent with this book. It is a pleasure to read (or listen to), and reveals more secrets each time you pick it up.	2001-08-27
US	52203333	R1CRHZODWS9NP4	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Carefully-crafted but ultimately unsatisfying prose	Ishiguro is a master craftsman, as anyone who has read The Remains of the Day can attest. In this, his latest novel, we are presented with the baffling disappearance of narrator Christopher Banks' parents, first his father and then months later his mother, from Shangai in the 1930's.  The story is told first person by Banks, who reminisces about his childhood in the International Settlement in Shanghai and who then relates a portion of his young adulthood in London, where Banks tells of his development as a great detective whose mission in life is to solve the disappearance of his parents.<br />The prose is carefully constructed and the novel has a gloomy, authentic feel about it.  However I became a little bored by the time the conclusion ultimately came around, and we are treated to an explanation of the fate of Banks' mother and father.  Perhaps I was lacking in some historical perspective, but it appeared to me the novel assumes a great deal of knowledge about the Chinese v. Japanese conflict, the status of Shanghai itself, and the conflict among the Nationalistic v. Communist Chinese.  Being generally unfamiliar with Chinese history in the 1930's, I frequently felt lost.<br />Also, the characters at times seemed a little wooden to me.  Banks seemed destined to run away with an aspiring, troubled young woman who he knew from London, but we never get a real glimpse of true feeling between the characters. Banks is robotic for most of the novel, much like the orphan (Jennifer) who is taken in by the narrator.  I was also somewhat baffled by the character who kept following Banks around, during his return to Shanghai, to plan the details of the welcoming party after the mystery is solved.  Even after the identity of this character is revealed in more detail, his actions to me still were absurd. <br />Ishiguro is a talented writer, and his first person narrative reminds me a bit of Patrick McGrath in that you are not entirely certain you are getting the straight story from the narrator.  When We Were Orphans is a moving book but with some gaps that left me wanting a little more	2001-08-06
US	52203333	RCC3XKY69CJ5U	0694522880	963629300	Plainsong	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not all it's cracked up to be	This was the first full length novel I listened to in audio format, and while I enjoyed listening to Plainsong better than the morning weather and traffic reports, I must say I expected a little more.<br />The story seems heartwarming enough, including the story of how  the lives of a couple of old bachelor brothers were warmed up by young, pregnant Victoria, who comes to live with them at their cattle farm when she quite literally has nowhere else to go. I just thought there were so many gaps in the plot, I kept wondering if my copy was missing an audio cassette.<br />For example, the Guthrie family goes through some changes, as the mother (I don't know if we ever get her name) starts out the novel upstairs in isolation, and later leaves her husband and their 9 and 10 year old boys Ike and Bobby altogether. We're not told why she leaves, although I assume she had some form of clinical depression. There is a completely illogical, unexplained scene in which the young Guthrie boys saddle up a horse and ride at least 17 miles outside of town to visit the old bachelor cattle farmers, although Haruf never tells us what motivated the boys to do so. (In fact one of the kids asks his brother &quot;why are we here?&quot; - good question, I couldn't figure it out).<br />There was another scene, which is given away by another Amazon reviewer here, in which a baby is dropped and noone seems to care - the old guys are more worried about whether the mom is okay, since her arm was yanked, than about the newborn on the floor. Come on, as a finalist for the National Book Award I expected a little more.<br />At times Haruf's prose is lean and poetic, and I enjoyed many of the subplots. But I have to agree with some of my fellow reviewers, Plainsong is interesting but very uneven.	2001-07-21
US	52203333	R1Q0Z1L3RMV9Q1	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A worthwhile, readable collection	I call this book a &quot;collection&quot; not because it was cobbled together by the author from prior essays, a la Stephen Ambrose and his &quot;Americans at War&quot;, but because the book consists of six different chapters that, with the exception of the last two, are generally related only generally. Ellis explores the period, from the 1780's and 90's through the virtually simultaneous deaths of Adams and Jefferson in 1826, and provides sometimes fascinating details about the interrelated lives, philosophies and alliances of Founding Fathers (he call them Brothers) Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Burr and Hamilton. By the end of the book, you will learn a bit more about each of them, and if you are like me your opinion of Madison and Adams might rise a bit, while your estimation of Jefferson and Burr might take a little hit.<br />The first chapter, dealing with the Burr-Hamilton duel, was for me the most informative, well-organized and compelling. Ellis places the duel in the context of early 19th century society, and gives a very thorough (considering time limitations of a single chapter) account of the letters and accusations which gave rise to the acrimony culminating in the fateful duel. He then describes the action on the riverside cliffs of New Jersey in detail, and ultimately gives a fairly thorough account of the duel's aftermath.  Obviously Hamilton was mortally wounded, as we all know from grade school, but we learn here of the devastating consequences of the duel on Burr's career.<br />The second chapter, to me, was the weakest. Ellis attempted to illustrate how a deal was brokered by Jefferson at a dinner, involving Hamilton and Madison (obviously pre-duel). In the compromise, the Virginia delegation agreed to accept assumption of state debts by the federal government (which was important to Hamilton and the Federalists), and in return the Federalists agreed that the capitol would be located on the Potomac. All well and good, but by the end ofthe chapter we learn little about the actual dinner meeting, and Ellis ultimately tells us the compromise was really worked out in advance anyway.<br />Ellis also explored the character of George Washington, and his historic decision to step down voluntarily after two terms (thereby setting a precedent unbroken until FDR). We are told much about Washington's written farewell address, without seeing much of it unfortunately. There is also a meandering chapter on the great slavery debate, initiated after the Constitution was ratified by some Quakers in Congress. <br />Finally, he ends the book with two excellent chapters on John Adams and Jefferson, which portray Adams as a committed Federalist who nevertheless hated Hamilton, and who wished to disdain &quot;party politics&quot; and essentially share the job of running the country with his Vice-President Thomas Jefferson. The latter, the &quot;sage of Monticello&quot;, comes off a bit tarnished in his image, since he and Madison essentially set out to undermine the Adams presidency, and to establish an &quot;opposition&quot; party structure, with an eye toward the presidency in 1800. Ellis skillfully points out how Jefferson was wrong in many domestic and foreign policy positions (including his passion for the French and his belief in the rhetoric of the French revolution, a la Beethoven). In fact, Ellis often points out that Jefferson was so caught up in his own Republican rhetoric, he often believed he was telling the truth, or believed he was not involved in dirty smear campaigns, when the direct opposite was true. Jefferson simply believed that the principles of the American Revolution were betrayed by the Federalists, and he thought it his patriotic duty to oppose even his own President,  at every turn, despite serving as Vice President in the same administration. One can understand why Congress later changed the way vice presidents are elected. Overall I enjoyed the book and thought it was well-written and informative, if a bit uneven.	2001-07-18
US	52203333	R2XMI68PKMR4KY	068486486X	32847958	The Mile High Club (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of Kinky's Best	Giving a Kinky Friedman novel five stars is like saying your last meal at Cracker Barrel was the best you've ever eaten, you have to understand the context. Friedman is no Richard Russo, his novels are fun, witty pageturners but not to be taken seriously. That having been said, I thought The Mile High Club was one of his better efforts of late, and far superior to the claustrophobic Spanking Watson, in which the protagonist makes up a mystery and seldom leaves the apartment.<br />Here Kinky's life is disrupted by a fellow air traveller, on a plane with him from Dallas to NY, who disappears after entrusting a small pink suitcase to our cigar-chomping hero. Kinky keeps the suitcase after not being able to spot Khadija among the swarm of passengers disembarking at LaGuardia Airport, and lo and behold we later learn that it contains a bag full of phony passports. As usual in Kinky's novels, his buddy Rambam does all the meaningful legwork and essentially solves everything, with a nice surprising twist here and there which I will not give away of course. <br />Along the way, we are treated to Kinky's patented observations about everything from Howard Hughes  (who didn't trim his toenails or fingernails for the last few years of his life, but who found the time to watch Ice Station Zebra hundreds of times) to Texans' willingness to urinate in public. I read more than I wanted to about cat turds and litterboxes, but since the litterbox played a role in the novel I can't complain that much. Overall, I think this novel represents Kinky in peak form, with an actual story to tell, punctuated by his unmistakeable irreverance.	2001-07-05
US	52203333	R2Y88Q8UBW40C2	0446394386	819073870	Joe	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Liked Everything but the Ending	I am a new fan of Larry Brown, and have lately been reading everything by him I can get my hands on.  Joe is a powerful and at times brutal novel, a notch below Father and Son in my humble opinion but worthwhile reading nonetheless.<br />Once again Brown explores the lives of drunk white trash, this time in the dusty small towns near Tupelo Mississippi. The novel has three main characters: Joe, the aging, proud, divorced, hard-drinking ex con who contracts to poison trees for income, and who hires young Gary on his work crew. Gary is about 15 years old, but is not quite sure cause as has no birth records and in fact no legal address. His dad, Wade, is a horrific drunk who moves his family around squatting in abandoned houses while he puts the kids to work foraging for cans and bottles to collect deposit money. When that doesn't generate enough, Wade steals  any meager earnings the kids may make on their own.<br />The budding relationship between Joe and his best worker Gary is the core of the novel, as Joe slowly learns the extent of the horrors of the kid's home life. Of course what would a novel of the south be without a few humerous diversions involving brothels, gambling, green policemen and inept hunters, etc. <br />I think my only real hesitancy in giving the novel five stars revolves around the ending, which for me was anticlimatic and unsatisfying.  I know writers are sometimes criticized for tying up all loose ends too neatly, as if they reached their pre-ordained page limit and had to run, but the ending of Joe was a little too open-ended for my liking. Anyway, for fans of Harry Crews, William Gay (and I am Gay's biggest fan) or Tom Franklin, give Brown a shot he consistently delivers a solid punch.	2001-06-22
US	52203333	R22UF3OJL7LVVG	0945575467	290535925	Big Bad Love	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Powerful at times	I picked up this volume of stories after Brown's novel Father and Son blew me away, and while these tales of drunk Mississippians don't necessarily rise to the level of Brown's best work, they are a nice diversion and occasionally pack a wallop. Brown writes about the places he knows best, rural Mississippi where the men ride around in pickups or dusty old cars with a cooler of beer in the back and a shotgun at their feet. <br />Some of the stories were downright hilarious, like the tale of the husband whose wife writes abominable fiction, like the \\"Hunchwoman of Cincinnati\\", trying desperately to get published. Then there are the poignant tales of Southern racism and the unwritten bonds between men, like Old Soldiers, that have a real ring of truth about them. I loved the observation of the old gas station owner who was asked by an African American woman to check her air pressure - the old guy reluctantly complied, taking his time about it, and 30 minutes later she drove away with 4 very low tires...for the most part I enjoyed Brown's lean, true dialogue and his characters' unpredictable nature and penchant for trouble.	2001-06-05
US	52203333	RIKV9YO8HSOA9	067974598X	560408923	Roseanna	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Taut, well-written police mystery	I was recently pointed in the direction of these husband and wife novels by a fellow reviewer here at Amazon, who read, and loved, The Laughing Policeman. I figured I would start at the beginning of the series, as Roseanna is the first &quot;Martin Beck&quot; mystery written by the Sjowall/Wahloo team, and I was not disappointed. <br />The book takes place in Stockholm in the early 1970''s where a young woman's body is found in a lake, near the locks of a major waterway. The police at first have no leads, there is no identification on the body, and they have no clues whatsoever as to the identity of the victim, nor who might have killed her. Over the course of the novel, the crime is ultimatley solved through meticulous police work, including some false leads, which in this reviewer's opinion comes reasonably close to how homicides are solved in the real world. Interrogations and surveillance of the suspects have a gritty, realistic feel which is not lost at all in the translation from the authors' native Swedish. <br />What I found most surprising about the book, especially given the fact that it was written by a husband and wife team, is the utter lack of personality given the main character Martin Beck. Beck is married and has kids, and yet when in the midst of an investigation he seems so engrossed in the details of the crime that he barely speaks to his family, comes home essentially to sleep, and is always battling a cold. I don't think 3 sentences of true dialogue were exchanged between Beck and his wife all novel. This wouldn't be so odd, except that there are repeated scenes in his home, he just is so absorbed with the mystery he ignores all extraneous matter until the crime is solved. <br />Overall, I thought this was a taut, suspenseful novel and I look forward to periodically sampling other Martin Beck mysteries from this writing duo.	2001-05-30
US	52203333	R7J0GQWZKQ91H	0805053034	435712613	Father and Son	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A gripping story of long-time grudges and men with guns	This novel by Larry Brown, a resident of Faulkner's Oxford Mississippi and ex-firefighter, is a gripping narrative about family secrets, long-time grudges, violence and grace set in a dusty Southern town in the late 1960's. As the novel opens Glen Davis is released from prison and picked up by his brother, nicknamed Puppy. Brown quickly puts Glen into contact with Bobby, the good cop who arrested him, as well as Jewel, the mother of Glen's child who waited years for his release. <br />In these early scenes, there is an omnipresent, simmering threat of violence as you know Glen can, and sometimes does, erupt at any time. He is filled with hate at Bobby, both for arresting him and for his apparent interest in giving Jewel the husband and father to her child that Glen has no interest in becoming. He resents his father Virgil, who is an old drunk and who didn't even properly bury Glen's mother when she died during Glen's incarceration. Over the course of the novel, an obviously unreformed Glen sets out to settle old scores with virtually everyone in town.<br />However, just as the novel seems to be getting too bleak to be enjoyable, Brown injects an element of grace and compassion into the story that caught me offguard. The character of Virgil was very skillfully drawn, a good man with character faults to be sure, but who is genuinely frustrated and worried about his inability to control his son. Every character in the novel shows real affection and respect for the old man, especially Jewel and her little boy David, except for Virgil's own sons. He reminded me of William Tell Oliver from William Gay's The Long Home, an old man powerless to stop the inevitable conflict which threatens those around him.<br />The novel also has a few scenes of comic relief, like the wonderful scene of Puppy's thwarted amorous adventures with his enormous wife in the trailer. Brown skillfully reveals a little more of the intertwined  nature of his characters' lives throughout the novel, andwraps everything up very effectively  with some surprise twists that left me breathless. There were some foibles to be sure, it seemed like Brown's characters can't be in a paragraph without reaching for a beer, whiskey or coffee (if it was REAL early) and/or a cigarette. However, ultimately this was a very satisfying read, a novel written by a skilled author at the peak of his powers.	2001-05-19
US	52203333	R1WJU6ZFWT4OUD	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Moving, contemporary,  but a little heavy handed	I wanted to enjoy Norweigan Wood, and for the most part as I was reading it I really did get wrapped up in Toru Watanabe's romantic struggles with gloomy, flawed Naoko and the pretty, wild Midori.  The setting was effective (a Tokyo university in the late 1960's), and the novel had a very real, contemporary feel that appealed equally well to Western audiences as well as Murakami's native Japan. However after finishing it I thought perhaps Murakami poured on the pathos a little too thickly for my liking, and so I am a little ambivalent about this book.<br />The book is narrated years after the fact by Watanabe, an introspective college student without much ambition, who disdains the hypocritical college radicals of his time and who befriends a quirky roommate, nicknamed Storm Trooper, who is a social misfit (and the butt of jokes) but who keeps their dorm room meticulously clean.  We learn at the outset of a great loss, as Toru's young friend Kizuki unexpectedly killed himself at age 17, leaving a huge void in the lives of both Toru and Naoko, Kizuki's longtime girlfriend.  These two characters struggle with varying degrees of success to deal with the suicide, and develop a special kinship that seems doomed from the outset.<br />At the same time, Toru has a series of one night stands with a new buddy, a wealthy over-achiever who makes everything look easy, until Toru meets Midori, a breath of fresh air who says whatever is on her mind (usually sexual in nature) and who looks for the undivided attention and affection Toru is reluctant to give. All of this is well and good, but I think about half way through the novel gloom factor goes off the charts.  <br />We learn that suicide has touched Naoko's family on top of her boyfriend's death, and if that wasn't enough Murakami makes another character's parents both either dead or in the process of dying of brain tumors.  Come on, why not throw in some shocking car wrecks for good measure! And all through these travails, welearn virtually nothing of Watanabe's past, even though he is our introspective narrator.  It just seemed a little overboard to me, trying too hard to move the reader and seemingly impress upon the narrator the fleeting nature of our existence.  <br />Overall I enjoyed the novel,  and from the recent reviews posted, many of my fellow reviewers absolutely loved it. I just think sometimes the writer, a la John Irving, has a tendency to toss in too much tragedy for effect.	2001-05-13
US	52203333	RZN603HSLYG13	0609604686	936711332	The Man Who Wrote the Book	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An amusing, but uneven tale	I agree with the Reader from Virginia Beach who enjoyed this amusing novel, but was slightly troubled at the implausible nature of some of the plot turns.  Good summer reading sure, but Tarloff needs a little more polish as a novelist.<br />Protagonist Ezra Gordon is a popular assistant professor at a small Baptist college in California, waging an unsuccessful effort to gain tenure, and carrying on a lackadaisical relationship with Carol, a lawyer for the school who also happens to be the daughter of a minister and school official. The scene of poor Ezra's opening date with Carol, who pities him after a bogus claim of sexual harassment from one of his students, gave some early comic relief.<br />After his world seems to crumble around him at the University, Ezra decides, on a whim, to visit his old grad school buddy Isaac Schwimmer, who has his own publishing business in Los Angeles. Ezra was just looking to get out of town and commiserate with an old buddy, but he soon learns that Isaac is a porn publisher and is convinced (almost out of pity by Isaac) to write an erotic novel and pick up some &quot;easy money.&quot; Of course, as the book jacket tells you, the anonymously published book becomes a HUGE hit, and Ezra has trouble preserving his secret moonlighting career when he goes back to his prim and proper Baptist college.<br />I know this is a comic novel, not to be taken too seriously, but some of the contrivances of the plot troubled me a little. Ezra goes to LA self-conscious about his looks, physical shape, wardrobe, etc. and yet gorgeous centerfolds just keep tripping over each other falling at his feet, with him in his corduroys and elbow patches. Why are they so drawn to him - cause they are all so sick of the phoniness of LA?  come on!  And the life of Isaac Schwimmer, Los Angeles' leading purveyor of smut, seemed pretty PG rated to me.  We also don't get more than a nibble of Ezra's writing, so we have no idea what all the fuss is about.<br />Finally,when Ezra comes back and still tries heroically to preserve his anonymity as his book soars off the charts, you start to worry why he continues pushing for a career at a podunk school that doesn't appreciate him. Why not bask in your glory and get your 15 minutes of fame?  There are some humorous moments back at the school, including the transformation of Carol. I thought the funniest thing I've read in awhile was Ezra's improvised recitation of an oral &quot;Icelandic Epic Poem&quot; to Carol, when she spies his dirty book manuscript and asks him to read her some of his writing, which he of course doesn't want to really do. Overall this was a quick, easy and enjoyable read, but the plot was pretty forgettable once you put it down.	2001-05-10
US	52203333	R1E4H67Q74ZWGQ	0375500812	566914518	Martha Peake: A Novel of the Revolution	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A brooding, thoughtful but flawed tale	I like McGrath's gothic storytelling, and was looking forward to getting my hands on his first attempt at &quot;historical fiction&quot;, as the novel is depicted on the jacket as a &quot;novel of the revolution.&quot; Having just finished Martha Peake, I must say I was impressed with the ending and many early passages in London, but was frustrated at long passages of the novel.<br />First, although promising to be about the American Revolution, the novel is about half way over before the action ever gets to Massachussets Bay.  The first half of the novel has nothing at all to do with the battle for American independence, and in fact I think a good editor could've pared down the opening 140 pages to about 90. The story of Harry's tragic fall, the fire that destroyed his spine and devastated his family, etc. were very well told and moving. But his constant battles with gin got a bit tiring until his daughter Martha sought refuge in gloomy Drogo Hall, rising from grassy Lambeth Marsh within sight of the distant lights and smoke of London, where the story picked up steam again. <br />The novel is narrated by Ambrose Tree, a young man called to Drogo Hall by his sick uncle William, from whom he hopes to inherit the manor.  William tells an eager Ambrose the story of Harry and Martha Peake, and that story within a story is relayed to us in the course of the novel.  As usual, McGrath is not content to simply use a third person narrator to tell his tale, and as usual his narrative tricks take their toll on the reader and present some problems.<br />When Martha leaves England and moves in with her aunt in a town north of Boston, the narration of the novel hits a roadblack, since William knew little of Martha's activity there and the fragments of letters from her that supposedly survived told little of her story. Accordingly, Ambrose tells his reader that he is forced to supply the story of Martha Peake in America based on conjecture, which is oddly annoying even though I realize there are no &quot;true facts&quot; as the entire novel is a figment of McGrath's imagination. Still, you want to believe that what you are reading happened, at least in the imaginary world of the novel, and was not some educated guess by an imaginary storyteller. <br />Anyway, happily Uncle William resumes the tale at the end, fitting in all the pieces nicely, and so a book that had many loose ends 3/4 into it is wrapped up quite nicely by the conclusion. Readers shouldn't expect much history in the book, aside from a cameo by Thomas Paine and some general discussion about Adams and Washington, the novel concentrates largely on the Peake and Rind families.  There are also some aspects that make little sense to me. For example, the physical appearance of Martha's son struck me as odd, considering old Harry was injured in a house fire and was not born with a congenital deformity. However,  overall the novel was moving and intellectually challenging.  McGrath is a great storyteller and can portray a gloomy British marsh, a stinking London pub and a moldy dungeon better than anyone I know. A good book for a rainy weekend.	2001-04-24
US	52203333	R1NAPLHJ6N6ETM	155970506X	298723638	Europa	Books	2	5	11	N	N	A painstaking, plodding read	I wanted to like this book, I really did.  The seductive cover, high praise on the jacket, and the fact that this novel was &quot;shortlisted&quot; for the famed British Booker Prize whet my appetite. But I must say, having just put it down, that the book was one agonizing read.<br />The premise for the novel is hopeful - a 45 year old visiting professor at the University of Milan, against his better judgment, joins a motorcoach full of academics and students on a trip to the European Parliament, to protest perceived discrimination by Italian laws restricting their employment.  Apparently many of these visiting professors took their jobs as a temporary measure, on a break from  writing  books or furthering their academic careers elsewhere, and then realized they wanted to keep teaching despite agreeing to term limits. <br />In any event, Marlow agrees to accompany the motley crew despite having no real passion for the cause. There is some unspoken belief that the trip will result in decadence and romance among the students and their older lectors, whose jobs they are all presumably fighting to retain.  In fact the whole idea was hatched by a Welsh Indian named Vikram, who chases anything in a skirt, with a wink to our narrator. The reader is reminded a little of the &quot;key party&quot; of The Ice Storm as the riders of the bus begin to nervously sort out their roommates for the hotel.<br />We soon learn that Jerry is plagued with guilt, and that he is obsessed with one of the younger members of the entourage, referred to throughout the book namelessly as &quot;she,&quot; with whom Jerry previously carried on an extended torrid affair that ended very badly. Jerry feels guilty for striking the girl, and is likewise guilty about walking out on his wife and teenage daughter after confessing of his affair. At the climax of the novel, as the group makes their pitch at Parliament, Jerry's daughter turns 18 back home without him. <br />Europa is told in the first person,and Jerry's account of the trip is endlessly interrupted by long, looping narrative histories of his affair, of his prior philosophical discussions with his girlfriend, and of his chauvinistic rambling with other male professors discussing conquests of their &quot;totties&quot; (apparently a British term for loose women). The action is never in the here and now, as the reader is taken on one digression after another. For example, a simple question posed to Jerry,  when his fellow bus rider asks him what he is reading, leads to pages of self-analytical nonsense that leaves the reader numb. Parks never stays with the action long enough to engage the reader's attention, even when the plot seems to be moving toward an engrossing idea or event.  I know it's stream of consciousness, and perhaps we all think like Jerry narrates, but I still like a little bit of plot and narrative structure to my novels. <br />There were a few memorable parts to be sure.  Jerry's devastating skewering of the film Dead Poet's Society (which the party watched on monitors on the coach)  forever changed the way I view that movie.  And the bittersweet tale of a  past dinner party involving Jerry, his wife and daughter, and a clearly disturbed Vikram and his young son left a lasting impression.  Unfortunately, these lucid moments came all too infrequently in a book dominated by  rambling, middle-aged angst. This would have made a better novella than a full length novel.	2001-03-27
US	52203333	R6MMK8QWMQTM4	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fascinating Glimpse of Restoration England	I absolutely loved this book, a historical murder mystery set in Oxford England around 1663, shortly after Charles II's restoration to the throne. Pears weaves actual historical figures like John Locke, John Thurloe, Anthony Wood, Richard Lower and John Wallis with a great cast of fictional characters and sets in motion a compelling whodunit, with numerous interesting sideplots involving political intrigue, the British conflict between Protestants and Catholics, medical research and the efforts of 17th century physicians to understand the circulatory system, etc.<br />The novel consists of four accounts of the same time period, supposedly written by a visiting Venetian Cola, a young Gentlemen Prestcott, mathematician John Wallis, and historian Anthony Wood. The latter two characters are actual historical figures. Each of the four accounts takes place mostly in Oxford, and all deal in some fashion with the death, by poisoning, of Dr. Robert Grove. I thought Cola's narrative was the most entertaining, as he was a foreigner and his observations of British customs effectively set the scene. I loved Cola's observation of British theater when he saw a performance of King Lear, and his medical tour of the countryside with Dr. Lower was a tour de force. <br />Nothing is ever as it seems in the book, since each successive narrative uncovers some inaccuracies in prior accounts, or at least suggests alternate theories to explain the same events.  We are never quite sure what happened to Dr. Grove, nor do we understand why Sarah Blundy claimed she was guilty of murdering him, until the last account by Wood, the &quot;Instance of the Fingerpost&quot; which reveals the truth.  John Wallis' narrative was perhaps the most bizarre, as Wallis was adept at breaking codes and siphoning out conspiracies, and he saw political intrigue, assassination and treason virtually everywhere he looked, (sometimes without any basis in fact). Prestcott, author of the second narrative, is driven by adesire to clear his dead father's name of treason allegations that forced the Royalist hero into hiding. He is vain, proud, and self-righteous, and as in each of the  four accounts you never forget the identity of your narrator since Pears does a wonderful job of changing styles and remaining true to his characters. <br />Overall, the while embroiling yourself in Pears' multi-layered story, you receive a thoughtful history lesson at the same time almost without realizing it.  I wish I had known earlier of the existence of a list of characters at the end of the book, which gave a brief synopsis of their accomplishments and which mentioned their fictional or non-fictional status, since there are many people to remember and some characters who play minor roles in one account become much more important in others. I had a hard time keeping the characters' identities straight in my head until I stumbled across the list at the back. Pears also provides a helpful timeline at the end, setting forth key dates and events in 17th century English history. Overall, this is a very informative and intelligent thriller, a cross between Charles Dickens, Umberto Eco and Charles Palliser. Highly recommended.	2001-03-19
US	52203333	R6TL8GRC8SV6Q	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ultimately  very satisfying, after a rough beginning	Another reviewer hit the nail on the head when he suggested that you  forge ahead to the conclusion of the book, since I too thought long and hard about giving up the fight around the 150 page mark. Ultimately, a book that early on seemed ponderous and slow turned out to be a pageturner at the end, which I stayed up very late to finish.<br />The Unburied is supposedly an account of a murder at Thurchester Cathedral in Victorian England written in the 1880's by academic historian Courtine, with an intriguing Foreword and Afterword written by an editor, Barthram, in 1919. Initially the novel appears to be about  200 year old murder mysteries of the cathedral, a search for a lost manuscript in the catherdral library (a la Name of the Rose), and a philosophical discourse on  organized religion vs. atheism. Happily, about halfway through the book, a recent murder transforms the plot into a thinking man's whodunit with many possible (and plausible) scenarios. <br />Like the novels of Patrick McGrath, you are not sure entirely whether to trust the conclusions and observations of Courtine, the narrator of most of the novel, since it becomes readlily apparent that he has certain pre-conceived notions and beliefs which are not always borne out by the facts. As mentioned above by other reviewers, you ultimately come to learn that many of the &quot;mysteries&quot; and details of long ago misdeeds are put up as a smokescreen, having little to do with the plot of the novel and its climax. These dead-ends can be a little frustrating, until you realize the cleverness of inserting parallel mysteries within a mystery to keep the reader (and Courtine) guessing. It is fun, after finishing the novel, to go back to Courtine's opening sentence about having encountered a man who was walking about, &quot;despite the inconvenience of having been brutally done to death&quot; and understand his reference.<br />Ultimately the book could've picked up steam a little faster, and maybe an editor'spen could have deleted some of the more obscure, confusing details, but by the end I was wrapped up in the plot and was very happy to stick with Palliser to the end.  Now I have to grab a copy of The Quincunx.	2001-02-28
US	52203333	R2MDCA3RIW6BA7	0385499272	535760229	Provinces of Night	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Goes Down Real Easy	When I read William Gay's very impressive debut novel The Long Home a few months ago on a recommendation, I thought he was a promising southern writer, reminiscent of Faulkner. His tale of evil moonshiners, crooked cops, racists and injustice was a refreshing change of pace from most contemporary fiction. Now, with his latest masterpiece Provinces of Night, I am starting to believe Gay may be the most talented writer living in the South today. This book is simply astonishing, at times brutal and at other times tender and poetic, but always enjoyable.<br />The story involves the Bloodworth family, including banjo-picker E.F., who left his young wife and sons twenty years earlier to chase his musical dreams, and to get away from the aftermath of a violent shootout. E.F. has decided to return home, to a valley about to be buried under a lake by the Tennessee Valley Authority in 1952, as the nation enters the Korean War. Bloodworth's grown sons Warren (a womanizing alcoholic), Boyd (who is compelled to chase down his adulterous wife and her lover) and Brady (who still lives at home and places hexes on enemies for revenge or profit) are not exactly waiting with open arms.  It is only Boyd's 17 year old son Fleming, E.F.'s grandson, who seems to care what happens to the old man upon his return.<br />Fleming is the true heart and moral center of the novel. His odd relationship with his wandering dad, his blossoming romance with young Raven Lee, his tense tolerance of uncles Brady and Warren and his bonding with E.F. are skillfully woven around numerous effective and often-times humorous subplots. I loved the adventures of Fleming's buddy Junior Albright, who accidentally breaks some machinery after conning his way onto a jobsite as a roofer, with serious and far reaching consequences.  I also loved the manic roadtrip with Warren and his &quot;accountant&quot;, as well as Fleming's alcoholic cousin. The plot never really slowed down to a halt, and Gay manages to keep several balls in the air without missing a beat. Fleming did remind me a little of idealistic young Nathan Winer of The Long Home, and Raven Lee seemed a bit similar to Amber Rose of the prior novel (both are young dark beauties raised in a setting that is anything but innocent), but who cares, I enjoyed their adventures anyway.<br />Perhaps the best part of the novel, for me, was Gay's prose style. He has a way of setting the scene, depicting the family sitting on a porch listening to the Grand Ole Opry on the radio with the Tennessee hills turning purple at sunset, that swept me away every time I picked up the book. There are no quotation marks in the novel, instead Gay curiously weaves the dialogue into the paragraphs, so you oftentimes find yourself re-reading passages once you realize a character is speaking. This started out as a mild distraction, but I came to enjoy the technique after awhile. Quite simply, Gay is a master storyteller, his dialogue is pitch perfect, and his descriptions, while not overly verbose or flowery, never fail to effectively set the stage. You want to read slowly and savor every drop of his writing, like sipping a fine Kentucky bourbon (as his characters are wont to do). I don't know what Mr. Gay has been up to previously, he apparently started writing novels later in life, but I hope he keeps putting out these excellent novels of Tennessee, this reader can't wait for the next one.	2001-02-16
US	52203333	R15SB055N7HG8C	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engrossing psychological drama	Perhaps Patrick McGrath's most celebrated novel, Asylum is an effective, suspenseful and intelligent  drama about sexual obsession and depression. As with all McGrath novels, you must pay attention to who is doing the narrating, in this case psychiatrist Peter, who ultimately treats both Stella Raphael and Edgar Stark as patients in an asylum outside London. Because you are not sure of Peter's motives and entanglement in the plot throughout the novel, you never seem to completely trust the third party narrative you get from Peter, which is mostly told by him in flashback as related by his patients.<br />To summarize the plot, Stella is the wife of Max, a stodgy and intellectual psychiatrist and assistant superintendant of the asylum outside London where they live with their son Charlie. Early in the novel, Stella becomes infatuated with inmate Edgar Stark, who is being treated for severe mental illness culminating in the murder (and decapitation) of his wife. Stella embarks on an obsessive relationship with Stark, which, the reader is told in the opening pages, has devastating consequences. Finding out just what happens to all involved, spread out over three separate locations including the asylum, London, and a facility in North Wales, makes for some very interesting reading. <br />Ultimately, like some other reviewers here, I was left a little disappointed in some areas of the story. While Stella is clearly the focus of the novel, and of the narrator's attentions, I was a bit surprised that Edgar's presence in the latter half of the novel was so limited. And while I thought little Charlie and Max's mother Brenda were interesting characters, Max was so repressed and stoic as to be almost comical. I also have a hard time believing that nobody would have thought to follow Stella, in order to locate Edgar. All in all, I enjoy McGrath's writing, and look forward to digging into his latest novel, Martha Peake. He has an engrossing style that forces the reader to pay attention, as he skillfully tells his tragic tales of the grotesque in human nature.	2001-02-15
US	52203333	RF8C2ROABTYGG	0385499272	535760229	Provinces of Night	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Astonishing - A moving, lyrical, heartfelt novel	After reading William Gay's debut novel The Long Home a couple of months ago, I was convinced he was a major talent, reminiscent of Faulkner. Now, having just finished his latest Provinces of Night, I think he may be the greatest living writer in the South.  <br />Provinces of Night is simply brilliant- a big, moving, lyrical tale of family grudges, young love, sporadic violence and redemption, told by a master storyteller. The setting is Ackerman's Field, a tiny slice of Tennessee hill country doomed to lay at the bottom of a huge lake when the TVA finishes a dam project in the early 1950's. E.F. Bloodworth is about to return home approximately twenty years after leaving his wife and 3 sons to pursue his dream of making music (he's a banjo picker), while running from the law after a violent shootout. E.F.'s 3 sons are not exactly waiting with open arms: Brady is still bitter and spends his time putting hexes on his enemies, or the enemies of paying clients, from his momma's porch. Warren is a womanizing drunk, whose escapades with his &quot;accountant&quot; provide some great comic relief. And then there's Boyd, a wanderer like his daddy, who is compelled to chase after his wife and lover in Detroit with violence on his mind.<br />The center of the novel, and the true moral heart of the story, is Boyd's son Fleming, a 17 year old aspiring writer who is forced to fend for himself after Boyd leaves. It is Fleming who seems to empathize and respect the old man, (E.F. is his grandfather), and who attempts to care for him upon his return. Gay presents many engrossing subplots, including Fleming's infatuation with beautiful Raven Lee, Junior Albright's comical struggles to keep himself out of trouble and free from debt, Boyd's search for his wife, and the efforts of a cattle-trader named Coble to get back at E.F. after the latter makes a fool of him.  Gay keeps all of these balls effectively in the air, knowing just when to cut into another storyline without disrupting the continuity of the plot.<br />It is difficult to fully describe Gay's narrative style - the dialogue was sparse and pitch perfect, while the descriptions of the characters, and especially the wonderful Tennessee setting, were superb. This is not a quick page-turner, although the language is seldom difficult each paragraph is so carefully crafted and well thought out you want to savor the sentences and not rush through them. Oddly, the book has no quotation marks, dialogue just sort of blends into each paragraph and so the reader is forced to sometimes reread a passage once you realize a character is speaking.  <br />I couldn't help thinking as I read the book that Fleming reminded me quite a bit of young Nathan Winer from The Long Home, and in fact Raven Lee seems a lot like the pretty and corrupted Amber Rose from his earlier novel, but who cares. Read Provinces of Night and allow Gay to take you back to 1952 Tennessee, a place you will want to see more of when you put it down. I don't know what Gay has been doing for the past 20 or so years, but I wish he spends the next 20 writing these carefully crafted novels of the south, they go down as smooth as the Kentucky bourbon his characters are so fond of drinking.	2001-02-05
US	52203333	R3SIPN2XU9LE1L	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A brilliant, disturbing work	Conrad's Heart of Darkness is a brilliant, disturbing work which, like most of Conrad's fiction, is drawn heavily from his own life.  Conrad served as a ship captain on the Congo River, succeeding a captain who was brutally slain by local savages, and the fictional account of Marlow's trip into the African jungle very much mirrors his own true life adventure.  Conrad's time in Africa affected him deeply, as he nearly died from disease and felt the effects of his time in Africa, both physically and psychologically, for the rest of his life.<br />The book works on many levels. First, it is a concise, suspenseful adventure story about Marlow's search for Kurtz, an ivory trader and member of a colonial trading company that has gone into the jungle and apparently been corrupted by his power. Psychologically, the novel explores mankind's infinite capacity for evil and corruption, when unleashed from the bounds of law and civilization. Potlitically, the book is a scathing indictment of European colonialism, and the savagery with which a supposed &quot;civilized&quot; nation such as England or Belgium, at least in the nineteenth century, could and would plunder locals for the almighty lucre. If there was any lingering doubt as to Kurtz's sanity when Marlow finally reached him, the impaled heads greeting visitors to the camp stand as a stark reminder of the depths to which he has fallen in his effort to &quot;kill all the brutes.&quot;  I thought Marlow's benign condescension towards Kurtz' wife, at the end, was a fitting and memorable end to the saga.<br />Heart of Darkness, while relatively short, is not a quick read. Conrad's language is so concentrated, his style so calculated, there are simply no wasted words or throwaway scenes.  It is truly remarkable that someone like Conrad, for whom English was not a first (or even second) language, could craft novels such as Heart of Darkness, Nostromo, and The Secret Agent. If you have not read this book since it was forced uponyou in school, or if you are curious to reaquaint yourself with it after seeing Coppola's brilliant adaption in Apocalypse Now, you owe it to yourself to pick this up and give it your attention. It is an enduring classic, one of the first really modern novels.	2001-02-02
US	52203333	R3QKR0GUBBONWV	068484589X	389883760	Hugh Johnsons Modern Encyclopedia Of Wine 4th Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exhaustive, Comprehensive  yet very Readable	Hugh Johnson is my kind of wine writer - he obviously possesses a great deal of knowledge about wine, how it is made, where it comes from, etc. But he also understands that the great majority of people who might drink a bottle of wine, or who might pick up his book, are not quite as knowledgable and familiar with various viticultural terms.  Accordingly, he has written a comprehensive, true &quot;encyclopedia&quot; of wine that has something for everyone.<br />If you are like me, you keep a book like this, and periodically pick it up after buying a few bottles at your local shop to read his tasting notes, or some information about the winery.  The book is perfect for that, he included small profiles and/or tasting notes for thousands of wineries in virtually all major wine-producing countries.  The list of California wineries alone, and Johnson's personal observations about their varietals, is staggering.  He doesn't simply profile the big, million case producers but has notes about small, &quot;boutique&quot; wineries like Groth, etc.  And aside from tasting notes, the book has a whole lot more to offer.<br />Johnson explains how various types of wine are made (port and champagne, for example), includes maps as well as biographical profiles of some leading personalities in the wine world (like Robert Mondavi), and explains in layman's terms which glasses to use, when some &quot;experts&quot; like to decant, etc. This is a book to have lingering around, not for a sit down, cover to cover reading but as a source of information, that can be supplemented every couple of years by purchasing Johnson's excellent annual pocket encyclopedias (with more up to date tasting and winery info). I find myself picking up the book to look up something specific, and unable to put it down for a half hour or more while I browse. Pick it up, for the price of a single bottle of Montrachet, you will enhance your knowledge and enjoyment of wine considerably.	2001-02-01
US	52203333	R2242MA5T1WFFK	068484589X	389883760	Hugh Johnsons Modern Encyclopedia Of Wine 4th Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exhaustive, Comprehensive  yet very Readable	Hugh Johnson is my kind of wine writer - he obviously possesses a great deal of knowledge about wine, how it is made, where it comes from, etc. But he also understands that the great majority of people who might drink a bottle of wine, or who might pick up his book, are not quite as knowledgable and familiar with various vinicultural terms.  Accordingly, he has written a comprehensive, true &quot;encyclopedia&quot; of wine that has something for everyone.<br />If you are like me, you keep a book like this, and periodically pick it up after buying a few bottles at your local shop to read his tasting notes, or some information about the winery.  The book is perfect for that, he included small profiles and/or tasting notes for thousands of wineries in virtually all major wine-producing countries.  The list of California wineries alone, and Johnson's personal observations about their varietals, is staggering.  He doesn't simply profile the big, million case producers but has notes about small, &quot;boutique&quot; wineries like Groth, etc.  And aside from tasting notes, the book has a whole lot more to offer.<br />Johnson explains how various types of wine are made (port and champagne, for example), includes maps as well as biographical profiles of some leading personalities in the wine world (like Robert Mondavi), and explains in layman's terms which glasses to use, when some &quot;experts&quot; like to decant, etc. This is a book to have lingering around, not for a sit down, cover to cover reading but as a source of information, that can be supplemented every couple of years by purchasing Johnson's excellent annual pocket encyclopedias (with more up to date tasting and winery info). I find myself picking up the book to look up something specific, and unable to put it down for a half hour or more while I browse. Pick it up, for the price of a single bottle of Montrachet, you will enhance your knowledge and enjoyment of wine considerably.	2001-02-01
US	52203333	R1859KXDFY4BBK	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	4	76	85	N	N	(Resubmitted) - Find out what the fuss was about	This is one of those books, like Mitch Albom's Tuesdays with Morrie, that for some reason captures the attention of the book-buying public, as the hardcover version was on the bestseller lists for years. Most readers have given you their opinions here at Amazon, 325 at last count, and so I figured I would put in my two cents as well.  (Please note this review is resubmitted to correct technical errors in the previous version).<br />Berendt seems to be the perfect example of a writer being in the right place at the right time - he appears in Savannah as a featues writer to cover a lavish holiday party hosted by the extravagant antiques dealer Jim Williams, at the famed Mercer House, and is swept up in a murder and ensuing trial.  There is no great mystery associated with the murder itself, everyone knows ... pulled the trigger, and yet Berendt manages to write a colorful, suspenseful page-turner that captivated the imagination of the public like few other non-fiction novels ever have.  In Cold Blood by Capote comes to mind, but trust me this story is infinitely more entertaining.<br />Ultimately, the book works on many levels.  It is an effective chronicle of a series of high-profile trials, an extended travelogue in which the colorful city of Savannah stands out as perhaps the star of the book, and a profile of Savannah's arostocracy, in which the reader understands Williams' sense of wanting to belong despite considerable obstacles. (Williams was not &quot;old money&quot;, and therefore not really accepted in the city's highest circles, and as the trial revealed he was gay).  Most of all, the book is a smorgasbord of colorful characters (none more compelling than the Lady Chablis) and bizarre situations that create a timeless sense of Savannah as a mysterious, alluring city. You encounter men walking imaginary dogs, a voodoo priestess performing odd rituals in a graveyard, and a lawyer who takes off with the UGA mascot for the annual Florida v. Georgia college football game, in the midst of the biggest murder trial of his career.<br />The language of the book is effortless, almost as if it wrote itself, which makes sense when you consider the author came from a magazine background and started out writing a &quot;fluff&quot; features piece. Berendt thankfully avoids the excessive crime scene minutae and endless details of minor courtroom tactics that sometimes bogs down other true crime books, and keeps the reader focused on the sense of place, and the colorful characters, that are the true focus of his story. I enjoyed it thoroughly, read it very quickly and was sorry to put it down.  A definite thumbs up.ball game, in the midst of the biggest murder trial of his career.<br />The language of the book is effortless, almost as if it wrote itself, which makes sense when you consider the author came from a magazine background and started out writing a &quot;fluff&quot; features piece. Berendt thankfully avoids the excessive crime scene minutae and endless details of minor courtroom tactics that sometimes bogs down other true crime books, and keeps the reader focused on the sense of place, and the colorful characters, that are the true focus of his story. I enjoyed it thoroughly, read it very quickly and was sorry to put it down.  A definite thumbs up.	2001-01-29
US	52203333	RKVRAYJ1IV51T	0684803798	987123504	Blast from the Past: A Novel (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Average by Kinky's Standards	You get the sense that Kinky needed a change of pace with Blast from the Past, as if even he realized that his previous few novels were almost becoming caricatures of themselves.  So he wrote a &quot;prequel&quot;, going back in time to the early 1970's in order to bring together the Village Irregulars for the first time, and to detail his beginnings in the private detective world.  <br />As usual, Steve Rambam is all business, Ratso is his typical wisecracking cheapskate self, and McGovern drifts in and out of the plot as a hard-drinking, loud Irishman with little to do.  The action begins on Ratso's couch with Kinky in the arms of &quot;Judy&quot;, although it is not specified whether we are dealing with Uptown Judy or Downtown Judy from Elvis, Jesus and Coca Cola fame.  Abbie Hoffman a.k.a. Barry Freed drifts into the picture, and the mystery of the novel involves someone who is apparently trying to kill either Hoffman, Kinky or Judy.  A parallel plot line, which Kinky suspects may be related to the first, involves the appearance of a man Judy believes to be her deceased Vietnam veteran husband.  <br />As in all Friedman books, the plot is just there as an amusing excuse to throw the various characers together for some good-natured fun.  It probably has more substance to it than Spanking Watson, (at least we weren't treated to two dozen conversations with a mute cat), but overall I agreed with some of the other reviewers who thought this effort was a little empty.  The characers don't get along, so there is little sense of camaraderie, and you get tired of reading about Kinky's agressive appetite for &quot;Peruvian marching powder&quot;.  I thought the funniest scene was one in which Kinky, getting ready for a date with Judy, unknowingly brushes his &quot;moss&quot; with a toilet brush at McGovern's apartment. I give it 3 stars, an interesting diversion but instantly forgettable.	2001-01-23
US	52203333	R3O76H59J8BLXH	0316559776	964740569	Purple America: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Complex and Moving	Like his earlier work The Ice Storm, Moody has again peeled back the layers of a dysfunctional Connecticut family in the suburbs to reveal the dark, inner-most underside of their respective characters.  In Purple America, all of the action takes place in a single 24 hour period as 37 year old Dexter (Hex) Raitcliffe comes back to his boyhood home to care for his mother, Billie, who is suffering from a debilitating neurological disease that is slowly depriving her of her ability to speak and move.  Billie's mind is intact, but her fears of complete helplessness make her extract a promise from Hex that he will end her suffering before she is hospitalized as a complete invalid. He is surprised to learn, upon arrivng home, that stepfather Lou Sloane has left her with a callous note, apparently overcome with the pressures of caring for his wife, and by his forced resignation at the local nuclear plant as the &quot;fall guy&quot; after a containment spill.  <br />The action begins as Hex struggles to bathe, dress and take his mother to dinner, where he encounters an old schoolmate, Jane Ingersoll, for whom he held a torch twenty years earlier.  The actions builds to a predictable breakdown over the course of 24 hours, with an interesting parallel story concering the horrifying scope of a nuclear spill at Lou's old plant. The book has changing narrators, as we encounter the narrative focus of Hex, Billie, Lou, and Jane over the course of the novel. All the while, Moody skillfully uses flashbacks to flesh out his characters a little more, and to provide some frame of reference for their present actions.  I thought the flashback scenes involving young Hex and the pot-smoking carpenters who had been hired to renovate his room were especially good, although curiously long.  I also was impressed with some of the stream of consciousness narrative of Billie, as she drifted into delirium.<br />Ultimately, I was somewhat ambivalent as to whether I considered this a great, 5 star novel or merely a very good one.  As with The Ice Storm, there are simply dazzling passages surrounded by occasional eccentricities that could use a touch of subtlety.  Moody seems fond of using italics, but at times the reader is unsure whether the passages in italics are being thought, or spoken aloud, by his characters.  Also, late in the novel as Hex is descending into drunken reverie and his mother is slipping in and out of the picture,  I was unsure whether actions were dreamed or real, whether characters were home or at the hospital, etc. One reviewer here put it in perspective when saying that Moody's writing is akin to an off-duty cop driving home with the siren on.  Sometimes less is more.<br />I also was a little confused as to the motivations of some of the characters.  While Billie and Lou were very richly drawn I thought, Hex was a shell of a human being, almost more believable as a teen in flashback than as a protagonist in the novel's present.  Why Jane, who apparently didn't give Hex the time of day in school, would get involved in his mess of a life here was beyond me.  Perhaps out of pity?  And why was Lou's pal from the nuclear plant, Kowalsky, so concerned about Lou's marital situation? <br />All in all, I was wrapped up in Moody's story, just like in The Ice Storm, and at times was overcome by his considerable writing prowess. He is no doubt a strong voice in contemporary fiction, a little grittier and more realistic than Irving and a little more coherent than Delillo or Pynchon.  I recommend this book to anyone who liked The Ice Storm, and for those unfamiliar with either work pick em both up, Amazon charges less to ship the 2nd book.	2001-01-18
US	52203333	R1UITWBIEZR419	0848824369	951875669	Maltese Falcon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The King of Hard-Boiled Detective Fiction	The Maltese Falcon is one of the most well-recognized movies of the &quot;film noir&quot; age, helping to firmly establish the careers of young director John Huston and leading man Humphrey Bogart. This masterpiece novel, upon which the film is very accurately based, may be the greatest novel of its genre.  Hammett writes in a style that almost feels like a screenplay, with the reader vividly re-enacting each scene in her mind as you race along with the plot, encountering such classic characters as the skeptical, hard-boiled detective Sam Spade, effeminate double-crosser Joel Cairo, and the bungling, sneering first-time hit man Wilmer.  <br />The dialogue sparkles, the suspense builds to a satisfying climax, and upon finishing the novel you understand why Huston was so taken with the novel that he chose to remain almost entirely faithful to the dialogue and plot when he made the movie. Modern crime/detective writers like Crais, Parker and Leonard owe a great debt to Dashiell Hammett,  he is truly the father of the genre.  If you have only enjoyed the movie,  or even if you barely remember it,  pick up this book, cancel your early morning appointments, and enjoy a real classic page-turner.	2001-01-16
US	52203333	RUZ2RBMJ2PDLI	0195081773	428893545	One Hundred Days: Napoleon's Road to Waterloo	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Historical Page-Turner	Schom is no great fan of Napolean, as his recent biography of the little Corsican demonstrates.  However, I thought in reading this book that he provided a fairly even-handed, readable description of a fascinating period in European history.  Most readers are familiar with the basic facts: In 1815, the deposed Napolean Bonaparte escaped from his island exile of Elba, and set sail for the shores of his beloved France.  The king sent the army to recapture him, but upon encountering their former leader the troops rallied to his cause,  and he ultimately marched into Belgium as the rest of Europe looked on in horror at this menace whom they thought was out of their hair forever. An alliance of troops, under the command of Lord Wellington, met up with Napolean on the great battlefield of Waterloo, leading to Bonaparte's final great defeat.<br />This book provides a very readable account of these 4 months, and effectively demonstrated how close Napolean actually was to pulling off one more great victory.  He points out the damaging mistakes by Napolean's inferior generals, leading to his flank being disrupted by General Blucher at a crucial point in the battle.  We all know how the story ends, and yet the story was oddly suspenseful in Schom's hands nonetheless. He also paints a very vivid, sometimes unflattering portrait of Napolean, who was not the same man who boldly grasped the crown from the Pope in Notre Dame and proclaimed himself Emperor over 10 years earlier.  Napolean was physically weaker, had a slight drool, and lacked the dynamic force of his younger days during the final 100 day campaign. <br />All in all, while Schom's critical attitude towards Bonaparte has sometimes been open to attack, I thought this was a very entertaining historical narrative for the casual history buff like myself.	2001-01-08
US	52203333	R1K19D20HAEJU	0312203985	665107015	Bing Crosby's Last Song: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Graceful Novel of Working Class Pittsburgh	This is a moving novel about an aging lawyer and Pittsburgh native, Daly \\"Right\\" Racklin, who struggles to understand and live up to the legacy of his late father Boyce Racklin, a champion of the underdog and fellow Pittsburgh attorney.  The first page of the novel paints a pretty bleak picture, as Daly is told by his doctor his heart is failing and that nothing can be done to extend his life beyond a year. Daly proceeds to try and get his life in order, all the while continuing to give of himself  to family, friends, and relatives of deceased buddies who always seem to take advantage of his kindness and betray him. All of this takes place during the turbulent summer of 1968, after the assassinations of Bobby Kennedy and Dr. King.    Daly comes off as almost Saint-like, especially early in the novel, where he exudes a sense of calm patience when the world seems to come apart around him.  He cares for a family that steals from him, because he knew their deceased father and knew he would've done the same had Daly died young and left a widow with children.  Daly carries on a friendship with a blind divorcee, Jessie, and then gets involved in an unlikely, whirlwind romance with a mystical woman (Gloria Scone) that he meets at a wake.  All the while, Daly is frequently visited by visions of Pretty Boy Floyd, and we learn one of the most vivid memories of his childhood was a visit to the grass field where Floyd was gunned down.    Overall, I thought this was a very moving novel, with the characters of Daly and Jessie drawn exceptionally well.  The scenes in Oakland (a working class Pittsburgh neighborhood) pubs were excellent, as bartenders reminisced with Daly about his working class hero dad, the original \\"Right\\" Racklin. The author notes that it was difficult for Daly to live up the reputation of a good father. I also loved the road trip by Daly and his friends to NYC, to attend the funeral of RFK.  Some of the plot twists seemed a little forced, ( I thought the wholeGloria Scone interlude was a little abrupt and unrealistic, and detracted from the novel), but overall it was an engaging read and a moving glimpse at a time and place that is infrequently visited.	2001-01-08
US	52203333	R3TQETPHI4LKDO	0752400835	445657442	Along the Damariscotta (Images of America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absorbing Photographs of a Beautiful Region	If you have been lucky enough to visit Lake Damariscotta, in Maine's midcoast region, you will love poring through the beautiful photographs in this collection.  Ms. Blanchard has gathered numerous turn of the century black and white photos of both the Lake and Damariscotta River, as well as Boothbay Harbor, and assembled them here with some explanatory text.  The book is relatively small, and could've been helped out a little with better paper and a larger, coffee-table format. But in any event I love this region, having visited the lake this past summer, and I enjoy picking up this collection periodically to get a glimpse of Maine's history.	2000-12-14
US	52203333	RLTR0LX0DIE4K	0684850613	254872191	Spanking Watson: A Novel (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Going Through the Motions	I think some of the other reviewers here were right on target when they suggested that Kinky missed a beat here, and that this book was strangely unsatisfying.  I know these novels are formulaic and not really plot-driven, but here the plot is virtually non-existent!  The action, aside from some trips to eat with the Village Irregulars, takes place almost entirely in Friedman's building on VanDam Street in NYC.  There are hardly any outside characters, aside from the espresso-swilling, mob-connected plasterers working on Kinky's ceiling after Winnie's lesbian dance class causes his ceiling to crumble. Even the &quot;mystery&quot; of the plot is a sham, as Kinky invents an imaginary stalker of Winnie to aggravate his neighbor and sets the Irregulars in motion to help solve the identity of the stalker.<br />I have read a couple of other Friedman books, and maybe the repetition here is just starting to wear on me.  How many times do we readers need to be reminded about how the author lights his cigars, &quot;keeping the match just under the tip...&quot;  How many times can he make a witty observation to the cat and then claim tongue in cheek : &quot;The cat, of course, said nothing&quot;?  That line is present at least 25 times in this book, mostly cause Kinky never leaves the apartment. Also, as a little nugget for his high-brow fans, Friedman throws in references to some of his famous readers, like Don Imus, Bill Clinton and Joseph Heller, in gratitude for their kind words I suppose.<br />Perhaps the most baffling part of the book, for me, was an incomprehensible aside for about 3 pages where the author describes Jesus as being the original hip Texas Jewboy, and then traces the lineage to modern hip &quot;Jewboys&quot; like Joseph Heller and Abbie Hoffman.  I think the author had drank a little too much of his beloved Jameson's when he wrote that chapter, which could have used an editor's red pen. Plus, every Italian character in the novel had ridiculous names like Tortellini, Linguine, etc. <br />Anyway, for all of you devoted fans of the Kinksta, you will delight in reading about the author constantly puffing cigars, guzzling espresso and tossing down shots of Irish whiskey in his bull's horn to break the monotony.  For the rest of us,  there is little here to set this novel apart.  I wouldn't start with this as an introduction to Friedman,  The Love Song of J. Edgar Hoover was far superior in this reviewer's humble opinion.	2000-12-14
US	52203333	RR947AIDNS8A0	0679454446	612130498	Lucky You	Books	4	54	55	N	N	Better than the Reviews Here Would Indicate	Reading a Carl Hiaasen novel is somewhat of a guilty pleasure for me,  as I am indirectly a target of many of Carl's jokes being a South Florida lawyer.  However, whenever I am temporarily tired of heavy prose or detailed non-fiction and in the mood for a &quot;quick fix&quot;, a page turner written with humor and a little suspense by an author who doesn't take himself too seriously , I pick up a novel by someone like Hiaasen or Kinky Friedman. You will not find the &quot;young handsome hero gets chased by the CIA and/or FBI as he falls in love with the beautiful Supreme Court law clerk&quot; nonsense of thrillers by Baldacci and Grisham, just some goofball characters giving Florida a bad name who ultimately get what's coming to them.<br />In Lucky You, the plot centers around a Lotto ticket stolen from a female African American veterinary assistant by two bizarre rascists, who envision forming a neo-Nazi militia with the extra 14 million bucks.  The two hapless crooks, Bode Gazzer and Chub, have one 14 million dollar winning ticket of their own, but with taxes and extended payouts they assume 14 million will be insufficient for their grandiose plans, and thus they pilfer the other winning ticket. <br />Our heroine, ridiculously named JoLayne Lucks, is everything a character should be in Hiaasen's world - she loves nature, is kind to animals, and wants to use her winnings to buy a pristine plot of land and prevent some Mafia developers from bulldozing the whole thing for a tax-shelter shopping mall. She lives in tiny Grange, Florida, a city known for its religious &quot;miracles&quot; including the self-mutilated &quot;stigmata&quot; man, a lady who thinks a road stain of brake fluid depicts the face of Christ,  and a shrine to the Blessed Virgin which, on command, emits tears.  These tears, scented with cheap perfume, are operated surreptitiously through a hidden hydraulic pump. All of these scandalous gags are meant to fleece tourists, on holy pilgrimages, out oftheir modest earnings.  The straight man in the novel, features writer Tom Krome, goes to Grange to write a story on the lottery winner Ms. Lucks and is inexplicably drawn into her efforts to get the ticket back from Chub and Gazzer.<br />As in all Hiaasen books, the slimy characters get what is coming to them, and for the most part the author keeps most of the balls in the air effectively, keeping the reader mildly interested in the sensational plot even though you knowingly suspend belief from page one.  The book has its faults to be sure- I wish Hiaasen would not be so over the top with his names, like a lottery winner named &quot;Lucks&quot;, and a neo-Nazi named &quot;Gazzer.&quot; Also, I thought the actions of Sinclair, Krome's boss at the paper, should have been deleted by a sympathetic editor. Sinclair, trying his best to catch up with Tom Krome, heads to Grange where he proceeds to sit in a moat full of turtles (painted like religious figures) and utters nonsense babble in rapturous delirium. These passages, unlike most of the book, were difficult to read.<br />All in all, while Hiaasen will never be confused with F. Scott Fitzgerald or Henry James, he has written a very entertaining novel here with passages that were downright hilarious.  Some here... have insisted that Lucky You is his worst novel, which still would not be that bad in my opinion. As for my own &quot;ranking order,&quot; I certainly feel Lucky You was every bit as good as Strip Tease and Stormy Weather, maybe a spot below Native Tongue and Tourist Season, but who cares? Ranking them is like comparing different types of melon. If you like his style, you'll enjoy this novel.  I give it 4 stars, and am glad I picked it up.	2000-12-04
US	52203333	R364DV6F2J7854	1878448056	503862002	The Long Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Modern Day Faulkner	I know many reviewers here have pointed out the similarities between William Gay's little slice of Tennessee in The Long Home, and Faulkner's fictional Yoknapatawpha County in Mississippi. Gay's book is a worthy successor to Faulkner's many masterpieces, and his villain in The Long Home, Dallas Hardin, will remind readers of Flem Snopes. This book is a stunning, honest, brutal gem of a novel with passages of grace and lucidity that simply overwhelm the reader.<br />The action begins with a bang in the Prologue, where we are introduced to moonshiner/squatter Hardin and his stubborn brutality toward the Winer family, as well as his selfish opportunism toward the crippled Hovington.  The rest of the novel, with many interesting and amusing side plots (like chicken farmer Weiss and Winer's pal Motormouth), builds to a powerful climax  as you sense a looming conflict between good (Winer) and evil (Hardin), as well as the possible romance involving Winer and young Amber Rose. There is an underlying sense of danger in the town, and a history of brutality as you learn gradually of characters who have taken the law into their own hands, while others have the &quot;law&quot; in their pockets.  <br />I was also reminded a little of Charles Frazier's moving novel Cold Mountain, but while Frazier's book was at times ponderous and slow, The Long Home moved at a steady, effective pace.  The dialogue was right on target at all times,  and each characer was richly drawn and stayed true to form.  I hope Gay keeps writing these big powerful novels of the deep south, there is a void there that needs filling.	2000-11-24
US	52203333	R1C2NUENX8IVSO	0385497369	297192441	Midnight Sun	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Deliverance Meets Heart of Darkness in Alaskan Wilderness	Elwood Reid has written a thrilling, action-adventure tale set in the last great wilderness of the country.  Narrator Jack and his buddy Burke fish on weekends, and work as carpenters during the day putting up cheap housing developments in Fairbanks.  When Burke meets an older man, Duke, whose daughter Penny has joined a cult deep in the wilderness and never came back, our protagonists are dispatched to go save her.  They are woefully unprepared, both for the voyage and for what they encounter at journey's end.<br />The novel oftentimes feels like a cross between Deliverance (some of the scenes bear a striking similarity to Dickey's classic novel of city boys over their head in the wild), and Conrad's Heart of Darkness.  He skillfully builds up the mystery surrounding the leader of the commune, Nunn, and the strange grip he seems to hold on the various occupants of the camp who have escaped from civilization for various reasons.  I thought the testosterone level of the book was a little off the charts at the outset, with the reader being treated to various sexual fantasies and cruel innuendos surrounding virtually every female character in the novel (including a recent widow) while in Fairbanks.  But once Jack and Burke take off up the river to the camp to &quot;rescue&quot; Penny, the adventure really begins and Reid hits his stride.<br />For a while I couldn't put the book down, as the various characters gradually and reluctantly reveal more and more of the camp's secrets to the inquisitive newcomers.  Ultimately I thought the revelations were somewhat anticlimactic,  and some of the plotlines were left a little loose and unresolved in my mind (like what exactly motivated Penny to join the group, and what secret motives, if any, did Duke have for sending in Jack and Burke?) However, all in all I thought this was a very satisfying read, an action-packed adventure story in a big strange setting where you could feel the mosquitos biting your leg, and see your breathleaving your mouth in the icy cold air. Reid has a hypnotic quality to his writing,  and I was drawn in from the first chapter.	2000-11-24
US	52203333	R3SBAR4BE1NBRL	0393049779	518977709	In the Snow Forest: Three Novellas	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Very Promising Writer	After reading (and reviewing) Tom Franklin's excellent collection of stories Poachers, I was tipped off to this collection of three novellas by aspiring young writer Roy Parvin. There is much to recommend here, and I look forward to reading Parvin's debut novel which is apparently on the way. <br />Parvin writes with grace and confidence, and his stories, while all very different from one another, have a lot in common.  The surroundings are harsh and well-depicted,  the characters are all vividly drawn and approaching middle age, and the tales are suspenseful in a cool, calculated style. There is a sense of seriousness, as if each of the protagonists knows he or she is at a crossroads and there is no turning back.<br />The first novella depicts a desperate ex-con, Gibbs, who makes off with his girlfriend's stash of money, a stolen car, and heads west in an attempt to get away from his past and start anew.  You can sense the internal demons pushing Gibbs toward trouble, and feel his struggle to maintain his poise in the mythical Montana which had been the stuff of dreams in his prison cell back east. He seems to think all of his troubles will be solved upon reaching the wild west,  and as readers we know better all along. <br />The title story for me was the most effective of the bunch.  A logger disabled by a shoulder injury is forced to miss the season, and instead stays home at his rustic cabin where he begins a painstaking courtship with an unwed mother whose child is gravely ill.  I loved the scene where he chaperones a group of girls on an organized walk in the woods.  There are some incredibly moving passages here, as you sense the gradual awakening of feelings in Darby and Harper, while you somehow know the ending is not going to be storybook. <br />The final story had parts that I thought were as good as anything in the book, but was somewhat unsatisfying as a whole.  Menno's Granddaughter involves a woman, Lindsay,  who was divorced and then widowed by a famous writer who left her in California, remarried and then killed himself in a small town in Wyoming. I am giving away nothing since the action of the story takes place a couple of years later as Lindsay boards a series of trains to take her east to the Hudson Valley to visit her parents, while she composes a long letter to her deceased husband.  She is full of curiosity about the town in Wyoming where her husband Whit ended up, and through a coincidence that I thought was a little contrived, she ends up there herself for awhile due to a blizzard. The scenes with Lindsay and  second wife Alex were fascinating,  but I think Parvin kind of took the easy way out getting them together. <br />All in all, I highly recommend the book. Parvin is a strong new voice in contemporary fiction, with a deep understanding of human emotions.  Landscapes come alive in his vivid depictions, and his paragraphs are full of hidden meaning.  I breezed through all of these stories fairly quickly,  and intend to reread them over time to appreciate the grace and power of Parvin's prose.  Here's hoping his novel is as good.	2000-10-30
US	52203333	R1NU3DCDYHCRIT	0670870218	642048318	Liberty!: The American Revolution	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Excellent Coffee Table Book on the American Revolution	Fleming's book is not for everyone, since the inherent limitations of the format will turn off some readers wanting a more in depth analysis of the war, its causes, or its numerous battles and personalities.  If you purchase the book thinking you are buying a beautifully illustrated, well-written coffee table book about the Revolution, with numerous interesting &quot;asides&quot; on topics ranging from the Liberty Bell, origins of the Flag, etc., then you will be richly rewarded with this purchase.<br />Fleming has done his research, and I thought the text was well-written and detailed enough to provide a well-rounded overview of the struggle.  Many of the war's colorful characters, like Banastre Tarleton, Nathaniel Greene, Benedict Arnold, John Burgoyne and Samuel Adams, are explored well both in print and in the excellent illustrations. For those readers whose curiosity is piqued by this book, and who want a more thorough account of the war as well as a detailed discussion of the political and biographical backgrounds that Fleming cannot include here, I recommend Robert Leckie's excellent one volume George Washington's War.	2000-10-17
US	52203333	R1VBOK5C1KJ0DX	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Good Story but not a Great Book	The rescue of the crew of the Squalus by Swede Momsen and a heroic team of Navy divers in 1939 is without a doubt a compelling and suspenseful subject matter.  Maas obviously has a great deal of respect for Momsen, pointing out petty jealousies and a sense of apathy on the part of the Navy that often deprived Momsen of the credit he was due.  In The Terrible Hours, Maas oftentimes tries to add a little drama and suspense, for example ending chapters with an ominous warning or hint of upcoming trouble that I thought was a little over the top.<br />Overall, I thought the book was entertaining but could have been better.  Maas includes no maps, floorplans of the sub or even a simple diagram to give the average non-Naval officer reader (like me) a sense of the confines of the submarine.  He has no notes, so you wonder at the source of many of his facts such as the actions and conversations of the Squalus crewman and their spouses ashore when news of the sinking spread. Aside from the impressive cover, there is nary a photograph. He also spends a great deal of time describing the salvage of the sub itself, after any survivors were removed, which turned out to be somewhat anti-climatic since the reader's curiosity as to the cause of the sinking is never really satisfied.  Overall I give it 3 stars, 3 1/2 if Amazon let me, but I was a lot more impressed with the writing, Notes, photographs and charts of the Philbrick book on the Whaleship Essex- it included all of the material that could've made Maas' book better, even though it chronicled an event dating more than 100 years earlier.	2000-10-16
US	52203333	ROZ8NI5BLPW23	0345310020	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good but not Great	I recently read this novella as an introduction to the writing of Marquez as one Amazon reviewer suggested, and while I agree with most of the excellent conclusions rendered by other reviewers of this work, I must say that I did not find reading this book all that fulfilling or enjoyable. I want to like Marquez, since seemingly the whole world does upon reading him, but I labored through this book without feeling any great sympathy or concern for any of its characters.<br />Anyone who has read the synopsis of the story above knows what it is about.  Set in a small Colombian town, the novella chronicles the murder of one of the town's leading citizens, Santiago Nasar, by two twin brothers who are advised that Nasar has brought dishonor on the family by &quot;deflowering&quot; their sister. The twins' sister, Angela, is brought back home on her wedding night when her husband learns she is not a virgin, after she abandons any plans for trying to keep her past a secret.  Angela advises her family that it was Nasar who slept with her in the past, and thus her brothers set out, while telling the whole town of their intentions, to avenge their sister's loss of innocence.<br />The story is narrated over 20 years after the fact by a friend of Nasar, who has supposedly read investigative files and interviewed all persons involved in the case, and the book reads much like an extended  newspaper story of the murder and its aftermath. The plot is non-linear, you know about the murder from page one of the story and you obtain details of Nasar's autopsy, and of the twins' subsequent incarceration while awaiting trial, before you are given the disturbing details about the crime in the last few pages.<br />The is much irony and fatalism here, as the victim Nasar is seemingly the only person in town who is ignorant of the brothers' plans to kill him, leading the reader (as well as the narrator) to wonder aloud whether he really did sleep with Angela. Marquez reveals how numerous persons in the town had opportunities to stop the crime, or at least to try and warn Nasar and hide him, but a pervading sense of the inevitable leads the victim to his unsuspecting doom. Perhaps the non-appearance of a bishop, who was supposed to visit the town with great fanfare but who never disembarked from his boat on the day of the murder, is meant to symbolize the inability of the Church to prevent cruelty amidst a village with an antiquated sense of honor. <br />All in all, while Marquez writes skillfully with a prose style that is neither stark nor overly wordy, I couldn't help but feel a little disappointed that I wasn't more wrapped up in the story. Perhaps I had expected too much based on the abundance of praise the author has received here.	2000-10-10
US	52203333	RVE07MBMEOAGD	0688177719	105963786	Poachers: Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	haunting, livid prose	Franklin has written a very impressive collection of short stories here, which I thought culminated in the excellent novella Poachers that gives the volume its name.  He explores the backwoods of Alabama with a native's knowledge of the hunters and fishermen who live in the state's rural areas, and at the same time he possesses considerable skill in storytelling.  I've never visited the area he writes so convincingly about, but those who live there seem to indicate he nailed the characters dead on.  <br />The story &quot;Poachers&quot; involves a group of three amoral and uncontrollable brothers who wreak havoc in Alabama until a mysterious, legendary and mostly unseen game warden is dispatched to start picking them off.  The suspense is tremendous as the hunters become the hunted in a cool, calculated, unhurried style.  The story reminded me a little of the eerie movie Southern Comfort, where a bunch of National Guardsmen where systematically hunted down and killed in a rural Louisiana swamp by unseen Cajuns. <br />Other stories in this volume, while not as powerful as the title piece, were uniformly above average and sometimes very good. Frankin is always entertaining, and seems always to know what he is writing about. The author has been critized here at Amazon by one or two reviewers for inconsistent plot development, but I thought the plot of &quot;Poachers&quot; was as fully developed as that of most full length novels, and some of the shorter stories were meant to be experimental and a little abrupt.  Short stories are seldom wrapped in conventional packages.  Overall, I give the volume 4 stars, maybe 4 1/2 if you concentrate mostly on the title novella, and I enthusiastically look forward to reading Franklin's debut novel.	2000-10-10
US	52203333	R1X3VBYPL3LIJH	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Compelling, Humble and Well-Written	Grant's memoirs are a must-read for any serious student of the Civil War. While praise is heaped upon Confederate generals such as Lee and Jackson, Grant's legacy has always been a little more uncertain. His reputation has been associated with allegations of drunkenness, and with an apparent unflinching ability to send men to their slaughter which this book helps to dispel.<br />Lincoln loved Grant, as he was the first Union commander who seemed willing to fight it out with Lee's army, and who enjoyed any consistent success.  When one considers Grant's predecessors at the helm of the Union army, one can understand Lincoln's enthusiasm.  You had McClellan, who never read an exaggerated report of the enemy size he didn't believe; &quot;Fighting Joe Hooker&quot;, flanked and embarrassed at Chancellorsville; Burnside, who foolishly sent wave after wave of Union soldiers across the Rappahanock to attack an impregnable stone wall at Fredericksburg; and Pope, who was soundly beaten at Manassas.  Meanwhile, Grant caught Abe's attention with his successful siege of Vicksburg in the summer of 1863, as Meade was beating Lee at Gettysburg.<br />Reading Grant's Memoirs is a fascinating experience, as the war, at least that part of it involving Grant, comes to life in the hands of a thoughtful commentator. Grant was obviously there, and he shares informative communications with his inferior officers (such as Sherman) and with the President. Grant sent many men to their doom to be sure, (the Wilderness campaign comes to mind as being especially bloody and ineffective), but overall you get the sense that Grant was respected by his men, who were happy to be marching forward and not backwards after a battle. He restored a sense of pride and accomplishment that was sorely lacking in the Union rank and file. He gave cogent reasons in his memoirs for the actions undertaken, sometimes admitting mistakes in humble fashion, and sometimes explaining why a siege would accomplish the same overall goal without unnecessary bloodshed. <br />My only regret is that Grant didn't live long enough to write a companion memoir about his presidency, which was clearly outside the scope of this book. Readers who have gotten this far in the Amazon review process are no doubt aware that a broke Grant, stricken with painful throat cancer, wrote out his Memoirs of the Civil War right up until the end of his life to provide financially for his family, finishing the book days before he died. We should all be grateful that he was able to preserve these pages for prosperity, they are truly a model of military memoirs that I consider an extremely rewarding reading experience.  When one considers the circumstances in which Grant composed this work, the end result is nothing short of miraculous.	2000-10-09
US	52203333	R2G5LM7YRBID6U	034540727X	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Breathtaking and Innovative	This book helped to launch an entire genre of fiction, the &quot;historical novel&quot;, in which the author invents dialogue and interaction among a group of real life characters who all act in a manner consistent with their real-life models.  Here, Shaara brings the battle of Gettysburg to life in gripping, emotional, historically accurate detail.  The book will move you like few other &quot;non-fiction&quot; accounts of the battle or the Civil War itself ever can.<br />Shaara doesn't appear to take sides in telling the story, as he cuts back and forth between extra-ordinary depictions of characters like Lee, Longstreet, Stuart on the Confederate side as well as Union participants like Joshua Chamberlain and George Meade. I especially enjoyed the interaction between Lee and Longstreet, who tried to talk Lee out of a frontal assault at Gettysburg in favor of a defensive maneuver in which the southern armies stood in the path of Washington D.C., as well as the heroic exploits of Virginia's Lewis Armistead, who gallantly charged under General Pickett hoping he wouldn't be forced to confront his good friend, Union General Win Hancock. The novel is filled with gripping, true to life storylines where generals and their inferior officers came to life in Shaara's skillful hands.<br />The research done to support The Killer Angels was obviously meticulous, and the book includes maps to give the reader a sense of the overall development of the battle, to accompany the personal interactions of the participants. If you are a Civil War buff you owe it to yourself to read this book, which is far superior to the later, similar novels written about the war, both pre- and post-Gettysburg, by the late author's son Jeff Shaara. If you are not all that interested in the War Between the States, read The Killer Angels anyway, and you may find yourself looking for more, like the 3 part history of the war by Shelby Foote, which this novel inspired me to read. I give it an enthusiastic five stars.	2000-10-03
US	52203333	R36TIQFNAL0OVY	0970238320	657102703	When the Cat's Away	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Good but not Kinky's Best	I am a new fan of the politically incorrect, fast-paced detective novels of Kinky Friedman, having previously read The Love Song of J. Edgar Hoover.  These books are an easy read, with short chapters and constant movement, and Kinky (both narrator and author) occasionally summarizes what the protagonist has learned just to help the reader keep up with the storyline in the unlikely event you become confused.<br />This time Kinky gets wrapped up in the case of a cat who  disappeared from a cat show at New York's Madison Square Garden. This seemingly harmless case soon leads him down the path to murder, warring Columbian drug cartels, and perhaps an ancient sect of dangerous Cat worshippers who are believed by anthropologists to be in the New York/ New England area.  <br />However, none of this really matters all that much.  The joy of reading a Friedman novel is simply to come along for the ride as Kinky, his sidekick Ratso, and other &quot;Village Irregulars&quot; like McGovern and Rambam converge in his Greenwich Village apartment (below the ever-present Winnie Katz and her lesbian dance class) or at Carnegie Deli to piece together  information and make everything turn out happily ever after. Kinky pokes fun at hockey, golf, publishers, Columbian drug lords, authors, police and virtually everyone else who enters his path with a self-deprecating humor and a knowledge of history.  His numerous historical references include such diverse characters as Vincent Van Gogh and Franz Shubert. Clearly the guy has read a few books in his day before he started writing them.<br />Ultimately, while the novel held my interest and I read it in a single weekend, I didn't think this one was as laugh-out-loud funny as J. Edgar Hoover.  Written in 1988, it was Friedman's third novel, and I suspect he was still polishing his style. However, fans of Kinky's offbeat style, (and there are many of them), will find much here to enjoy.	2000-10-02
US	52203333	R4P6R27NAHZM7	0345415094	168094362	The Love Song of J. Edgar Hoover, A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Amusing, Offebeat, Politically Incorrect and Entertaining	...I stumbled across this book on a bargain rack, and it was also my first experience reading the &quot;Kinkster&quot;. However, I must confess that I found this novel to be well worth the couple of bucks I paid for it, and well worth my time in reading it (although it surely won't take very long, Friedman's books are a very quick and painless read).<br />Friedman's writing style is infectious- you either like it right from the start, or it's not for you.  Virtually every page has a wisecrack and witty retort, and the author throws in references to such diverse characters as Charles Dickens, Tom Bodet (of Motel 6 fame), Martin Luther King, J. Edgar Hoover and mass murderer John Wayne Gacy. No topic is off-limits.  The narrator lives in a 4th floor apartment in NYC, and a lesbian dance instructor lives over him.  He mentions, as he goes through the papers of a missing man, that one check stood out &quot;like a Jew with an antfarm.&quot; Friedman pokes fun of everyone, but in a playful and witty manner that I really enjoyed. <br />The novel's main storyline revolved around a missing person, the husband of Kinky's client, as well as a secondary theme involving suspicious characters that seem to be following Kinky's Irish journalist friend McGovern. I am unfamiliar with the author's prior works, but I understand that many of his usual cast of characters are here, as well as the habits and style that have made his loyal fans look forward to Friedman's annual novel.<br />I should add a word or two about the rating, since I gave the book 4 stars yet I certainly don't think Friedman is a better novelist than say John Irving or Howard Norman, whose books I have given 3 stars.  I think you have to judge a book like this in the context of his genre, and for those looking for a witty mystery novel with an occasional unexpected plot twist, interspersed with humor and biting sarcasm, I think this book ranks up there with similar novels by Carl Hiassen.	2000-09-27
US	52203333	R2Q8QWM7EVARG4	0684832852	136486289	THE MEADOWLANDS: WILDERNESS ADVENTURES AT THE EDGE OF A CITY	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A Humorous Little Book about a Huge Dumping Ground	Sullivan has written a very strange, tongue in cheek book about an area of the country that is perhaps the most abused and neglected in the entire country. The state of New Jersey led the nation in &quot;superfund&quot; cleanup sites last time I checked, but even by New Jersey standards the Meadowlands stands apart as a symbol of toxic dumping, abuse of nature and poor planning.  Sullivan will have us believe that whenever he has some time on his hands while in New York, he packs a lunch, heads over the Hudson river into New Jersey and wanders around the swamp that is the Meadowlands.<br />The book is amusing and usually informative- part environmental history, part ecology lesson, and part urban legend folklore.  He recounts tales of reported Mob hits and labor disputes, tells of alleged buried pirate treasure, and explains how Hollywood &quot;western&quot; movies were filmed in the Meadowlands before there really was a movie industry in Hollywood. He embarks on some amusing canoe explorations of some of the more inaccessible areas of the swamp, with a companion who complains that he is likely &quot;cutting ten years off his life&quot; by paddling through the putrid swamp with Sullivan. <br />Readers will learn probably more than they ever wanted to know about the composition and ecological breakdown of garbage dumps, including the creation of a slimy liquid called &quot;leachate&quot; which oozes out of the manmade hills and into virtual &quot;moats&quot;, before blending into waterways such as the Hackensack River.<br />All in all, while the book was often engaging and Sullivan's narrative mostly kept your interest, the book could've been better. There is little organization to the chapters, and while many of Sullivan's points are made with subtle irony  (like the issue of whether his hotel room had a &quot;view) he doesn't really have an overriding theme or purpose in telling his story. He seems more interested in finding cool stuff, like the remains of old PennStation, foreign translations of Gone With the Wind or Jimmy Hoffa's body, than he is in efforts to restore or develop the meadowlands. The book jacket makes it seem like the book will explore various doomed efforts to develop areas of the Meadowlands, but all relatively recent efforts to do so were ignored in favor of lengthy accounts of turn of the century plans to alter the landscape and farm the land.  There are apparently modern housing complexes and industrial parks there now, but we never hear from those people who live and work in the developed areas, only those who live in modified fishing shacks in the middle of the swamp. The book was an interesting diversion, especially for those like myself who drove by this region for many years, but ultimately the book seemed shallow and insignificant.	2000-09-25
US	52203333	RC9VOWA06X3XR	0684844184	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Carefully Researched, Very Human Portrait of an Icon	Maraniss has done his typical excellent job of bringing a larger-than-life  character, in this case legendary coach Vince Lombardi, to life in this  engaging biography.  The author explores Lombardi's humble beginning, his  Catholic upbringing, and his will to win which enabled him to compete as  one of the famed &quot;Seven Blocks of Granite&quot; at Fordham despite a  lack of both size or exemplary athletic talent.<br />Early in the book,  Maraniss provides a fascinating glimpse into the college football programs  of former national contenders Fordham and Army, where Lombardi was an  assistant under the famed Red Blaik, and where he sometimes sat watching  film with huge Army supporter Gen. Douglas MacArthur.  At West Point  Lombardi learned some of the coaching techniques, including a manic  obsession with film study and precise repetition in practice, that served  him so well later.<br />For those who know nothing about Lombardi apart from  his years with the Green Bay Packers, there is much here to learn and  enjoy.  Vince was an assistant coach for the NY Giants, coaching the  offense while another future hall of famer, Tom Landry, coached the  defense, and he gives a stirring account of the famous 1960 championship  game, believed by many to be the greatest football game ever played.  Maraniss explores Lombardi's frustrating delays in obtaining a head  coaching job, which he thought was due to his Italian heritage, and  explores his Green Bay days in thorough, skillful fashion.  Characters such  as Paul Hornung (the coach's &quot;Golden Boy&quot; and favorite player),  Bart Starr, Jerry Kramer, Ray Nietzsche, Alex Karras, Willie Wood, Dick  Schaap,and countless others were apparently interviewed, and their personal   remembrances of the Packer era made this a football fan's dream.  <br />But  Maraniss does not simply concentrate on x's and o's,  as he also explores  Lombardi the husband and father, painting a sometimes unflattering picture  of Lombardi the reluctant family man with little or no time for quality  interaction with his kids.  The author even quotes from a devastating  letter written by Lombardi's wife Marie to their son, in 1970 as Vince was  beginning to get ill and their son was starting his own career and family,  expressing frustration at the apparent lack of effort expended by both  Lombardi men to cement their father-son relationship.  Ultimately Lombardi  was a complex man, standing up for his players (he would not tolerate  discrimination against players who were black or gay) as he berated them on  the practice field.  The portrait is especially relevant now, as the  country debates the antics of another &quot;tough disciplinarian&quot;  coach by the name of Bobby Knight.<br />I would have enjoyed a little more  complete picture of Lombardi's one year back on the sidelines coaching the  Washington Redskins in 1969.  Maraniss skillfully explores Lombardi's  hiring and uneasy split with Green Bay, as well as his introduction to D.C.  and his power lunches with owner Edward Bennett Williams. However, after  some good material regarding his initial reactions and impressions of the  team (he thought Sunny Jurgenson was blessed with incredible talent),  Maraniss virtually skips the entire season and tells you how the Redskins  did in retrospect, without any of the detail or anecdotes that made the  Packers years come alive in his retelling.  It was as if Maraniss knew it  was time to wrap things up, and he had tired of writing about football.  However,  all in all, this is a fascinating portrait of a man whose impact  is still  felt on the gridiron, and whose fanatical dedication to team and  especially character lately have been sorely missed in the NFL (and in all  sports for that matter.)	2000-09-19
US	52203333	R1110EX3GT7W5Y	0684844184	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Carefully Researched, Very Human Portrait of an Icon	Maraniss has done his typical excellent job of bringing a larger-than-life  character, in this case legendary coach Vince Lombardi, to life in this  engaging biography.  The author explores Lombardi's humble beginning, his  Catholic upbringing, and his will to win which enabled him to compete as  one of the famed &quot;Seven Blocks of Granite&quot; at Fordham despite a  lack of both size or exemplary athletic talent.<br />Early in the book,  Maraniss provides a fascinating glimpse into the college football programs  of former national contenders Fordham and Army, where Lombardi was an  assistant under the famed Red Blaik, and where he sometimes sat watching  film with huge Army supporter Gen. Douglas MacArthur.  At West Point  Lombardi learned some of the coaching techniques, including a manic  obsession with film study and precise repetition in practice, that served  him so well later.<br />For those who know nothing about Lombardi apart from  his years with the Green Bay Packers, there is much here to learn and  enjoy.  Vince was an assistant coach for the NY Giants, coaching the  offense while another future hall of famer, Tom Landry, coached the  defense, and he gives a stirring account of the famous 1960 championship  game, believed by many to be the greatest football game ever played.  Maraniss explores Lombardi's frustrating delays in obtaining a head  coaching job, which he thought was due to his Italian heritage, and  explores his Green Bay days in thorough, skillful fashion.  Characters such  as Paul Hornung (the coach's &quot;Golden Boy&quot; and favorite player),  Bart Starr, Jerry Kramer, Ray Nietzsche, Alex Karras, Willie Wood, Dick  Schaap,and countless others were apparently interviewed, and their personal   remembrances of the Packer era made this a football fan's dream.  <br />But  Maraniss does not simply concentrate on x's and o's,  as he also explores  Lombardi the husband and father, painting a sometimes unflattering picture  of Lombardi the reluctant family man with little or no time for quality  interaction with his kids.  The author even quotes from a devastating  letter written by Lombardi's wife Marie to their son, in 1970 as Vince was  beginning to get ill and their son was starting his own career and family,  expressing frustration at the apparent lack of effort expended by both  Lombardi men to cement their father-son relationship.  Ultimately Lombardi  was a complex man, standing up for his players (he would not tolerate  discrimination against players who were black or gay) as he berated them on  the practice field.  The portrait is especially relevant now, as the  country debates the antics of another &quot;tough disciplinarian&quot;  coach by the name of Bobby Knight.<br />I would have enjoyed a little more  complete picture of Lombardi's one year back on the sidelines coaching the  Washington Redskins in 1969.  Maraniss skillfully explores Lombardi's  hiring and uneasy split with Green Bay, as well as his introduction to D.C.  and his power lunches with owner Edward Bennett Williams. However, after  some good material regarding his initial reactions and impressions of the  team (he thought Sunny Jurgenson was blessed with incredible talent),  Maraniss virtually skips the entire season and tells you how the Redskins  did in retrospect, without any of the detail or anecdotes that made the  Packers years come alive in his retelling.  It was as if Maraniss knew it  was time to wrap things up, and he had tired of writing about football.  However,  all in all, this is a fascinating portrait of a man whose impact  is still  felt on the gridiron, and whose fanatical dedication to team and  especially character lately have been sorely missed in the NFL (and in all  sports for that matter.)	2000-09-19
US	52203333	R3DSSFVQCIUKKK	0385325495	767834240	Beetle Boy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very Clever Kafka Adoption for Kids	This is a very clever book,  which my 6 year old son loves and which I found laugh-out-loud funny myself.  I bought it at holiday time after  seeing it on an Amazon recommended list for kids,  and we weren't  disappointed.  <br />Gregory Sampson (like Kafka's Gregor Samsa, get it?) is a  2nd grader who wakes up and is surpried to learn that he has transformed  into a giant beetle.  He tries telling his parents, but they won't listen  to him - his mom says &quot;You were always our little bug-a-boo  dear.&quot;  He is forced to improvise by cutting extra holes in his shirt  to accomodate his extra arms (or are they legs he wonders?), and he uses  his extra appendages to score in soccer.  All in all, this is a charming  story which explores some of the themes of alienation and fright that Kafka  brilliantly explores in The Metamorphosis, but with a light, humorous  touch.  Kids will love it, and you will enjoy reading it to them.  I wish I  could say the same for all childrens' books.	2000-09-18
US	52203333	R2AZ1BKOQ5V9ZW	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Believe all the Good Reviews	You are going to like this book.  Philbrick has taken a fascinating event  in nautical history, the ramming of a whaling ship by an enraged sperm  whale (the real life inspiration for Melville's Moby Dick), and written a  gripping, informative book about whaling, Nantucket, prejudice,  desperation, courage, weakness, redemption, survival and shame. For those  of you thinking this is nothing more than exerpts of a diary of men in tiny  whale boats, guess again.<br />Not content with merely telling the story of  the wreck and the struggles for survival by the crew, Philbrick gives us a  glimpse of Nantucket in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, provides  some useful information about the island's religious customs (the Quaker  Society of Friends dominated life on the Island), and describes what life  was like for a sailor on a boat such as the Essex.  We know from reading  this book where they slept on board, what they ate, how they were  disciplined, how they killed and processed whales, and how much money the  captain and crew stood to make from a typical voyage. We also learn how  whalers from Nantucket were seen as superior to those from the mainland  such as Bedford or Boston, and how African American sailors were frequently  afforded the short end of the stick when it came to shares of the profits,  accomodations, etc.<br />Ultimately, though, this is a story about the wreck  and about survival, with some fascinating subplots.  You will cringe as you  read about Capt. Pollard and his crisis as he must make difficult choices  which jeapordize the life of his own relative, Owen Coffin, who he had  promised to protect.  Philbrick explores the ironic fear of cannabalism  that drove the Essex sailors to avoid relatively close South Pacific  islands after the wreck, in favor of a very risky and lengthy trip to South  America.  He tells us of the difficulties in steering a whale boat, and  describes the trade winds which drove the men away from their target.   <br/>All in all this is a gripping read.  It is written with compassion and  with attention to detail; the author has done his research, as 50 pages of  Notes would indicate.  I was particularly impressed with the passages of  the book relating to the aftermath of the Essex disaster, as he followed  the careers of the survivors, and pointed out that at least one crew member  even sailed with Captain Pollard again. He borrowed from the journals of  two survivors, the first mate and a cabin boy, whose accounts of the  disaster sometimes digress. He also drew interesting parallels with the  open boat plight of Capt. Bligh, of Mutiny on the Bounty fame. After  reading the book, I was so enthralled I read the 50 pages of notes to avoid  putting it down.  Pick up this book if you are at all interested in  sailing, whaling, nautical history, or true-life survival stories under the  harshest of conditions.  You will not be disappointed.	2000-09-12
US	52203333	R33B6GFO4V144C	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A Tale of Awakening in Newfoundland	This is truly a unique novel, a tale of rebirth amidst the odd customs and  harsh elements of Newfoundland.  Protagonist Quoyle is an unremarkable man,  father of two young daughters who must cope with the loss of his unfaithful  wife (Petal) as the novel starts out.  Petal is one of the most despicable  characters I have ever encountered in modern fiction, and yet Quoyle  continues his love for her long after she deserves it.  I was a little  perplexed as I read the book as to why Quoyle continued to hold such deep  emotions for Petal, but I guess his low self-esteem, and her initial  affection for him, left a lasting impact that enabled him to forget her  horrible transgressions.<br />Ultimately Quoyle, his aunt and his two young  children decide to move to Newfoundland, where he was born and where his  family history runs deep, to try and piece together their lives.  They have  dreams of moving back into a house on a point overlooking the bay that has  stood deserted for decades. What he encounters there is portrayed in the  Shipping News with compassion, tenderness, and a keen eye for detail by  skilled novelist Annie Proulx. <br />Quoyle's Newfoundland is full of offbeat  characters with names like Nutbeem, Jack Buggit, Billy Pretty, Wavey and  Tert Card.  As he assimilates into the culture and gradually gets over his  failed marriage, we see Quoyle develop as a writer, father and as a man  until he gradually becomes ready to feel true emotions again.  Ironically I  read this novel soon after reading Anne Tyler's The Accidental Tourist, and  while I found Macon's romance in Tyler's book to be a little forced and  unromantic, Quoyle's rebirth in the Shipping News to me had a much more  sincere undercurrent of true feelings. You cared what happened to these  characters, as they seemingly cared about themselves and those around them.   <br />The novel's eccentric characters and the occasional absurd coincidences  in the plot, for me, were the only things keeping this from ranking as a 5  star novel.  Characters kept popping up  on the water just in time for a  rescue, or at precisely the right locations in the bay (days or weeks  apart) to find separate parts of the same body, which to me seemed a little  contrived.  However, all in all, the book gave a very fresh look at a place  few of us are familiar with, and told a story of a family with deep secrets  and true to life emotions.  Long after you forget some of the actions in  the novel, you will remember its sense of place and the odd camaraderie of  the characters.	2000-09-12
US	52203333	R20CSIPP6IWRKG	0425161617	597669853	Accidental Tourist	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Amusing at Times, but Empty as a Love Story	Anne Tyler's most famous novel is an enjoyable read, with occasional episodes of deep sadness and quirky behavior that the reader will find  amusing. However, ultimately the book attempts to succeed as an offbeat  love story, and I personally found it to be one of the most unremarkable,  unromantic love stories I have ever read.<br />Macon Leary is a reluctant  traveller who writes travel guides for other businessmen, like himself, who  hate to leave home and who therefore wish to make their destinations appear  as boring and risk-free as home.  His quirky travel habits and advice are  perhaps the novel's most original aspect.<br />As the novel begins, Macon and  his wife are struggling to deal with their grief over the loss of their 12  year old son Ethan, who was shot senselessly in a hold-up of a burger stand  while at summer camp. Throughout the novel, Ethan's thoughts of his son are  used to dig up powerful emotions of loss and despair even though Macon  takes it all in stride.<br />When Macon's wife leaves him in the novel's  opening pages, he is left struggling by himself and organizing a ritual at  home that is both original and pathetic.  Rather than do laundry all the  time, he washes his dirty clothes after each day by swishing them around on  the floor of his shower. He makes popcorn so he needn't leave  his bed in  the morning, and sews together a patchwork of sheets so he can sleep in  them one at a time, each shaped like a big envelope,  and only wash them  once.  <br />While in the midst of this off and unhealthy existence, Macon  meets a dog trainer, Muriel, who aggressively drifts into his life despite  Macon's best efforts to keep her out.  Muriel has frizzy hair, wears  inappropriate clothing and spiky heels, and has a son about Ethan's age who  is allergic to seemingly everything. These two characters, who have  virtually nothing in common, head toward an unconvincing romance that seems  empty and unfulfilling.<br />Overall Macon seems to driftfrom one  relationship to the other, sometimes making decisions (or allowing them to  be made for him) seemingly without any thought, despite the substantial  consequences of his actions on himself and others. His wife reappears, and  he goes home like a wayward pet, ultimately to be faced with a choice at  the end that I won't give away. If the reader is like me, by the end of the  novel you don't care with whom Macon decides to share his dreary existence,  you just want him to make a decision for once in his life. <br />Overall I  thought the novel had a promising beginning, with Macon's eccentricities  supplying much of the book's original humor, but by the end those habits of  his were buried and we are left with an accidental love story that falls  flat in this reader's opinion.	2000-08-27
US	52203333	R1G0WCMV344QQB	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	130	134	N	N	Top 5 reasons to read this book:	1.  It is very original; 2.  Biting wit and numerous laugh out loud moments; 3.  Several pop music and movie references; 4.  Startlingly  accurate depictions of male post-breakup pathos; 5.  Numerous London  colloquialisms let us know how they live and speak in England.<br />I  absolutely loved this novel.  It was witty, exploring with a keen eye  relationships and the reasons why men and women get together, and sometimes  drift apart.  Narrator Rob is a self-indulgent whiner who tries to make  himself feel better after getting dumped by making lists to himself of  &quot;top 5 breakups&quot;, as well as lists of &quot;top 5 breakup  songs&quot;.  He does something many of us 30-something men often think of  doing, namely contact old flames out of an odd, morbid curiosity as to  their whereabouts and marital status.  <br />While Rob and his incessant  ruminations on his past and present love life can sometimes get old, Hornby  deftly changes gears whenever a change is needed and involves numerous  excellent secondary characters, including  record store employees and  comrades-in-arms Dick and Barry (played amazingly well by Jack Black in the  recent movie) as well as a folkie American female musician living in  London.  The scenes in Rob's second hand record store are priceless, as  well as some memorable episodes in North London's pubs where Rob and the  boys hoist a pint or two while they argue meaningless musical debates.  <br />It is difficult to categorize the novel, but I can simply say that as a  male of approximately the same age as the protagonist, it appeared Hornby  (and Rob) were talking my language (albeit with a British flair), and I  therefore breezed through this book quicker than most.  You need not be  male  and over 30 to enjoy it, but reading it will reveal some of our  secrets and obsessions.  Pick it up, you won't be disappointed.	2000-08-16
US	52203333	R136Q43FEICLN8	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Funny but a little predictable	Having read About a Boy shortly after finishing Hornby's first novel High Fidelity, I have to say that while I liked this book, it didn't live up to  the lofty standards of Hornby's brilliant debut.  Hornby again provides a  mid-30's male slacker as a protagonist, who feels empty when between  relationships but who remains in tune with contemporary pop culture. He  even has the protagonist,  Will,  meet a date in Rob's imaginary record  store from High Fidelity, Championship Vinyl, as a playful reference to his  earlier book.  In High Fidelity, Will stoops to attending single parent  support groups to meet &quot;Julie Christie-like&quot; women who, if they  didn't have kids, would not otherwise give him the time of day.  It is a  little reminiscent of Fight Club, but Will doesn't go there to share in  their suffering in order to get out of a malaise - he is simply scamming  for chicks.<br />Through a complicated series of events which I will not give  away, Will becomes entangled in the lives of 12 year old outcast Marcus,  and his depressed single mother Fiona, despite the warning signs ringing in  his head telling him to stay away.  The book is slightly more predictable  and less laugh out loud funny than High Fidelity, but Hornby's numerous wry  observations about dating (ie Will's sense of when &quot;sex is in the  air&quot;) and his dead on dialogue make this a fun, quick read.<br />Nirvana  fans will also appreciate the numerous references to the band and to Kurt  Cobain - his tragic suicide played a role in the plot indirectly.  Even the  name of the novel, About a Boy, I think is a play on the song &quot;About a  Girl&quot; by Nirvana which was on their first studio album, as well as the  first track on the famous Nirvana Unplugged CD.  Will teaches Marcus, his  student of pop culture, all about Nirvana as well as lessons on the right  shoes to wear (Adidas), the proper haircut (definitely not a cut by mom),  etc.<br />I thought some of the characters in thebook were fairly  unremarkable - other than Marcus and Will none of them are explored well  enough to really get a sense of them as people.  We know Marcus' mother  Fiona is depressed, but Hornby glosses over why.  Marcus meets an outcast  older kid at school and befriends her, but we never really know why the  older girl takes an interest in Marcus and why she is always so angry with  everyone else.  Unlike High Fidelity, where the supporting characters (like  Barry and Dick)  were half the fun, here the bit players  are just kind of  along for the ride.<br />In any event, Hornby on his off days is better than  most contemporary fiction written by anybody else, and oftentimes in this  funny yet serious novel he touches on real emotions and issues like  alienation, parental responsibility, and the nature of freindship that  elevate this book to a 4 star level.  For fans of High Fidelity there is  much here you will like.	2000-08-16
US	52203333	R2O1H1D1IKAFOP	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Lively and Entertaining Depiction of the Expedition	Stephen Ambrose obviously had a warm place in his heart for the Lewis and  Clark expedition - he tells in the Introduction of his decision to  celebrate the nation's bicentennial in July 1976 at Lemhi Pass in Montana,  where Lewis was the first American to cross the Continental Divide.  His  wonder at the accomplishments of Lewis &amp; Clark, and his genuine love  for the American West they first explored, make this book a very readable  labor of love.<br />It is difficult to imagine in today's time the obstacles  faced by the expedition, and to do judtice to the ingenuity of the  expedition in their successful voyage to and from the Pacific.  Thomas  Jefferson had no idea what the explorers would find as they travelled up  the Missouri River, seeking a waterway to the Pacific, as he apparently  thought they might come across prehistoric creatures like the mastodon.  They were equipped with a large supply of Dr. Benjamin Rush's  &quot;thunderclappers&quot;, pills made of mercury, chlorine and jalap that  operated as &quot;an explosive purgative&quot; which were dispensed by the  men for almost any ailment. When that didn't work they  applied a  &quot;poultice&quot;.<br />Yet, somehow, almost all of them made it!  Through  hostile Native American territories, with little to offer but beads and  useless ornamental goods, the expedition peacefully co-existed with tribe  after tribe, while painstakingly noting new species of fauna and flora  never before noted by Americans.  They hunted and fished for their food,  and adapted to every new circumstance despite sometimes overwhelming  obstacles.  They were also wise enough to recognize good fortune when it  dropped Sacagawea into their laps, as the Indian woman (and wife of trapper  Charbonneau) probably single-handedly kept them on peaceful terms with  numerous tribes with her translating skills, and her apparent peaceful  nature. Tribes assumed they came in peace when they saw her.<br />The book  takes great pains to praise the leadership style of the men, and Lewis'  apparent willingness to truly share his command with Clark even though  Lewis was named by President Jefferson first, and then suggested his  colleague Clark as a true &quot;co-commander&quot;.  Some of the detail  early in the book as to the expedition's supply needs, and their meticulous  preparation for the lengthy voyage, were a little taxing to the patience of  the reader but once the Corps of Discovery left St. Louis and began their  remarkable voyage, the narrative picked up considerably.  Ambrose borrows  heavily from Lewis's journal, sometimes providing illustrations showing  Lewis' narrative and sketches of the new species they were observing for  the first time.<br />In particular, the end of the road for Lewis was  poignant and unforgettable.  Americans should be more aware of the  remarkable accomplishments of the Corps, and this book is an excellent  starting point.aise the leadership style of the men, and Lewis'  apparent willingness to truly share his command with Clark even though  Lewis was named by President Jefferson first, and then suggested his  colleague Clark as a true &quot;co-commander&quot;.  Some of the detail  early in the book as to the expedition's supply needs, and their meticulous  preparation for the lengthy voyage, were a little taxing to the patience of  the reader but once the Corps of Discovery left St. Louis and began their  remarkable voyage, the narrative picked up considerably.  Ambrose borrows  heavily from Lewis's journal, sometimes providing illustrations showing  Lewis' narrative and sketches of the new species they were observing for  the first time.  <br />In particular, the end of the road for Lewis was  poignant and unforgettable.  Americans should be more aware of the  remarkable accomplishments of the Corps, and this book is an excellent  starting point.	2000-08-15
US	52203333	R26UA3HV2RB6VH	0312204272	358028755	The Museum Guard: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Lean, Stark Prose but an Inconsistent Plot	I like the writing style of Howard Norman, whose lean, understated prose made The Bird Artist a unique and noteworthy novel. He has struck again in  The Museum Guard, and for fans of his earlier work there will be plenty  here to like as well. Narrator DeFoe Russet is a museum guard in Halifax,  where he lives in a hotel with his Uncle Edward after his parents' death in  a zeppelin accident.  The narrator's depiction of that tragic incident, and  especially the memory of the young narrator as he sat ironing shirts with  his uncle's girlfriend to pass the time until his family returned, was a  truly memorable and striking scene. DeFoe is painfully serious in his work  as a guard at the local art museum, and his wry observations about the new  exhibits at the museum, as well as his keen observation of the people who  come to marvel at the paintings, suits Norman's understated narrative style  well. <br />At its heart the novel is a love story betweem DeFoe and Imogen,  caretaker of a local Jewish cemetery, who gradually develops an odd,  mystical attachment to one of the paintings in the museum depicting a  &quot;Jewess on the Street in Amsterdam&quot;. At this point, in my  opinion, the novel starts to take some turns that felt contrived and  awkward.  Why does Uncle Edward take a sudden interest in Imogen for  example? <br />In any event, Norman has perfected a narrative style that is  akin to a whisper, which as we all know is the best way to get attention  right?  I enjoyed reading the book, because I truly am a fan of Norman's  unique style, but upon finishing the book I thought the whole thing got a  little silly and out of Norman's control.	2000-08-07
US	52203333	R15TYJA5MPKNS5	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Thrilling and Unforgettable	I found Into Thin Air, as well as Krakauer's excellent Into the Wild, to be two of the most gripping, emotional, unforgettable reads of my life.   Into Thin Air tells a fascinating story of hardship, tragedy, heroism and  perhaps lack of respect for nature, and unlike virtually all books of the  genre the author was there, suffering through the storm and watching his  comrades fall.  Sebastian Junger, in his compelling book The Perfect Storm,  pieced together information to try and imagine what it was like on the  Andrea Gail out in the North Atlantic.  Krakauer was actually on the summit  of Everest in May 1996, and he takes the reader on one helluva ride.<br />Most  of you who have gotten this far in the reviews knows the basic premise.   Krakauer was sent to Everest by Outside magazine to join New Zealand guide  Ron Hall's expeedition in the spring of 1996. He was there to write an  expose about how anyone who is reasonably in shape, has some (and not a  lot) of climbing experience, and who can fork over more than $60,000 could  be taken to the summit of Everest while Sherpas and yaks carried most of  your supplies, cooked your meals, and carried you when you collapsed. One  climber even brought an espresso machine. He also wanted to comment on how  Everest has become a virtual junk yard, with empty oxygen cannisters strewn  all over the face of the mountain.<br />What he found changed his life  forever. Krakauer was caught up in a deadly storm, that appeared virtually  &quot;out of thin air&quot;, leaving members of his and other teams  stranded on the summit and on Hillary Step (a ledge just below the summit)  with little chance of making it down. The story is gripping, suspenseful  and ultimately deeply moving. The reader may think humans, especially those  with pregnant wives at home, have no business at the summit of Everest, but  you cannot help being deeply moved as you read about Rob Hall talking to  his wife on the other side of the world, via satellitephone, to discuss  the name of their unborn child while Hall is stranded on the mountain.  The  book kept me up nights as few others ever have.<br />A point about the  &quot;feud&quot; with Anatoli Boukreev is worth mentioning, since, in my  opinion, this has been blown out of proportion by others.  Krakauer  recognizes that each climber has his own way of doing things, but he took  some shots at the Mountain Madness expedition led by Scott Fischer, and at  his guide Boukreev in particular, for climbing without supplemental oxygen  and for descending ahead of the group's clients.  I think he made some good  points there.  Boukreev was no doubt a great climber, and his death in an  avalanche the next year makes the whole debate a little pointless, but I  think a client if I were to fork over $60,000 I have the right to expect  that the guide will be out on the mountain with me as I descend, not  warming up in the hut drinking tea.  Boukreev is credited by Krakauer with  a heroic trip back up the mountain during a blizzard to reach Fischer, and  he  may have been told earlier by Fischer to descend (we'll never know for  sure), but those tactics are surely open to debate.  Some reviewers here on  Amazon have taken personal shots at Krakauer's actions during the storm,  but he was no paid guide, and he rightfully takes some blame himself in his  book for abandoning Beck Weathers and for giving some false info to the  family of one of his guides, Andy Harris that added to the confusion in  those first days of the incident.<br />In any event, if you want to get caught  up in the whole Krakauer v. Boukreev debate, be my guest - you can read  both of their accounts of what happened on that fateful trip. For my money,  Krakauer's account is the definitive, well-written story, which should at  the very least be used as a starting point for anyone interested in the  1996 Everest tragedy. And for most people (like myself) with little or no  interest in climbing, read Into ThinAir on its own as a gripping,  unforgettable account of a very public tragedy which you will not soon  forget.	2000-08-07
US	52203333	R2YVXUVR8CCWPW	0811201945	252622187	The Back Country	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Beautiful, Understated, Moving Poetry	I had to read many of the poems in this volume while taking a college  course in Beat Literature, but in this reviewer's opinion the careful,  Eastern-oriented poetry by Snyder has a mystical quality sorely lacking in  poetry by writers like Kerouac, Corso, Ferlinghetti and even Ginsberg.  Snyder captures the mountains of the pacific northwest, human  relationships, campfires, and the mysteries of the far east in a careful  and understated style.  He sometimes makes use of the ancient Japanese  style of haiku, and in all of his poems he seems to have rich, abundant  ideas which he is able to convey in relatively few words. I have come back  to this volume repeatedly over the years, and it always reveals a new  secret and joy each time. Think of Snow Falling on Cedars in poetry form.	2000-08-06
US	52203333	R1NSR78WV7EEPC	0684804417	535683258	The American West	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Amusing and Informative	This collection of chapters on the American West is an entertaining and informative glimpse into the history of our nation's most misunderstood and  glamorized region, but the book seems to try and do too much, and thus  ultimately accomplishes little.  Dee Brown writes about Indian wars, life  in a great cattle drive, and then shifts to such topics as the reading  habits and wardrobes of gents and housewives in the old west.  There is a  noticeable lack of continuity in many of the chapters, but overall almost  all of them were enjoyable and educational on their own. There are also  some very unique photographs, such as a shot of Big Foot frozen dead in the  snow. Brown has done his research, and while not all of his topics will  fascinate you, it is easy enough to skip through the chapters you care  little about, and to savor the excellent discussions of Wounded Knee, Dodge  City, Geronimo, etc.	2000-08-06
US	52203333	R2A3TED7G0EDW3	0201626209	440859044	Hemingway: A Life Without Consequences	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Comprehensive and Fair Assessment of Hemingway	Anyone who has read Hemingway extensively has a general idea of his life,  as he wrote in a very autobiographical (albeit slanted) stlye. However, for  anyone wanting a fair, unflinching review of the author's life, including  his loves, his clashes with friends and reviewers,  and his frustrating  decline as a writer, I encourage them to read Mellow's excellent  biography.<br />Mellow is clearly a fan of Hemingway's, but at the same time  he provides a very even-handed and thorough account of the author's many  personal vendettas, his sometimes boorish and insensitive behavior, and his  failed relationships with his wives while at the same time  providing  glimpses into the autobiographical aspects of many of Hem's works.  I  became much more interested in Hemingway's excellent short stories after  reading Mellow's book, which refers to them extensively. <br />We meet  Gertrude Stein, Alice Toklas, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Gerald Murphy, and other  Hemingway friends and aquiantances in vivid detail.  I also was  particularly impressed with the biography's epiphanous ending, as Hemingway  took his life in Ketchum Idaho in 1961 with a self-inflicted shotgun blast.  All in all, this is an excellent, concise, very readable biography which  should be must reading for all fans of Hemingway's writing.	2000-08-02
US	52203333	R10UY4YMSWTJNV	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining but not Irving's Best	Like many reviewers here on Amazon and elsewhere, I enjoyed reading A Widow for One Year, was caught up in the multi-generational plot, but I  agree that ultimately the book was not as rewarding as A Prayer for Owen  Meany (his masterpiece in my opinion) or even Garp. <br />The characters here  are for the most part richly drawn, although their  motives are not always  entirely clear. The novel explores two main overriding themes, grief and  sex, not necessarily in that order. We are introduced at the beginning to  Ruth Cole, a 4 year old girl living in the Hamptons with her parents, who  are grieving for the loss of their sons in a tragic automobile accident  that predates the action in the novel.  Ruth comes to know her deceased  brothers through a series of photographs that are plastered all over the  walls of their house, as the accident occured before she was born.  <br />Ruth's parents deal with their grief very differently - father Ted, a  successful author of children's books, is able to cope and resume his work,  while his wife is unable to bear living in the house and has little  affection for her daughter.  There are numerous complicated and well  developed relationships in the novel, such as the competition on the squash  court between a grown and successful Ruth and her father, as well as Ruth's  desire to learn more about her mother, and the very different relationships  between Ruth and her husbands/boyfriends. Irving skillfully builds up the  suspense in gradually giving us details about the fatal accident until Ted  Cole, with a novelist's detached touch, provided a vivid and devastating  account of the fateful crash that killed his sons.  <br />The book is not  without its faults however. Irving seems to obsess with numerous  descriptions of Ruth's breasts for some odd reason.  Some of the characters  in the book, such as poor love-stricken Eddie (who falls for Ruth's mother  when working for the Coles as a teenage writing assistant, and who remains  captivated by older women throughout his life) are fairly one dimensional.  I also thought the reappearance of Mrs. Cole in the Hamptons was  a little  forced.  We never seem to understand why the portrait models of Ted Cole  proceed, universally, to agree to degrade themselves and ultimately to  despise him. <br />All in all, the novel provides an entertaining diversion  (like most Irving novels) and he fortunately has ridden himself of the need  to keep writing about bears and wrestling. Most of the characters in the  book are writers, which gives Irving an interesting challenge of adopting  different writing styles for each character, and then to include exerpts of  their work. His skill at storytelling, and the freshness of his subject  matter, make the reader forgive some of the contrivances of the plot.	2000-08-02
US	52203333	REJYVL134F98P	0201626209	440859044	Hemingway: A Life Without Consequences	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Comprehensive and Fair Assessment of Hemingway	Anyone who has read Hemingway extensively has a general idea of his life,  as he wrote in a very autobiographical (albeit slanted) stlye. However, for  anyone wanting a fair, unflinching review of the author's life, including  his loves, his clashes with friends and reviewers,  and his frustrating  decline as a writer, I encourage them to read Mellow's excellent  biography.<br />Mellow is clearly a fan of Hemingway's, but at the same time  he provides a very even-handed and thorough account of the author's many  personal vendettas, his sometimes boorish and insensitive behavior, and his  failed relationships with his wives while at the same time  providing  glimpses into the autobiographical aspects of many of Hem's works.  I  became much more interested in Hemingway's excellent short stories after  reading Mellow's book, which refers to them extensively. <br />We meet  Gertrude Stein, Alice Toklas, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Gerald Murphy, and other  Hemingway friends and aquiantances in vivid detail.  I also was  particularly impressed with the biography's epiphanous ending, as Hemingway  took his life in Ketchum Idaho in 1961 with a self-inflicted shotgun blast.  All in all, this is an excellent, concise, very readable biography which  should be must reading for all fans of Hemingway's writing.	2000-08-02
US	52203333	RYMGLWRUS6C86	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Quirky, Lean Prose	It is difficult to categorize the writing of Howard Norman, whose lean, understated prose will either appeal to you immediately or scare you away in the first few chapters.  His narrative style is as stark and cold as the  Newfoundland landscape it portrays, and yet I enjoyed this novel, as well  as his later book The Museum Guard.<br />The book chronicles the story of  Fabian Vas, who confesses to murder in the very first paragraph of the  novel and who then takes the reader on a very isolated and introspective  ride, complete with adultery, murder, and pre-arranged marriage. The North  Atlantic seacoast comes alive in Norman's talented hands, as he really  demonstrates a knowledge and affinity for the place.  He describes people  and places with a very keen, insightful but understated style, leaving just  enough to the reader's imagination.  While I was occasionally looking for a  little more from Fabian as narrator, I have to say that years after reading  this novel several of its passages remain ingrained in my memory.  Pick it  up in a bookstore, browse the first few pages, and see if Norman's hypnotic  style grabs your attention as it did mine. Then of course buy it online  through Amazon and save the discount and tax!	2000-08-01
US	52203333	R3HJ3IWL741BNE	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	495	530	N	N	A Rewarding but Painstaking Read	One reviewer here on Amazon was right on the money when he said that reading a novel by Umberto Eco instantly raises your IQ by a couple of points.  The Name of the Rose has been my first encounter with Eco's work,  and I was for the most part very impressed with his skillful murder mystery  set in a 14th century Italian monastery.<br />The novel works on many levels.   It is a compelling murder mystery, as young narrator Adso of Elk  accompanies the wise William of Baskerville as he uses logic and semiotics  to not only solve a murder mystery, but to decipher labrynths and hidden  secrets of the vast monastery library.  Interwoven with the murder mystery  is a virtual course on philosophy and late Middle Ages religion, as Eco  provides detailed accounts of the histories of various sects, includes  scholarly debate on topics such as the poverty of Christ, and a history of  the Catholic Church leading to the establishment of a papacy in Avignon,  France.<br />One is reminded of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson as William and  Adso use logic and determination to piece together numerous bizarre deaths  and occurences at the Abbey, while encountering obstacles and outright  hostility by the Abbot and his librarian, to name a couple.  The setting of  the novel, and the glimpse into a culture that few of us can even imagine,  is reason enough to read The Name of the Rose.<br />The book is not without  its faults however. I think the book should stand alone, (ie you should not  have to buy a separate &quot;reader's guide&quot;) and I was very  frustrated at the numerous Latin phrases that are included throughout the  novel with no translation.  Perhaps this is more the fault of the  translator than Eco himself, but it makes for a difficult reading  experience. One does not need to know the meaning of every word in the book  to follow the plot, but it is aggravating to stumble across paragraph-long  passages or insciptions that are completely foreign to most readers,  withoutso much as a footnote. There are also fairly long digressions  involving topics of religious debate or history of minor sects that, in my  opinion, were extraneous and contributed little overall to the success of  the novel. However, overall, I thought the novel was rewarding, both  informative and suspenseful.	2000-08-01
US	52203333	R36BHVDEGSQWOR	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Quirky, Lean Prose	It is difficult to categorize the writing of Howard Norman, whose lean, understated prose will either appeal to you immediately or scare you away in the first few chapters.  His narrative style is as stark and cold as the  Newfoundland landscape it portrays, and yet I enjoyed this novel, as well  as his later book The Museum Guard.<br />The book chronicles the story of  Fabian Vas, who confesses to murder in the very first paragraph of the  novel and who then takes the reader on a very isolated and introspective  ride, complete with adultery, murder, and pre-arranged marriage. The North  Atlantic seacoast comes alive in Norman's talented hands, as he really  demonstrates a knowledge and affinity for the place.  He describes people  and places with a very keen, insightful but understated style, leaving just  enough to the reader's imagination.  While I was occasionally looking for a  little more from Fabian as narrator, I have to say that years after reading  this novel several of its passages remain ingrained in my memory.  Pick it  up in a bookstore, browse the first few pages, and see if Norman's hypnotic  style grabs your attention as it did mine. Then of course buy it online  through Amazon and save the discount and tax!	2000-08-01
US	52203333	R26XMBM45JO491	0151001006	877433184	Snow Falling on Cedars	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Poetic,  Deeply Moving, but not Fast Paced	I really liked this novel, which was much more carefully crafted and painstakingly detailed than most &quot;murder mysteries&quot; which usually bore me to tears.  The novel develops many themes including lost love,  prejudice, guilt over the internment of Japanese Americans during WW II,  and fundamental requirements of duty and sacrifice. More than anything, I  remember the sense of place in the novel, as the setting, San Piedro Island  in the Pacific Northwest, is one of the true stars of the novel.<br />The  novel chiefly involves a murder mystery involving a Japanese American  fisherman, Kabuo Miyamoto, accused of killing another fisherman (Carl  Heise) out on the sea during a particularly foggy night.  There are  numerous subplots, as Heise's family seemed to unfairly take advantage of  the Miyamotos in a land deal years earlier while the Japanese family was  locked in a WWII internment camp. Motive for murder?  <br />To further  complicate things, the main protagonist of the novel, Ishmael Chambers, is  a war wounded and jaded reporter still haunted by memories of first love  with Hatsue, the accused man's Japanese American wife.  He ultimately faces  a crisis of conscience which I will not give away. Much of the novel  involves flashbacks to Ishmael's past, where we see his principled  upbringing by an honest and straight-forward newsman, telling it like it is  even if it meant losing a few local subscribers who didn't want to read  about the hypocricy of the treatment of the Japanese Americans.  <br />Snow  Falling on Cedars is ultimately a very moving and satisfying novel, and the  movie recently made starring Ethan Hawke and directed by Scott Hicks (of  Shine fame) is I think a very good adaption.  The drawbacks to the book are  drawbacks to the movie, and vice versa.  Neither are fast paced courtroom  thrillers or shocking mysteries, but both evoke a wonderful sense of place  surrounding a moving and realistic story with well drawn, true to form  characters. An enthusiastic thumbs up.	2000-07-20
US	52203333	R7JATJ5ISEHJ1	0140120041	468648830	The Houseguest (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Brilliant Comedy of Manners	It is perhaps an unfortunate state of affairs in our nations's literary when books such as Thomas Berger's The Houseguest are out of print. Berger is a brilliant satirist, as anyone who read comic masterpieces like Little  Big Man, Neighbors, or Sneaky People can attest. The Houseguest ranks right  up there with the best of his work - it is funny, dark, mysterious, and  absurd while still keeping the reader interested in the plot.<br />Chuck  Burgoyne appears to be the perfect houseguest at a rich family's vacation  beachhome.  He has a delicate touch in the kitchen, seems to keep to  himself, and makes very modest demands on his hosts. However things start  to go awry, and the family nervously begins to wonder just who invited this  mysterious houseguest, and what does he intend to do with them.  Like  Berger's Neighbors, the characters in this short novel become prisoners in  their own home, looking to the ineffectual men of the house to save the day  from Chuck and his apparent evil plans. <br />The plot seems to unravel a bit  toward the end, but The Houseguest was a very wickedly funny novel,  resonant with typical goofball Berger characters who are prisnoers in their  own complacent lives. If you are new to Berger read this one, and read  Little Big Man and Sneaky People. You will become a fan of this national  treasure who has unfairly been forgotten by a significant portion of the  reading American public.	2000-07-20
US	52203333	R39349062R4BJ0	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	2	6	14	N	N	A Giant Waste of Time	Out of respect for some of my fellow reviewers who absolutely loved this book, and due to an excellent Prologue and a few occasional flashes of brilliance, I am giving DeLillo's epic novel about garbage a fairly  generous 2 stars. I also love the cover. However, I have to honestly say  that reading this book to its completion was the most laborious and  unrewarding reading experience I can remember since I suffered through  Thomas Pynchon's V.<br />The book begins at the famous one game playoff  between the Dodgers and the Giants,  a la &quot;Shot Heard Round the  World&quot; fame, and at the game there are wonderful cameos by Frank  Sinatra, J. Edgar Hoover, and an over-indulgent Jackie Gleason who hurls  all over Sinatra's shoes as Bobby Richardson hits the famous longball.  DeLillo was apparently fascinated by the coincidence  that the Russians  first detonated a nuclear weapon on the same day. He sets in motion a  mosaic of seemingly unrelated occurences over the next 30 years, tied  together at times by the actual baseball hit by Richardson to propel the  Giants to the pennant.<br />The theme of the novel is garbage, literally, as  in waste management and toxic containment. There are occasional brilliant  passages, like the Lenny Bruce monologues and the story of the baseball  immediately after the game, as the young turnstile-jumper who found it  brings it home to his scheming dad. However there is simply too much that  doesn't go anywhere.  Who is the mysterious highway killer, and what does  it have to do with anything?  <br />Maybe on rereading the novel starts  revealing its secrets, but I frankly haven't the energy.  Life is too  short. One reviewer said forget trying to piece it together as a whole,  instead look for individual &quot;epiphanies&quot; on individual pages.  I  thought that's what poetry and short stories were for.  I'll pass thanks.	2000-07-20
US	52203333	R1NATA9JNGQOW5	0312241259	571675230	For Kings and Planets: A Novel	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Nothing New Here	I like Canin's short stories, and I really wanted to like this book.  I read it in a couple of days, including the last half on a plane, and I must say that by the time I got home from the airport I had pretty much  forgotten the whole thing.  While Canin is an above-average writer, he  treads no new ground here, and with all due respect to my fellow reviewers,  to suggest that this novel is a 5 star masterpiece is like eating a nice  hot dog for lunch, and proclaiming it the best meal you've ever  eaten.<br />The book, like one reviewer put it, is like a tried and true story  of the country mouse and the city mouse.  Arno Tarcher comes to Manhattan  to attend Columbia, ashamed of his modest beginnings in Missouri, and  embarrassed by his parents as he introduces them to his new, sophisticated  big city friend Marshall Emerson.  The beginning of the novel, including  Arno's gradual introduction to college and to NYC, were for me the  strongest aspects of the novel. When Marshall starts rubbing off on Arno,  as the latter begins staying up all night drinking brandy with  pseudo-intellectual Eastern European beatniks at the same cafe every night,  I thought the whole thing got a little ridiculous.<br />Arno to me was the  only real well-drawn character in the book. The other characters seemed  cardboard and put in the story oftentimes just to act as foils to Arno's  small town, Missouri values.  Why Marshall goes after Arno's Russian  girlfriend, and why he cuts out to spoil a family wedding celebration at  Cape Cod, are a mystery that we're just supposed to chalk up to his  unpredictability and flamboyance. Then Marshall becomes a Hollywood writer  and producer (more evidence of his phoniness, get it?) even though there  wasn't a shred of evidence in the plot that he'd ever watched a movie or tv  show, much less had any interest in working in Hollywood. Ultimately you  really don't care, as you read along to the end just to see the culmination  of a very predictableromance.  This is definitely not Canin's best effort,  the NY Times called it almost &quot;banal.&quot;  Form your own opinions,  but consider yourself warned.	2000-07-20
US	52203333	R1YPDQJPFA991T	0156011042	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	3	33	40	N	N	Sophomore Jinx	I like richly drawn, stylistic novels in which the sense of location literally makes the setting itself one of the key characters of the book. Cold Mountain by Charles Frazier was like that, as was David Guterson's  masterful first novel Snow Falling on Cedars, a slow, painstaking and  ultimately satisfying debut set in the Pacific Northwest. Here, in his  second novel East of the Mountains, the author paints a very pretty picture  of the apple orchards of Washington just east of the mountains, but the  book delivers little else.<br />You know from the synopsis above the  fundamental aspects of the plot. Retired widower and surgeon Ben Givens  learns he has terminal colon cancer, and with his medical training he knows  better than to hope for medical miracles. So he decides to pack up the dogs  for one final hunting trip, east of the mountains, after which he plans on  ending his own life and making it appear like a hunting accident to spare  his family the grief of a suicide, and to spare all involved the horror of  a prolongued battle with cancer.<br />Instead, his plans are set off track by  a bizarre series of events, including a car accident, a woman in labor, an  injury to a dog, etc. that propel him into unselfish action. The book  brings him into contact with a Frank Capra-like series of characters and  events reminiscent of &quot;It's a Wonderful Life&quot;, which ultimately  seemed a little contrived to me.  I thought the best aspects of the book by  far were his considerable reminisces about life with his brother working in  the family apple orchard, meeting his future wife, etc. <br />There is a sense  of melancholy pervading the entire story, as you know none of the potential  outcomes are all that satisfying. Nevertheless Guterson on an off day is a  more polished and satisfying writer than most, and I will look forward to  reading his next novel. There are wonderful passages in East of the  Mountains, but this was no masterpiece by far.	2000-07-20
US	52203333	R1HPXFGCP854NT	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	92	102	N	N	Hemingway's Final Masterpiece	Hemingway's writing was always very auto-biographical, but in A Moveable Feast, published after his lifetime and written late in Hem's life, he actually uses real character names in recreating Paris of the 1920's.  For  any Hemingway fan, or for those interested in first hand accounts of life  with Gertrude Stein, Alice Toklas, F. Scott Fitzgerald, James Joyce and  others, this is truly a must read.<br />The book is everything that most late  fiction by Hemingway is not.  It is lean, romantic, and genuine, without  the blustery heroes and stilted dialogue of missed efforts like the  dreadful Across the River and Into the Trees.<br />Here Hemingway looks back  fondly on his days with Hadley in Paris, slipping into cafes to sit all day  and attempt to write over a cup of coffee. He remembers trips to the  racetrack, a hysterical road trip adventure with Fitzgerald to retrieve a  car, and other memorable details from the lives of the Lost Generation  living abroad. He also takes shots at some so-called friends who turned on  him, not passing up on an opportunity to get in the last word. There is  some doubt as to whether Hemingway ever wanted this book published, but I  am very glad that they did.  It is a book to cherish and come back to every  couple of years, and it had aged better than  anything else Hemingway had  written.	2000-07-19
US	52203333	R127B12Z2CG86K	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	649	679	N	N	Brilliant and Unforgettable	There is little suspense (in the traditional sense of the word) in Krakauer's Into the Wild, as anyone who reads the synopsis or picks up the book instantly learns that it is the story of a young man, Chris  McCandless, who ventures into the Alaskan Wilderness and who never gets  out.  Chris' body is found in an abandoned bus used by moose hunters as a  makeshift lodge, and Krakauer skillfully attempts to retrace his steps in  an effort both to understand what went wrong, and to figure out what made  McCandless give away his money, his car, and head off into Denali National  Forest in the first place.<br />His book was one of the most haunting,  unforgettable reads in recent years for me.  I was mezmerized by passages  in the author's other best-selling masterpiece Into Thin Air, such as the  passage involving stranded and doomed guide Rob Hall, near the Everest  summit, talking to his pregnant wife via satellite phone to discuss names  for their unborn child. However, I was unprepared for the depths of emotion  felt in reading Into the Wild - it literally kept me up at nights, not just  reading but thinking about the book in the dark.<br />Some reviewers  criticized the book because they thought McCandless demonstrated a naive  and unhealthy lack of respect for the Alaskan wilderness. This is no hike  on the Appalachian Trail - Chris was literally dropped off by a trucker  into the middle of nowhere, with no provision stores, guides, or means of  assistance nearby at his disposal. He had a big bag of rice and a book  about native plants,  designed to tell him which plants and berries he  could eat. &quot;How could he have been so stupid?&quot;, they ask.<br />Well,  I certainly didn't feel compelled to give away my belongings, pack some  rice and a Tolstoy novel and walk into the woods after reading the book,  but the author does a remarkable job of exploring McCandless the person,  including passages derived from interviews with the many poeple whose lives  he touched in his odyssey as he drove and then hitch-hiked cross country  from his well-to-do suburban home. Some of the more touching parts of the  book involved tearful reminisces by some of these old aquaintances when  they learned he had perished.<br />Krakauer also throws in for good measure an  illuminating passage about a similar death-defying climb that he foolishly  attempted at about the same age as McCandless, with little training and  preparation, providing insight into what makes a person attempt a dangerous  climb or hike. He even tells several fascinating tales, all of them true,  of other recreational hikers who were stranded in the wilderness.<br />By the  end of the book, I thought I understood McCandless' character, and I  thought Krakauer was probably right in putting his finger on exactly what  caused his death. I was moved by his plight regardless of his possible  foolishness in venturing into Denali, and the final scenes involving Chris'  family were emotionally devastating.  You need not be an outdoorsman to  appreciate it, and in fact unlike Into Thin Air the book is completely  accessible to those who know nothing about the subject. I think this book  is destined to become a classic.	2000-07-19
US	52203333	R18SN9WJNR696C	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hemingway's Final Masterpiece	Hemingway's writing was always very auto-biographical, but in A Moveable Feast, published after his lifetime and written late in Hem's life, he actually uses real character names in recreating Paris of the 1920's.  For  any Hemingway fan, or for those interested in first hand accounts of life  with Gertrude Stein, Alice Toklas, F. Scott Fitzgerald, James Joyce and  others, this is truly a must read.<br />The book is everything that most late  fiction by Hemingway is not.  It is lean, romantic, and genuine, without  the blustery heroes and stilted dialogue of missed efforts like the  dreadful Across the River and Into the Trees.<br />Here Hemingway looks back  fondly on his days with Hadley in Paris, slipping into cafes to sit all day  and attempt to write over a cup of coffee. He remembers trips to the  racetrack, a hysterical road trip adventure with Fitzgerald to retrieve a  car, and other memorable details from the lives of the Lost Generation  living abroad. He also takes shots at some so-called friends who turned on  him, not passing up on an opportunity to get in the last word. There is  some doubt as to whether Hemingway ever wanted this book published, but I  am very glad that they did.  It is a book to cherish and come back to every  couple of years, and it had aged better than  anything else Hemingway had  written.	2000-07-19
US	52203333	R1GREVQVPD6ZVF	0394749138	152594585	Civil War Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	485	494	N	N	A Definitive Work on Civil War	I became a &quot;fan&quot; of the Civil War, to the extent any person can become a fan of a war, after watching Ken Burns' excellent series on PBS. I then set out to learn more about the war, and read, over the course of a  couple of years, the three volume masterpiece of Shelby Foote. I can state  without reservation it was one of the most enriching reading experiences of  my life.<br />In Foote's talented hands, the characters of the conflict, North  and South, come alive. He doesn't ignore the war out west, and treats  battles such as Vicksburg, Shiloh, New Orleans and countless others with  precision and attention.<br />He has somewhat of a Southerner's slant, but he  is not so opinionated as to ignore gallantry by the North, and he  rightfully rips Confederates when it is called for. Lincoln comes off much  more sympathetically then Jeff Davis in my opinion, and he recounts various  blunders by Confederate generals including Ewell's failure to act at  Gettysburg, the disappearance of JEB Stuart when Lee needed him most, Joe  Johnston's hesitancy and Hood's uncontrolled aggression in Georgia, etc.<br />Some reviewers here at Amazon criticized his lack of footnotes and a few  missed details (ie who got in the last word in a series of letters between  Grant and Lee, etc.) Come on, anyone reviewing the bibliography knows that  Foote has done his research, I would expect anyone writing a 2800 page  chronicle of a 4 year war to get a fact wrong here and there. 135 years  after the war, details still pop up in archives and newly discovered  letters which make people question prior assumptions. This is no historical  novel as some have suggested - he doesn't invent dialogue and guess about  the personal lives of characters like the Shaara books - this is history.  And if anyone wants a fuller understanding of characters such as Grant,  well than read Grant's Autobiography, as I did, and get the complete  picture.<br />Perhaps Foote's trilogy is not for everyone.  He leaves out some  statistical data favored by historians such as MacPherson, who spent much  more time on the events leading up to the war and who attempted to put the  conflict in more of a historical context, although quite frankly those are  omissions I didn't miss at all.  I think for most general readers, who are  simply motivated by a desire to learn about the battles, the great  personalities, and the heroic struggles of the North and the South fought  on soil familiar to all of us, the Foote books are a striking success. I  haven't found a better single source of the history of the war, including  detailed battle plans, maps, personal histories, etc. Buy  the books,  and  come back to them here and there while readling other material in between.  This is not a reading assignment to tackle in a single season. You'll find  Foote's writing to be polished, lively, informative but not overwhelming,  like coming back to an old storyteller friend.aves out some  statistical data favored by historians such as MacPherson, who spent much  more time on the events leading up to the war and who attempted to put the  conflict in more of a historical context, although quite frankly those are  omissions I didn't miss at all.  I think for most general readers, who are  simply motivated by a desire to learn about the battles, the great  personalities, and the heroic struggles of the North and the South fought  on soil familiar to all of us, the Foote books are a striking success. I  haven't found a better single source of the history of the war, including  detailed battle plans, maps, personal histories, etc. Buy  the books,  and  come back to them here and there while readling other material in between.  This is not a reading assignment to tackle in a single season. You'll find  Foote's writing to be polished, lively, informative but not overwhelming,  like coming back to an old storyteller friend.	2000-07-19
US	52203333	R18L3EDOE1R9F8	0684825538	11530247	Across The River And Into The Trees	Books	1	9	19	N	N	Pure Drivel	I happen to like Hemingway, having read most of his novels, short stories, as well as Green Hills of Africa. While his lean style and powerful undercurrent of emotions make novels such as The Sun Also Rises  unforgettable, this book epitomizes everything that was flawed in  Hemingway's later writings.<br />The book is pure drivel. The dialogue is  stilted, the setting (Venice) is not effectively portrayed, and there is a  noticeable lack of action. The protagonist, The Colonel, is an older, sick  hero of two wars who has reunited with a much younger, wealthy lover in  Venice. He is a proud and noble man, and I think Hemingway is trying here  to portray the character's anguish at his lost youth and his inability to  live in the virile fashion of a typical Hemingway male. However, if you  want understatement and concise dialogue with real human emotions, read the  novels of Howard Norman like the Bird Artist or The Museum Guard. If you  like Hemingway and want better examples of his later period, stick to A  Moveable Feast or even Green Hills of Africa, at least they are  entertaining and have actual stories to tell. I still think that  Hemingway's short stories and his first novel, The Sun Also Rises,  represent the author at the peak of his creative powers. Across the River  and Into the Trees is painful to read, and is only given a bit of literary  attention due to the reputation of the author. An Amazon reviewer  encouraged readers to read the book slowly with music playing - why not  just close the lights and listen to the music?	2000-07-18
US	52203333	R27ZKI754K8S2A	0385495838	487267340	L.A. Requiem	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Excellent Murder Mystery	This was the first book by Robert Crais that I have read, and judging by the other reviewers here on Amazon, his Elvis Cole novels have a wide following and this may be the best of the bunch. Having just read LA  Requiem, I can only say that this one is a helluva good novel.<br />Readers  familiar with the Cole series will no doubt enjoy LA Requiem, but in this  novel the real focal character is Elvis' partner Joe Pike.  A pretty jogger  is found murdered, and the deceased was an ex-girlfriend of Pike, as well  as a daughter of a prominent Latin politician in LA. Cole and Pike are  hired to investigate the murder, and of course they clash with the LAPD in  their investigation of the homicide. Pike is private and reserved,  emotionally devastated by the murder, and driven to find the killer at all  costs.  You really sense the concern Cole feels for his partner throughout  the novel.<br />Several scenes of the novel were very richly drawn and  demonstrated that Crais does his homework, such as the efforts of the  investigators to assist a rookie forensic expert in gathering evidence at  the crime scene. Crais really knows his stuff, and it shows.<br />I also  thought that the city of Los Angeles was a central character in the story.  I have been in LA, and thought the author really has his finger on the  pulse of the city - the novel is almost an homage to LA, with all of its  inherent problems. I don't read a lot of crime drama/murder mystery novels,  other than maybe Thomas Harris' excellent Hannibal Lecter novels, but for  some reason this one caught my attention at the bookstore and I picked it  up.  I must say I've become a fan of Crais, and I look forward to reading  his latest, Demolition Angel.	2000-07-18
US	52203333	R11M00R4T6CD1J	0679426620	543344242	Havana Bay	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Definitely Not His Best	I have read all of the previous Arkady Renko books by Martin Cruz Smith, as well as the enjoyable change of pace Rose, so I eagerly looking forward to reading this latest installment in the Renko series.  While a subpar  effort by a skilled mystery writer like Smith is still better than most  novels in the genre, Havana Bay is definitely not his best work.<br />The book  takes place in Havana, as the title would suggest, although it is never  really explained to the reader's satisfaction exactly what compelled Arkady  to travel to Cuba, on his own dime, to investigate the death of an old  comrade.  <br />As is usual in the series, Arkady meets his share of  corruption at higher levels, attempted cover-ups, attractive mysterious  women who somehow are drawn to him and his rumpled appearance, etc. Renko  seems to be going through the motions even more than usual here, driven to  seek the truth by some sense of duty to ascertain whether his friend was  murdered or died naturally , (even if it kills him), in a strange land with  no cooperation by the authorities. <br />I thought the strongest character of  the novel was Cuba itself, in all its faded glory.  The sights, sounds and  smells of the island come alive in Smith's talented hands, as did the  frozen skating pond of Gorky Park and the arctic fishing boat of Polar  Star. The problem here is that the other characters in the novel are a  forgettable bunch, and the plot is more convoluted than even Smith fans can  expect.<br />I enjoyed passages of this book, and I feel like I know Cuba  almost as if I visited the island. However the story of the novel was  pretty forgettable, and I would only recommend this one to real fans of the  Renko series. For all you others, if you've already read Gorky Park, read  Rose instead.	2000-07-18
US	52203333	R2FYY88NFJWDGN	0446671517	217944199	The Caveman's Valentine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Unique Mystery with a Hero like no Other	This debut novel, set in modern day New York City, is a very unique mystery with a protagonist, Romulus Ledbetter, who is unique to say the least.  Romulus is a classically trained musician who lives in a cave in  New York's Central Park, perennially in fear of the control beams emanating  from the Chrysler Building by his arch-nemesis &quot;Stuyvesant&quot;.  <br />Having alienated himself from his family, Romulus feels safe and secure  in his cave, watching imaginary monday night football games from a hollowed  out television with no picture tube, until a corpse is dumped near his cave  and Rom goes to work trying to investigate (both to clear his name and due  to some sense of obgligation to the deceased). Ledbetter gets around pretty  well for a homeless man, and the story takes him from luxury apartments to  an estate in the Hudson River Valley, where he encounters a world of  artistic and sexual depravity.<br />The novel portrays paranoid schizophrenia  with compassion  and a little poignant humor, and almost despite yourself  you are drawn into the plot. There are of course considerable discrepancies  between the facts as they exist, and those occuring in Ledbetter's vivid  imagination. However Green pulls off the dichotomy with skill, so that we  can make sense of the novel's action while still understanding its hero,  his fears and motivations.  <br />There are a few leaps of logic in the plot,  including some action upstate that doesn't seem to fit, but overall I  thought this book was a very enjoyable ride.	2000-07-18
US	52203333	R3H9I1M8HKYV91	1559703598	42157072	Divorcing Jack	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Wild Ride Through Belfast	Colin Bateman's first novel, Divorcing Jack, is a wild ride through strife-torn Belfast complete with marital infidelity, murder, political intrigue, and a of course the IRA. The novel combines murder mystery with a  biting wit as narrator Jack, an alcoholic reporter, tries to get to the  bottom of it all while doing his best to stay alive.<br />This is a very  impressive first novel.  The characters are richly drawn and stay true to  form, and the plot takes some wonderful twists and turns which caught me  off guard.  The setting of the book was memorable too - many reviewers here  on Amazon appear to be from Northern Ireland, which contributed to their  enjoyment.  I am not from the region and thoroughly enjoyed the novel  anyway. I understand they are making a movie based upon Divorcing Jack, and  I must say I was thinking, after I read it, that it would make a helluva  movie.	2000-07-18
US	52203333	R3ABC7J9GJJEKZ	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	623	662	N	N	A Comic Masterpiece	This book is quite simply a comic masterpiece, a novel brimming with original characters, absurd situations, and at its heart a blustery, vulnerable mama's boy named Ignatius J. Reilly. He is one of the most  startlingly original characters in modern fiction, and his efforts at  hitting the job market after his mother smashes their car will leave you in  stitches.<br />A word on the history of the novel is worth mentioning here.   The author, John Kennedy Toole, committed suicide in 1969, and his mother  found the hand-written manuscript in her son's papers.  She brought them to  a publisher, who dreaded having to read even a portion of the work and to  notify Toole's mother that it stunk.  Instead, he was blown away by Toole's  draft, and the rest is history.  The novel earned him a posthumous Pulitzer  Prize, and it is universally hailed by critics.<br />Trying to summarize the  plot is impossible - the book cannot really be categorized.  Ignatius is an  over-educated  oaf who stays home filling his writing tablets full of his  offbeat musings on ancient history, which he plans to organize and publish  some day but which presently reside all over his bedroom floor. Rome wasn't  built in a day he reminds himself.  He cites in footnotes, as authority for  some of his offbeat opinions, papers he had previously written and  hand-delivered to the local university library for inclusion into their  archives.  He watches dreadful tv shows and movies, howling at the screen  with a mixture of delight and loathing at the teenybopper drivel, and in  the privacy of his room his self-gratification is performed while imagining  visions of the old family dog. And wait til you see him out in public,  getting a series of odd jobs, including a filing clerk at Levy Pants (with  very innovative filing techniques to avoid crowded file space) as well as a  costumed hot dog vendor wandering around the French Quarter in a pirate  costume. All the while he begins work on his latest opus, The Journal of  the Working Boy.<br />There is a latent sadness to the plot, for while you are  laughing out loud at Ignatius, his bowling-addicted mother, and the motley  crew of skillfully drawn supporting characters, you sense that he will  never really belong anywhere, and that he realizes his outcast status with  his innate intelligence. Perhaps the author felt the same way in 1969,  leading to his own suicide.  <br />However, at least Toole did leave us A  Confederacy of Dunces, a novel which reveals more with each rereading.   Keep it on your shelf, and every now and then pick up the book to any page  and marvel at the absurdity of Ignatius's grandiose ramblings, read exerpts  of his bizarre historical writings, and revisit his comic efforts to  organize a worker's revolt at Levy Pants. The list goes on and on. There is  no work of litereature like it I know, and my only regret in reading Toole  is the sorrow felt in knowing the tremendous body of work that was lost  when he ended his life.	2000-07-17
US	52203333	R1GPEUL12WHYU7	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Honest, Poignant, but Ultimately Tis a Little Empty	I was given this book recently as a gift, and read it without having read McCourt's earlier Angela's Ashes, which was apparently a better memoir if the reviews here on Amazon are to be trusted.  For my money, having only read Tis, I am just not sure what the fuss is about.<br />Tis takes of the  story of Frank's life as he arrives in New York, poor, uneducated, and  without job contacts or even a place to sleep initially...I understand that the book is a memoir, and the protaganist is not  an imaginary character but a real human being writing about his own life,  so you have to admire McCourt's brutal honesty and understanding of his own  shortcomings as he describes nights spent out on the town almost  reluctantly hoisting a few pints with the guys from work while his  girlfriend of the month waited up for him with a dinner he never showed up  to share.   <br />He also touches upon a number of bitter emotions...The language is coarse and lively, and I am confident that it  sounds much like McCourt would sound if he sat and told you the story in  person, but in book form it has an almost &quot;unpolished&quot; feel to  it, as if he effortlessly wrote the memoir in the course of a few weeks. (a  la Kerouac). I know some people are passionate about McCourt's  books, and  I see reasons to like them. However,  in conclusion I don't think Tis is a  real literary gem, nor do I believe a memoir about an Irish immigrant who,  through perserverance, obtains a degree and becomes a high school English  teacher is the stuff bestsellers are made of.	2000-07-17
US	52203333	R1BNE2H47YTZIO	068485628X	996959617	The Victors: Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	2	15	18	N	N	I'm Not Sure Why Ambrose Bothered with this Book	Being familiar with Ambrose's body of work, it is easy to understand why this book is taking up space on bargain racks from sea to shining sea, as well as space on Amazon's bargain shelves.  There is simply little new here  to recommend for anyone who has read Ambrose's biography of Ike, or his  &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot; book about the soldiers who fought and won the  war.  And if you haven't read those books, go read them -they're better  than this work, which is mostly a rehash of earlier material.<br />Ambrose  doesn't hide his enthusuiasm for the marines who tumbled out of those  landing craft on Omaha Beach and endured murderous fire from the  well-entrenched German defenses.  This was like Fredericksburg and  Pickett's Charge rolled into one, except the suicidal attacking army  attained their objectives in 1944.<br />Ambrose also is unabashed in his  admiration for Eisenhower, and at times one has to wonder why. Clearly Ike  had a take charge personality and valiantly offered to take all of the  blame if bad weather, low tides, or any other factor defeated his grand  mission at Normandy.  But was Eisenhower a brilliant tactition? Even  Ambrose admits his first combat experience as a general, in North Africa,  was a disaster. I think more than anything, Ambrose senses and admires  Ike's dislike of war, his strength of character, and his genuine regard for  the infantry that he was ordering to slaughter on those Normandy  beaches.<br />I must say that while accounts of battles often fascinate me,  the painstaking detail of much of this book left me a little overwhelmed  with minutae. I know that every one of these soldiers represent actual men  who risked (and in many cases gave)their lives for their country, but I  question the wisdom of telling us names, companies, nicknames, etc. of  soldiers who jumped off the boats and were immediately killed.  I think the  author's aim was to personalize the conflict with information about the  soldiers, to make them more than statistics.  Even so, the information at  times just becomes difficult to truly comprehend and absorb. Ambrose's  heart is in the right place, but I think this one misses the mark.	2000-07-16
US	52203333	RVNP7LJZQ7ELF	0395966051	673429612	The Story of a Million Years	Books	4	7	8	N	N	About the Secrets and Subtleties of Marriage	This striking novel, relatively short (as one would expect from an accomplished short story writer attempting his first novel), is a carefully crafted book about secrets big and small, and their effect upon marital and  family relationships.  Huddle sounds like Updike, and also reminds me a bit  of another author whose work I admire, John Casey (whose Half Life of  Happiness also takes place in Charlottesville).<br />Huddle's characters are  real, they jump off the page and remind you of people you know. The reader  is a little uncomfortable at times being introduced to 15 year old Marcy  and her affair with her mom's older friend, Robert.  Equally unsettling is  the scene years later when Robert, going through the motions during a  poignant, unspectacular anniversary dinner with his wife, is plagued with  guilt about the affair he had years earlier.<br />The novel chiefly concerns  two couples,  all of whom met as young adults at the University of  Virginia.  In writing about the interactions among these mostly sympathetic  characters, Huddle strikes at the heart of several human emotions such as  guilt, jealousy and pride with caring and honesty. <br />It is encouraging to  read a novel about people we recognize, and to take a break from the  wrestlers, million dollar lawyers and young wizards who inevitably reside  in the bestellers list in recent times.  The book is not perfect; the  characters are a little sketchy at times, and the narration is not  tremendously different even when changing narrators.  Multiple narration is  a delicate trick to pull off. However, both my wife and I enjoyed the book,  and I have lent it to friends who were also pleasantly surprised when they  were finished reading it. A definite thumbs up.	2000-07-16
US	52203333	R106M26JJIH47V	0375703373	181150905	Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Two Adventure Stories in One Book	This well-research and generally well-written book tells two very different and equally fascinating tales, the sinking of the Steamship Central America in deep water off the Carolinas in 1857, and the efforts by  Tommy Thompson to locate and salvage the vessel in 1989.  Both stories are  skillfully told, and for a book whose outcome is known by reading the book  jacket, the suspense remains high.  <br />First, the shipwreck. Anyone who,  like myself, had ever visited the U.S. Naval Academy and watched plebes  hopelessly trying to climb the impressive Herndon Monument will appreciate  the true story of Capt. Herndon and his gallantry aboard the Central  America, as he supervised rescue efforts to incredibly save the women and  children in the deep Atlantic while valiantly remaining with his ship,  laden with Gold Rush loot. <br />The other half of the story focuses on  Thompson, a skilled engineer who managed to do something the United States  Navy was unsuccessful doing, namely designing and building a workable,  unmanned, deep sea salvage vessel. When one fully learns the difficulties  presented in this task, and the monumental odds of even locating the  Central America, the achievement becomes truly remarkable.<br />The book is  not without its faults however.  First, even though the salvage efforts  struck gold in 1989, there were no photographs at all.  I would've loved to  have at least gotten a glimpse of the treasures brought from the ocean  floor.  ( I understand Thompson has now written a &quot;coffee table&quot;  book which might be read as a companion to Kinder's book, complete with  wonderful pictures). <br />I also disliked the awkward order of the chapters,  in which, in the midst of the shipwreck when you can't put the book down  late at night, the action suddenly jumps to the 1980's and Thompson's  meticulous efforts at building a salvage vessel, before returning to a  conclusion of the Central America drama later.  I would have preferred a  more chronological approach. And while I'm griping, I think I might have  preferred a little less of Thompson's life story.  One needn't know about  his odd jobs as a teenager to appreciate his accomplishments later.<br />All  told this was a very entertaining ride, and I am looking forward to getting  Thompson's book to fill in the pictoral blanks.  If Amazon gave me the  option I'd give it 3 and 1/2 stars.	2000-07-16
US	52203333	R26JPA6B9SFM2X	0395599687	540831726	Memoirs of the Second World War	Books	4	30	32	N	N	A Unique Perspective of WWII	Oftentimes in recorded history a leader emerges as literally the &quot;right man at the right time&quot;, a godsend for a country desperately in need of leadership after being led to the brink of disaster.  Churchill was such a leader, and Britain desperately needed him in 1939 as  Hitler's armies blitzed into Poland while Chamberlain stood by powerless to  stop him.<br />This abridged memoir of the conflict by Churchill, one of the  most dynamic personalities of the last century, is a fascinating profile of  leadership, offering a unique glimpse into the problems faced by the Allies  as the war destroyed the shaky peace of Versailles.<br />Here is Churchill in  all his bravado, bemoaning Britain's woefull lack of preparation, and  discussing in shocking detail the problems faced by the Allies as Britain  joined the conflict and tried without success to keep the Nazis out of  France.  You are there as Churchill finds out, to his amazement, that the  French have no reserves after the Maginot Line is pierced and the Germans  head, unopposed, toward Paris. You understand the tremendous burden faced  by Britain as Churchill explains the efficiency of the german war machine,  churning out tanks and u-boats on a daily basis at the outbreak of the war  while pacifist Britain's military industry had literally ground to a  halt.<br />This is not a battle by battle narrative of every major conflict,  and the Pacific theater is in particular given short attention as Britain  played a relatively minor role there. Readers interested in the specifics  of troop movements, maps, etc. should look elsewhere. However Churchill  provides fascinating glimpses into the leaders of the Allied powers,  recounting Stalin's relentless demand that Britain and the U.S. open a  second front to divert attention away from Hitler's armies.  And every  American's heart will swell as Churchill expresses the pride and confidence  he felt as the Americans entered the war:  &quot;Hitler's fate was sealed.   Mussolini's fate was sealed. As for the Japanese, they would be ground to  powder. All the rest was merely the proper application of overwhelming  force.&quot;  Churchill's words here, and the exerpts of his speeches to  Parliament, are as stirring now as they were 58 years ago when he pumped  courage into the British as they endured countless bombing raids.<br />The  book has its lapses.  It seems like Churchill at times seems a little too  interested in presenting his arguments for or against certain operations,  (and of course as the author he is usually right), and the abridgement here  seems to devote more attention to relatively minor battles like Tobruk than  to the Normandy invasion and the liberation of France. However any history  buff will want to consider this book required reading for a fuller  understanding of WWII.	2000-07-16
US	52203333	R1TUD833UK1T9V	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Informative and Very Entertaining	Bryson has written an immensely enjoyable book, both informative and entertaining as a travel memoir. Bryson, an American who recently returned to New England after spending about 20 years abroad in England, decided to  tackle the 2100 mile Appalachian Trail, from it's southernmost beginning in  Georgia to the wild woods of Maine.  This was clearly no casual walk in the  park.<br />Bryson didn't want to walk the Trail alone, but without any local  traveling companions he was forced to send a &quot;mass mailing&quot; to  numerous old friends and acquaintances to try and rustle up a volunteer.  Into the picture walks Stephen Katz, an overweight, recovering alcoholic  who shows up with a suitcase full of candy bars. In the long history of the  Trail, there may not have been a duo as ill-equipped to begin their trek as  Bryson and Katz.<br />However, they do set off, and their numerous adventures  were extremely enjoyable, even for a reader like myself who does not  consider himself an outdoors enthusiast.  Numerous passages in the book,  from Katz's comic arrival in Atlanta to begin the voyage to the efforts of  both men to shake off an unwanted &quot;hanger-on&quot; on the trail, were  downright hilarious.  <br />And to top it all off, Bryson skillfully weaves in  a considerable amount of history of the Trail and the region, the effects  of logging and over-development on America's natural forests, etc.  I knew  nothing about the great resorts built in the mountains near the trail  before tourists stopped coming in favor of Atlantic City, Disney World,  etc. <br />The book has an occasional lapse, and Bryson's offbeat and  self-deprecating style can get old at times.  You sometimes wonder what  motivated him to leave his family and undertake this ordeal for such a long  period of time. A few photographs of the Trail might have helped too,  although I can appreciate the weight limitations of Bryson and Katz, since  they apparently did not have any spare room in the backpack for cameras.   All in all this is an enjoyable, light read that'll also teach you a thing  or two about an important region of the country.	2000-07-16
US	52203333	R385VU0M3XP5Q6	0345336674	648030464	The First Salute	Books	2	18	24	N	N	About everything BUT the American Revolution	Call me a traditionalist, but I think it is reasonable to assume that a book promising to be about the American Revolution, even one claiming a &quot;fresh approach&quot;, should have more than a passing reference to  the battle for American independence.  Instead, Barbare Tuchman has given  us a very scholarly and well-researched discourse on the Dutch and British  navies, with an occasional mention of the conflict in the colonies.         Ms. Tuchman wants to demonstrate the importance of the Dutch navy, the  Dutch's  recognition of American vessels,  and their willingness to trade  with the colonies despite Britain's embargo, on the overall outcome of the  war.  That is all well and good, but she gets so hopelessly bogged down in  detail that the average reader loses focus as she meticulously explores  topics such as the history of the &quot;ship of the line&quot; method of  naval warfare, complete with irrelevant digressions on earlier British  court martials of admirals from the 1740's who deviated from the rigid  rules of naval warfare.  If you have a unique interest in the conflict  between the British and Dutch navies,  and the historical context of the  American Revolution to that European conflict, than this is the book for  you.  Otherwise, stick with an excellent book like Robert Leckie's George  Washington's War for a gripping, historical, chronological description of  the American Revolution, including its major and minor players both here  and in England.	2000-07-11
US	52203333	RTDRBLPAJH5CX	006092215X	750605926	George Washington's War: The Saga of the American Revolution	Books	5	38	39	N	N	An excellent, very readable chronicle of the Revolution	Some historians, such as Shelby Foote,  have a natural ability to assimilate tremendous amounts of historical and biographical data, and weave it all into a very approachable story that reads almost like a novel.   Leckie has accomplished a similar feat with this book, which is the best  book I have read on the American Revolution.  Short on maps and without  footnotes, the book nevertheless tells as complete a story as can be hoped  for in a one volume account of the war, with excellent biograophical  sketches of many of the major and minor players such as Benedict Arnold,  John Andre,John Burgoyne, Banastre Tarleton, Horatio Gates, Samuel Adams,  and Nathaniel Greene, and countless others.  He keeps the action in  context, filling in readers with important contemporary details from the  internal squabbling of the Continental Congress as well as British  Parliament, without getting too bogged down in irrelevant detail.  The  passages about the treason of Arnold, and Arnold's tremendous military  accomplishments and mistreatment by Congress leading up to his betrayal,  were particularly riveting.  There have been many books written about the  Civil War, and most general readers with a passing interest in history  (like myself) are familiar with most major Civil War battles and generals.   However there is a dearth of knowledge and material about the battle for  American independence.  While we all know what happened at Yorktown, this  book is suspenseful and will fill in the considerable gaps in our knowledge  of this important time in the nation's history.  I recommend this book with  enthusiasm.	2000-07-11
US	52203333	R2QHIECFT1F9EI	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	5	83	88	N	N	A very funny,  serious novel	Like one of the other reviewers here on Amazon,  I stumbled across this book on a bargain rack and picked it up on a whim.  I am an english major and thought the premise for the book looked promising,  although having  read it I think the duck cover does the book an injustice because this is  not a slapstick,  absurdist novel like the cover might suggest.     Russo  has written a contemporary masterpiece,  a brilliant, serious novel that  includes occasional scenes so funny you will laugh out loud.  He pokes fun  at today's climate of political correctness (one the of the assistant  professors has been nicknamed &quot;Orshee&quot; because he is always  correcting the automatic use of the male pronoun) and similarly lampoons  academia with terrific results.  You need not be a professor to enjoy his  writing,  and Russo's dialogue is maybe the best being written today.     I  have recommended this book to many people since I discovered it,  and also  enjoyed The Risk Pool and Nobody's Fool by the author.  I can't wait for  his next book.  Read Straight Man you won't be disappointed.	2000-01-13
US	52203333	R2NOTRWS33U9M2	0688161057	450009067	Bogart	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Entertaining, comprehensive,  fast-paced and sympathetic	This is a very readable,  comprehensive look at Bogart's life,  with particular attention paid to the film industry,  the Hollywood studio system of the 1930's-50's,  and Bogie's many film roles (both great and forgettable).<br />   At its best,  the book chronicles Bogart's rise from Warner Bros.&quot;B&quot; films to stardom and recognition as more than just a tough-guy gangster. The book effectively and lovingly details the making of early classics like The Maltese Falcon,  and takes a humorous look at early efforts by the studio to publicize Bogart as a tough guy and  Nazi hater.  His struggles to rise above  hack roles are sympathetically told,  along with corresponding accounts of how major studio players like George Raft and Paul Muni declined crucial roles and were fazed out by the studio.<br />   Sperber and Lax chronicle the actor's early involvement in politics,  his support of President Roosevelt,  and his involvement with HUAC. <br />   The book also attempts to portray Bogart's personal life,  including a glimpse at his many marriages to such actresses including Mayo Methot and Lauren Becall.  However,  in detailing the many problems and battles fought with Mayo,  for example, the authors spend little time informing the reader just what attracted Bogart to her in the first place. In some cases the wives are ushered in and out of the story without any real sense of them as human beings,  just as topics for discussion over drinks with buddies like John Huston. <br />   All told,  for readers interested in Bogart's life in Hollywood, and for film buffs interested in a fascinating glimpse of Warner Bros from the 1930's on,  this book is enthusiastically recommended.	1998-06-30
US	52203333	R22EFN4LSRXRNY	0679409785	753844361	The Half-Life of Happiness	Books	5	10	10	N	N	richly textured,  moving and insightful	For those wanting an escape from legal potboilers, books about horses and medical thrillers,  here is a great summer read that may actually linger in your mind awhile.  Reminiscent of Updike's Rabbit novels,  Casey's Half-Life of Happiness is a richly textured,  very moving account of the breakup of a marriage set against the backdrop of a fascinating Congressional election.  <br />     The characters come alive in the skilled hands of John Casey,  who describes the couple's boredom,  their inability to communicate as their world crumbles around them,  and the frustrations felt by liberal Democrat lawyer Mike Riordan as  he slips into middle age and is coaxed into a seemingly futile bid to run for Congress.<br />     The story is one about relationships- at its core the novel deals with the breakup of Mike and Joss,  but it works on so many more levels including the strained relationship between sisters Edith and Nora,  as well as numerous effective passages involving the couple's friends,  colleagues,  political opponents,  etc.  The narrative focus changes frequently,  but never in such a fashion as to disrupt the continuity of the plot.  Overall,  a very intelligent,  moving novel of a family crisis written with humor,  compassion and attention to detail.	1998-05-28
