US	52205720	RU87OVO5YDYBT	0375422021	784474694	There Are No Shortcuts: How an inner-city teacher--winner of the American Teacher Award--inspires his students and challenges us to rethink the way we educate our children	Books	5	4	26	N	N	Violence based discipline is no discipline	If every teacher was given this book, it might be possible to stem the tide of school violence that prevents students from learning, and using school as the only \\"positive\\" force, for some, in their lives that can enable them to lead normal lives. <br /> <br />If school administrators take children's lives seriously, they might consider using the philosophy of this book to impose a \\"no touch\\" policy by students or teachers in the development of young minds. That there isn't one is outrageous since neither teachers nor students need or benefit from disciplinary and inappropriate contact - which, in theory, includes all personal contact beyond a handshake! How much better might schools function if, instead, proper authorities were involved in personal liberties that threat young lives, or those of the teachers designed to be authority figures?	2005-08-30
US	52205720	RVNFUU99CK4TD	0761830367	65607949	The Hopes and Fears of Future Years: Loss and Creation: Thine Alabaster Cities Gleam: A Story of the Last Half of the Twentieth Century: A Quartet	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More Than a Lesson about Law: a lesson about life	It could be called the \\"shrunken head\\" syndrome, and it developed within the framework of American enterprise - the dark side of the entrepreneurial sword. Greed, and hoarding made possible by professions ruled by fictional and numbered shareholders quickly descends to the depths where elitism and justification for it thrive, where little guys (but most often women and minorities) are pushed around and pushed out, to increase the Darwinian capitalistic odds. Social compression is all about shrunken heads where knowledge, justice, and commitment don't prevail, and where the frenzy feeds upon itself from bottom to top since it is capped by the status quo. Yesterday's prince is therefore tomorrow's dinner, and so on down the line of the hierarchy in a true Darwinian discriminatory fashion. Committed to living by the sword, most die by it, figuratively, if not actually, and all spiritually. Most therefore, haven't the courage to read what mankind hath wrought and brought upon himself.	2005-08-18
US	52205720	RL41UVXANYRE	0385425333	697645189	Philosophy Made Simple: A Complete Guide to the World's Most Important Thinkers and Theories	Books	5	6	31	N	N	Philosophy: existence of mankind without need of religion	Attempting to separate the reality from the fiction of world creation, the author simplifies eternity as the reality of existence, the structure of which mankind is formed, and then aided in the struggles of living by various religions.  <br /> <br />Although philosophy is often fused with religion as if it was not possible to have existence without religion, the increasing necessity of global understanding to appreciate the diversity of religion is made possible through understanding its impact upon the world since the beginning of time, some thousands or millions of years past. Since religion is a relatively recent phenomenon among mankind, the freedom to view life without it is an important feature of intellectual freedom that serves to release mankind from the false deceptions upon which most religions are based, to attract and retain followers (congregations).	2005-08-13
US	52205720	R1MLOLC1JK9BN6	1893798283	611166122	Booby Trapped: Men Beware! The Dirty Seven Sisters: A Dating Guide for the 21st Century	Books	5	4	27	N	N	Reciprocity would be ideal	If only there were honest, and an accurate review of men for women, there might not be a 50% divorce rate.	2005-08-09
US	52205720	R1P7G5J8MX60K	0743254333	179672459	Presidential Leadership: Rating the Best and the Worst in the White House (Wall Street Journal Book)	Books	4	3	17	N	N	A Step in the Right Direction for America	Obviously since the author decided to survey 78 \\"scholarly\\" and presumably, influential persons, it might seem elementary to do, and compare the survey with a multitude of the American people, but in all fairness, since a President represents, at least, in theory, everyone, the qualities that constitute a good President versus a bad one ought not to reduce itself to the lowest common denominator of accessible knowledge of a particular President's term, but it appears to. As a point of fact, this book might not have been written otherwise, or may be targeted to a certain well defined audience it is hoping to influence with its rationale, and criteria for measuring. Practically speaking, a well drawn survey might be produced that would tend to rate qualities, not popularity or power, sufficiently to define what really does make a good President. The fact that the American people are offered the chance to vote for whomever the scholarly powers are who designate the likely primary winner and run campaigns in that manner is a part of why Americans seem to have lost faith in the political parties to begin with, and in America as a derivative of that method since the President, whomever and however chosen, is often chosen for political interests and political expediency within the parties rather than with a view toward who has the qualities that might make for a good President. Much like measuring apples and oranges, the perspective is narrowed often to produce what some few highly valued persons (who often make or direct the news) emphasize as their personal preference. That may be different from what the American people as a whole see when they view any President. The real question is not which President or what qualities might count, actually, but whose voice counts in choosing those criteria? The people or the Washington establishment? There is quite a difference, it seems.	2005-07-18
US	52205720	RAPA1OUP3G4YE	089526692X	8533152	God and Man at Yale: The Superstitions of 'Academic Freedom'	Books	5	8	58	N	N	God Not a Universal Perception	With all due respect to Mr. Buckley's respect for his religion, Catholicism, the revelation to me is that scholarly steeples at Yale apparently affect persons differently. Some see them as hallowed, others as mere obstacles to hurdle in pursuit of what are often portrayed as lofty ideals within the context of Godly acceptance. For most people those ideals do not easily include pedophilia, but when I once read a \\"scholarly\\" paper from the 1960's that defended the practice (though typically moreso in an effort to reconicile the dilemma), it became clear to me that God is not a universal perception at Yale, nor is humankind. Trying to appreciate the scholarship and insightful method of choosing so brave a topic during that period, I still found it hard to accept that anyone - well educated - could justify or minimize the harm done to an innocent. Today, in 2005 my opinions are unchanged, and in fact, perhaps are far more biased for learning of the extent to which Catholicism allowed such acts to become what could only be called a universal norm. The Biblical passage that comes to mind is one well known by most Christian, and the shorted in the Bible, it is said. \\"Jesus wept.\\" This is the logic most expect from the quality of Yale regardless of how well written or scholarly it is done if Christianity is the objective.	2005-06-24
US	52205720	R3E4PSYG8MY55A	0897932773	620123769	Intellectual Foreplay: A Book of Questions for Lovers and Lovers-to-Be	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Art of Contemplation and Analysis	Instant communication prevents this necessary, and important part of evaluation in human interaction to decipher the ability of individuals to become best friends, partners, and soul mates, as well as to enjoy the intimacy that sexual unions can bring. <br />Before instant communication, couples accomplished the same intimate connection through letters, mostly love letters, but also by refusing to allow what they hoped would be a perfect relationship to be reduced to mere sexual contact. Instead, they cultivated the senses, and focused attention onto their similarities, their differences, and measures those against the background of their own self knowledge of what was important, of what they could tolerate, and the kinds of style that any perspective lover might reveal if unforced and allowed the space to develop. The process, once called courtship, has been the primary personal method of reliability upon which many generations formed stable marriages that work. Today instant communication robs mankind of those opportunities and forces instant choices, with sometimes disastrous outcomes, by virtue of its absence. Appreciating the place of courtship in developing relationships has not changed however, since, basically humans are often victims of their circumstances, rather than creators. The remedy is, and can be, the intellectual pursuit required to replace what today's society has removed, and the free will to do so.	2005-06-03
US	52205720	R23OH3EMZRF779	0062501690	633017843	Self-Defeating Behaviors: Free Yourself from the Habits, Compulsions, Feelings, and Attitudes That Hold You Back	Books	5	17	49	N	N	"We Do What We Have to Do"	The uncanny knack of these authors to address the \\"foregone conclusions\\" that everyone, even organizations and governments face, as well as individuals, as they process the mission and objectives that motivate them offers a new avenue of change - for both undesirable habits and desires, but also for those we rarely think about within this context, like sex, like racism, like self defense mechanisms, etc., and other \\"impressions\\" of expectations rooted in concrete memories. <br /> <br />The \\"default\\" excuse is typically that \\"we do what we have to do\\" heard from the mouths of many men and hierarchially conditioned sources. The authors suggest that not only is this not true, but it is obviously false, an attempt to rationalize our way through life. <br /> <br />The authors do acknowledge, however, that even by stripping away all defense mechanisms and achieving what could be called an \\"elusive perfection\\" of self control, and self discipline in adaptation, life may not be better, healthier, or more comfortable, but the goal of form over substance is apparently enough to conclude that doing so may be worthwhile. There are many who would disagree given the nature of the world today, and the probability of humans being poised strategically upon the brink of insignificance. The survival mechanisms that mankind has invented to appease the spirit may be well rooted in the recognition that perfect individuals cannot exist, and that more perfect ones are often seen as aloof and arrogant, the result of marketing the potential of a too healthy, too perfect a society. <br /> <br />Though the process of self inquiry is limited by the authors to obvious ones associated to bad habits such as smoking, drinking, and excesses that require control to overcome obsesity-oriented conduct, for example, they hint at the greater altruistic value of examining our conclusions that perform traditional self defense like challenging our presumptions of race, age, gender, disability, etc. that mayprovide new avenues of progress. <br /> <br />Worth the read just to question whether self defeatism is not a part of general society as we are born into it, and whether or not it must be that way. Most will see that the effort to fix it may not be worth the cost, however, especially when the perceptions we challenge are those created by society throughout history rather than by specific individuals themselves to deal with that society. In the growing income disparity of America, this \\"Big Fish\\" book may not offer the kinds of solutions that overcome such systemic problems of society for which unhealthy and sheeplike behavior has been adopted to use as that self defense.   <br /> <br />	2005-05-27
US	52205720	R3EIIKA8PV3UU8	0765341174	632116943	Sarah (Women of Genesis, Book 1)	Books	4	4	17	N	N	The Bible Supported Women's Nature	Until men re-interpreted the Bible to shame and humiliate, as well as to define the limits of women, the book of Genesis, interpreted by women, illustrated the natural order that God intended when he may woman. Being less strong, women were created to explore the available alternatives - with a strong man's help - to examine the world, and partake of its bounty, as well as to add to its bounty by having children, made possible by a mate of her choosing. Men have altered that perception over the 3,000 years of human history to constrain the best talents of women to ignore her nature and serve men - flipping the intent of logical and natural human science. The lesson of Jesus and stonethrowing showed that women were never meant to be bound by such male constraints and artificial morality, nor condemned for their natural curiosities. Today it would take a scholar of immeasurable important and expertise to examine the entire content of the scriptures to support this theory, but it is likely that it could be done, and that logically, it should be done to rectify the harm men have done through their misinterpretation of God's will, and the elevation of men, not women, to their preferred Biblical status. In a logical world, this might be done for the evidence suggests that women are not predisposed to violence, and would never subdue men as men have subjugated women. The world of men may well have been happier if women had never been persecuted as they have been, and had never had to face the pressures of both debilitating theology, and domestic violence. Since it is women who suffer, and not men, usually, the entire framework of gender relations might be reconfigured to insure women have the freedom and safety required to live the lives they have long been deprived of having, where by the respect of their choices, they may direct their lives, rather than having their lives directed for them, by what can only be construed as a male interpretation of \\"masters,\\" a status that has no Biblical support whatsoever in a cruel distortion of human nature which over time has destroyed the ability of most women to define their own lives, and the environment of their existence.	2005-05-15
US	52205720	R19ZQODVQ0BJK4	0060977337	407534724	Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American	Books	5	3	8	N	N	How we're living now......	The valuable work Michael Moore does forms the visuals that were once used by network news shows like 60 Minutes and Nightline to highlight the &quot;consumer graft&quot; that took place in our loose bureaucratic system, but applied to government. Government graft is much more fertile soil, however, and easier to report upon, and probably easier to locate - whether Republican or Democrat. The large media networks have given up on the stories, or could be considered part of it, now, so people like Moore are necessary to pick up the slack. It would be interesting to show how well government graft pays in relation to consumer graft, to see how former officials have catapulted themselves to the level of luxury to see how our tax dollars continue to work for them, long after they've left office. Those reality shows aren't typically run, however; it's much easier to appeal to the more important aspects of who needs what now, regardless of whether it is ever delivered through tax dollars. The field of dreams of broken promises to the public looks more like the yellow brick road to a deceptive OZ and the men or women behind the phantom mask that can't or won't deliver from behind the smoke screen that has become government today, well rooted in government yesterday. If government was voluntary self service, not a soul could be found to do it, very likely. So, we tolerate a system of people working for government, its perks and pensions, rather than government helping people survive and flourish. What is civil service about that? If corporate executives and authoritative organizations run the government show, we certainly don't need the &quot;warm bodies&quot; that fill the apparently plush official seats we have to announce their votes. That can be done from the hall of business rather than government.  That elected officials, themselves, have become little more than rubber stamps in a rubber stamp world of fundraising for re-election to keep highly sought after golden pedestals is the permanent problem of American democracy (or any government) that no one challenges sufficiently to curb or contain it; yet all know it is the huge mushroom cloud it is that leaves nothing in its wake except cleanup and continuing cost cuts by consumers to keep up with the spread of its radioactive waste. First it was low taxes; now government wants social security cut to feed its exhorbitant appetite for luxury. Perhaps, more Michael Moore's need to be writing about the limits of government graft and how willing the U.S. is to indulge it - to its own demise, and certainly, to curb its own comfort in favor of the few who would convert the principles upon which it is founded to their own privatization campaign of &quot;me first.&quot; Government pensions and lifetime salaries cannot help but bury America as government continues to burgeon. Why does no one look at those costs?	2005-05-07
US	52205720	R3HSHCLGTO2PZW	0743254953	610223541	Suddenly Southern: A Yankee's Guide to Living in Dixie	Books	5	4	12	N	N	The Mason Dixon Couple	This is a must for Northerners seeking to survive down South who wish to make an effort fitting in since the South is sincerely different that other regions of the nation. It might also be followed by advice for the Mason-Dixon Couple which, on either side of the symbolic line, creates its own problems that are often unanticipated, and difficult to reconcile.	2005-04-29
US	52205720	R261N8EY7VOU13	1573222976	537970076	The Money Book for the Young, Fabulous & Broke	Books	5	2	11	N	N	Surviving in America Today	Despite the common sense and ideas promoted in this book, nothing can hide the disgrace of it's having to be written in the first place. For generations of past \\"Americans,\\" the country was an avenue of social mobility for millions of people who had \\"hope.\\" Education, hard work, and self discipline was cause for celebration for parents and children alike to look forward to a future of prosperity and comfortable living. What changed, and who changed it? Wealth today, for too many, arrived through exploitation, fraud, illicit activities, lottery, or chance. The mismanagement of America is perhaps one of the saddest outcomes for a nation known throughout the world to be one of a great economy, tremendous potential, and a bright future. For the young, this stolen future can be considered little more than the worst international disgrace of human kind more as economic and psychological cannibalism than that imposed upon any generation on earth ever. If ever there was a measure of capitalism, it is the reality of the author's own experience at 29 in her own beginnings that has made this book and the circumstances of its writing as heartbreaking, unfair priorities, and a warning to everyone, of what this nation has become, through the negligence of its indulgence for failed leaders, and failed leadership. It is no cause for celebration, but the outgrowth of the wake up call that has long been denied and ignored. For too many women, the story is no different than when the author began, and which is gradually consuming also our men, most of whom are not optimistic about marriage and fatherhood because of the heavy burdens of life in America today.	2005-04-28
US	52205720	R38ZOPYZ3Q11WW	0836270061	161090362	Magic Eye: A New Way of Looking at the World	Books	4	1	28	N	N	A Reason for Language and Discourse	If humans were truly telepathic, there would be little need to explore the ruminations of impressions that identify and create the discourse that produces harmony, vision, and processes that enable man to live together. What we think we see in another's actions is often unrelated to their actual thinking, and hence, the value of interaction is of great importance to humans. By having multiple options of movement, to be influenced by impressions, experiences, and by learning means that the quality and quantity of interactions always carries different meanings to different people, being measured or scrutinized by subjective means as they always are. Therefore, contextual science is inherent in achieving progress, the slow laborious process of acquiring common ground of meaning, objective, and resolution in any interaction, however brief. Since that requires a good bit of reading people's behavior, and processing intent, from the perspective of the \\"other\\" external to oneself, conjecture and breath of conjecture provides ample opportunity for success or mistake. The chipping away process of illusions to reach the depth of meaning and significance is a large part of what makes the content of human life. As if the graph existed that placed everyone upon a spectrum of spacial plots, some would be expected to be closer than others, which may or may not reflect the ideal, but may be more related to any given point in time, and attention.	2005-04-26
US	52205720	RK7F6IRQT97JR	1566631254	849289980	Aristotle in 90 Minutes (Philosophers in 90 Minutes Series)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Masterful if Not Exactly Perfect Insight	Strathern has done a marvelous job of summarizing everything men need to know about Aristotle, and placed it in a context that most can understand. However, the great flaw from a woman's perspective is that \\"the author protests not enough,\\" the railroad of philosphy that humanity has been on to explain everything from soup to nuts in a world that viewed the world as essentially homogenous. Women, and minorities, may have much to say about how how they have been left out of the organization of mankind, and about how timid Aristotle was about upsetting the then acceptable view of male beauty as the only standard of conscience, or how reluctant he was to ignore his own, or the homosexuality of others, to make that standard one the Romans and Catholic Church was forced to cloak and hide by conveniently losing for 300 years or more the writings that justified that reality. He also sheepishly leaves out the fact that most authors who write about Plato and Aristotle presume their close relationship to have been more a marital one without children for those twenty years where Aristotle's jewelled and shaven appearance may have been the discernable facts most men embarassingly leave out. Better not to recognize a society formed for the elevation of male bisexuality and promiscuity than to have to deal with deliberation of its morality. The fact that this might be catching up to us is all the more reason it might have been included as an essential to inclusion rather than ignored as it has been, perhaps the ultimate flaw by Plato and Aristotle, as well as Strathern. It might have saved many a child from becoming the victim of convenient morality, and the acceptance of predatory confusion through which many thousands of years of philosophizing has been unable to tame, but deterred quite effectively. In the finishing paragraph of the selected writings of Aristotle, he has left open the question of whether mankind has chosen to be blind to the fact that lack of representation has worked to man's advantage or his detriment, an equally valid observation that brings mankind to his own personal precipice, and of which women would be well advised to finally enter the fray, given the fact that for centuries upon centuries they have been denied the voice that would exhalt their own rights of free expression to define, interpret, and alter the world - for their own pursuit of happiness - if, indeed, they are yet up to the challenge, and willing to assume the responsibility and privilege.	2005-04-25
US	52205720	R2ZIDN37OLEU6S	0446531324	932371772	Nice Girls Don't Get the Corner Office: 101 Unconscious Mistakes Women Make That Sabotage Their Careers	Books	5	2	23	N	N	Pity the Frail Female, but hide the silver	Discriminatory effects (but not targets) result in the same goal - to prevent the equity and equality of having to share the spoils of success, whether military, economic, or social. In fact, most social inequities are reflected in the economic inequities of which we complain, and aim to change but never quite manage to do so. In effect, considerable effort is made to continue the discriminatory effects to prevent alternative outcomes, and to preserve the status quo - often not intentionally discriminatory, but in the mistaken fear that detrimental effects evolve from greater fairness. Managing fear is something society does poorly, and as a result, needless wars are created and maintained in the interests of protection from disasters that are just as improbable as the speculation of success that arises from speculative success by any individual. Allowing fear to rule the planet is never seen as its most detrimental effect that precludes progress as well as prosperity. Women might demand, if they deem themselves to be first class citizens, to be judged by the fact of their being female, and operate from biology, not expectation. Men have long made that claim, and despite the desire of women trying to impose expectations upon them, succeed to escape those constraints. Women should be entitled to the same consideration.	2005-03-16
US	52205720	RTSWM16RU8GRL	159337481X	759436621	Undressing Infidelity: Why More Wives are Unfaithful	Books	5	8	38	N	N	Equal Rights of Unfaithfulness?	Since time began, women have taken social heat for affairs, of their creation, or not. The legacy of our patriarchal society is that women are not permitted the same privileges of rights of association, as granted by the Constitution, as are men. Emerging from the relious based social stigma of Scarlet Letters, women are coming to realize that as \\"first class\\" citizens, they need not bear either the stigma of being homewreckers or unreasonably virtuous given the fact that men do not hold themselves to the same standards. Why should social expectation apply to one and not the other? If this is difficult for men to bear, then they might meet women halfway, to recognize the validity and the seriousness of choices associated with marriage as well as the expected commitment. If men are unwilling to restrain themselves, why should women carry the marital banner of loyalty alone? Long trained to shoulder that burden, women are right to expect that society treat them with the same degree of nondiscrimination that men are treated with, even unto the prevailing privileges that society confers upon men, or that men choose to adopt by themselves. Constitutionality of rights of association, one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Bill of Rights has rarely extended to women in this regard but might be, were women willing to accept and endure the reprisal of society that such freedom conveys. Far too many women try to hold marriages together incurring the criticism of society regardless of whether it stays intact, or disintegrates. Either way, they receive the blame and the shame, unfairly. Whether married or not, women tend to receive the only marital standards of virtuous fidelity that society encourages. If equal rights is to be meaningful and not mere words, women need to recognize the value (as well as the problems) that arise from exerting those rights. For men to condemn women for doing so is the height of hypocrisy with which women are long familiar, but unnecessary to place guilt.	2005-03-16
US	52205720	R39TSJY37I3WL1	0060959819	584598882	America's Women	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Unrecorded women's lives in history	From colonial days without recorded lives (and sometimes names) of women, it is impossible to see women in the lack of glory in which their lives were experienced. Though we glimpse something of the quality of their lives through the writings of Abigail Adams, she may have been the exception, not the rule. Far more serial marriages existed, it seems, than now, and many more single women of young age appear to have been the caretakers of other women's children., often denying their own biological urges by being thrust upon like the \\"old woman in the shoe.\\" If recorded history revealed the actuality, it's possible that women would be seen in an entirely different light, and what women have the opportunity to achieve now, is not simply an equal life, but an equally long lived life that many were denied as a result of infanticide and matricide practices of many long years standing. The relative silence and lack of severity of domestic violence laws until recently combined with actual statistics do not produce either the picture of rugged health, or the picture of lives that amounted to more than one alive but for the wrath of husbands, if not God, himself. The true picture of women and their history has yet to be told for lack of knowledge, and the possible apparent intent to disguise or hide it. An eyeopener of women's lives depends upon the openminded effort to examine the evidence once it is dug from the history books, if ever that happens.	2005-03-16
US	52205720	R3KID4X428IH10	0865439583	335634344	Black Women/White Men: The Sexual Exploitation of Female Slaves in the Danish West Indies	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Due For Review: a film in the making?	This is without a doubt the most logical of undercurrents, yet the most hidden aspect of slavery, surely obscured from history, and from the view of most white women. Few stop to think about it, and fewer still want to see the evidences of this reality. Yet, it may well be the essential part of slavery that women need to see because it is consistent with the reality that forms the emotionally charged fear that led to civil rights failures - the fear of retribution by the guilt and shame of men over the centuries of domination that could be the only possible reason for such heightened resistance to economic freedom. The passion not only to protect private stock, but also the possibility that their own women would be subject to such abuses is the only logical explanation of the fear that could have driven the giving of freedom and payment of minimal wages. The economics alone are insufficient to withstand scrutiny of reasons to perpetuate slavery sufficient to sustain a civil war.	2005-03-07
US	52205720	RYF2O6843VGL6	0743243838	994245650	The Perfect Wife: The Life and Choices of Laura Bush	Books	5	6	18	N	N	The Wedgewood of Laura Bush and Status Value	Laura Bush and her mother in law, Barbara, both reflect the enigma society has long created that women who have little or no income lack status or deserve no status, and therefore, have little or no value to society. The misconception arises from the hierarchy which values income level over social contribution and one that fails to recognize the value of marital support, childbearing and raising activities and housewivery. Women and men have been led to believe that unless they have substantial income, they have little value to society. Yet, First Ladies are always valued for their voluntary contributions, expected or not, but anticipated with enormous respect and anticipation with each new administration. Defying the logic that, by default, falls upon every female in this nation, or any nation, the income-based hierarchy of capitalism that fails to acknowledge the contributions of women to their families, to the community, and even to themselves, presents the most schizophrenic of economic philosophies to women, and the most difficult to digest over their lives. Due to the trend to adopt more women into the economic hierarchy of income earnings, Mrs. Bush represents the remnants of our civil society that once respected women for their presence, rather than the barbaric feudal world to which America continues to gravitate which defines women only by their level of income, as it does for males, and ignores their status as wives and mothers, deferring to the singular world where the benchmark of status is conferred by the status of the warrior, as measured by his conquest alone. That women allow this to happen is even more striking, and shows they lack the wisdom of the ages to allow themselves to be placed in so narrow a social box!	2005-02-19
US	52205720	R3S015YQD4IUQP	0800636627	243688015	The God You Have: Politics, Religion, and the First Commandment (Facets)	Books	5	1	9	N	N	Caught up in the Chaos	It's so very easy, and perhaps, expected, that among our worldly heroes, deference and admiration will be shown by overriding evidence of loyalty, and advocacy, too often anticipated to come before anything else. The first commandment, however, long ago set the priorities of humans, even those for whom life is little more than a 365 day daily highjump of hurdles to overcome. While we might imagine that this is not a healthy way to live, many people do life in that manner, rarely taking the time to determine if that is their best use of time with respect to God's purpose for their lives, and in tune, with the priorities gleaned from their understanding of God as maker, guide, and devotee. Anxiety that arises from our man-made failures, or what might be considered failures, is rarely consistent with those that God and we might devise between us. For some reason, the birth of a child always acts to restore a sense of inner confidence that men and women so often lose in the negligence of the humans with whom they share their lives, or in whose business of life they are involved who place themselves in a position of becoming the judge and jury that should be reserved for God and ourselves.	2005-02-19
US	52205720	R1KDCAJ1Z5OGZA	1919901078	726846948	Leonard Zett: Cock-Tail: Penis Variations, Part 1 (Erotic Art Photography, Vol. 10)	Books	4	6	37	N	N	Why Male-ness need not be just for Gays	Of late, there has been considerable effort to monopolize male-ness and gender design in a covetous attempt to reflect only gay attitudes rather than focus upon the fact that while homosexuality exists, it is actually women for whom the male gender and appearance has most fascination. The refusal of women to be candid about that appreciation, or public, creates the presumption that only males enjoy the sight of males, and that females don't. This is a sad misconception that has been traditionally preached for far too long, and indeed, may help to contribute to the incidence of homosexual lifestyles. Surely, women in their silence had not expected to give up their preference for men to homosexuality due to society's female repression over expressing their interest in men or in sexuality. The one thing that God failed to imagine may be that women would (by mankind) not be permitted to be natural about sex, and hence, become obsolete, while the \\"field\\" becomes increasingly dominated by homosexuals, more interested and driven to express their own. Are women \\"losing out\\" to homosexuals?	2005-02-13
US	52205720	R34DKI6RP49VMP	1885840039	781514387	Stingray : The Lethal Tactics of the Sole Survivor	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Ruthlessness common denominator of winning	What aggressive capitalism has always taught is that it is ruthlessness (often accompanied by the hard hearted deception and immorality, or inhumanity) that determines the winner in a game of winner take all - the one that equates with being a sole survivor. Above all, it make be the distinction of why most women do not succeed, and why they reach a point where morality and integrity are not worth sacrificing - for the win. For women who are able to yield, or are so ambitious that winning is everything, they tend to exist among the more predatory alpha males who reside among us, often doing quite well, it seems. Often characterized as the pirannas they are, however, they are also mocked by men for using the same methods, and inconsistent with the attributes that have been traditionally favored by men (and by women) as attractive and acceptable. But if women prefer not to be alone, why would they use these tactics to be a \\"sole\\" survivor. In fact, why would men want to be a \\"sole\\" survivor in the form of lone wolves when mankind lives a \\"community life?\\" Disassociation is not normal or healthy, and may be one of the greatest flaws of aggressive capitalism, that encourages the predatory nature of men, or of women. Harmony produces peace, not war and most prefer to live peaceful lives of pleasurable pursuits.	2005-02-13
US	52205720	R2QI7KY401XGMB	0876685386	320805918	Broken Structures: Severe Personality Disorders and Their Treatment	Books	4	4	55	N	N	Where did he learn it?	This most simple question of all in the field of domestic violence is never asked. Regardless of where men acquire their narcissistic attitudes, or justify their dominance, where and how they learn to treat women with such disrespect and contempt is a high value question to be asked. Most would never expect women to treat them similarly, and in fact, most women would never dream of treating them similarly because they have been conditioned to respect males. So, where do men learn to mistreat women? As children, it does not happen automatically. Either it must be learned in their family home, or it must be taught through religion, schools, or the miltiary with reinforcement through media. Women do not teach men to mistreat women. Seeking the source of its progression, it may be possible to treat and cure the patient, unless, of course, the status quo is preferred to meet some malcontent in men's desire for what they erroneously view as ego enhancement. The master/servant mentality that often precedes male dominance may be one source, though they rarely learn that at home unless by example, or a misreading of principles at work. Interestingly men sometimes but more rarely are abusive to children or the elderly. Does that mean culture prefers the burden of wife abuse? Or, are men hardwired for pediphilia, trusting and feeling generous toward children, but competitive toward adults? Just where do males learn to torture and mistreat women so disdainfully? Answer this question, and society may find a solution to numerous kinds of domestic violence.	2005-02-06
US	52205720	R3EMLP33PQ31X	0385311834	774074871	Brain Sex: The Real Difference Between Men and Women	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Biological Strength and Weakness	Recognizing that men and women are different has never been the problem of humankind. Genetically, we were always predisposed to ascertaining the difference, by hormones, if by nothing else. What mankind does with that knowledge, and how he or she pursues the ideological ideal has been the perpetual distinction of whether mankind is strong or weak, by the actions of every individual in being confronted with that reality, just as it is in the area of race relations, ethnic relations, or in the very distinction of recognizing humans as different from plants and animals. The history written illustrates not only our internal strength of character, or its weakness, but also reveals priorities, methods, and sense of justice, including our propensity to indulge while others suffer under known facts and attitudes as well as their inclination to further explore the truths yet uncovered. To the extent that such an inquiry reveals the extent of our humanity is socially and politically everyone's business, and perhaps, everyone's obligation. The report card to date has been less than admirable for any of us, given the intellectual protocol by which we tend to measure excellence in anything else. The pretense shows and tends to reflect badly upon all of us, the few ridiculed purists, excepted, of course.	2005-01-25
US	52205720	R2ET4MJ135MJZS	080913702X	600841204	When Love Meets Fear: How to Become Defense-Less and Resource-Full	Books	5	16	111	N	N	Too often Gender biased	In beginning to read the orientation, it turned me off completely when it began with the fear of females. It's so overdone. But hasn't been tackled is the fear of men who have a completely different style when they meet fear, and often become aggressive because of it. Is there any more insulting rejection to a women than hearing, \\"there are plenty of more fish in the sea?\\" This proves not only the lack of integrity of the presumed lover but also the lack of mature perspective in appreciating the fact of one so committed and enamored. Just as men prefer to be the \\"one and only,\\" so also women expect to be the \\"one and only.\\" The fear of being alone doesn't necessarily produce the anxiety of feeling excluded if the flaws are seen in those who exhibit them, and operate more as malice than rejection. There is a huge difference. Faced with love that is generated within, and not because of trophyism and a misperception of external comfort may be frightening to men because it makes them dependent on the emotional consistency of that secure feeling, and delight in its glory. Fear of loss inevitably follows. But mature love accepts loss graciously in knowing that if love is not reciprocal within the range of adequacy deemed honorable and pure, generated from inside not outside, the result of well considered contemplation of strengths as well as weaknesses, flaws as well as perfections, the result hopefully of a really long and committed second, third or fourth look. Most of the rest is merely the passing of time for lifestyle comfort, and always subject to a tenuous existence, focusing upon quantity not quality of the relationship. It is the reason women wait, and it is the reason men refrain from being steered to other momentary pleasures. Isn't all real love like that?	2005-01-19
US	52205720	R3TGNWZS4AWXXR	015603008X	571684273	Flowers for Algernon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	the Forgotten Quest	This extraordinary book used to be required in better schools for the importance of its sensitivities. Sadly, today it is unlikely to be found on reading lists or in classrooms. Bringing back these \\"classics\\" would be an effort to maintain the gentler design of teaching students how their behavior can make a world of difference in a world which requires them to survive. If schools are not offering it, parents should examine it for the values taught for their own budding geniuses, and even for those who aren't.	2005-01-12
US	52205720	R28LGKNBTR6L7W	0812970543	766319634	Bill Clinton: An American Journey: Great Expectations	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Rush to Judgement?	The forces and dynamics of both the Democratic Party, and the national unrest prevalent during the period that Clinton \\"rose\\" to shoulder his duties at the White House during his administration, and the manner in which he went about it suggests that it will be years before the clarity of his personal strengths and weaknesses will be understood fully. Complicated by the number of extraordinary events (including his impeachment process, the innovation of the internet, and the flaws of the political process itself, as they were revealed during the election of 2000, make rushes to judgement less accurate than they are entitled to be in American history. In addition, the unique upbringing of Clinton, his background, and the unusual experiences that preceded his Presidency obscure typical thinking about him within the normal boundaries in which other Presidents have been examined. As one of the most visible of persons, with a staff strikingly involved, and yet removed from his Presidency, it will take years to sort out the important dynamics of his terms, and may be seen as the beginning of an era where Americans, themselves, awakened to the strengths and weaknesses of their democracy to play a greater role in its outcome. He will, no doubt, remain an enigma for years to come both because of what he respresents, and because of his forceful personality, not to mention the importance of his wife, the Senator, who was fully vested in his administration, and continues to play a significant role in American politics as well as American government. It's obvious that Mr. Hamilton's attempts might be much more important in the future, and through development of his second volume, when and if that becomes available in the distance.	2004-11-24
US	52205720	R37UDZIAT479DM	1580627560	916830225	Why Men Love Bitches: From Doormat to Dreamgirl―A Woman's Guide to Holding Her Own in a Relationship	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Respect, Integrity, and Substance	The 50% divorce rate suggests that both men and women are foolishly naive about the other, but it's rare that good relationships are possible without mutual respect, integrity and substance on the part of both individuals. While men may request much, they don't usually expect to receive it, and when they do, it is usually the woman who suffers. The sexual attraction that many persons feel is rooted more in emotional support and the importance of maintaining an integrity of style they can admire as substance than the easy acquiescence of giving in to desires. If that isn't the case, most men and women are usually benefited by recognition that it isn't early in relationships before they become captive to the habitual comfort and convenience of proximity that requests less, and can demean both. Such women are not really bitches; men just don't know how to express themselves otherwise because they do not usually have a command of, or spend enough time to properly understand and appreciate their feelings to express them. Such weaknesses are often cured by women who are more assertive, but willing to acknowledge the important boundaries that separate the two, as individuals, without diminishing the potential of their being a couple.	2004-11-24
US	52205720	RUMLFLSYMGZHU	0684814471	960376821	When Men Batter Women: New Insights into Ending Abusive Relationships	Books	3	3	27	N	N	Written for Men by Men?	Advice to women by men on battering doesn't exactly make good sense since few men have lived the lives of oppression that women live when subjected to abusive relationships, and couldn't possibly relate in a meaningful way. Simply being human isn't enough to observe characteristics meaningful to the opposite sex - rather like a woman trying to provide a role model for male children on how to be males. It's comforting to know that all battering falls into two predominant types, however, using dog types as the analogy. I wonder whether many breeds of dog justfies the categorization. It's possible that characterized all males as forms of dog breeds might be more accurate to characterize their personality, being the territorial animals they are, even when they are neutered.	2004-11-22
US	52205720	RHCJ9LG6X119F	0914301063	99676729	Primer for Those Who Would Govern: In a World Parliament	Books	4	4	21	N	N	Breaking the Watergate Curse	Since Boston went for 86 years without a Red Sox win, they can relate to the fact that detrimental patterns can be set as if in stone. If there has been one pattern that has been prominent for the last 30 years, it is that lawyers have much greater control over the forces of government and legislatures than they ever have, certainly, since Watergate and the JFK [...], and the highjacking of government by attorney-political entrepeneurs who think nothing of bringing massive litigation to stop the flow of government is not necessarily good for American citizens. The fact that it is costly pales in comparison to the psychological terror that prevails in such an environment. It might be possible to remind the public that governing is a function of leadership, not lawyering. Freeing up government from those who are trained to do law might provide the leadership that America needs to provide progress rather than relying upon stalemates and conflict to govern. Long known for creating more havoc and chaos than they are accused of solving problems, it just may be the fact that America is too embroiled in litigation to succeed. Someone might do a study on just how much money has been spent on litigation over the years, at federal and state government to discern whether or not those costs appear necessary and important, or whether it is due to tapping into the government as a private attorney ATM machine. The results might be very interesting. In any case, the more litigation and accusations appear, the less governing appears to be done, and leadership is rapidly fading from the American scene.	2004-11-20
US	52205720	R12J2HG1F5WJFQ	1400060117	548874180	A Round-Heeled Woman: My Late-Life Adventures in Sex and Romance	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Who would have thought?	The idea that men and women can fall madly in love at the later stages of their lives sounds ridiculous to young people who feel it their personal domain. But, in fact, where people reach the stage where survival is not as challenging, children are grown, and they have good health, it's very possible, even probable that they have as much capacity to love and greater confidence to express that joy than they would at an earlier age. The affection that people sometimes feel for each other has a resiliency and a buoyancy not possible at other times of life, and possibly more pure than when they are younger. Unable to ignore the obvious aging that a lifetime brings or the flaws that come with it, the acceptance of oldsters or the elderly is a particularly gratifying spectacle since without pretense, they are free to love each other dutifully, and intensely with the same chemistry that had always been a part of their nature. Many men feel somewhat foolish but unnecessarily since love at any age is exciting and spectacular, evidence of its importance to us as humans where the ability to show affection is charactertistic of our human qualities, and shows the breadth and depth of our loving capacity with each other.	2004-11-02
US	52205720	R2OVJUUFJBBJ0K	0060784156	386956201	Because He Could	Books	5	11	21	N	N	Real Peter Principle: Because We Can	Why would anyone imagine that reading another Clinton-based analysis of Presidential politics and the numerous mysteries that accompany any President into that office, or continue to indulge Morris-like authors who promise to reveal the \\"real untold story about either Hillary or Bill Clinton?\\" <br /> <br />Because this is America, and supposedly every opinion counts within the framework of our freedom of speech, regardless of the privacy of political proteges, fully developed or not. In short, \\"because we can!\\" Was there ever a better reason or a better method to celebrate that freedom?	2004-10-19
US	52205720	RTG0RALX2STSC	1593370067	375384472	Another Chance For Love	Books	5	12	41	N	N	America's Free Love Crisis of the 60's	The too soon intimates, like those of the Baby Boomer's in their hindsight, if truthful, might have approached their lives much more like their parents, at least from the perspective of choosing a mate. So many divorces implies that the choices were less than careful to begin with, suggesting that intimacy may actually impede the process of finding \\"the\\" one with whom life can generally always be a joy, and where hardships simply make a couple closer, and strengthens their relationship. The major contribution of fantasy films that draw shallow significance and convert it into meaningful philosophy cannot aid a culture for whom gender differences are already in crisis and where men are taught by society to be patriarchal kings. Inevitably, it is women who do the growing up over the years, and realize the lack of fulfillment much like the slave society discovered the power and pleasure of freedom. Women who read too much emotion into the sexual convenience of males, and attempt to snare them into matrimony are likely to find considerable disappointment years later when life has failed them. It is as great an argument for celibacy as their ever was, and better than most. Even without celibacy, fathers rarely insure their daughters well being and physical care as they once did releasing both men and women to go it alone, and try to take care of themselves, a lottery of accidental proportions. The problem has left millions searching for what they might have had years earlier with greater scrutiny of the persons they chose, having made mountains of lemonaide from lemons. The alternative is that they might have listened to their mother, (or of lesser prominence, their father since most of those are too anxious to get rid of the responsibilities of daughters today and fall into the social traps). The possibility of finding a mate better suited to their personalities is possible, but arduous, and obviously takes more honesty and effort than was devoted to it initially, when\\"whole lives\\" are before them, and time is their friend. At older ages, the promise of love comes about slowly, if at all, and with greater appreciation for the personal values of potential mates, at least for women. Many men are seduced into searching for their youth and often find themselves victims of the younger mate's desire to start families, and discover they must do it again whether they choose to or not. The expectations of older mates nearer each other's age is among the most difficult, but also among the most satisfying of relationships since true compatibility is always the objective, and unreasonable expectations have long fallen by the wayside. To most humans, this amounts to being truly loved for your mind and heart, if you are female, and for your perspective and your faults, if you are male. Because the wildness of sex is generally not a part of the decision process, human attraction must rely upon all of our other parts to emphasize our humanity and our tenderness to carry the relationship. While oldsters may be sexually active, this stage may be the truest phase of all love for its cooperative independence where choosing such a love is a choice, and not an illusion. To finally grow old together, couples who choose to depend upon each other are always ready to share with each other, their hopes, their dreams, and their lives.	2004-10-11
US	52205720	R2V7P3A2XHGU73	0849917883	496511784	Keeping a Princess Heart in a Not-So-Fairy-Tale World	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Living Up to the Expectations of Every Prince Charming	Most fairy tales only hinted at the expectations of the Prince Charmings of the world, made famous by the classic of Cinderella. But as the story goes, the Prince tried the foot of every available woman in the kingdom to find that one foot. This should remind every princess of how important that one foot was, and why he would entertain the fantasy and the journey to locate it. All stardust is made of such fancy, and whether the fantasy of Cinderella herself, however doubtful in her position, the warm flames of the inspired heart of her Prince Charming kept it very much alive for her. The least women can do is accommodate his fantasy, and live up to those lofty expectations if she can. As most women know, tiara's always come with arduous responsibilities.	2004-10-04
US	52205720	R2IVP20CZQHXG7	0312220081	982661734	Gender and Colonialism: A Psychological Analysis of Oppression and Liberation	Books	5	0	0	N	N	When women really "can't"	The philosophy of freedom and liberation, along with responsibility and accountability requires an atmosphere of freedom and liberation. This has been recognized in every context except the area of women's rights where all too often it is only the social, physical or economic repression that presents as the generalized oppression of women. A much overlooked phenomenon is the psychological oppression caused by ignorance of faith and the possibilities of freedom, typically from a spouse, children, or even family who fail to recognize potential that emerges from educated persons. More rooted in class attitudes than economics, it may well be a profoundly immigrant reaction of comfort at lower levels of the social chain. Examination of attitudes where family success is accompanied by feelings of disbelief are the earmarks of the social syndrome of immobility that helps to make families static, as if they were buried in concrete. Where women become educated but men or children experience discomfort with the added social pressure it brings, women are often \\"kept down, as if in their place,\\" to prevent outshining the less educated spouse, typically a male of a measureable need for control. Early in the 1970's when women began working outside the home with frequency, many children expressed the same discomfort with their Mother's success, as if resentful that other challenges might take precedence over the relationship between mother and child. Many women start down the road of relative independence, toward success, and find that the road is too difficult, that they receive little encouragement, and often, discouragement to prevent the imbalance of what families see as their proper place. Even without family violence, the perception of roles greatly influences the idealism and often the economic success of women caught in such a dilemma, and it may be the source of underachievement where women might like to.....but really can't because of the family disruption from this psychological oppression. It is still alive and well in America despite women's efforts to shift the dynamics to more promising patterns and methods, a sad carryover from the devastation to women's liberation because of the need of men to patriarchal control.	2004-10-02
US	52205720	RRAQ6ANU8E6V0	097291871X	219343210	The System: How to Get Laid Today!	Books	5	3	21	N	N	No Guy Ever Gets "Lucky" with a Woman	Women are programmed to know exactly whether they choose to encourage males or not, and many know how. Hardwired to receive (or not), most are only interested in seeing how men go about trying. This can be amusing, or not, exciting, or not, intense and confident, or not. Most women never fail to judge the contours of the chase, and whether it's worth the effort.	2004-09-24
US	52205720	R243YEGKXFLREF	0805069135	219495499	Why We Love: The Nature and Chemistry of Romantic Love	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Best of Baboon Love available for Humans	Capacity to love might be considered one of the essential components of love. The review article that identifies baboons as driven to express that love in the grooming exercises they do, and the desire to groom the one to whom they are attracted is likely a natural function of the desire to touch, nurture and fondle the ones we love. Trying to refrain is difficult at best but may provide the indicator of when love does and does not exist. Presuming baboons have the need to nourish the soul as well as by the act of grooming, adding the emotional support to the intended, we might presume that humans are capable of the same, and further, that humans also tend to incorporate the brain in that endeavor, thereby enhancing the natural feelings into the expressive communication that creates bonding, similar to what is done with a child, but especially contoured and molded into the attentions that are most likely to be suitable for that age. Lacking those initially, it's likely that love may be missing, or unable to be well expressed. Through time, the modification of habits formed from repetition reduce the need to touch and fondle since the emotional feeling is programmed and stays present between couples. However, it is a wise couple that continues to reinforce those feelings with continued efforts to express that love, since through that comfort, their relationship is made all the more solid, and loving. The capacity to love, however, is directly related to having been loved, and the desire to show that love through actions meant to ritualize the relationship and reduce uncertainty. If baboons are smart enough to do that, shouldn't human be also?	2004-09-18
US	52205720	R3BLIBIZYLP7TC	0684801566	400377280	Who Stole Feminism?: How Women Have Betrayed Women	Books	5	30	62	N	N	What every man should know about female cruelty	Either from selfishness, failed ambitions, or simply becoming caught up in a world where women demand perfection, women are often their own worst enemy. Afraid to approach power as men do, or unaware of the limits of their own flaws, women who band together with other women for accomplishment or for detruction (it doesn't matter which), are always the brick wall likely to be hit. There is no greater group for whom the worst tactics and the best tactics can be unleashed when women give their support or their wrath to other women. It may be why various societies have decided women are best off alone at home. The bonded group is especially dangerous at the teen level and up because of their incredible skill at subterfuge or at coordination. There is little they cannot do, except when they turn that energy in upon themselves so that nothing can get accomplished. They are, by far, the world's best infighters, and have all the benefit of multitasking and intuitive control at their disposal. If unleashed as it must have been during the days in Salem, they are a forced to be reckoned with, so that in those days, they were hung as witches, because few are subject to reason and negotiation. The world has never bothered to study the best and the worst of women, but there is certainly good evidence that it should be done. No group could be said to be more comfortable with taking over the world, if they chose to, than bonded women, for they lack the rigid hierarchy of men, and capitalize upon rule bending far beyond those of men, in an arrogance that is unsurpassed by men. History is filled with amazement of women who have performed extraordinary feats, especially with the support of various powerful men behind them, and more than a share of those are unsung heroes, or villains. The fact that when alone, domestic violence is performed upon women 95% of the time cannot discount the fact that when supported, considerable domestic violence upon men can be the result. Women are notlone wolves, however, typically as they require several women to act as the support and communication network to achieve these acts. The ease with which they accommodate the hardships in these circumstances generally amaze the men with whom they are associated, and most are in awe, if not fearful of the power felt. As women continue to make alliances with each other, and don't go it alone, it is far more likely that this will be an increasing phenomenon of women holding the feet of men to the fire, and perhaps, also an increase in domestic violence against men, or against children, since most women who have these tendences show no exceptions for boundaries as males often do. Women do not support either their children, their spouses, or other women when disosed in a syndrome of cruelty. There is little remorse because of the ease of justification of having been wronged; therefore, the impetus to fight back becomes justified in their minds. Fortunately, there are only a few of them as compared to men, but they are just as deadly, if not more deadly than men. In the film of the Bodyguard, the extent of women's deception, secrecy, and cold hearted cruelty can be found in the character of the sister of Whitney Houston where blind jealousy and ambition concealed her deadly motive, not uncharacteristic of many women who fall victim to their emotions, and stop at little in mitigation techniques. In such circumstances, scapegoats are not an exception; they are the entire territory, all the while remaining focused upon their target, often without it being recognized by anyone. Having watched this growing phenomenon in girls as it develops throughout high school, the skill and experience grows exponentially at college and beyond, especially in all female schools, often some say, as the functional equivalent of prisons where males learn to overcome the laws and live outside of them, and become better criminals.	2004-09-17
US	52205720	R271SC2GJA4I3Q	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Recognizing war	It's catharticism that probably prompted Tolstoy to write his \\"War and Peace.\\" We know that because both are included in his title, and no doubt he struggled with what mankind has always struggled with: the decision of when war is justifiable and when it is not. To do that, he chose to recount the tale of five families and the effects of war upon them to allow the reader to decide what is justifiable. In reading the accounts, undoubtedly, the insight of most is that in crossing the peace line, it's difficult to go back. Much like moving away from home, it is difficult to go back, and we are stuck with the realities we create. If no other purpose for the book is ever found, the ability to recognize the difference between war and peace should be enough to examine the principles upon which both stand, and the extent to which one can, or must go, to validate the justification of where one stands upon the issue. That same justification may be found within the Bible where the same choices must be examined, defined, and evaluated, usually without the benefit of any specific anticipated benefit. Instinct is usually all people have to go by, but perhaps instinct is enough to make that choice. In reading the Bible most would think that mankind has no choice, and that whether defending family or property, war is the ideal method. Yet, the moral of both Tolstoy's book and the Bible is that mankind has a choice not to succumb to war that twists him inside out from the model of human being he might have chosen to be, proving once again, that for every man there is a price he is willing to pay to alter his behavior. Determining that price, however, is an individual moral choice, and whether the decision is to fight, or to stand by and watch others fight may be one and the same thing, since, in either case, peace is on the flip side of war where it belongs.	2004-09-15
US	52205720	R14IX8ADWDZNMD	0871798328	577979194	Mental and Emotional Injuries in Employment Litigation	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Mental Health is only Emotional Health	While we consider this little, the reality is that among the types of health, physical, economic, intellectual, and emotional or psychological, mental health is actually little more than psychological and emotional health. Where men deny their emotions, therefore, it is often conclusory that women are the ones upon whom mental health has been focused, leaving men once again in the desert of health issues. Where women regularly evoke their emotional needs, men seldom do, and society places numerous substitutes to deter, or defer, the issues that come automatically from being human, as if men were robots. Since men spend so much of their lives at work, this necessarily invokes the issues of healthful working environments that properly and appropriately honor the emotional lives of men, and do not treat them as robotic. Astute lawyers will begin to increasingly define the importance of mental health in work and employment issues as they have been forced to do for women (coming into the workplace with all of their emotional clothing). Having long denied males the same privilege, the integration of men and women in the workplace has the potential to overload the human resources department responsible for insuring the collateral issues that confront employees to insure productivity for the employer, and contented employees. Far from being \\"girlie men,\\" the normal acceptance of human qualties is long overdue for men, and any company of social responsibility will jump at the chance to prove its image of \\"valuable work climates\\" for both men and women. This blossoming field of context in connection with both home and work environments, and the nexus of child raising must necessarily become the next giant step for corporations to address their corporate climate as worthy employers. Far from the hierarchial vision of the industrial complex, the 21st Century workplace that incorporates both men and women in positions of responsibility is advised to insure both physical health and mental health for its employees, as well as trying to handle the enormous task of diversity issue that have become one test of humanitarian excellence in a world increasingly complex and interdependent. For companies who ignore this vast area of health issues, they will continue to become the lumbering dinosaurs they must be in an integrated gender world where master/servant relationships and law have ignored the importance of human emotions as mental health. Correctly defining the existence of the whole human being was bound to come sooner or later.	2004-09-09
US	52205720	R2C9FBU0EFPJZG	0300078153	814124134	Seeing like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed	Books	5	1	15	N	N	Understanding the Value of Flow and Flow Through	The State, being little more than a fictitious entity itself, composed of an artificially assigned number of individuals to whom the administrative mechanics of government have been handed has a duty, or obligation, to view all its citizens as equal. When the state becomes bogged down with privileged souls who are less likely to keep that vision in full view as possible, the potential for change and the flow through of ideas and funds to make that possible is drastically limited, and in such a way as to make the cement from which State change is impossible without concerted efforts at changing the players in such a system of tunel digging to create the infrastructure that can best serve its citizens. While glue may well be the honey that prompts loyalty, it can also be the glue that makes cement.	2004-09-09
US	52205720	R2UC203U2YABED	0515118907	976684091	The Man Who Cast Two Shadows (A Mallory Novel)	Books	5	1	24	N	N	The Unwinnable Gender Wars	When men fail to realize is that for every woman they have envisioned as maid, there are a significant number of women who view them as butlers or caddies. Not well publicized, however, the gender reverse of Cinderella is the illusive conquest that represents the commitment that Prince Charming was after. Far too many women treat kings as caddies, and caddies as kings, for their to be any semblance of logic in the love game. But, the studies are required to be made so that both men and women know the difference of when love is possible and when it is not. Since the distinction is more real than not, generally, the male has little to gauge the relationship upon except the perceptions of relatively new relationships, and the example that is visible between the woman's parents and the way in which they relate, often duplicated or expected to be duplicated in most relationships. So, logically, visiting inlaws has much to do with the framework of how, when love is older, the reality replaces the fantasy. Wise words of caution to most males is that treating a woman as a maid often comes back to haunt him many times over, and becomes the misery from which it is difficult to extricate himself, and needlessly, since he always had the choice to begin with. If men don't want to be treated as caddies, they would not contemplate treating or thinking of women as maids. Logic is Logical, not fantasy.	2004-09-08
US	52205720	R1TG88266BXRB9	0631164014	254331166	On Ethics and Economics	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Ethics of Choice and No Choice	It's interesting how ethics and their practice seem to fall along the lines of events that tend to produce profits, and are therefore, more easily justified than not, to the point of being made a part of the law that governs ethics as well as processes. This aspect of human tendencies to favor profits as ethical under any circumstances may well have given rise to the Enron's, Worldcom's, etc., that often also produce the exonerations of bankruptcies where privileges of \\"restarts\\" are common, under different names, or through acuisition/mergers where social responsibilities are thrown by the wayside and efforts to salvage the more profitable opportunities are typical of commercial justice. The inconsistency that these ethics represents is often difficult to rationalize in rational minds.	2004-09-04
US	52205720	R1XEBQB288CQGZ	0060563079	785392906	Peter Pan: The Original Story	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Lessons of Maturity and the Fantasy of Youth	At its center, the story of Peter Pan is at once enchanting for boys and girls alike. The thought of being able to fly, to never grow up, much less grow old or the ability to thwart parental power by exploring never, never land where there is total freedom for enjoyment as well as the thrill of conquerable challenges by the guardianship of angelic magic in the form of Tinker Bell. But beneath the surface, Peter Pan is ultimately a lesson about growing up and having to take responsibility for one's actions, all the while wishing the opposite. For most children, the transition comes with age, and with good parental guidance; for others, sadly, it comes not at all. For those who are unable to make the transition and prefer to stay in the fantasy world of never, never land, heartache is bound to come, for it not Wendy, another love would be lost, which men are conditioned to accept and ignore, forever foreclosing the opportunity for the emotional intimacy they truly want and need, and the excitement of being able to share the wondrous world with someone who honors their effort and is inspired by their love and commitment. The story of Peter Pan is the definitive analysis of males at the point of transition where love and life intersect, and the choice they must make for themselves. It is a story about male commitment, whether that is possible, and for what reason, the ability to make the intellectual adjustment of self control to capture the joys of adult life, the vision to depart from never, never land to accommodate the transition, and the coping mechanisms they must make to do so. It is the ultimate \\"cliff walk\\" for men, hence, the analogy of the prospect of \\"walking the plank before Captain Hook\\" and whether or not the Wendy they save might be their own salvation, the one to whom they can commit with trust and safety. It is a story of men falling in love or not and whether they are able to appreciate giving up the toys of childhood for mature relationships.	2004-08-30
US	52205720	R1LN0XVVRA64R4	0815320752	309549483	Women's Rights in the U.S.A. : Policy Debates and Gender Roles (Second Edition)	Books	5	0	6	N	N	Natural rights pre-empt man made rights	The attempt to interfere with women's natural and biological right to perform the function for which they alone are capable, the ability to bear children, must be the ultimate male misogynistic insult. Making child birth a hardship by failure to support the programs that honor this unique female capability is the equivalent to exclude females from society, and make them irrelevant to survival of human culture. Forcing them to choose work over the poverty of having children and putting children at risk is a total conversion of the natural order of the universe. Preventing them from caring for the children they make and to insure the safety of the children they have is dangerous to both, and favors the imperialistic pursuit of profits over the validation of mankind. Accepting a 50% divorce rate putting women in poverty, and accepting gay marriage threatens to turn mankind into an exercise of convenience and comfortable lifestyle rather than dignify the principles of creation by honoring the natural right of females to sexuality, to prevention, and to pregnancy as their biological right by virtue of their biological makeup. Ignoring that choice, women have been made little more than pawns in the industrial machine through which men justify the pursuit of profits to the exclusion of all else, and not intended to become the foundation of family formation and sustainability. When women are urged to find comfort in female companionship rather than male companionshp, the basic Godly contract of natural creation has been altered. Preventing women from sustainable work that puts them and their children at risk ignores the basic right of all human beings basic survival rights, and part of the larger scheme of ignoring those rights in favor of imperialistic schemes.	2004-08-29
US	52205720	R1T973SRH63JGR	0679880836	275527263	How to Make an Apple Pie and See the World (Dragonfly Books)	Books	5	4	24	N	N	Greatest Story Ever Told: The Incredible Lessons of Apple Pi	The long undervalued but much touted apple pie (even without the ice cream, ala mode) represents the finest of lessons in health for human kind but one which would never come from the Bible because baking and the utensils of kitchens, nor the trading routes and processes to cultivate the ingregients of apple pies was present at the time the Bible was written. What we can learn about apple pie making, why it would be made, who would make it, when, or for whom is a lesson not soon to be forgotten from this analysis of the joys of apple pie making, along with the simple nutritious joy that becomes a part of the experience of eating it once made. It is a veritable miracle of mankind in modern days that we have the will, and the ways to make this special treat, as the evolution of mankind has provided the mechanics of both, a valuable lesson of the past as well as the present. While some concentrate on the miracle of producing milk and how it gets to market to be bought, sold, and drunk, many have forgotten the importance of the apple pie to commerce as well as to families, made all the more important because of the transparency of its secrets, hidden in its prominence. An apple pie made from scratch is nothing more than a modern miracle continuing in its miracle with the potential to please like nothing else. The primary precaution, however, is that it is never made with rotten apples, and never taken for granted in the importance of its being made and offered in the first place. Apple pie making is often, therefore, associated with the love that arises naturally as a result of its making, and the complexity of the processes that enable it to be made. Apple pies, unlike cookies, are never made solely for one, and never made to be stored, but presented whole, to be cut and eaten by friends and family, or shared with strangers. Perfect apple pie making is always prized by chefs, cooks, and consumers alike and therefore, deserves recognition for the great action of love itis, and can be an all season event worldwide.	2004-08-25
US	52205720	R1DJICGLIEXS27	0312310846	349462775	The Complete A**hole's Guide to Handling Chicks	Books	5	19	81	N	N	Heavensent: a Handbook for Lawyers	Not even excerpts can rightly describe how exciting it is for lawyers to have a handbook for identifying <br />the specific and peculiar aspects of rape, domestic villence, and discriminatory harassment that is provided in this major event (buy at all costs) handbook for how to sue a male and win. In fact, it should be on the shelves of every police station, hospital, psychiatrist and counselor as what to look for to identify the attitude (intent), behavior (conduct unbecoming), and harm (unspoken but known) that accompanies the indecent exposure and treatment of women. Leave it to a lawyer! Written by one, obviously misogynist, himself, along with another male misogynist, the \\"handbook\\" could not be more welcome to the female community to describe the degradation of what occurs in the arms of a misogynist, and how helpless society is to deal with these kinds of persons, who appear to multiply like rabbits, and who often remain like that for their entire lives (at least in spirit). For the animals among them, they could probably add a few paragraphs, and offer other opportunities that might have been missed, truly male dominant thrilling adventures - provided no one is held accountable for it. On the occasion that one is, society has an enormous investment in ignoring or in excusing such male behavior as, of all things, \\"horseplay.\\" However, to women it is rarely horseplay, and leaves them far less inclined to trust males than they might have. Since the \\"indoctrination process\\" begins about the time females are pubescent, and rarely moves beyond this adolescent attitude, even in later life, it is also a lesson for females in how not to succumb to being considered or even kept by an animal. Truly a godsend to parents everywhere to help curtail the most irritating and insulting of male mistakes that keep them from being loved, or nurtured, it is also useful for churches charged with the guidance of males toward the inevitable outcome of marriage and family formation.Depending upon how one decides to look at the \\"manual,\\" it can be an excellent handbook, or life's cruelest joke to men or women alike. What not to do is covered in explicit detail unless having a girl like you is what you had in mind. How to avoid jail time by a lawyer skilled and attuned to the ravages of discrimination and misogny, it is a definite plus, but doesn't possibly cover all of the conduct required to avoid that problem. For women, it is a virtual feast of a 10 course dinner in how to nail a guy for harassment, and/or make millions pay for the privilege of misogny. The book, itself, if not for being an \\"educational tool of choice,\\" itself, would qualify for a class action suit by millions of females tired of being treated like dead meat by supposedly \\"well intentioned\\" males. Surprisingly, there has yet to be printed a female version, but perhaps that is in the offing, given the spectacular success of this handbook on male masculinity, and how to keep it from being appreciated - in all its locker room glory. Certainly, it shows the advantage of choice - for men as well as for women - where choice is always respected by society and accountability is the only outcome of making such choices, as far too many males have already discovered. Self protection for males, or a full appreciation of the extent of male discrimination, you be the judge! The judgements that arise from the skillful and artful description of advice from this useful handbook should be exciting to watch, on their own - a feast of cultural awareness and consequences unmatched anywhere on the planet. A superb job by two obviously despicable or clever human beings who should never have to work again, unless, of course, they get sued, and are forced to transfer their \\"winnings to the National Association of Battered Women\\" which is a distinct possibility under the circumstances. The organization may never have to seek funds again if court judgements have a possibility of being the outcome of such a clever little book for men and women everywhere. I wonder if they will put it on the shelf at the Playboy Mansion, or better still, hand it out to every guest as a momento of the power of sex to affect one's life, either positively or negatively.	2004-08-22
US	52205720	R1A9FALUJTICM3	0310517516	356194434	Christian Men Who Hate Women: Healing Hurting Relationships (Lifelines for Recovery)	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Killng Me Softly with His Song	Roberta Flack once did a signature song that is surely to come to mind as soon as the reader picks up this book and finds many true stories spread among its pages. Not epic, but perhaps epidemic, it causes one to question if there should not be \\"self help and gripe\\" groups in every church and community to help those men, women and children cope with the harm that misogyny does, and how if manifests itself in people's lives. The authors should consider franchising the help groups since they surely would have the impact that the AAA form has had in the area of alcohol, and the conduct that arises from both personal and public acceptance of misogyny reaches far into most communities with no one to whom victims can turn. Unfortunatey, the emotional harm to self esteem and productivity that misogynistic behavior produces is not so soft, but has hard ramifications in society that last, often for lifetimes. This attempt to properly put misogynistic behavior and people in perspective is a must read for anyone experiencing it, and a should read for those who seek to understand what it is, and how it manifests itself in human relations. Not limited to spousal relations or to one gender alone, (since reverse discrimination can and does operate similarly for some men by women), it is a good review of tactics used by people haters who happen to fall into a narrow category of character - in this case, women.	2004-08-19
US	52205720	R26YANZTYP028H	0553382179	365202529	Sink Reflections: Overwhelmed? Disorganized? Living in Chaos? Discover the Secrets That Have Changed the Lives of More Than Half a Million Families...	Books	3	11	167	N	N	cleaning and clutter	The concept of cleaning and clutter from Parris Island, NC takes the idea of the clean room to its uncommon conclusion - being \\"squared away.\\" Unfortunately, for many women, the idea of being the \\"clean up crew\\" for Marines who tend to dump that task upon unwitting wives to maintain that standard is often unwelcome and more along the lines of maid than house-WIFE. When women are made the chief Squared away keeper, most rebel from early training when their mothers may have required clean rooms. To graduate to the plain or domain of the military standard of being \\"squared away\\" is neither an easy task nor one that most embrace throughout their lives. The solution might exist in the possibility of \\"debriefing\\" men when they leave the military that civilian life will likely not provide the strict lines of cleanliness and de-clutter that was made a part of their lives in the military over which they had full control because they were forced to do it themselves. However clean and clutterless women may have the tendency to be, transferring the impetus from the Corp to their wives is a condition most women are not able to make even if they wanted to, which most don't. The Corp takes cleanliness and clutterless status to an artform that even Howard Hughes, himself, would appreciate. Most women don't share that fetish, however, with Howard, and don't expect to with their husbands.	2004-08-18
US	52205720	R19RVO91OHDNT2	0932194400	521262346	Healing The Child Within:  Discovery and Recovery for Adult Children of Dysfunctional Families	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Value Beyond Compare	Despite the number of times that anyone insists that one is worthy of the praise, or the special adoration they receive from someone else, it does little for the truly emotionally damaged child who must impress not others, but himself, first, in the choices made, the perseverence to make commitments and stand up to defend those, in essence, making his own true groove with which he is comfortable, and growing. External admiration does little except divert the process of coming to grips with the inner voices by which we define our own existence, and how well it is working for us. Because harm lingers, it is always a necessity to do that personal work oneself, to get beyond the need to rely upon others, and pursue the priorities we feel are important to our lives, to ourselves, and to the interests and principles we prize over all others. That priority assigning process is well explained by the author to encourage us to identify weaknesses that tend to interfere with our own best self image cultivated by us, that enables others to share the esteem we have for ourselves, the hardest self development work of all, but one worthier than most others. Being true to oneself is the highest protection that one can bestow upon oneself to protect the vulnerability that lies within each of us.	2004-08-10
US	52205720	R3KP2Q84NGT2Z9	0739306499	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Revealing Common Sense Reflection	My husband brought this home, and reading some of it, it reflects some very common sense realities about politics, along with some fairly harsh criticisms of many of the &quot;players&quot; associated with campaigns and elections. A long time Boston resident and close to the action in most cases, the author exhibits an uncommon knowledge of more than a few &quot;events&quot; and cautions the readers to try and look beyond the momentary hype to assess the value and the progress of our American political campaigns to see who really winds up on top, and too often, who really winds up on the bottom, and often screwed. A highly informative read, and one that appeals to logic as the ruler by which American democracy is played out, and its relation to &quot;ordinary citizens.&quot;!	2004-07-24
US	52205720	R23K2CBDZM0UXZ	020152385X	372545274	Healthy Pleasures	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Pleasure: the root of all health	Pleasure as the root of all evil (too often equated with sex) has been converted from its true purpose as the only motivation and incentive that spurs people to action. The power of pleasure has quite simply been highjacked and converted into the exact opposite of its intended purpose to elevate mankind into achieving the impossible - whatever that impossible happens to be. Long recognized by founders of America by including the possible of impossibilities into the preamble of America's Declaration of Independence to properly document their perspective, and their newfound knowledge emerging from the tyranny of Kings and Queens, they set in motion the philosophy upon which American capitalism and entrepreneurship seeks to preserve that delicate relationship between man and the enjoyment of his life - spiritual, mental and physical - and at least, in theory, the same for women. Practice turns out to be much more elusive than planned despite the Constitutional protections because of our lack of consideration for each other of the fine boundaries that separate one from another in that sometimes elusive pursuit that is by definition individually selective, and guarantees that his life will be meaningful, important and happy secure in the natural rights defined as his privilege to define for himself what gives him pleasure - the expression of his free will nurtured within that promise of a free nation, America.	2004-07-22
US	52205720	R1O34GIVUYRCWV	1930151101	909978094	Eternity in a Grain of Sand : The Most Perfect Silence of Jollyroger.com Poetry	Books	5	6	11	N	N	reaching for the depths	The importance of elevating the potential to love consists more of recognizing not our comforts, but the significance of someone else in our lives, and the ability to be moved by more than rhetoric, and more than what we typically see around us as normal, common or even what we presume to be elusive. The realization that we can be emotionally touched so profoundly by another person is the essence of hope that has long been a foundation of biblical expression, the objectification of the significance that one human should have to another as an ordinary occurrence but is elevated to a blessing within the confines of spirituality that fully respects the devine in each individual, and places not the person but the divinity in each upon a pedestal that is worthy of the love created and however subtle, shown and radiated out to a needy world, but may be irrelevant and unnoticed to the couple who shares that inner sun and solace, as if they are made devinely for the purpose of God shared with others as examples of His True Power to transform by that example. Couple so made tend to allow themselves to be used for such an altruistic purpose without embarrassment or shame to illustrate the grace that God places before the world as His promise to the pleasure of Eternity. The obligation of the couple is to refrain from that celebration lest they distort the message or be led away from its lofty perch and purpose, reserving for themselves the privileges and methods of adorning that love within its highest potential, and jealously guarding its creation.	2004-07-22
US	52205720	R2QV4EZQOI9SWD	0380973197	322457967	The End of Sanity: Social and Cultural Madness in America	Books	5	6	8	N	N	US passed by the borderline of sanity long ago	For the record: <br /> The major crises in today's America calls for far more than the delusions of past political rhetoric where most cultural problems are simply ignored, or covered up. Americans deserve more for their loyalty and for their hope than to be considered children unable to know the truth. That is a reason Michael Moore was able to capture the national spotlight with his film documentary, and it doesn't begin to touch the surface on what is wrong with the U.S. From the gender and racial double standards to the negative campaigns meant to inflame and intimidate the public, the entire mess is not of the making by &quot;ordinary citizens,&quot; but those who would be kings, those who fancy themselves already kings, and those who foolishly believe there are persons right for being kings in America - or queens!	2004-07-21
US	52205720	R2KU2GFQ36ZS7T	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Sad reality of Political Partisanship Today	In most organizations the atmosphere is set at the top and filters down through the organization of what is permissible and what is not. Unfortunately, the author shows that it is also possible to begin at the bottom, and filter up through the organization as apparently has been done in the case of the Bush administration. Perhaps it is in both parties. The close scrutiny of politics, the Presidency, and policies, today, offer up a too candid look at the political realities of the U.S. recently highlighted in Michael Moore's new film, Farenheit 9/11 where America may be hostage to its own success. Why else would anyone impose the likes of a Patriot's Act on its citizens knowing full well that the basis of freedom is privacy and respect for limited government intervention. Using the Constitution for one's own use, adding to it, or removing from it, were supposedly sacred responsibilities and not to be taken lightly, requiring hurdle after hurdle to accomplish. At least, women were told that in 1980 when they tried to pass the ERA, the Equal Rights Amendment. Yet, young George has taken it upon himself to upend the protections of the Constitution under the guise of \\"protection\\" that resembles more the actions of a \\"mother hen\\" smothering its young by sitting on them, supposedly with good cause. Pre-emptive efforts to protect does not mean to capture and hold a nation hostage because there might be a bogey man amongst us. While the Commander In Chief has every right to protect America, he has no right to dispense with all of the rest of the Constitution to do so in a mistaken impression that there is danger among us. Given in to paranoia is equally as bad as giving in to terrorism. Pre-emptive strikes are, and have never been, the nature of the United States because we are a nation that believes in faith, in courage, and supposedly, in negotiation rather than the swift, easy, use of force to accomplish objectives. Those qualities are very much endangered by the actionstaken in response to the World Trade Center \\"bombing,\\" whoever committed it. Since we still have no real knowledge of who did, actions taken with regard to the Patriot Act have taken the entire nation hostage and replacing its courage with fear, a critical wound in the nation's conscience, and one that can irreparably cause harm to the nation's spirit of independence, and reliance upon the laws we have to seek and do justice. To the extent that few can distinguish between the true nature of patriotism and the Patriot Act, we are left with the distinct flaw of being vulnerable to attack by our own government, and without limits, as if it were not a representative government, but one that stands on its own, as owner/possessor of American rights freely dispensed at its own pleasure.	2004-07-03
US	52205720	R3UCEZXAAM0W9W	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Written Like a Congressional Investigation Report	Despite the fact that Clinton supposely wrote it himself, likely the reason he, rather than other Presidents, is compared to Grant, is it really an accident that his \\"tome\\" reflects the remarks in Michael Moore's new film, Farenheit 9/11, when the Senator says, \\"My son, let me tell you the facts of life. As Senators, we don't read legislation.\\" If anyone can be said to gain from producing a 957 page book of words, it would be Clinton. Journalists already concede that no one wants to \\"slog\\" through it, and the publisher, recognizing that reality, produced an \\"Executive Index\\" of sorts to \\"cover the important parts, much as is done in Congress when important legislation is hidden among the monstrous volumes that no one wants to, or has time to, read. Lobbyists learned that lesson eons ago, and consequently follow the format with regularity as well as delight because it frees them to make contact and seduce with wine and song rather than logic and facts. Didn't Clinton and Starr do the same during the impeachment hearing when tons of information showed up on \\"inciteful\\" web links everywhere? Clinton has once again showed his political prowess in taking America along upon his Mark Twain journeys through hell and back through the invitation to join his band of brothers in the revelation of his Presidential memoirs that portends to be more like walking the plank than the real thing, neither of which Americans are too fond of. The man has absolutely no shame, and must be the God's absolute epitome of opportunism, complete with matching grin like the cat who stole the canary. If I was a betting person, I would bet that no more than 10% of those who bought it can read all of it, and finish it. It's a slog-fest of first class Capitol subterfuge, a sure sign that the nuggets are there buried if one can find them. Expecting journalists to dig for them like hound dogs looking for a bone is typical of his style and probably his intent. Good luck! At this point, I guess I don't blame him!	2004-07-03
US	52205720	RORBIILNMEG9G	0385490119	386095320	How Could You Do This to Me?: Learning to Trust After Betrayal	Books	3	71	91	N	N	No Real Trust after Betrayal	Once trust is broken, it is much like a glass window; it cannot be fixed. It can be taped, glued, pieced together, etc. It can never be the intact and unbroken window it once was. Some things just cannot be fixed as if they never occurred. With that in mind, the emphasis is on whether or not one wishes to fix it and why, and the decision to return a trust that is broken, decisions that always determine the value of the relationship and how deeply woven and connected it is. Recovery from broken trust (not trusts) lies in gently picking up the broken pieces, putting them in some type of order, and attempting to keep them there, an almost impossible task, and one too often for objective professionals. Success is tenuous at best, and unsatisfying at worst because both generally mourn what might have been had the trust not been broken, and the relationship unimpaired by those lingering ghosts. Most do not trust once the trust has been broken, but simulate an appearance of trust that is usually a small fraction of that which was thrown away by the deceiver, and which was forced onto the victim, by the knowledge of the deceit.	2004-06-27
US	52205720	R26RIVGL099RGM	0966875907	228411202	1: Straight Talk About Betrayal: A Self-Help Guide for Couples	Books	5	11	122	N	N	Deception only hurts the user	For all practical purposes, deception is not worth the energy to fight it. It is a flaw between the misperceptions of the user and himself. Of all of the reasons to lie, romantic deception may be the most aggravating but is also the most innocuous. Lies never affect the emotional feelings of partners except to the extent that they affect pride. Harm is in the damaged pride and the anger we feel in being able to be deceived, and in being deceived. For the one deceived as an aftermath effect of the deception, it's history. For the one deceived before the deception, it's ignorance. Neither of these, history or ignorance, affect self esteem though they can harm relationships that have unrealistic expectations. Understanding that out of sight always means the possibility and the risk of deception is most of the battle. Hence, to protect oneself from the ravages, or supposed effects, of deception, ignoring it is usually the best policy since there is little anyone can do about it anyway. The deceiver-user wouldn't be using it if he or she had respect for the victim, and the fantasy world created for himself or herself is of little consequence to the victim of deceptive efforts. The deceiver indulges his own fantasy in the cowardess that it is necessary to protect what is not already present. To understand the reason for deception, if that is a necessity, looking to the broken relationship that is held hostage to such tactics is more fruitful, and more enlightening. Finding its foundation is an effort to measure its validity, its value, and its potential; not by measuring the nature or extent of the deception.	2004-06-27
US	52205720	R74U4QYECOB8Z	1580621376	815115337	Surviving Infidelity (2nd)	Books	4	8	119	N	N	Don't Indulge the Pain	Society has long cultivated the reaction of mostly women but also men to become outraged by the &quot;affair,&quot; a sad and sorry mistake, because with so many going on, it is unrealistic to expect that they will stop, or that some magical cure is available. The sadness is that it is women who pay the price by sacrificing what they have been led to believe is their virtue while men ignore the whole problem and do what they want. No one must think in these overly confining straight jackets of the ill effects of monogamy that would isolate a couple in what most would suggest is an unrealistic, undesirable, prison of conscience. The deception and subsequent guilt is caused by society's attempt to place onto women the requirements of propriety while relaxing it upon males - a discriminatory plan, intent and effect. Women do not have to buy the garbage along with the marriage. What they must do is to alter the environment so that society, including their mates, do not attempt to force the price onto them of his infidelity, for example, or to prevent her rightful freedom of association that is a baseline critical element of freedom. Social constraints cannot create freedom, but they can modify it to create victims, and it is usually the weaker parties who get harmed. To prevent the &quot;rages of man&quot; who finds that his wife has been unfaithful, society sets up the obscene circumstance that it is only males who deserve the freedom or privilege of infidelity and the wife must carry the banner of fidelity as a show of her virtue. Nonsense! The syndrome is a religious perception that feeds from the Virgin Mary and the Madonna to create unrealistic attitudes from women, about women, and for women that males rarely are held accountable for. It also accomplishes the task of not having to prosecute males when they become enraged, and kill their spouses or the lovers, when infidelity occurs, a great convenience and cost-savings for the State and the nation. No betrayal is&quot;done to a woman.&quot; In fact, males don't even think about their women to any great extent or they would not be doing it at all. The solution is to equalize the fidelity territory so that it is not only women who are supporting it, and force men to share in the benefits of monogamy, or not to have the assurance of it at all.	2004-06-27
US	52205720	R1ED7A6SZDDJ5L	0684836475	746063881	The Godfather Legacy	Books	5	0	16	N	N	Psychological Thriller of all Time	Although it might be considered the most accurate, and perhaps the most thriling of anthologies on the Mafia crimestyle in life, the parts not covered well are the attitudes of the Mafia princesses, and spouses of those involved in relationships in the clan. While it need not be this clan, and could be any clan, the effects upon the lives of women subjected to the emotional deprivation of secular groups is substantial, and might be viewed under the parameters of those who live with narcissistic males, of any group, any ethnicity, and at any age. Because we don't tend to view action thrillers like this one as anything but entertainment, the real underlying important questions rarely get discussed, but could be, and might be of great benefit to those who witness the problems.	2004-06-27
US	52205720	RVK4DJPF42RRL	0595254306	192409989	Giggling Into the Pillow	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If we giggle at dogs.......	Very few of us, if any, didn't giggle when we accidentally managed to see a couple (or more) dogs going at it, heatedly and without shame? when growing up. So why can we not laugh at ourselves? I wonder about that alot, and how we got so uptight? Doesn't anyone else? This may help to be the cure for our twisted syndromes!	2004-06-17
US	52205720	R2V74XBISN9CRL	0195115015	23463471	Becoming Attached: First Relationships and How They Shape Our Capacity to Love	Books	5	3	28	N	N	Why Man is not a One Size Fits All Concept	Because there are exceptional attachments of sons to mothers and visa verse, it's safe to suggest that just like there are different kinds of moms, there will be different kinds of sons. Although society does not necessarily appreciate that fact, and illustrate it well, women have long known that one size does not fit all with respect to manliness and that men should feel free to be the ideal persons they want to be, and appreciated for that decision. Finding a mate who is symbiotic enough to cultivate a relationship with such a man would provide the potential to have more long lasting relationships than currently exist in many cases. Since attitudes and phychological differences are likely to be as important as gender differences, compound insensitivity is necessarily a higher risk. With that knowledge, it's possible to return to the era of individual appraisal of individual qualities rather than to attempt to congregate and rate ideal qualities in each human being. It's also more fun!	2004-06-16
US	52205720	RAFCYJWY5B3BV	0151009996	532587120	Why Lincoln Matters: Today More Than Ever	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Democratic Republican or Republican Democrat?	In today's political climate, the rhetoric and the pressure to be either Democrat or Republican often ignores the fact that the issues are so closely interwoven that it's difficult to tell the difference in some cases. In fact, logic requires that when persons like Reagan or Clinton grow up in Democratic households as Reagan did, or Republican households as Clinton did, (I think), and as many others have, it may be impossible to typecast the person as all Democrat or all Republican, based upon the kinds of issues defined by Lincoln and others who founded the parties. Unfortunately, the political labels of today with respect to conservative or liberal don't really convey much anymore, and the lables of Democratic Republican or Republican Democrat may serve to identify the political hybrids of today which are flocking into the elections as candidates, Hillary included who once, was Republican possibly until the McGovern campaign as volunteer. As America grows more mature, Cuomo may have the perspectives to allow America to evaluate its political momentum more effectively through the number of political crises that reveal more than has been currently discussed with regard to political centers. These rifts have yet to be debated successfully, and may cause the bulk of the derision seen on many current political talk shows.	2004-06-16
US	52205720	R3ZOQX6KW3WYU	0195115015	23463471	Becoming Attached: First Relationships and How They Shape Our Capacity to Love	Books	5	1	21	N	N	Transaction, loving, and work relationships - not equal	Attachment theory that fails to distinguish the fact that each relationship carries with it the potential to be good or bad from the perspective of the participants will always fail. Rarely are the number of interactions or expectations of those interactions classified into the full context of human relations that define futures as well as pasts, but recognition of the importance of the quality of attachments is becoming more common. As myths are dispelled, we may yet enter the simplistic world of the child or the animal to whom such theories are very simple, and who operate upon the wealth of information they comprehend that so many adults make difficult.	2004-06-16
US	52205720	R2URAKB0KGDJFD	158062569X	37880475	Controlling People: How to Recognize, Understand, and Deal with People Who Try to Control You	Books	4	13	24	N	N	Cultural Permission of Control	Unfortunately, since the beginning of gender relations, men have been encouraged to control, and society often accepts and rewards their control, having placed women on the back burner for most of their natural born lives. For women to find a man who isn't controlling is much like finding a four leaf clover. Resisting it sometimes works and sometimes doesn't, and sooner or later, most women realize that it's futile to try and change it, and simply find ways to ignore it, much the way men find ways to ignore the nagging of females. If women were to design their ideal man, it's unlikely that he would look like the ones that are most common, and oddly enough, some of the best ones never had dads to teach how to be men, but figured it out on their own, offering the women they attach themselves to a little more freedom than might occur otherwise. While it doesn't cure the problems of society, it often makes life more bearable personally. If men were ever to figure out exactly how easily women can make their lives more content and more productive, they might have an incentive to devote significant time to examining how they might make one a part of their lives. Until then, they usually get closer to their dogs, than to their women. If men know the meaning of intimacy, most don't know how to accomplish it, and few bother to try, leaving most women singularly alone trying to figure out how to make their lives more meaningful without it. Since most don't play sports equivalent with the guys, they will never succeed in that manner and often must be content with the sporadic, and unforseen sprinkles of intimacy they do receive from year to year. Over a lifetime, it has the tendency to build into at least a semblance of real value, and therefore, most think it's worth the ride....if one lives long enough to have the benefit of hindsight. Few women today make it that far, and it's not surprising. After all, who wants to be subservient to a commander all of the time? Even soldiers get R &amp; R on occasion. If men continue to insist upon being commanders, the world should encourage them, and teach them to be better ones.s get R &amp; R on occasion. If men continue to insist upon being commanders, the world should encourage them, and teach them to be better ones.	2004-06-11
US	52205720	R2WIC0YW0N6J7C	1560253606	736349531	Watching Sex: How Men Really Respond to Pornography	Books	5	16	33	N	N	The Need to Rebel	Pornography is little more than the opportunity to get in touch with the need to rebel in society for men who experience the many stresses and angers which build up in a week, a month, a day. The ability to project those feelings into the air by acknowledging them sujects women to the unfortunate position of being the objects onto which those aggressions are played out - either actually or in the mind. It is the flaw of modern society that offers its women as the mental punching bags of men with the need to acknowledge and express their angry lack of control over life, but has served the purpose for many years. Through objective superiority of indulging themselves with that taboo, what is created is the disassociation of the ability to love women or to respect them, a devastating effect in terms of human relations, but one that is all too common, and appears in many different formats. If it was still possible for men to react to each other in safety as they traditionally have, by beating each other up when they were angry, it's possible they would not be steered to force that aggression upon women instead (or children). Unfortunately, society has found the only possible niche that too often works - the private, and ultimately, blameless setting for such aggressive expression - their own houses, and upon their own families. Freedom of expression never had it so bad. To avoid conflict at work, it's shoved into the private forums of millions, and without the advantage of socially acceptable outlets to release that tension, either on farms or in free health clubs. The tension finds its own level upon those for whom resistance is impossible, and in whom the cowardice is safely kept, at home and out of the public eye. The reason women do not leave is that by offering men no other forum in which to display the aggressions they feel, society is comfortable keeping it out of sight, as well as out of mind, and singularly within the potential problem solving design of the females who must care for them - their own bed, so to speak. Efficiency-wise, it has always worked, and for most, the solution is simple, \\"if it ain't broke, why fix it?\\" This, of course, ignores the reality of what most know, and others suspect. Keeping it under the covers works best, and with no easy or cost-less solutions, it's every man or woman for himself. That is the mindset, and has always been. Domestic violence has been a \\"given\\" because of that for far too long, and offering the weak and measly option of pornography to help objectify the process, the cultivation of male superiority is given its greatest outlet, and its most loyal advocate. For women, that is the problem with pornography. It isn't about love, or sex, but about male supremacy - in its most disgusting form - in the nude. It flaunts it, without embarrassment or guilt, and certainly without honor.	2004-06-01
US	52205720	R2G4F2HNK652ZA	0760311498	487033321	Everything I Know about Women I Learned from My Tractor	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The Best Tractor Pull Yet - Advice from Dads	Much like the advice from the &quot;This Old House&quot; series, the joy of finding written (rather than oral) lessons from Dads to the next generation of sons as promised by the author could not be a greater gift for Father's Day than to share the wisdom of the ages through the best and the worst advice children ever received from their dads. How natural a life passage by making it possible for all young lads to elevate themselves to the heights of living and to help them focus upon what is important in life, from one who has been there. Because there are all kinds of dads as much as there are all kinds of children, these reflections on living are welcome to every generation, and far beyond, and perhaps they are necessary in days where work continues to demand so much of our time. Posterity doesn't happen by accident, and kids need to know that too.	2004-05-21
US	52205720	R2NPMVQO7BBEYC	0745180051	61509430	Deadline for Love (Atlantic Large Print Books)	Books	2	0	7	N	N	Shock and Awe	It would be impossible to believe that there is a true &quot;deadline for love;&quot; it would be like saying there is a deadline for religion. But with the focus today on youthful love, people might believe there would be a deadline.	2004-05-21
US	52205720	R1MOCDQ9RJACU7	1401300235	64738031	Defending Baltimore Against Enemy Attack: A Boyhood Year During World War II	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Boy's Time for Reflection	No doubt owing to Charles Osgood's extraordinary facility with language, he has presented the simplicity as well as the complexity of a boyhood life from the perspective of his reflections back in 1942 when all boys had parents, and some had sisters. His use of detail permits the reader to sit by his side in that reflection using the time well spent to impress upon the reader the importance of childhood observations and lessons learned, the roots of appreciation for the small details through which intellectual self discipline is acquired, and how to respect the humanity as well as the humility of man. His poems are a delicious inclusion characteristic of his unique and adept methods of drawing the reader into his world to see what he sees, to contemplate what he finds important. Highly recommended for a glimpse of wartime life when luxury was not a possibility and life continued to be bearable in spite of that as children as well as parents found that making do offered unanticipated rewards, the gift of time to extrapolate the importance of families, of parents, and even of sisters. His accounts of anxious and nervous anticipation in his approach to childhood loves is charming and reminds us of just how dangerous the thought of rejection can be in the mind of a child, despite the fact that for him, it was highly unlikely, given the fact that he crafted his life so carefully to include the prescription for good physical and mental health, as well as an intellectual curiosity that most females find fascinating. A personal account of a childhood well lived pertinent to every parent to appreciate the nuances of boys.	2004-05-19
US	52205720	R2IB66SI6DXMYC	0312212062	717801254	Harry Hopkins: Sudden Hero, Brash Reformer (The Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute Series on Diplomatic and Economic History)	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Horse of a Different Color	The reviews listed on Amazon don't begin to address the fact that for most historians, and those living during the 1930's and 1940's, Harry Hopkins was Roosevelt's right hand man, and after reading the 1987 biography of Hopkins, it's very easy to come to the unestablished but logical analysis that it was all about Harry from 1935 when Roosevelt was elected until 1946 when Truman came into office. The attempt to discredit Hopkins or write him out of history is a big mistake, and the entire history needs to be done again with a view toward his very large role to prove or disprove the 1987 biography which doesn't say so, but doesn't have to say so, that Roosevelt would have been nowhere without the efforts of this close friend, inhabitant of the White House, negotiator, New Dealer, and operations genius behind the Roosevelt throne.	2004-05-19
US	52205720	R36VLHWM8EFEDU	0156027348	376354325	Odd Girl Out: The Hidden Culture of Aggression in Girls	Books	5	3	38	N	N	Girls in Love Don't Do Malicious Things	Girls getting sex aren't doing mean things.<BR>Girls in love don't think of malicious things; instead they are dreaming.........<BR>These simple rules are rarely recognized, and not often followed in the annals of space history, on earth or otherwise, however. From the history of early England we know that women deprived are among the most ruthless of women, and independence only serves to encourage those ruthless tendencies. Women are made to be \\"attached\\" not always and not necessarily at the hip, but still attached. Those that aren't often end up like Carrie in the horror film of that name, much to the delight of those who contrive to place her there. For women, romance and sex generally go hand in hand. If they don't, it is not by choice but always a compromise, and most turn the guilt and anger in on themselves, and those around them, to assuage their passion. The complexity of women is astonishing to most men who, understandably, avoid the attempt to try because they are so different. Many middle aged women turn to political dynamics because they are not receiving the attention of earlier years where romance serves to keep alive the passions of sexuality. Men have long observed that phenomenon in women but they tend to forget. History is dotted with women, not who used their sexual interest to alter the dynamics of history, but who used their sexual deprivation and resulting hostility to alter it. Intelligent men don't play with the emotions of women unless they are certain the nature of their sexuality or social constraints are sufficient not to intervene to complicate their public affairs, and turn what could be good experiences into bad ones, no matter the intent. Sexual deprivation, chosen by women or not, may be one of the most dangerous psychological components of female chemistry since their nature is attuned to it as a natural device for making the connections they form. It is not a byproduct of the process as it may be for men. As an essential, blocking sexual pathways is much like uncaging a wild animal likely to go on rampage with the \\"traditional madness\\" females have long had the reputation of having recognized by this provocation. Their anger is always deep seated and unpredictable since it is the rage within that is being contained without the benefit of an outlet. Many such women turn to artificial means of control in this instance - most of which appear to be addictions characteristic of men who throw themselves into work to ward off the effects of grief. The circumstances of grief in women that accompanies her loss of sexual access depends upon her understanding of the necessity of its consequence, the loss of a spouse, inability to locate a partner, divorce, separation, or her own perception of the need for denial. All of these have consequences for her, and for those around her, possibly varying with age and her ability for self control. A women is often the living history of her sexual equilibrium, and uses the outlets available to express her emotional state. If she is aggressive, the existence of hostility is likely; if not, she may be in pre- or post-aggressive mode, or she may have successfully reconciled the dissonance. Although women may express their hostilities differently than men, and often more subdued than men, they are equally expressive in how those emotions register and play out in their lives which can often be more deceptive in women than in men. Neither can be said to be reliably successful or predictable in their management of these complex effects on their sexual natures. This may be why society is much more comfortable with what appear to be committed, productive, and sexually compatible relationships to reduce the possibility of conflict-ridden incidents that can disrupt society.	2004-05-15
US	52205720	R2Y6DSSXT7GC83	0952912104	943449598	Bully in Sight: How to Predict, Resist, Challenge and Combat Workplace Bullying	Books	5	5	25	N	N	Financial scams minute compared to treatment of seniors	Having already identified the victims from the schoolyard to the nursing home, the financial scams of vulnerable victims are nothing compared to the potential of emotional and physical abuse that is possible and predictable in America's forseeable future. Much like the abuse in Iraq that has come to light, many refuse to acknowledge the harm that abuse may cause and the extent of its lasting effects. Destined to be one of the most prominent features of America's human relations wars, at home and abroad, the aging of America and the opportunity to perform the ostracism and exclusionary bias embedded in its long cultural history is undeniable if not checked before it begins, or if begun, before it takes on the enormous human toll that can, and may be, the avalanche of despair that may take hold due to the distortion of demographics that has influenced it since WWII. A wise world will take heed and plan for these problems as preventative measures much like preparing for the coming storm that may well be blind and deaf to protest when it hits.	2004-05-08
US	52205720	R3I95BZRWQR30N	0465051391	947830757	The Positive Power Of Negative Thinking	Books	4	12	48	N	N	Typically Female Style	Most Females (or other minority groups) appear to practice the management philosophy of Dr. Norem's positive negativism, perhaps because typically being followers rather than recognized leaders, they've often had to entertain the high probability of failure, due to bias, discrimination or simply histories of it. The idea that optimists occur across the gender gap, the racial gap, or the disability or ethnic minority gap is preposterous. Anyone who struggles with the presumptions of success as heavily concentrated in the domain of the majority is not logical to emotionally invest in that traditional attitude because of the failures they are used to having to absorb. Optimism, itself, is very much rooted in the success history of the past, and to those who are class, gender and identity favored. All of the rest practice to varying degrees the process of positive negativism by conditioning if not by training and experience. Why should it be otherwise?	2004-05-07
US	52205720	R1CTCS038DST8H	0684863758	117849027	Quality of Earnings	Books	5	3	39	N	N	Middle Markets	Long overdue is a middle market with different rules than those by which the traditional markets must be rated in terms of earnings, and standards, to prevent the wholesale financial shennanigans that took place during the late 90's as VC's funded IPO's and oversold them to the institutional markets. There has always been a very healthy start up market in the U.S. that has yet to be tapped for its vitality, and its uncertainty, that can be just as legitimately traded as NASDAQ and the tradtional market. Defining a method of doing that, and setting it up will provide the U.S. with the vehicle to prevent putting excess pressure on accountants and marketers to whittle away expenses and beef up assets to present healthier stocks than they are to take advantage of the speculatators that most young companies draw. In fact, there should be an entrepreneurial wild mustang market similar to the gold rush vitality that Americans come by so naturally, but apart from the traditional markets that require greater control and stability. Organizing such a market would greatly benefit both the industry, the opportunities for investment, and the many personnel who make their living serving the investment industry and its affiliates. Making such an early trader market by taking advantage of the VC interest in early entrance but allow them to cut out early would help to grow the markets exponentially.	2004-05-07
US	52205720	R1AURJ0XU5PV8K	0767911903	782232465	The Resilience Factor: Seven Essential Skills For Overcoming Life's Inevitable Obstacles	Books	5	16	40	N	N	Don't Take It Personal	Equivalent to the typical excuse in business of telling someone not to take it personal, the appreciation of understanding that success and failure is not linked to personal self esteem is critical to resilience. Failures occur for many reasons, most of which have nothing to do with the value of a human being, or his or her ability to manipulate the dynamics around them. While success may come from those actions, it may also come in spite of them. Given that fact, the tendency to attach the value of self esteem to the acceptance of others to &quot;see it your way&quot; is illogical and irrelevant within the scope of the human condition. Even if mankind could control every aspect of his or her life, success (by the typical standards) could still be elusive. Relieving oneself of the requirement to be successful by the standards of everyone else then becomes an emotional burden lifted, freeing the spirit to derive whatever value comes from the experience rather than as a measure of the imagined goal. Since most goals and desires do not match to begin with, and always comprise a journey of effort, the surprises that develop add to rather than take away from the journey, even if they happen to be negative. Since the value of involvement is engagement and not success, the idea of self esteem as it relates to the journey is irrelevant, and therefore, failure is seen in its proper context, as independent of uncontrollable events.	2004-05-07
US	52205720	R2MXAB9IHQF71O	0689716087	553813032	Billy And Blaze	Books	5	2	21	N	N	Hoofs and Wheels	While women generally ride for pleasure to feel the wind and the movement of the horse beneath, a boys ride is different in that it is the power and speed of the ride that are most dear to him in these chariots of fire, the roar of the engine, the hoofs and the noise of the wheels that inspire their thrill. Boys tend to drive either their horses or their cars to see the height of their power, and whether the beauty of black or the silver shine of white, the joy of the command lies in the skill of the rider and the knowledge of his horse, or his engine, a sight that most can appreciate, understand, and admire.	2004-04-27
US	52205720	R3DHCCPP1OAF2M	0451526481	705264145	Beauty and the Beast: And Other Classic French Fairy Tales	Books	5	0	6	N	N	From Marketing to Marked: How to Win Maidens Fair	If I was a betting person, I would bet that this oft told story was the result of a middle aged or older man who was seeking a method of introducing the concept that the troll like features of old age need not discount the nature of the love and affection required to be felt by such persons who prefer the company of fair maidens who might be seduced into giving them that pleasure. Having the ear marks of the fantasy like prominence of isolation and illusion that accompanies old age, and the unlikelihood that such a worn out vision of masculinity might have appeal for the flower of youth, the mind of man can be very cunning, and is often very seductive while preying upon the naive, softhearts of the dew that lies in the hearts of young maidens, fair or not. Drawn in to the care taker role of a kindly, parent-like figure, however disfigured by the ideal model of the Prince that young maidens are taught to favor, the marketing has worked for some years as we can see by the recent wedding of Jack Welch from the much touted, and idealized wedding of his new fair princess, and can be seen in many other instances of fantasized idealism that grace the covers of many celebrity photo magazines meant to send the message of similar outcomes. There has been no sequel, however, from the perspective of the troll or the maiden as society is left to ponder such an unlikely but perhaps sacred alliance. Whether the distinction is holy or not has much to do with the many years of a course of events that most will never know, and few will seek to discover. While the power of logic has never been a part of the romance ideology of love, perhaps our illusions of it are shortsighted and misaligned within the context of the flesh and blood that such a union represents. Where most men might tend to view any male as beast, few women take that position, and measure the man by a broader yardstick in relation to herself, and her experience with the world. From the perspective of the maiden, whichis rare, unique insights about her condition are possible to be deduced from her submission in that circumstance and may reflect her reduced array of option, rather than her choice. Few would consider this tale much else but the submission of a highly desirable beauty to the beast she fawns. But is there justice amidst the fantasy? This may well be a modern day tale for women's choice.	2004-04-26
US	52205720	R3DI4QX2E985EW	0684811766	873316429	Making The Most of Your Money	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Almost as Imporant	As a companion book to &quot;How to Make the Most of Yourself,&quot; this anthology can begin to reveal the other decisions of life that are important for everyone, and place in perspective the priorities we have, and those we make, and how. Usually leads to a comfortable life, if not always a happy one. Highly recommended for those who consider the deprivations of life as related to their finances and the power they possess rather than the satisfactions of life from other more elusive sources that cannot be spent but may be longer lasting and self fulfilling. Usually a help in making money!	2004-04-26
US	52205720	R1V5KW59SM9TV1	0307909514	934245061	What if?	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Hope Personified	The adventurist's guide to life, and surely, the guidepost to pleasure, more inventions are due to this kind of innovation than any other known to man. Taking what is that is and turning it into what if and what could be is the original recipe for capitalism, for democracy, and for most of the most important discoveries of man. It is the ultimate optimis's path to recovery, restoration, and environmentally friendly harmony, tried by many, but successful for few. An addictive method as an approach to life, but none the less, appealing and attractive in its promise, and inspiring in its message. And why not? It takes the best qualities of man (or woman) and puts it to the test to discover the secrets and realities of how re-combinant DNA really works when it is separately, individually and collectively combined to produce an unknown outcome, a thrill of heaven on earth for most, an entrepreneur's dream, physical, social, emotional or intellectual. The exitement, the fun stuff of life that some dare to invent using the stuff of life, and the resources at hand. It has always been the way of innovators, artists, and dreamers - to our credit, as well as to our honor, attributing value where there once was none!	2004-04-25
US	52205720	RQLS9OIEXUQKD	0375509127	122882533	Adventure Capitalist: The Ultimate Road Trip	Books	5	0	10	N	N	Experience Prevails?	With this kind of record of seeing sights/sounds of the world, who's credible enough to argue?	2004-04-25
US	52205720	R2FV80DD6ES8QY	0195119223	864132080	Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in Adults	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Undiagnosed and Unnoticed Complications	For women who are less likely to be diagnosed, perhaps because they internalize symptoms and attempt to overcompensate for the difficulties, they are likely to be looked upon by spouses as more childlike, and be subject to the perception that they need greater parental care than others. It's possible that males with the problem are accepted in society as alpha male characters rather than having problems, and because of the high energy levels associated with the difficulties, may be idolized by society. These and other issues may be topics of future analysis that have long been a part of American culture that emphasizes individuality and freedom that may mask symptoms or misdiagnose them than what they actually are. In spousal relationships, it's possible that many dominance factors work in favor of men in such an environment, and may be detrimental to self development of women. Looking at these issues might be a social concern that needs to be addressed that have only recently become noticeable as women take to the workplace and &quot;in view&quot; in significant numbers.	2004-04-23
US	52205720	R2G14TMYBZ0DM6	0122870492	823269706	Clinician's Guide to Adult ADHD: Assessment and Intervention (Practical Resources for the Mental Health Professional)	Books	5	6	58	N	N	Bill Clinton's classic ADHD symptoms, Hillary's compensating	Having noticed and become more familiar with symptoms and failures of ADHD, it is helpful for how often these factors show up in society. For example, the &quot;enigma&quot; of Bill Clinton may be confusing to many, but may be a result of the class symptoms of many of the characteristics of ADHD undiagnosed persons whose spouses often compensate for them in many situations and circumstances. This can be seen in many cases where she &quot;spoke for him,&quot; in interviews, for example, to explain what he meant, or to clarify his views, specifically in the 1995 interview about Flowers when he said &quot;he had caused pain in his marriage.&quot; Reviewing the many complaints or observations of his staff about his personality suggests that he was indeed not only brilliant, but also suffered the effects of ADHD that had never been diagnosed, and should be looked at with what we are beginning to learn about adults with undiagnosed ADHD. All signs point to this problem and may explain much of his approach and his behavior, especially the desire to do everything at once, and to jump around from thing to thing. The extent of the effects of childhood trauma and the possibility of undiagnosed ADHD together make for a very interesting analysis of this complicated person, and how his family and friends deal with, or cover for him, in many situations. Hillary has classic characteristics of many of the compensating ADHD behaviors that unwittingly spouses fall into using to cope with their ADHD mates over time.	2004-04-23
US	52205720	R3M83D7AO4ZSP5	046501979X	863617793	Enigma Of Felix Frankfurter	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Republican Political Party History from the Inside	The evaluation of Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter, even now, offers the opportunity to assess the interworkings of the Supreme Court, and the evolution of opinions that have formed much of its history. As best friends of both Louis Brandeis and Holmes, this biography is enormously important to the nation in view of its personality assessment, and the events of the 24 years upon the bench that so affected the nation. It has a good description of how Justice Frankfurter tried to get the Republican Party to be more liberal in its thinking to cure the problems of discrimination, and human rights that he was such an advocate of, as well as an ardent defender of not wearing away the Consitutional Rights by which the nation offered equal justice to all. It's a well written, and thoughtful biography about a very important man in our history, and each justice in turn, deserves the same conscientious treatment. Appointed by FDR, he was imminently and ardently a defender of separation of governmental branches, and totally against judicial activism and for judicial self-restraint for that reason. Well worth the read, and shows how one Jewish immigrant who arrived at 12 years old managed to become a Supreme Court Justice as well as Professor of Law at Harvard University influencing judicial opinion and practice for many more years than those he sat on the bench. A mentor to thousands of law students, and meticulous in thought, it should be read by every law student, and most of the public to understand the Supreme Court and its power to influence the public.	2004-04-20
US	52205720	R3G19NFMKZOXSZ	0262580411	762286399	Morris R. Cohen and the Scientific Ideal	Books	5	0	2	N	N	about religious observance and neglect	The book is supposed to contain an &quot;excellent discussion of the phenomenon&quot; of young Jewish males moving from religious observance to agnosticism during 1975 and reflected an attitude that was common among young people then. Because information on ethnic orientation describing unique characteristics, particularly with respect to relgiion, are so few, one that proposes to analyze it is very useful, and generously provided by the author, an importance that should not be overlooked for its significance to the religious life of the nation.	2004-04-20
US	52205720	R2T6FF5WB5RVJQ	1578566851	822971789	Every Woman's Battle: Discovering God's Plan for Sexual and Emotional Fulfillment	Books	4	4	43	N	N	God's Plan Usually Finds Her, as well as HIm	Amidst the loyal and abiding marriage with children, there is no need of abstinence, and in fact, loving relationships are healthy displays of pleasurable parenting which cannot be duplicated elsewhere. These relationships are rarely made &quot;by accident,&quot; or forced to happen, but come from intensive self knowledge, and being open to the guidance of the plans God has in store for us. Because the best laid plans of mankind often go awry, the best laid plans of God are always safer boundaries in which to travel. The distinction is one that is not only important but critical to the human spirit to experience the joy that humans can have for one another, and without it, poor substitutes often leave scars, as do the trials and tribulations of opening the heart to the opportunities God makes available. Being good to your heart is the best advice man can possibly give to another since we only have one, and it's required to last a lifetime. God's tightrope rarely comes with signposts that people know how to read.	2004-04-15
US	52205720	R3IQUF7BD0JZ75	1570875642	593518874	Boys Without Dads: When Dads Abandon Homes	Books	5	1	6	N	N	The No Role Model Dilemma	Before the Americans settled here, there is quite an extensive history of English bastardy from the practices of warlords building their armies by producing bastard children, loyal only to them, but not a part of their family as we know it today. Although leaving a family does not subject children to this same outcome, the dynamics of \\"children alone\\" may be much the same when they are left. The same might be considered true of children of divorce, or in cases where Dads are gone constantly, and especially in cases where unwed mothers have children so that a child does not, and cannot, know who his or her father is. Such children have no role model at all and are forced to take by observation and interaction what they can learn in order to fill that intellectual and psychological void. The emotional void is likely never filled for there is simply no way of doing so. When they become men, such loners are especially dependent upon the emotional attachments they make with their mothers, usually, if that is possible, and certainly with the spouses who become their wives, requiring often an unreasonable level of trust and loyalty because of the substitution requirement of having had no Dad, and even sometimes, no Mother who was reliable or caring. These neglected and forgotten children are not well represented in our culture since there are so few of them, and people often do not think about the fact of their existence, how they exist, and/or what encouragement and motivations they require to thrive. Very, very few books, if any, are written on how to deal with bastard children, particularly bastard males who have the most extraordinary uphill battle of children without fathers (or parents) since they must invent themselves as they go along. There are huge gaps between what we surmise is the nature of family, and what are the actual practicalities of what exist in the human marketplace, over the wide world. One might suggest they exhibit characteristics of refugee children, and that might begin to characterize the nature of the dilemma of having no role models by which society expects children to learn about life, love, community, and the world, as well as how to work. Some do extremely well by virtue of the fact that they haven't preconceived notions, provided they have someone who cares about them, but there is absolutely no certainty that they will have this kind of relationship. It is something society should give considerable thought to, regardless of gender, and regardless of our minimal efforts to typecast society as we tend to do. What attitudes does a fatherless child bring to the task of parenting, being a spouse, or even being an employee with no role model?	2004-04-15
US	52205720	RNK6EJB9LZEPO	0415044243	173881076	Eugenics, Human Genetics and Human Failings: The Eugenics Society, its sources and its critics in Britain	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Flawed World of Genetic Security	Genetic determinism for enhancement as well as genetic determinism to remove weakness and predispositions of potential illness suffers from the idealism and greed that accompanies all recipe designers, the desire for perfection, that can never be good enough. Allowing this addictive concept to take hold can so alter the mechanics of nature that life may not be held with the sacredness that we now attach to it. The cloning that is continuously and constantly searching for the ideal is much like choosing contestants for a Miss America or a Miss Universe pageant, but applied to the choice of babies and their characteristics. Which combination could possibly be good enough? And with only 30,000 genes to choose from, wouldn't the likelihood produce idealized genetic copies or twins in short order if people were given the option to choose? The world would find it very difficult to refrain from making the &quot;ultimate choice&quot; if given the opportunity, and at the point where we literally compose children rather than relying upon the chance genetics that humans are currently stuck with, we may have moved beyond the world of the living into the world of fantasy where all participants become the stars of their own manufactured screen play, literally. Genetic security is approaching a time when this will be possible, and is likely to occur, allowing life to lose much of the mystery and uncertainty which makes it fascinating, and perhaps reducing it to a level of boredom with life that few will enjoy. Not only is it a moral issue; it may become a practical issue. Fixing the problems of disease in-utero is far different from designing in-utero but involves the same process, and is, therefore, highly probable to occur without stringent controls to prevent it, world wide.	2004-04-14
US	52205720	R1T688MA5DKKIJ	1573248193	282829251	Heart Sense: Unlocking Your Highest Purpose and Deepest Desires	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Isn't the Heart always a lonely hunter?	Ethan Frome's novel addressed just this concept in his novel, &quot;The Heart is a Lonely Hunter,&quot; but addressed it from an entirely different perspective, as a story, instead of an analysis, so it is finally a wise perspective to address the actual mechanics of this all too human a journey. While some tend to find their deepest desires made satisfied by religion, the stages of our knowledge tend to define those desires by those experiences we may have missed at some point in life that we felt we would like to have had, or the person with whom we might have been able to develop that so close relationship that we define as one that honors the love we have the capacity to give, or the mountains of achievement yet unconquered. A most common reality is that the longer we live, the more we desire to correct the flaws by which mankind lives, and we perceive the fulfillment of those important failures to be a central focus unless we reach that fork where we must decide to &quot;let it be&quot; and dismiss the misery, and suffering that we see around us. As RFK once said, some ask why, he asked why not. At that fork, the why not &quot;cure or try to cure&quot; those things which need our ideas of morality and ethics and justice to do so. In the unfolding of our greater capacity in later years, this sense of urgency may take a greater part of our concentration, yet still not fulfill those personal needs that we are missing. So, personal reflection well spent can offer the opportunity not to deny ourselves what we wish for others, and recognize that sacrifice is not always the best way to heal oneself, must as the physician said to the other, &quot;physician, heal thyself.&quot; If mankind was able to do that, in theory, those deepest desires might become not wishful thinking, or unrealistic dreams, but the realities they were intended to be.	2004-04-13
US	52205720	R4ODGA1KIZ4TY	0679758348	2914631	The Lost Children of Wilder: The Epic Struggle to Change Foster Care	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Wisdom to End Foster Care and Orphanages	Once read, it might behoove caring persons to consider whether foster care and orphanages are proper environments for children whose parents are living, and whether even extended relatives are preferable to \\"kennel care\\" offered to humans, must less \\"sentenced\\" to them. In a modern age, if society cannot cope with the problems and the harms that occur with unwanted children, it's possible that we have been traveling down the wrong social path for some time. Examining the extent to which these environments are necessary, and damaging to children, it might be possible that alternative perspectives might provide solutions that are more family friendly, and salvage responsible, rather than to subject children to these emotionally detached and wrenching environments. It's possible we have been delusional for far too long in recognition of the fact that children are not as resilient as we tend to think they are, and that they were provided with two parents for that reason, because they need the protection, love and nurturing of parents, not just adult strangers. If we consider that it is unhealthy for mental health patients to be warehoused (if we can avoid it), why do we do it with children?	2004-04-13
US	52205720	R3HFSXCBRC31JM	0060559284	763216843	Off with Their Heads: Traitors, Crooks & Obstructionists in American Politics, Media & Business	Books	5	4	19	N	N	Got Milk?	Is the milk of sacred cows better than that of ordinary cows?<br />Perhaps a few taste tests might reveal that answer to show how much cream exists in those blessed beasts. Besides, when was the last time anyone, or anything, was too sacred in America to be challenged?	2004-04-12
US	52205720	R2AU429NQE0DZK	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	5	3	16	N	N	Women Can be Tempted Also	The usual excuse that men don't get enough sex at home is usually not true! They usually get plenty, and as much as they want. They simply prefer variety as the healthy males they are. However, women are subject to the same \\"temptations\\" and generally control themselves, partly because society has chosen to condemn them if they are prone to wander. So women either get passionate hostility from their husbands, or from society, or both, unlike men. Why either society or their husbands imagine they would or could not be interested in another man, or in being adulterous, is a mystery no one seems free to discuss, much less accept. In fact, there are many women who do not get enough sex, or the type of sex they might like to have. Yet, their requirement is absolute abstention while men are accorded the privilege of \\"falling.\\" Temptations are rarely a problem if marriages are solid and both cultivate that stability. When they don't, either may stray, and perhaps, should stray since straying is a signal only of illness in the marriage because of lack of self discipline, and self control. People either exercise it or they do not. Suggesting that men are unable to control their sexual appetites, or their desire for variety (assuming they will not get in trouble for it) shortchanges men of high morals, and honest commitment - either present or not. Plenty of men \\"made do\\" with one woman, and are proud and appreciative of having her, and the same goes for women. Simply because one person finds another attractive does not mean they must, or they should, or they will allow themselves to give into the temptations of others. By and large, only juvenile personalities are inclined to exonerate themselves, or expect that they will be forgiven.  Much of the value of a marriage is bound into the level of commitment stuck to, not offered as rhetoric, and most women are aware of that fact. The commitment always begins at home, and stays there unless there are other personality problems through which people rationalize that it's too inconvenient not to. Hence, it is not the adultery that is the problem; it is the marriage for either straying partner.	2004-04-11
US	52205720	R1XYJKLZNJES89	0679409696	58238987	Saving Face: America and the Politics of Shame	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Collective Responsibility of Shame	Every culture should have to face its own shame. Unfortunately, shame is a variable concept according to the times, and the ability of the culture to properly identify what is shameful, who can be shameful, and the events that constitute a shameful event. Prior to the 1960's and 1970's nearly everything was &quot;shameful,&quot; in that women without gloves, and men without hats were considered shameful. Characterized much as the course of civil rights and the recognition of individual rights for humans, shame has always been a public evaluation, and measured by group politics so that propriety became the urge to resist, if not to rebel against. In a shameful culture, inhumane things were possible - lynchings, torture, animal sacrifices, etc. - even while upon the surface, propriety was worn like a badge of honor. The hypocrisy revealed in years hence, is that shame did not exist where it was private or unrevealed, adding to a culture where transparency became the idol rather than to embrace the boundaries of what constituted shame. Fortunately, America has moved beyond the narrowminded principles that so bound one to another that behavior and conduct, as well as dress, has been allowed a degree of freedom that embraces the ideas of difference so people need not examine each and every action, including speech, that brands them improper. While there are a few, generally job related, environments where rigid and shame-oriented cultures prevail, the concept of freedom has taken on greater significance recently as a privilege, if not a right, provided no laws are broken. This healthier environment that honors the individual works for all persons previously discriminated against, and offers breathing room for those who were not quite attuned to the proprieties of life who were interested in watching their every movement to be evaluated by the group or community.  Neither healthy relationships nor flexibility in thinking were aided by former designs of acceptance, and many were condemned by society for that reason, many of whom were simply responding to their own unique social environment, or ethnic environment. While guilt still survives as an effort to restrain, it is fortunately much less likely to be the &quot;blackball&quot; it was years earlier, allowing everyone to breathe much easier. Coming through that period of gender bias, racial bias, ethnic bias, and even religious bias is not totally behind us, but great progress has been made to minimize the importance of those effects. We now are making inroads and efforts at behavior or conduct bias by everyone to overcome the tendency to typecast persons by superfluous events that are not considered within the mainstream but still cognizant of safety, and dignity in the things we do as humans, to each other, and the things we do to animals, or the environment, offering the new design of social freedom with responsibility but without social restraint, definite progress in the eyes of most people.	2004-04-09
US	52205720	R3ONCRPPNOM1P9	0812969731	695943051	Memoirs (Rockefeller, David)	Books	5	4	13	N	N	The Enormous Responsibility of Power	My mind keeps returning to the Memoir by David Rockefeller the same way it does to politics, in appreciating the enormous power wielding by him, by that family, and by the numbers of persons like them do have more than an ordinary interest in the wealth, prosperity and success of America. For his own part, the Memoir is an opportunity to understand how it came to be so, and the highs and lows that come with making such extraordinary wealth. It is also an opportunity to discover the man or men behind the myths, and to learn that they are, at best, much like ordinary persons, despite their wealth, with a well developed and keen sense of how that wealth may be used to better mankind, or to ultimately destroy it. For David, I was particularly interested in his relationship with Peggy, and would love to learn more about that since it appears as though they had an especially loving and compatible relationship through which they both appeared to have been inspired, and enjoyed sharing the joys of life that people can when they do have such relationships. The sadness of a soldier of life having to tread on without his mate is often one that is far undervalued, and at least for women, produce the desire to know about the woman she was far better than could be explained in a memoir about her husband. Because the entire family has heightened influence over many financial networks that influence political networks, as well as in a more than average investment in education, scholarly works, and philanthrophy, the values of such a family are important to a nation, and that can often be best described and explained by the female head, perhaps, in this case, Peggy, even if it must be done by her children because it is usually the softness and tenderhearted female spirit in a family that provides much of the emphasis upon charitable work. There are few women of means in a position who can be a role model for other women of wealth, and it becomes the important work of illustrating how grandeur of personality provides the momentum and enthusiasm for many great works. Considerable effort was made in the Memoir to properly attribute much of that spirit to his mother, but my guess is that it was nurtured, fostered and flourished because of his wife. Therefore, it would be great to follow up with a book especially about her, .....for the women....so they are not forgotten, (as the reminder from Abigail Adams was to her husband in her highly publicized letter to him). I can't imagine a more pertinent topic than the opportunity to discover how two very important persons handled their lives together, and were able to accomplish not only children, but also the building of the empire they managed where coordination of efforts and spirits must have been required to make it all work. It is a topic right for the 21st Century, and it would be a great accompaniment to recognize the importance of them both, and their joint approach and diligent attitudes to help guide others. Because great beginnings always deserve wonderful endings.	2004-04-08
US	52205720	R1MVCBKCAOEEX7	1579215300	506220936	The Godhead Oneness or Trinity	Books	4	1	4	N	N	The Three In One Deity Concept of the Godhead	Without the trinity of the Godhead, it's possible that one of both of the supporting structures that mankind needs (not that God needs) to explore the power of the Gospel. Since Jesus said he was going to His Father to sit at the right hand, we can assume He had no intention of being the God substitute except to the extent that &quot;identification of Him&quot; is related to God, the Father. Without the Holy Spirit (the left hand of God or not) makes possible the spiritual commonality available to mankind in sharing the brotherhood of man, and the love that God intended for mankind to share, so that all may be lifted by that spirit and recognize himself in each human being, neither above nor below any other man (woman or child). Within the concept of the Godhead as deity, not accepting the purpose of their importance can cause mankind to miss the point altogether. Where the Holy Spirit rises or not from within man, and can be related to the physical form that Jesus took on earth, the two form the supporting archs required to reach the idea that man is formed in the image of God but that the inheritance of that endowment is through the teachings of Jesus with the aid of the Holy Spirit in order to fulfill the promise that God designed for man, and for mankind. No man could possible reason that a place exists for him without conforming to the design that God made as a place for him, conditional as it is upon the acceptance of that place, and the fulfillment of the doctrine made available to man through the combination of Jesus and the Holy Spirit as within man's capacity to know God, and to prove it by the manner in which he treats other men, who also are entitled to share that space God made for all. It is not possible for there to be a preference by God in accepting any of His creatures because they were not made to be preferential except as to animals for whom they share the responsibility to care for in addition to the preservation of the planet upon which, and ofwhich, each is made. To be one with God, man must accept the magnificence of what God hath made, for without that acceptance, man has lifted himself above God and the concept of the Godhead so that it reveals that God and godly things (the earth and the heavens) are irrelevant to man.	2004-04-06
US	52205720	REHV6TBDRU8T1	0060677015	51378391	The Rise of Christianity: How the Obscure, Marginal Jesus Movement Became the Dominant Religious Force in the Western World in a Few Centuries	Books	4	2	22	N	N	The Commonest of Sense - Jesus as Messiah	The blasphemy (or what is taken as it) is the logical consequence of considering the Gospels as little more than a political movement about religion that worked, over time. The fact that few had options sufficient to argue in light of miracles performed by Jesus as they were reported in the Bible suggests that His religion was the ideal and one and only true religion. However, without the effect of His apostles after his death to cultivate the religion, it might have died with Jesus, according to common sense. The fact that they were chosen as followers and did fulfill their mission in earnest may be the reason we have Christianity today, and certainly in the form it is. If the apostles were filled with the Holy Spirit at the time, the assumption is that they would be capable of performing their own miracles rather than simply having to remind people of those by Jesus. The Christian doctrine is not minimized by recognizing the growth and development as a central focus of humanitarianism and brotherly love, but is strengthed by the fact that in order to achieve fruition, it must be practiced daily by each Christian, rather than preferring to &quot;hear the good news,&quot; from the sidelines, for how can one be an &quot;observer&quot; thousands of years hence, without resolving to become a part of the ongoing solution, rather than a part of the problem, the reason religion exists and was created to begin with? As a political movement to provide hope and faith in mankind, Christianity is the greatest social movement, political or religious, that mankind has ever experienced due to its enormous popularity and impact, still with us in 2004, and broken into so many different styles for freedom of religious expression, if not doctrines incorporated along the way.	2004-04-06
US	52205720	R2DKAHNY6I0VZA	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Helping to Organize the Planets	Because the earth is not the only planet, and much of what occurs on earth affects our survival within the planetary system of the universe we call home, it is helpful to know something about how the universe is made so that we can fulfill the obligation we have to preserve it, rather than destroy it. In a universal sense, out of sight is usually out of mind, and is often absolute with something as large as the universe, difficult for mankind to comprehend, and even more difficult to remember to include in his individual choice making. Remote objects or people make the probability of wrong decisions greater than if there is familiarity we can sense, and remember. Familiarity, therefore, breeds not contempt but mutual responsibility for things seen and unseen. Because we do not prefer to live in isolation, and it becomes increasingly difficult for us to do that (even if we preferred to), a greater vision of the universe contributes to the body of knowledge that allows humans to live peaceably with the planet and in harmony with the universe. To make the universe a logical place is much of what the responsibility of teaching generations is all about and helps to increase both the prosperity of all people, the fairness with which we deal with each other, and increases the happiness of all creatures dependent upon each other for survival while insuring a sustainable environment where life flourishes rather than awaiting their destruction. There is no conscientious objectivity in a universe of which each person is a part from birth to death. It is an impossibility logically. Doing well what we must do to survive well is as natural as breathing and the most honorable of altruistic values to embrace. Because we each choose to either help or hurt the universe, doing so consciously is, or should be, a joy of life rather than a burden upon which the survival of the universe depends.	2004-03-29
US	52205720	RT43K0VFMIIJD	0786711280	474513613	The Woman Who Wouldn't Talk: Why I Refused to Testify Against the Clintons and What I Learned in Jail	Books	3	11	26	N	N	A Woman Who Knows the Score	The most ridiculous complaint ever are those made by both men and women who fail to recognize the importance of gender discrimination in a world long acquainted with it, but who would self righteously ignore it, when it comes to the defense of other women and their vulnerable position in life. The fact that marriage exists in the first place is evidence of the fact that men seek control over all women in their lives, not just those who might threaten their authority and privacy. There has never been a time that women have had full control of their own lives so that they could either defend themselves, or that provides the opportunities that come standard on men. Women are always in defensive positions and that leads to bizarre results when women are placed in these awkward situations, neither able to defend principles of justice, nor to defend themselves in a world of overwhelming odds. That reality makes for the strangest of bedfellows, politically, or economically, and results in many women defending dumb and even cruel men for what the world would like to pronounce as no reason, but which, in fact, most know in their hearts. There has never been a time when women were as safe as men, regardless of their status, or position, public or private. For many women, it means a life of endurance as &quot;sufferers,&quot; (a term long forgotten, but well applied to women with regard to public status), and often equally applicable in their private lives, for far too many. If the feminist movement or the women's suffrage movement means anything, its underlying basis reflects this desire of women to have the freedom to shed that yoke of compliance in order to be able to address the world as they see the men in their lives do, and with the gusto that is characteristic of those seductive commercials that claim that territory. That has never, and, in the foreseeable future, will never be the case for women, the crippled and handicapped creatures that God provided who so unwillingly fulfill that role to maintain male authority, and prominence. Since prominence and authority often project the territorial domain of males, it is not surprising that the author would willingly put herself in greater danger, intuitively, than she already feels in these high class power circles. Instead, she should be credited with knowing the substance of her situation, and having the courage to endure it, as most women have since time began. After all, boys will be boys, right? and we allow them that wide berth, at the expense of most women.	2004-03-20
US	52205720	R201HH6LKRMG23	0671733419	258508806	Women Who Love Too Much	Books	3	10	38	N	N	No Such Thing	Is a child ever loved too much? The answer to this seems obvious yet the tendency to question it in adults seems peracious if not faulty. The real answer is that there are too many man who don't love enough. Only within this logic can it be said that there are women who love too much. The disparity is caused by other men who deem loving as somehow indignity to male-ness, or women who accept the limits of male love as a necessary evil because of the work environment they, themselves, accept because of the privileges thought to be attached to the jobs upon which they rely - as money, freedom, or as perks and benefits. Males have never had the emotional freedom to be themselves, or to express the love they feel inside - for women or children - without their jobs and the perception of other men to interfere, and steer them toward such things as lack of commitment, selfishness, or dignity and self esteem found only within the job or work environment, a gross insult to most men. Men have every bit the capacity for love, and the sensitivity to enjoy it if they are divorced from the male image they are seduced into believing 95% of the time. We know this because of what happens to males on vacation, or at times when they do let their guard down to enjoy their lives rather than run the monotonous treadmill of the work lives most cling to for survival. Give a man the freedom to enjoy himself, and undoubtedly, he will show women a life of job and harmony. Include a job, and the atmosphere erodes to the pressures of strain that are typical of most. The most interesting and vivacious of women will defy all odds and refuse to be made into the zombies that permit their men to assume the fetal position that work requires, and encourage them to joyously celebrate their lives and their humanity, able to love with abandon but without promiscuity. The fact that men have never been given a chance to experience their lives in that total comfort and harmony is a fault of women, as well asmen, in the demands made upon daily lives. To share in the joy of cultivating an environment of male abandon is a privilege most women never forget, and that too few enjoy. Giving in to the establishment is so much easier, and perhaps more logical with respect to maintaining the morality quotient by which women are conditioned to absorb and don as their coats of armor to bring stability to the world, presumably because men are incapable of doing it, or simply because it is more convenient and comfortable for them to escape those responsibilies, added to their others. Only in the males who are apt to refuse the straight jackets of life that cultivate the abandonment of the joy that could be experienced without it, will women find those that truly do credit to their sex, and to the freedoms they inherit in being males. Certainly, it is likely why women gravitate toward those males who appear to have the characteristics of being fully human, being able to fully love, and in having the courage to truly love the women they enjoy without succumbing to the typical male stereotypes that are fed to the public to contain and corrale weaker men to abandon their happiness. It is impossible for either women or men to love too much. It is only fallacy to recognize that there should be limits to defining relationships that are rooted in joy and self respect, for men or for women, and certainly, for children and parents.	2004-03-20
US	52205720	R10G5OUNBOCNJJ	0425111709	926616230	Men Who Can't Love	Books	5	17	45	N	N	Fear Makes the World Go Around?	There is no such thing as men who cannot love. There are men who have not been able to find the person who reduces the fear that might have been built into them as a result of poor past relationships with parents or with other women so that they are afraid to love. Most desperately want to love, but continue to look over their shoulders, waiting for the other shoe to drop, etc., all in efforts to avoid the disasters of the past. There are also men who have never felt love, and therefore, cannot recognize it, or trust it enough to love. Those are conditioned to loving themselves so much that they cannot bear to entrust themselves to another and place themselves in a position where they must give as well as receive. The quotient or measure of having given or received is the measure by which most men should be measured as being capable of love since love is little more than the reciprocal process of giving and receiving that adds up to love. Failure of commitment is simply the fact that men are not confident in the person who expects that commitment recognizing that once given, it is likely to indicate a desire for permanence. Most males resist permanence since they are concerned with their entire lives, and not just with the moment as many women are given to imagine. Comfortable moments do not constitute entire lives, or partners with whom men might wish to share those lives. Women are generally more conscientious in determining whether a man might be that person, far earlier than many men. Hence, the stifling atmosphere created for men is real, intrusive, and often interferes with their ability to grow to that comfort zone where true commitment can be found. Most men are forced to be deadly serious about their lives, their commitments, and their choices since the world does not easily forgive mistakes; hence, men are super-conscientious most of the time, even with women with whom they feel comfortable, and especially with those they feel might be the partner with whom they can seek the happiness of a lifetime. The fact that men are so afraid of commitment is actually a good thing since without their total commitment, they are unlikely to resign themselves to a lifetime of commitment. Jumping in with one foot is not their ideal style usually, and should not be sufficient upon which women base their own commitment. Because men continue to bear responsibility for what they create, including families, it is unfair to expect that without full commitment that they can fulfill these responsibilities admirably, and sometimes, not even adequately. Attempts to snare men into traps is definitely out since the outcome is always disastrous. Feeling like caged lions, they always rebel, and most, with good cause since their true feelings have never been able to be developed to the point necessary to be their own commitment, rather than someone else's. Most men are incredibly loyal to their own choices, but rarely so to situations in which they feel bound or obligated. Because men are taught loyalty from an early age, women need to recognize how to guide that loyalty so they may find the women and the situation that is right for them. Most men are not given enough time to sort that out, and rarely think about their relationships within that framework of design. If they did, marriages might last longer, and lives might be happier, and capable of creating the fusion that truly does justice to the human condition of male and female mating.	2004-03-20
US	52205720	R1SSH8SBLSC6SC	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	5	16	35	N	N	Before it got crowded	Most of the great industrialists had one thing in common; they were able to give credit where credit was due. This is a lost art in the management of humans in today's concentrated environment that depends upon statistics and numbers.<br />No man or woman ever created a number that wasn't backed by the self discipline that enabled him or her to give the level of commitment that came with the desire to give that commitment. If they do, they fall upon deaf and dumb hearts, and are bound to be used for different uses than the ones intended.<br />Passionate commitment is the only thing that ever changed a life, or lives, and the main thing that determines success that might be predictable. Without commitment, marriage fail, even if they appear to work. Without commitment, incentives are little help to the people trying to use them to create wealth, for themselves or for others.<br />Negative commitment alway works worst to produce desirable outcomes because they never carry a reciprocal commitment to get the job done, and to do it well.<br />The pride of passion and success is the single most important component of a job well done, and a job well loved, by which great things are made possible because of the commitment brought to the job, that is felt within, and rarely without the internal commitment that defines and fuels the task to be done, often with a sense of vision for accomplishment as well as for the harmony that enables teamwork to exist that relies upon it, as opposed to the tyranny that sometimes fuels efficiency and completion of tasks that may be unpleasant but necessary to be done.<br />A positive outlook is essential to most quality jobs and often underestimated in its power to create powerful results. Among groups, failure to recognize credit where credit is due destroys more groups than not, and strains the ones where it is not present. Groups break down at varying levels, but almost always at the lower levels from the negligence of the upper levels togive that due credit, and to respect its presence as important to any organization. Failure is always a managerial negligence, and false rewards are immediately noticeable to the participants of any group because they deal daily with the results of performance that would be the criteria by which management determines successful performance to offer those rewards. Underlings usually know the score, and often better than management because of its isolation. Misplaced credit is as damaging to organizations as those where it is non-existent since it destroys not only faith but also integrity.<br />Emotional IQ is far more valuable to the organization for this reason. Maintaining the integrity of the group is crucial to its success, and sometimes, to its survival. Faith is as asset to integrity, but only a part of what makes any organization valuable since better times can be managed, or sustained, during times of hardship, but integrity forms the heart of commitment for most who are associated with, and determine the vitality of the entire organization through bad times or good. There is no replacement when destroyed, either intentionally or accidentally, and few apologies are effective to heal those deep wounds. Relationship or relational discrimination is the distinction that makes the different in any organization, and those which cultivate the image of equity generally do equity. Those that don't suffer the effects of their lack of commitment by revealing their flaws, not only to insiders but also to outsiders. Emotional intelligence often relies upon intuition to determine its presence or absence.	2004-03-20
US	52205720	R1V09HR350LZIJ	0313323194	779975352	The Disputed Presidential Election of 2000: A History and Reference Guide	Books	5	1	11	N	N	Function of Popular Vote Denied	Despite the control inherent in an election by the Electoral College, or in the case where the Supreme Court decides how a conflict like the 2000 election will be solved, and indeed, who will be President, the idea of electing a President (in theory, by majority) is thwarted from either process. When candidates spend 1-2 years selling themselves through selling their ideas, the Presidency comes with an automatic authority that cannot be exercised otherwise, and that is usually abruptly ended at the conclusion of a term. For all practical purposes, that is an illogical severance for a public who may continue to take stock in the guidance offered by any President. It is the flaw in not being able to continue a Presidency beyond the two term period, and it underestimates the appreciation of the public in having to redirect their attention to different, and entirely new candidates who may not resonate with the American people as former ones do. It could be called political abandonment in some cases, and is recognized in every small election where popular chairs, chiefs, and executives are persuaded to continue in a post beyond the time they would typically leave, or in the event that a term is finished. Not only is it intellectually illogical, it can be emotionally illogical if the public has gained any attachment to the philosophy expounded. This may have been the case with Clinton, and to a lesser degree with Gore. <br />The losses can be seen by looking at the reign of Queen Elizabeth, or even with Diana, in nations where monarchs reign, when people are comfortable with the guiding hand of an offical leader they do like, and feel comfortable with. Reviewing the list of monarchs since 800 a.d. in Great Britain, and reviewing the upheavals in that nation because of frequent changes show the problems of transitions, and their effects by counting the wars that occur as a result of those changes. While America has no wars, one could view negative politics and assassinations like that of JFK as political wars equivalent to those of other countries, nearly by instinct.<br />Contrasting that to America, perhaps one of the few nations with term limits for a President but not for Congress (itself a totally illogical pattern) that ignores the value of leadership potential.<br />With respect to the lack of stability American people have felt as a result of the management of the George W. Bush administration with the loss of jobs, political and economic disputes, it cannot be said that the new &quot;group&quot; of leaders offers an acceptable equivalent to that which was in place at January 1, 2000. Some might suggest that these oversights constitute political abuse, not political leadership. America is much the worse for having worn these political clothes the past 3 years. In fact, they are nearly worn out by most standards that America has traditionally prized. With the lack of progress for middle America during this time, it might be said that America needs nearly the same healing that it required after 9/11, but where that occurred abruptly, our own political damage took the long way home, dragged over the rubble of each Iraq dry, desert crevice, and every American has the bruises to show for it. Is that any way to treat a country? With friends/leaders like these,......	2004-03-15
US	52205720	R35OJ5RQYBJXPF	2869780893	540037666	Monitoring and investigating sexual violence	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Refining the Definition of Rape to Reflect Autonomy	The great loss for women is the fact that men are not familiar with the concept of force and coercion when it comes to women, as opposed to when it comes to men. The extent of the concept occurs within the definition of rape as no consent. Yet, no consent is a confusing standard when the distinction of the definitions of coercion and force are concerned. From the initial objection in using the word, no, to the obscure and difficult task of defining when the boundaries have been abridged, there lies a world of coercion and force that is never examined in the area of gender relations. These may be examined for their effect, as well as for their appropriateness in gender relations since most men do not think that holding a woman down is \\"force\\" or \\"coercion,\\" and are instead, imagining rape as the crime where \\"excessive force\\" is used, an entirely different concept than could or should be used with a typical date (or any other form) of rape. It may also be the key to recognizing that women do have the right and choice of deciding to permit advances without the \\"coercion\\" of excessive seduction methods, or other attempts to reverse a decision once made. This denotes the fact that men are unfamiliar with the concept of force altogether and see it as more closely associated with assault and battery rather than with the request and mutual consent of having sexual relations.	2004-03-15
US	52205720	R37TYT2N7LHW5R	0762414111	312049511	The White House: An Illustrated Tour	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Tour-age and the White House	Like Alice walking into Wonderland, many residents visit the public areas of the White House through its many tours. A few documentaries have been made over the years, but few which track the &quot;life&quot; of the White House itself. Since it plays its own panoramic role in the life of every President who lives there, it deserves its own category in American History as more than simply the home of Presidents. More within the realm of &quot;if these walls could talk&quot; scenes, there is the architectural significance of the changes made there, but there is also the social history of the &quot;home&quot; that becomes a part of each Presidential term. Every President should be publishing his own &quot;view&quot; of the White House, his impressions, his concerns, the significance of living there, changes that might be made, etc., all in an effort to identify the &quot;true&quot; nature of the White House because they are in the best position to evalutate its strengths, weaknesses, and significance, which likely changes relative to the personality of each President who inhabits it, or tries to accommodate his family there. This is something that should be separate from any autobiography he or a First Lady might write because it is its own unique topic, and deserves the attention that any ultra-historical building might require as a result of its potential influence upon those persons. Each President who lives and works there is likely to enter, some with anticipation, but most without a sense of the spectacular wonderland atmosphere that accompanies that journey through time, identified by their own performance, and is possible to be viewed best, from their personal experience of living there. From such personal perspective of America's house, it is possible for ordinary Americans to appreciate what that might be like, what value the home is to the nation, and possibly, how its support (and condition) is essential to American history. It also makes great flavor-farein respect of historical preservation, while giving a running history of the place from such unique perspectives. It is the most common denominator of each President and from these views, a pattern over time may develop to identify unique perspectives of historical significance, and perhaps something about the Presidential experience as well as the personal attributes and contemplative possibilities of each President. There have been observations previously by several Presidents about the White House, and accumulated and taken together, they offer great insight into the unique experience of being a President, always a valuable exercise from the perspective of the public who must choose one each four years to live there. Because the experience of a President is as much about each person as it is about what each President does during his term, this is a very family-friendly method of reaching those interesting perspectives through which America may relate to its Presidents and their families, and the experience they go through in being President. It is Presidential family entertainment at its best and helps to give character and dimension to each President and the terms in which they serve, and perhaps something of their disappointments, and dreams from such an awe-inspiring place. It's also a wonderful way for Presidents to share their experience with the public, apart from the complications of the nature of the office that are the focus of most historical documentaries.	2004-03-09
US	52205720	R11NWA7S10CJUA	0525947264	447063437	The GRITS (Girls Raised in the South) Guide to Life	Books	5	10	24	N	N	A Different Breed - Southern Girls	To say that Southern women are used to looking at their whole existence rather than simply their jobs to provide confirmation of their success would be an understatement. Southern girls have never needed the confirmation that typcial feminists require to determine the fact of their importance, and most have adjusted to the fact of inequalities better for that reason. Perhaps it's because they had always been conditioned to their place as auxiliary to their spouses rather than the main event, or perhaps they recognized long ago that in a world not ideal, graciousness and privileges in subordinate positions are better than the unfairness of contentious inequality. Strong advocates of women's rights, however, they have always been; they simply don't like to sacrifice their entire lives to get it, and can't quite figure out why women in the north would be willing to do so. The pleasures of being a woman have much more to do with the fact of whether one is happy in the gender role given than whether the CEO title is suitably noticed to elevate women to the equality of men. Quality of life resides in the comforts as well as the relationships cultivated and most women are familiar enough with the concept of slavery to know they do not wish that to be their lifestyle, or any semblance of their lifestyle. Most black minorities feel the same! So activity meant to produce equality that merely places one in a sacrificial position that compromises both the objectives and the quality of life is not seen as effective - southern style, though it may be in northern style. Most southern women are very particular with whom they spend their time, the efforts they make, and the positions they place themselves in to accomplish life goals. Having learned the hard way through years of civil war and its aftermath, they know the meaning of war and that appreciate the damage it can cause. The pride born of southern women lies in the fact that they value themselves and do not require the confirmation of jobs to validate them, preferring to have that done by family and friends who are not so rigidly organized to produce exact results. While they desire freedom more than most, they understand the limits in a world that has suffered discrimination for all of its 400 years and then some. They are intimately familiar with slow change, and the perceptions of acceptance in a world that prefers stability and no change. They can appreciate the high cost of risk associated with rapid change because they come from states where quick change has produced chaos, and they value their lives too much to introduce too much divisiveness. It has required not only patience but enormous amounts of GRIT to make transformations stick in the South by both men and women; it is always persistence and determination that result in those attitudinal changes that create real social change upon which one may build a foundation because of the traditions valued.	2004-03-08
US	52205720	R3NDVERJ7VIZWQ	0440145368	691952859	How to Make a Man Fall in Love with You: The Fail-Proof, Fool-Proof Method	Books	4	15	32	N	N	Love by Design a Fragile Ornament	For any man a woman would want to be married to, or any woman a man would want to be married to, there is no such thing as \\"making someone fall in love with you.\\" Love is either recognizable or not, based upon the attentiveness and treatment that accompanies the territory of love, a person's understanding of it, and willingness to make a commitment to it for their own sake to provide the pleasure of loving, as well as receiving love. Love induced, or forced, is rarely a love that has he ability to satisfy the inner most reaches of the heart that are protected from ordinary trampling, and reserved for those special persons who have the ability to awaken its vitality and momentum. Otherwise we'd all be promiscuous and compromising of our greatest value, the ability to have one special person see us as unique enough to create the attachment that equals the glory of love. Ornaments come and go, by fad, but love lingers in the heart, the mind, and the soul where it resides unfettered by the typical offences that would tarnish it, rendering it an ordinary relationship of little difference than a friendship. That's why it is called love and demands so much of us, as if testing the mettle of all who would claim the intricacy of its devine blessings. Deciding which is love and which is not is among the hardest and most difficult of the tasks engaged by mankind, in any language. What people know for sure is that it is not mere sexual attraction, and is not meant to reside in mere availability. Real love is real work that requires real and intense effort by both to send the smoke signals that constitute its possibility and its potential. Rarely is it for the timid, and rarely do we enter it without timidity!	2004-03-08
US	52205720	R2D9E3YUP8X714	0345433149	211606135	The Moral Compass of the American Lawyer	Books	5	1	7	N	N	What Moral Compass?	The only moral compass I've seen yet is whether or not they can get away with justifying their acts with regard to clients. Much of that depends upon the nature of their confidence and where they sit in the &quot;pecking&quot; order of human beings, a.k.a., to whom they were married (denoting family power), where they went to school (usually denoting family power), and what firm they are with (often denoting family power), or who they know (as a result of family power). Therefore, the ethics displayed say a lot more about who's who in family power than about the topic of morality - since it is family power not God who governs the universe. For example, if you come from the right family, you can be a judge, and many have, or even a President, provided you are not a woman. This has been the history for most professions since the nation was founded.	2004-03-06
US	52205720	RB2JFV9NS1RUG	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	0	29	N	N	Economics and Social Progress during FDR?	Don't know much about algebra or geometry of FDR's New Deal; too young then, and insufficient history training. But the social legacy left from the times of WWII and the impact upon thousands of Jewish people who migrated here is unmistakeably hard to justify. Whether by FDR or his cronies, it seems unlikely that the blackballing that occurred during this period is anywhere near the excellence that America expects of her people, and its current views concerning humanity, humane rights, and discrimination. Since discrimination is such a fundamental harm to people, it seems logical that every generation needs to look backward, and clear the cob webs of what may have been unfair discrimination at the time to release the energy and motivation of new opportunities to reconcile unfortunate aspects of history and relegate them to the flaw they were at the time. There is no reason to suspect that in any period of American History, there has ever been a time when discrimination and discriminatory effects were not harmful, and were legitimately defensible, whatever the circumstances. We simply haven't taken up the task to bring the reality into focus as it should be, and as it should have been. How can any society move on without recognizing its own flaws, and choosing to bury them under its rugs of history, and idolization of popular and favorable personalities? Americans have an obligation not to fall into that well from which no one may emerge because of the slippery walls of algae surrounding them.	2004-03-01
US	52205720	R1KED394485ULY	0870044257	29550127	Salvos Against the New Deal	Books	4	9	18	N	N	Assessing the Weaknesses of FDR	Historically speaking, very few Presidents are as immune to criticism or question than FDR. Yet, that premise is unacceptable for American historians, generally, and inconsistent with American domestic and foreign policy with regard to nearly everyone. There is always dissenting opinion because there are always healthy views that comprise the possibility of different options. FDR is so popular a President that most consider him off limits when viewing his administrations. There do appear to be areas where his choices, or those of Eleanor's might have been different however, and whether they might have been better choices, who knows? The case is rarely made, however, just as it is rarely made in the case of Washington or Lincoln. Being American means to question the outcome of nearly everything in order to evaluate the best possible option to use in any given circumstance. This is learning that Americans prize, and need not be an affront to the person scrutinized. Intellectual analysis produces considerable beneficial opportunities for discussion, and surely, if FDR was the kind of person he is portrayed as being, he would be the last to suggest that his decisions could not bear up under a healthy, and respectful scrutiny. For a period so heavily rooted in foreign relations, and world strife, it would be more ignorant not to evaluate the period, the persons associated with decisions made at the time, and what assumptions went into making those decisions appropriate. This is good patriotic inquiry, not intentional discrediting of anyone. Witch hunts appear by using devisive information to harm, not by using legitimate facts to evaluate circumstances present when decisions are made, and then condoned and supported. Americans are the most self-scrutinizing government on the planet, and it is that patriotic spirit that justifies confidence in a free government, requiring criticism from both perspectives of for and against current issues. This is the approach that helps to &quot;balance&quot; democracy and help America stay free (or so we used to think) before the Patriot Act.	2004-03-01
US	52205720	R3PZQ2KQ0HULDJ	0895261952	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Knowledge is Power?	The fragments of stories that arise from the Clinton impeachment period grow further and wider with each retelling of the story from the perspective of many who claim to know what everyone else doesn't. The analysis of each of these books reminds us that like today in the case of the Iraq War and the Bush first term, the American people actually know very little of the behind the scenes events, or their accuracy. What is clear, however, is that the White House environment has for some time now become one of the most hostile territories of  America's political structure. It certainly seemed to be from the earliest time that Clinton took office until the time he left. Who knows how much is true, or false, and how it may, or may not, have been handled, and by whom? Though we may get some inkling of how the White House is designed to work from the  West Wing series, it may well be the ideal, and not the reality. If everything that has been told about Clinton was true, the American people would have seen the greatest Jeckyll and Hyde act of all time, it seems, and that would be doubtful and improbable. If it is true, it would be unusual that Hillary would want to run for President, and the people of America may need to give far more scrutiny to the Presidents it chooses than they have in the past. Either way, the impact has been felt in all quarters of the nation, and will not likely be easily forgotten. Questioning how much knowledge the people have, and how much power over the office people have are critical issues at this time in America because of the accumulated knowledge we have of all past Presidents, that grows with each new review of what America thought she knew, but found later she didn't.	2004-03-01
US	52205720	R3SS3EQUJVB09L	0801856264	380801430	Personal Property: Wives, White Slaves, and the Market in Women	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Not Just About Female Trafficking	The perception which permits males to traffic women, as opposed to women who volunteer their own services in prostitution is the key and central issue of debate that is the overlapping result of primogeniture laws that govern both women and children, apparently hard habits to break. It would not be too harsh an extension of this philosophy to suggest that the idea of housekeepers, babysitters, or waitresses are merely a modern day reflection of these same attitudes. The worst result of allowing the attitudes to go unchallenged are that the idea of sexual services as well as the image of domestic services are fused into a perception of wives as the \\"subservients\\" if not servants, they become where male superiority is allowed to reign and take root. The self indulgence at the expense of females comes not from birthing but conditioning after they are birthed which condones the subrogation of all women, particularly those deemed marriageable, and in fact, because they are subservient to male desires. The ideal mate becomes therefore not a companion, but a servant who is permitted to communicate with her \\"master and commander,\\" and forced to suffer the indignities of perhaps also being subject to violence outbursts if she is not properly submissive, or silent. The evolution of female social and economic privileges have actually been reduced or sacrificed as a result of trading the Victorian respect of females with regard to property rights into disrespect of females because they are capable of being judged to have property rights. This divisive personal choice of women having to trade their dignity for property rights is one never reached in most women's literature, and remains a contentious sore spot in gender rights and equity, usually resulting in the refusal to recognize women's economic rights of advancement for the subtle discriminatory effects of female opression as a choice by men, aided by the second tier scrutiny of gender discrimination rather than first tierscrutiny of minority rights. Since perception permits the use of women in this manner by male society generally, all other women's participation rights and privileges flow from this attitude, and their expectations with regard to men.	2004-03-01
US	52205720	R9X5XVBOBBXBN	0964484943	640558403	Reaching Children Through Play Therapy: An Experiential Approach	Books	5	4	33	N	N	The Only Way to Play is Interactive	\\"Spare the rod; spoil the child\\" is an archaic, ignorant philosophy that ignores the curiosity and potential of any child to learn. Undue discipline spoils the creative ability of children to learn while playing. And since playing only occurs when engaged with one or more others, play is the foundation of interpersonal skills. Un-engaged play is mere exploration that may satisfy curiosity, but nothing more. Enjoying play even as learning is critical to success since encouragement fosters self confidence and satisfaction by giving support where needed to motivate further play, and attain higher levels of consciousness and conscience. To engage another in play is an incredibly complex process since knowledge of one another is necessary to foster continuation, as fun. Without fun, boredom becomes the absolute result, and withdrawal from engagement the conclusion. Through play, charisma may be heightened, and refined through satisfying sessions of expectation and anticipation to condition the continuation of such play until the student, in essence, takes wing, and proceeds to inspire others with his or her training. Hence, great teachers make other great teachers, fostering a love for the training itself (the game or the play) to elevate the potential benefit, to each other and ultimately, to everyone appreciative of the process. Both time and interest, as well as effort, are required to achieve these great results, and understanding the process is critical to its success. Never has there not been a child, (or curious adult) who did not enjoy the process of play as a teaching and learning tool. The fact that we continue to imagine that play is an art, rather than a science, is a flaw of mankind that is erroneous and can be corrected, given appreciation of the nature of human beings, always a scientific subject. Art is what individuals give out to the world; Science is what individuals give to each other, the science of humanity, as opposed to the art of impression. Hence, mutual engagement is always a science, and always play upon some level.	2004-02-29
US	52205720	RRW4USVY4VHHZ	1556432186	332130786	Beyond Dogma: Dialogues and Discourses	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Before the Reformation and Religious Reliance	Cavemen at one time had no religion but mere observations about their world with which to determine how they would treat each other, their world, and the other animals on earth with them. They had no benefit of religious interpretation, from any sect, no corporate guidance, or training, and no organized government to determine the sense of justice, or how to increase it. Yet, they survived! We know they survived because we live today. If we cannot improve on the efforts cave men used to define their world, we would be more ignorant than we think they were. In fact, they may have been smarter, or lived in a less complex world, for now the complexity we have does not assure a good result, nor one humane for today's world. To prevent going backwards rather than forwards, it may be necessary to contain religious ritual and dogma in a place reserved for personal belief, which we go beyond religion, or transcend it, to deal with the many different groups that man up the world, some religious, some not. Only government can do that, based upon personal responsibility simpy by recognizing that man is alive and is a part of the entire human race alive during his life. Conscientious development is the only reality and logic that makes sense to be all inclusive. Choosing the humanity of life, rather than the scorekeeping of religious dogma is required to maintain both order and morality since morality is uniquely clannish arising as it does from whichever religious sect imposes it. The doctrine of fairness and recognition requires that we reach beyond the narrow confines of different religions to see the world that exits around it in a mission of world survival, undaunted by tribal concerns and secular groups that are the unique styles of those particular groups. Ignoring religion may be much more important than ignoring humanity.	2004-02-29
US	52205720	RFA0LO7O4HMIO	1570711992	941802135	Love--The Course They Forgot To Teach You In School	Books	2	0	9	N	N	Fodder and Deception for Women	In an ideal world, this book and its insights would be welcome in most any relationship, from a woman's viewpoint. But, unfortunately, neither males nor the world is set up to accept the kinds of romanticism that women bring to the &quot;table&quot; of a marital relationship. The 60/40 split by and large is unachievable in a world where men feel superior and have the need to be in control of their fate: their finances, and their emotions. Although the book argues why losing control is good for men, it continues to put women on the spot to carry the entire burden since men, too often, unwilling to open the cover of such a book, while women feast upon it in recognition. The fact that it is published by Casablanca Press is no small accident to be sure, since while women attempt to read and practice it, men are running the other way, an impossible dream of acquisition, to be exact. While women fantasize and men complain, the Mars/Venus trap is alive and well, living in Panama, so to speak as each feasts instead upon the discontent of the other shown not by love and intimacy, but by resentment, competition and rejection. But keeping hope alive is important to all of us; even if by fantasy and illusion. The end result may be deception, but one were're all willing to accept, for survival's sake.	2004-02-23
US	52205720	R1COMBFN7UPGSR	0060937114	564488923	First Mothers: The Women Who Shaped the Presidents	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Understanding Our Roots, and Our Mothers	Imagine if the public throughout history had been privileged to read books and concepts like this one. We might have had entirely different Presidents than we had, or we might have had a much better understanding of the kind of President we were getting. Barbara Bush has been around for some time, and most know both her influence, and her ability to put people at ease with her common sense and her style. We've yet to hear anything about the mothers of the current candidates in 2004, but who would not remember Lillian Carter, feisty as she was, a no nonsense strict disciplinarian if my memory serves me correctly, but endearing, and honored by her son, the President. One of the most powerful mothers of all was Bill Clinton's mother, and when I read her story I wept, not only for her, but for her family, and in part, for me, and for all of the women I'd known who had to march forward in life in less than ideal circumstances. Hers were pretty bad, but they sounded more familiar than not, unfortunately, as I'm sure they did to many others. I had never read a more powerful personal reflection and about such deeply troubling topics. Their familiarity continues to move me whenever I think about it. With all of our rhetoric about how we claim to be opposed to domestic violence, physical, emotional and verbal, we've done little to the vast need that actually exists. She may have been the first that I'm aware of in my lifetime to be so candid, and be connected to so powerful a person as a President of the United States. Surely, that is a major step forward for America, and one hopefully not lost on American women, even if it is usually on American men. Because we prefer our heroes complete with shining armor and white horse, we are not prepared for the knowledge that they had endured some of the common problems that affect so many families. The revelation was striking, and provides an extraordinary backdrop to understanding her son, the President, and perhaps a little of his administration despite their obvious gender differences. Men are often measured by their fathers as the &quot;chips off the old block,&quot; as Dad's are inclined to view them, but in fact, most have far more affinity with their mothers to whom they have been the most intimate and honest. It is the reason that Barbara Bush can look at her son, and wonder if he would make a good President, as she did once, and why Lillian was not about to become lax with her son. The high expectations that mothers have of their sons as adults is far higher than their fathers do, and sons nearly always feel the pressure of that concern, as well as the love that accompanies it. Fathers have high expectations of their sons as youngsters, generally, to prepared them for that task, but it is usually the mothers who scrutinize and measure their progress the most intensely. Any book that attempts to define the relationship of Presidents and their sons, or even any prominent sons, and their mothers is well worth the effort and the expense for understanding how those gentlemen are able to rise to meet those expectations, and the struggles to get there. This is true family entertainment, and among the most worthwhile available for family values, and perhaps, for family progress.	2004-02-13
US	52205720	R3FPB06MVLQO17	0880701048	244847316	A fresh new look at God	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Have we left God behind like the unwanted child?	God, unlike religious never intended to be left behind. That was the purpose of the Biblical scriptures written in each and every language. Unfortunately, man has, by virtue of ignoring the old God that once formed the faith of everyone, now requires a new face and image because he has become obsolete in these days of man emulating God. By not keeping the tenets that are the function of religion, man has ascended not to the right hand of God but above him, relegating God to the sidelines as if he was a benchwarmer, to be taken off and put in the game, momentarily, for our own use and privilege whenever we might need him, or use him for a convenient excuse. Like the children we torture and warehouse, in the name of morality and justice, God may well have left us to the fate that we have decided we prefer, the self help of leading other people around in the name of God, but without the authority to do so. Hail to the Chief!	2004-02-03
US	52205720	RM3F28PAVEWCT	0767913795	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	4	2	18	N	N	Not Exactly God's Design	The author took great pains to illustrate how man contorts the design of God for his own purposes. More than anyone else, he appears to have made great progress in showing how man cannot depend upon other men, God's first choice. When men (or women or children) must look out for themselves because there is so little of God in everyone else, it surely is a signal that mankind has failed in his mission to be &quot;godly,&quot; the way we were taught to be, in theory, through the Bible and other religious texts. Since we cannot count upon God's presence and grace in man, we have either ourselves or no one. The author chooses the middle path since he apparently has no evidence of the former either, or can't seem to find it. Hence, it's either ourselves or no one. Basically, if we cannot trust ourselves, and cannot trust others, God is not likely to be there either since both are offensive, in theory, to him.	2004-02-03
US	52205720	R3625TS06RZAKF	0060559284	763216843	Off with Their Heads: Traitors, Crooks & Obstructionists in American Politics, Media & Business	Books	2	17	48	N	N	Tough to Crack	The parts of this book I managed to slug through were tough to comprehend because of its broad and specious allegations. By someone who was supposed to be a friend, and advisor, at least during the early years of Clinton's first term, despite the fact that he was a Republican, may be one of the problems now that Republicans are in office. After all, riding the fence as Morris has always claimed to be able to do, may not have been that easy after 9/11. But to suggest that Clinton, himself, was responsible for the Trade Tower disaster is pretty unbelievable after he ran around the world trying to make and negotiate peace. Of course, none of us could possibly know if there was cause for concern &quot;behind the scenes,&quot; that is always a possibility, which is one of the major concerns with the Bush administration at this moment. If what Morris says is true, it merely adds fuel to the doubt that we may be victims of terrorism cultivated by at least two administrations, Clinton's and Bush's. It's doubtful that they would be working so closely together, but who knows? Someone should inform the current candidates of 2004 who are taking great pains to make a distinction between &quot;what anyone knew, and when they knew it&quot; to confront Bush on these same exact issues, in hopes of unseating him in November. Since tomorrow the Patriot's expect to win the Super Bowl, it just might be the ruminations of an admittedly very active, and unfair Monday night quarterback. Of course, boredom doesn't sell books, and subdued audiences don't inspire the enthusiasm of football teams. If there might be merit in its content, though, you would think that any number of others might have picked up this ball and run with it. Since they haven't, there's a good chance that the extreme speculation within and the puffery that accompanies it may not measure up to the scope and capability of Mr. Morris's obviously educated potential. For sure, it should cause the Democrats, and even the Clintons some cause for concern in terms of choosing loyal friends, even those who claim to be positioned to give advice and guidance. The work seems to speak for itself in that regard. Few would imagine that it adds much to the dimension of Clinton, but it seems to characterize Mr. Morris pretty well; possibly Washington D.C. at its finest? No wonder Hillary would not run for President. I wouldn't either under these circumstances. With friends like these, who needs enemies?	2004-02-01
US	52205720	R1ADT1FEYJOB4A	0743510011	307913571	Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Information, Information, Information	Just as location is the typical criteria for getting a great deal in real estate that honors the reason it has value, information is the typical criteria for getting a great deal in most other areas that honors the motive behind the value perceived as worthy, or worth choosing. Without sufficient information, most decisions are risky at best, and highly risky at their worst. Gaps in information nearly always produce the worst returns, and impede progress in negotiations of anything. Winning attitudes are rarely adequate to turn information gaps into wins, but often make the information gathering process into spectacular wins. Since no's are nearly always aggravating, clearing the paths to yes are critical to good negotiating, and by far, offer the most logical and reasonable blueprint for success. A great lesson in life important to everyone!	2004-01-29
US	52205720	RUC235O127GW2	1557044996	140073616	The West Wing Script Book (Newmarket Shooting Script)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Greatest Impact upon Politics in 100 Years	Whoever thought of the idea of portraying the White House environment and its operations was truly brilliant. It is by far the most significant impact upon politics in the last 100 years if not since the creation of the nation. The ability to assess the dynamics of integrated factors and people by demystifying the office and its methods is by far its greatest contribution to American patriotism, as well as to define the obligations and problems which occur there - for any President. Its appeal to young and old alike show the power of illustration. Coming as it did near the end of the Clinton administration, it would have been wonderful to view the complications of his Presidency during it to help appreciate the criticism of Janet Reno, Madeline Albright, Robert Reich, Robert Rubin or any of the other persons who passed through that period. Viewing Stephanopoulous within that context comes rather automatic even now, in 2004, in reflection. It might also have been useful to more clearly evaluate the impact of the first female press secretary who was fired from there at the time, in light of the current makeup of the show. As it is, the most obvious benefits have accrued to the Bush White House, however, since the understanding brought to the American people because of it may prevent the degree of animosity that existed within the Clnton White House at the time, for whatever reason. To the extent that it continues to be an inspiration, as well as an adequate forum in which to air the complexity of issues, how they are handled, and how they might be handled, remains to be seen. It is, though, without a doubt, the opportunity of a lifetime to view the White House in all of its complex protocols, trying to incorporate the many personalities who flow through its halls and rooms, and try to cope with perhaps the most difficult job in America that too few are familiar with, and all are dependent upon because of the decisions made there. This is recognized, of course, in thenumber of awards and accolades it has earned, and for which the series well deserves. For the 20-30 year old set, both men and women, it is a godsend, and continues to hold their highest fascination, no small task in that group raised upon so much media fare of questionably lower value. The series remains the most important method, yet found, to reach and impress upon people the impact of ideas, and the value of ethics in the highest of places where it is most likely to count to affect everyone's lives, both in this nation, and outside it. A superb idea, and a wonderfully scripted intellectual and psychological journey of enormous proportions, made for everyone. No media rating required since it was done so well!	2004-01-29
US	52205720	R3408QJ3VUQ6FR	0446679828	220090698	The Sopranos (SM): Selected Scripts from Three Seasons	Books	5	0	6	N	N	Life as Art, art as Life?	Being female, it's difficult for me to appreciate the full context of why the Soprano's series is so appealing to men; but it surely is. To the extent that the series reflects the lives they lead, and hence, is the art by which they are most likely to identify with the dynamics, it must be successful due to its popularity. To the extent that it doesn't, it offers the opportunity to prevent lives from having to. Either way, it's a win-win situation since the positive and negative effects can be visualized and measured on the screen rather than through the high risk performance that people must try to live through to survive. Perhaps that is the series' peculiar appeal: safety and entertainment through scrutiny of what people could construe as dangerous territory involving dangerous people. To the extent that it measures a code of justice not often available to people on the outside, it serves to make the world a safer place because of its portrayals.	2004-01-29
US	52205720	R3RGRK4QU7Q6DG	0060084766	525876089	The Dream: Martin Luther King, Jr and the Speech that Inspired a Nation	Books	5	4	11	N	N	The Power of God in Man	Martin Luther King was not an unusual black man; in fact, he wanted much of what many black men before him, probably all black men and women wanted. But Martin Luther King was a very unusual man, who happened to be black. His degree of passion, his conviction, his hope, and his perseverance were unlike most before him, and most after him, with the inspired, God given desire to make the world a better place for everyone, including blacks. His vision was not just the result of respect and reliance by his people, it was divinely inspired so that his passion, his hope emerged and blossomed before millions, many of whom were not familiar with him, his history, or his prominence and reputation. He was possessed of those rare qualities, and that rare talent, of the ability to inspire others to believe in themselves, and the world, that they had the dignity to alter their own dynamics, the manner in which they lived, and in the manner in which they were treated by others. As an evangelist, he was superb. For that, like Jesus, and many other prophets who have been threatening to the status quo, his ability to show others the way to self respect and to peace were certainly the force of why his life was taken so early, and so brutally. He was more than a leader; he was a messiah for the many black people who had waited so long for one to lead them out of the psychological bondage which was still very real to them. He positioned himself to show the way, and how to do it in the least offensive manner possible, by non-violence. He was a pillar of strength that even whites unfamiliar with him understood the necessity of yielding to God's will, instinctively knowing that all men were equal, and that all needed the recognition of being equal. Indeed, whites were aware of their obligation under the Constitution to recognize that equality but felt no compulsion to expect it of themselves until Martin forced them to face the truth they had so long avoided. Not only did he demand of blacks the energy and commitment to themselves, he demanded the energy and commitment of whites to respect themselves by being brave enough to help resolve the problem that had long festered in American social reality. The timing was right; the message was right, and Martin was right. He allowed none out of God's boat and helped everyone see that upon that ship, we were all afloat upon the ocean of humanity, and would indeed survive or perish. That message remains very much a part of his legacy, and today's reality although we face other issues as well, and the issues are now broader than ever. No one on earth has the option to say no to God and expect that it will be of no consequence to the world. He was the most remarkable of men that America has ever produced guided by his own devine light within as a beacon of humanity for all to follow.	2004-01-24
US	52205720	R281SJPHIXANEJ	0671447548	331399045	Mornings on Horseback: The Story of an Extraordinary Family, a Vanished Way of Life and the Unique Child Who Became Theodore Roosevelt	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Delightful Perceptions of a Master	The distinctive quality of David McCullough's works is that he refuses to insult his reader with a less than honest view of his subject while making allowances for the fact that in writing history, he was not present to be able to interpret what the circumstances were, or what they might have been. He is an intellectual's author in expressing, as well as he can, the intricacies of well defined patterns of communication that existed at the time that likely made an impact on his subject to define his perspective and his action. This is a solid effort to give both character and accuracy to the personality as he might have been, and probably was, without attributing his own knowledge of today's events onto his subject, a tendency of increasing frequency. The reason for this is his dedicated and meticulous research into his subject, a model of historical recording, without unduly influencing the reader. The value of reflecting the accuracy of historical events is that it offers the reader his own perspective to interpret historical events rather than a canned version by the author. Of course, McCullough may draw upon unique events to help identify information previously glossed over in his attempts to portray that accuracy. This is an acceptable license in biographical accounts though not always followed with such careful editing. The exciting part of McCullough's writing is that he has the humility to identify his subjects as extraordinary, and is a willing participant in helping the reader to see that as well, a real credit to his choice of subject. His fascination is transmitted to the reader in a thoughtful measure of the man, or the event, he has researched, the mark of a very distinguished writer who adores his work, and is successful for that reason.	2004-01-24
US	52205720	R3AMPGH9STOGKE	0897932684	646262470	Violent No More: Helping Men End Domestic Abuse	Books	5	8	18	N	N	Male Choice as well as Privilege	The view of women or children as possessions poses a distorted view of the world for men, since at their option, they can either choose to treat them well or poorly, be attentive or neglectful, cultivate respect or fear. Too often, they make choices based upon using the often swift, and expedient method to control what they see as a positive outcome: the result they seek with minimal output on their part. Failing to appreciate the autonomy of the &quot;individuals&quot; who rely upon their wisdom as well as their purse, they begin to feel all-powerful and in control. This view of measuring masculinity may well be centuries old, and cultivated to encourage the protective instincts of males in their roles as providers as well as protectors. But it reduces their charges to little more than inanimate objects as possessions, to do with as they please, and as if they had no feelings that could be harmed; or that the harm done is irrelevant. The mere fact that males have choices is a world previously unknown to women, who, by and large, have had no choice. Seen by an economic system as dependent upon males, they and their children have always been at the mercy of their males, and their choice of treatment. The greatest failing of mankind, itself, was to give men this choice since it is wholly subjective in purpose, manner and method. The fact that the author maintains that illusion by suggesting that men have a choice is preposterous, and characteristic of the flaws that have been built into society that permits men to become batterers in the first place. The choice of when or upon whom violence is acceptable to use in humanity was a lesson very early in Christian teaching with the don of Cain and Abel, the Great Flood, and Soddom and Gomorrah which were not well learned, and give the impression that anger is godly, and an appropriate response to displeasure. While we might have learned that when Cain killed Abel, the banishment was the point and effect of using violence,instead we incorporated the acceptance of violence in the daily affairs of men as a necessary consequence of settling differences. This unjust premise has yet to be effectively challenged successfully. It is very much a &quot;male&quot; view of privilege as well as responsibility in the defense of oneself, and one's community. It is an age old problem that paves the path to war and as expected, wars have been the result. The failure of men to view their masculinity without war and violence is questionable and often seen as weak, and passive. For this reason, the perpetuation of the privilege to use violence to solve any problem is suspect, and may well be ignorant. Keeping the peace is rarely a sufficient criteria of measuring the  level of violence that exists in a community since what is seen usually takes no account of what is unseen. A code of violence for living is the code men must refuse to accept to achieve peace, and to earn respect, and maintain dignity. Violence robs men of dignity and respect.	2004-01-24
US	52205720	R22KQ47ZRPI6UG	0312186797	152949452	What Men Don't Want Women To Know: The Secrets, The Lies, The Unspoken Truth	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Male Measures of Importance	Armed with a sense of privilege they've been able to exercise for centuries, males are rarely in the position of having to measure their actions upon the preferences or criteria of females and what they do or do not like. For most, not having to is the freedom expected, as well as the freedom they seek. While biological urges may be great, loyalty is, in their eyes, greater, for the simple reason that it is they who are usually as the forefront of survival, and the mechanisms they use are critically important to that. It is the demands of other men, not women, who create the exigent circumstances in which they must act, or react, that determine their priorities. Since most men consider their priorities paramount, they regularly justify any behavior that aids them to accomplish them. While this is a no brainer to most men, it is often lost on women who feel that love, affection, obligation or a sense of duty will modify their actions. While those factors may be weighed, they are rarely determinative in male progress, and if they are, it is often because men decide it is the best method of defense, or recourse in living and challenging their objectives. It is commendable that the author undertook the honest revelation of men that so many women need to understand in their dealings with men.	2004-01-22
US	52205720	RXHSCPSDEZGG3	0374527628	119700988	The Female Eunuch	Books	5	35	87	N	N	Shut your legs and your mouth!	The hypocrisy of society is simply amazing! Despite claiming that women \\"have come a long way, baby,\\" reality is they've barely touched the surface of the obnoxious existence they are expected to live with and \\"enjoy.\\" Denied nearly every form of expression - from sexual to verbal - except for the occasional free-form of theatrical display, dance, and very measured boundaries of intellectual inquiry, they remain the Gender Eunichs both men and women rely upon them to be, in order to measure both morality as well as chastity in efforts of men to insure that the children they are responsible for are their own. While enormous strides have been made in both birth control, and safe abortions, males continue to emphasize purity, demure submission, and unreasonable role models that are anything but the privilege they afford themselves, both in public and in private, encouraging and perpetuating the myth of morality that women have been saddled with for centuries. If unable to resort to sexual mutilation to accomplish their task, they automatically, and in fact, usually accompany their rigid standards with social oppression and repression through all manner of forcible meassures such as ridicule, bullying, degrading remarks, and imposing higher than their own standards to define acceptance, or lack of it. Keeping women quiet, but performing, as and when they want performance, being the main goal. Most any method appears to be adequate in their eyes if it works. Enough already! Racial and Sexual slavery needs to be stamped out once and for all, along with the class horse it rode in upon. Class is definitely in the eye of the beholder, but rarely is it measured as it has always been, especially when the slaves are afforded their own rights! Haven't we learned this repeatedly throughout history? This constant addition to controlling everything about women must stop, or be seen for what it is!	2004-01-22
US	52205720	R3W09SKZ79GST	0312186797	152949452	What Men Don't Want Women To Know: The Secrets, The Lies, The Unspoken Truth	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Male Measures of Importance	Armed with a sense of privilege they've been able to exercise for centuries, males are rarely in the position of having to measure their actions upon the preferences or criteria of females and what they do or do not like. For most, not having to is the freedom expected, as well as the freedom they seek. While biological urges may be great, loyalty is, in their eyes, greater, for the simple reason that it is they who are usually as the forefront of survival, and the mechanisms they use are critically important to that. It is the demands of other men, not women, who create the exigent circumstances in which they must act, or react, that determine their priorities. Since most men consider their priorities paramount, they regularly justify any behavior that aids them to accomplish them. While this is a no brainer to most men, it is often lost on women who feel that love, affection, obligation or a sense of duty will modify their actions. While those factors may be weighed, they are rarely determinative in male progress, and if they are, it is often because men decide it is the best method of defense, or recourse in living and challenging their objectives. It is commendable that the author undertook the honest revelation of men that so many women need to understand in their dealings with men to enable women to approach them without the fantasy and fanfare that can cripple them, or destroy their momentum.	2004-01-22
US	52205720	R1AEL5QGJET8BQ	0812694279	863426569	Perspectives on Habermas	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Misunderstood Lives	From the title it would be difficult for most, if not the majority of less culturally sophisticated to appreciate the value contained in these essays on the main components of enlightenment: humanism, and humane treatment, civility and civil communication, compassion, and kindness. Yet all indications of the current state of our social networks, and a great many of our social interactions, personal or impersonal, could benefit from a re-examination of the importance of legitimacy, honesty, cooperation, and redemption. In fact, it may well be golden age for philosophers to introduce updated analysis on both the need for this, and the negligence of society to provide focus upon this very important social and psychological topic as we slide further and further into the &quot;neverland&quot; of returning from the most uncivil, unkind, uncaring terrorism yet known to man, a point where the individual is perceived as useless, and has no value whatsoever. Very timely in view of both foreign events and domestic response and reaction to them, but not necessarily confined to that scope of &quot;reasonable and logical intervention.&quot; The society that fails to help itself due to fear, repugnance, and resignation may well be one that cannot be pulled back into optimism and hope. Having taken the first steps upon and along this road, few pathways lead back to comfort and happiness. It is much like entering the world of the insane and finding the door closed and locked behind. The most logical foresight is never to step inside in the first place, but in view of events after 9/11/2001, backtracking is impossible, and before us lies the very rocky road of recovery. Understanding this is merely half the battle, since cooperation and determination of the safe road forward remains elusive. Never begun, the end is not so difficult to imagine. Appreciating the past has little value when the future imagined is closed to hope.	2004-01-21
US	52205720	R16OJFCPBLO0GA	1929175442	565505545	Theodosia Burr Alston: Portrait of a Prodigy	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Scare History of Prominent Females and their Males	There is little doubt that Vice President Aaron Burr was the single, most important person in the world to this young, and impressionable young woman: and why not? He was, after all, her father, the person most likely to offer her his best nurturing protection, validate her worth, and interpret the world as he would like her to see it, educating her for what he perceived it to be, in its complexity as well as its simplicity. As his most unconditional admirer, she apparently did the same for him, and as his trusted confidant, the author spectacularly preserves and presents their special relationship of father and daughter with reasonable success despite the number of rumors, accusations, and hype that usually accompanies infamous figures in history, allowing us to appreciate the complexities of political environments, personal relations, and complex events in a very readable and eloquent fashion, in today's conjecture of thought and reason as best he can from a 200 year old antique history. An insightful account of a very colorful period of American history. While certain presumptions may well be far fetched, certainly the inquiry is a valuable contribution to what can only be called one of the very few accounts of the importance of females in the lives of historical figures.	2004-01-14
US	52205720	R3M3ICSH19ZN5A	0394800214	301698216	Little Black, A Pony	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Children, Responsibility and Friendship	10 Star First Reader for children just learning the value of friendship and the feelings of others. Ideal for learning compassion, how deeply felt are hurt feelings, and how to fix them. Weighs the importance of ego vs humility, easily discernable and also appeals to a child's sense of ineptitude which arises naturally from his or her vulnerability as a child. Always a \\"first choice\\" if it hasn't been read in a while, and always a great pick for instilling confidence on difficult days, reminding both parents and adults that everyone is special, and that everyone has value, and can be productive and useful. A wonderful story of intimacy and rescue to which children instantly relate and appreciate, setting a foundation for lifelong compassion in the dignity of others, and respect for their emotions.	2003-12-22
US	52205720	R3IYIWGL4DDNHD	0472098381	86424343	The Psychological Assessment of Political Leaders: With Profiles of Saddam Hussein and Bill Clinton	Books	4	5	12	N	N	Curious Coupling	Of all persons to be paired in a remote manner by psychological review, it's interesting that the author should explore the personalities of these two prominent persons while both are alive, and in theory, able to defend themselves. While Hussain may not have been available previously upon the initial writing, the fact that he is now in custody makes the analysis considerably more pertinent in view of recent news reports and discussion about what to do with him. While it is not the pairing that most would imagine could produce the height of contrast given the monstrous depiction of Hussain's crimes, the concept of evaluating the psychological profiles of leaders who wield such enormous power by their charisma as well as their position in world events is an admirable endeavor, and may well aid us in choosing talented leaders with great vision, and hence, great potential to either help or harm the world in due measure. Certainly, such a projection by perspective may lead to evaluation of other important figures in positions of influence, either in government or in business with decidedly greater opportunity to see where or by whom the nation is being guided, and in what direction. It may even prove useful for many in Congress who seek to leverage their positions of influence in certain directions, or who may use them to stall and thwart legislation recognized to be important or urgent. Could this pattern also apply to the Supreme Court to greatly increase the degree of scrutiny by which our &quot;elected&quot; leaders govern themselves? What a prospect! Imagine the secrets that would unfold given the nature of egos that inhabit our universe and where they seem to congregate and preside. These eyepopping examinations may provide entirely new perspectives and responsibilities when it comes to elections, giving us both foresight and more than a little hindsight. Surely, pairing these two between the covers of this anthology meets that criteria well.	2003-12-21
US	52205720	R1681H8ROE0YSF	0812575458	215010979	Executive Privilege	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Realities of Modern Life	Our Presidential roots suggests that it is entirely possible that a Presidential divorce would be out of the question given our high expectations of the office, its perks, and the dynamics under which it operates - while in office, as well as beyond it. However, given the nature of today's world, and the number of divorces that afflict the majority of the population, it is certainly an interesting concept to grapple with in the event it was ever a privilege at that executive level. In reviewing the concept, I had difficulty confining it to only future Presidents and was reminded of the difficulties other Presidential wives encountered, and what might have prompted a desire for divorce. For example, Jacqueline Kennedy might have been in such a situation had her husband not been assassinated prematurely. The complications of any divorce are difficult but must be nearly intolerable in such a prominent arena, thereby, encouraging the simplicity of dalliances rather than full blown affairs that might culminate in divorce for either party. It's obviously of some merit that the author decided to explore this unique, and conceivably legitimate topic since our Presidents are not usually permitted the luxury of being the human beings they might be without the pomp and circumstances that accompanies the office, sadly. The very tall order of the Presidential role does not easily lend itself to the rigors of daily life and freedom of relationships that might be formed outside of the &quot;box,&quot; for the President or a First Lady. Perhaps, there is something to consider about placing older, and well established persons in the office, unlikely to encounter the typical stresses that often befall younger persons (whose hormones might still be active enough to pose such problems) where the good of the nation is of the utmost importance, or realize that Presidents do require a measure of privacy to prevent being so honor bound to be mounted upon the pedestal of stone so that theymust endure such unearthly existences. We rarely reflect upon the fact that everyone appreciates freedom as well as privacy and safety - including Presidents and First Ladies.	2003-12-15
US	52205720	RJA43IPH42OOF	0743224221	570752224	Buck Up, Suck Up . . . and Come Back When You Foul Up: 12 Winning Secrets from the War Room	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Prophetic Town Meeting Upon the Boston Common 2003	Between Carville &amp; Hightower, the only Clinton who owes America right now might be William J., himself, since he may well be the only person to be able to have the moral authority to remind us just how much has been stolen of the conditions, programs, and advantages his administration tried to install, before he drifted off into the sunset, presumably to fight AIDS and to play golf, neither of which &quot;aids&quot; America all that much. For such a self professed patriot, it begins to look like he, himself, needs to take another ride or two upon that merry go round he stepped down from so graciously, and take the son, Billy, like the father, to the woodshed for having stolen the best of what America has produced in a long time. Few others are in a position to do that delicate job, but in having beaten the father, he may have to also beat the son. No other candidates appear to have the stomach for it. It's a star wars rooted design, and Mr. Clinton should be on the front line rather than lounging around like Jaba the Hut. Carville may have been more prophetic than he ever knew in his early bird production of this vision, and the dilemma of America from earlier times. But then, he is a veteran, and most veterans view the world differently from newbies. In this case, right may be might, or, it will continue to be wrong.	2003-11-30
US	52205720	RLNQ5Z5WYGWQT	1584773405	891886431	Probate Confiscation: Unjust Laws Which Govern Woman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Economic Handicap of Women	An extraordinarily early account of the continuing plagaue of women's &quot;second class&quot; citizenship among the laws of our nation, carried in their most absolute form from England that today forms the basis of legal revision that remains a source of instability for women and for children. The evolution of the legal code for women is defined, illustrated and carried to its natural conclusion in this most illuminating account of why women have always sought greater control over their lives, their children, and as beneficiaries of their marital status to which they, in theory, are entitled, but which, too often, is ignored in favor of the certainty of profits by the fiduciaries appointed to oversee the economic welfare of her and her children. Although laws have changed to some degree, they continue to reflect these old patterns, and cultural stereotypes, as evidenced in many unfortunate practical aspects of current probate, custody, and child support law. Women continue to be unrepresented except as children in many circumstances that undermine their rights of citizenship entitled to legal protection and in positive social welfare progressive programs. Well worth the reading for cultural awareness, and comparison to today's treatment as auxiliary to male rights of citizenship by virtue of income, alone.	2003-11-28
US	52205720	R2YTQJSQPV5MUQ	1558504702	77459607	All Politics Is Local: And Other Rules of the Game	Books	5	1	15	N	N	Evolution of Family Power and Money	To the uninformed, political popularity that arises from local power would seem to be due to extraordinary abilities in the economic and social power circles of geographic regions. In assessing the impact, however, of the geographic dispersion of power, what becomes evident from genealogical studies is that families grow in power and prestige from intentional, and sometimes, discriminatory and malicious exlusion where power is meant to be concentrated within the &quot;family group,&quot; sometimes extended to friends, and even sometimes, to female family members, etc. Contrary to the popular Soprano perspective of increasing power blocs to thwart competition, it is often the usurping of power by closely knit unrelated forceful groups that have been able to break the chain of privileged, presumptive entitlement created by the social aristocracy from which pre-19th Century economic wealth has grown, and often continues to be reserved like the fine champagne it is, and has always been. The difficulty of extending the benefits of these fine wines of privilege arises in the knowledge vacuum of the ever growing pyramid of members unaware of their heritage, and their potential inclusion, thereby winnowing benefits to ever, smaller groups of the noticeably &quot;well bred, and therefore, well educated.&quot; The antithesis of democratic equality therefore operates only as a parallel universe, a poor relative, to the long ago entrenched, forcing greater stress among all those left behind, and supposed to be included, to ever greater methods of producing influence to share in the producive resources available. This strain on democracy results in local strangleholds by political players desperate to combat the forces of the closed society that has evolved as America where geographically local rules govern success. To some purists, then, the fact that all politics is local is not successful democracy but a demonstration of a failed democracy as an idealistic form of government.	2003-11-28
US	52205720	RA7QZHT29ZSLE	0891061444	218573761	Careerpreneurs: Lessons from Leading Women Entrepreneurs on Building a Career Without Boundaries	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's About Time.....	Finding a method of being a mother first and working to provide income rather than slaving to provide a meager income and also having children would be useful to most women (and probably favored by men). As yet, the priority problem between children and working has been solved by so few except those who can afford child care and cleaning help, that most of women's entrepreneurship - including professional employment - is lost in translation! Hopefully this book can help. For men to conclude that women are more than women-children would also help despite the fact that most don't want to be men, contrary to Freud, and those that fantasize over him and his views.	2003-10-02
US	52205720	R1RMH281GIZ3T7	0678005516	591866204	Universal Dictionary of Trade and Commerce (Reprints of economic classics)	Books	5	0	7	N	N	Alexander Hamilton's Choice	From the Broadus Mitchell  book about Alexander Hamilton, the claim is that much of, if not most of, the Treasury policy for the U.S. came from this source, just out  in 1751, just in time to dazzle Congress with &quot;brilliant ideas&quot; from the &quot;best and brightest,&quot; at the time, Alex or so they thought. Since no one except Broadus Mitchell, a Hamilton advocate, seems to identify Hamilton's source of brilliance, who could know? Obviously, with much to learn about this early British economist who also wrote about the Slave Trade economics at the time in 1745, especially in America, and how it related to the British economy, it appears there is a great deal of work to do to unravel the mess, 350 years later. Finding its source may be just the thing to examine the heart of the matter, and how America was led down this not so glorious garden path.	2003-08-27
US	52205720	RSPNN7Q72CRZQ	0028629043	835222856	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Being Psychic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Psychi-atric Intuition	When we begin to decide not to fear the world of the mind and embrace it for its unknown rather than condemning its capacity, we may begin to tap into the wonderful rich resource that prevents throwing away the exquisite benefits it offers - daily - to understand each of us, and our integrated existence in the world about us including those with whom we share this wonderful experience of being alive. Rather than fighting it, we might appreciate the opportunities we now ignore as unworthy of our attention and our awareness that now must beat us over the head to compete with our well conditioned intellect to keep us falling all over each other like buffoons, or fish swimming upstream.<br />Having long relegated those spiritually and intellectually moved by what appears to be paranormal or divine intervention, and too often warehousing them in psychiatric offices and asylums, we may be ignoring what has always been a natural function of living because of our fear and confusion.<br />As human animals possessed of instinctive intuition, gut reactions are far more likely to be right than wrong given openminded perceptions, yet we continually outsmart ourselves with the precautions we require of ourselves to appear normal usually making our lives far worse in the process than they need to be.<br />A comprehensive survey like this one provides the alternatives to reduce that fear, to become sensitive to our own potential and to assess the purposes for which we have been assigned this marvelous instinct or intuition, when it can be relied upon to work, and when it might not based upon our ethical use of it and the expectations in our approach of its acceptance in using it. <br />While unlikely to anticipate the wealth that arises from tapping into it as a rich resource of information, respect for individual capacity in recognizing its power, can produce the intangible benefits that are characteristic of its availability. Without being confined to the type of wealth it affords, an entire world of instinctive intuition that, undiscarded, works to our benefit to unlock that potential. The key is to keep the mind open to those possibilities and respect the human process rather than focusing upon the goal that we &quot;think&quot; we might be seeking and allow the process to work unfettered to unlock those riches.	2003-08-13
US	52205720	RJ5MOQKA9C3TT	0872660214	44974695	Aaron Burr Conspiracy	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Legitimate American Tales of Enormous Political Importance	Because of the fact that two lives were ruined among the many that were disrupted, strained and burdened by the complexity of political wars taken to the extreme, this &quot;first political conspiracy&quot; among our founding fathers legitimately deserves scruinty and re-evaluation in each generation for its lessons to remember. Far from an isolated event, scholarship shows that it was at the very heart of the interpretation and conclusion of whether, indeed, democracy can work, and how it can work to benefit participants, or to sacrifice them in a multiplicity of events that when bound together will inevitably produce either a good or a bad outcome, largely dependent upon the loyalty and dedication of the participants and their willingness to entertain different perspectives and personalities involved. By intuitive association, seeing both sides of the story is critical to appreciate the effects of &quot;practicing politics&quot; as a pagentry of honor to be played out upon a national public stage. It merely increases in complexity as the number of participants increases in recent history, and throws a cloud of suspicion over the entire process, generation to generation, the most recent examples, being, of course, JFK, RFK, and even the death of Martin Luther King, among others, perhaps, up to and including the most recent conspiracy/impeachment challenge of William Jefferson Clinton (though, presumably, no loss of life was apparent in that instance). The extent to which men (and women) may differ in political perspectives and express those within the culture of the times is the fulcrum upon which all of these political complications hinge, and have always, beginning with the Burr-Hamilton incident. The outcome in any a direct reflection of the cost/investment in political progress and our ability to accommodate the dimensions they require in hindsight, and to anticipate the future impact of similar divisions of political styles and the persons affected as much asit is upon the fabric of democracy itself. These cases form the &quot;underbelly&quot; of American democracy, its vulnerable parts that other government forms rarely encounter that much be accounted for in the United States due to the nature of its complex experiment that can become apparent only over time and may well determine its degree of success or failure ultimately as the ideal method of self government. It is as much a trial of America and her principles (in theory and in practice) arising from her Consitution and its history of effective performance to serve the needs of its citizens. Far from its idealistic roots, the obligation to assess its weaknesses can only help to strengthen the fragile pillars upon which it is built to insure the integrity of its structure without barnacles as the shining ship of state it professes to be and that we hold out to the world as the ideal form of government to insure total inclusion of all as stakeholders in a challenging venture of supreme importance to all. Beginning with this early period, the &quot;line of legacies&quot; that challenge democracy's foundation in all their complexity that together form the backside of the American family tree of political expression and its importance to the whole, exhibiting what might be called the &quot;sole&quot; of the democratic shoe, rather than its shiny, leather uppers usually presented complete with the holes of a nation that comes with the wear and tear of its arduous and endless journey bearing the weight of its existence as well as its choices.	2003-07-31
US	52205720	RSJSGL2HCBS5R	0664221408	769960277	From the Eye of the Storm: A Pastor to the President Speaks Out	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Not so Black and White Nature of Forgiveness &amp; Religion	The author is to be commended on taking up the topic of moral judgement and its associated companion of forgiveness in our rather primitive religious society where diversity is not the foundation upon which it is built. Not a criticizm, but a recognition that at the levels of CEO, or for a President, the weight of issues that crowd the mind (as well as the heart) are not easily dissembled into the primary parts that adhere to the simplicity of typical right and wrong assessments, for the mere fact that the reponsibilities of so many depend upon a fluid, or relative nature of morality in a context few people can imagine, and fewer still can manage. The offices do not lend themselves to the easy right and wrong answers that govern most people in their deliberations where only a few concerns need be addressed. That is not to suggest that being absolved of, or restrainted by a deep, abiding sense of moral justice is not required. Indeed, it alone is the guiding star of most persons in that position. But those fundamentals are woefully inadequate to the nature of the variables due to the stature of visibility and impact that is the natural result of the job, and the status. Modeling in such cases is not so easily obtained or reduced to its lowest common denominator of elements. Far too many Presidents (and CEO's) faced with difficult choices where someone will always be harmed by either decision, must grope with the multiple levels of moral judgement as described in the 6 steps of Kohlberg in 1981 who expressed the high level analysis that accompanies, or should accompany such positions that do not lend themselves to the toggle switch of morality that most religions teach as the process of making moral decisions. Getting to yes or no is, by and large, much more difficult in such cases, and may fall upon individuals who do not have those responsibilities as well, as, for example, in parenthood, in the teaching of values and how to reconcile competing interests. At onset,the dilemma may appear to be simple, and forthright to a casual observer, but may from someone else's perspective with greater knowledge and sensitivity to broader aspects of a dilemma, require different decisions to produce a desired outcome. The simplicity of historic and even current religious guidance is to quickly assume the need for conditioned responses which may not take larger consideration into account. Hence, toleration of both expression and decisionmaking in others is highly desirable, since few of us ever know exactly the circumstances and factors involved in someone's work decisions, much less their personal decisions, and especially not when they are uniquely combined in a position like President where carrying others concerns are as important as carrying one's own. It's good to see Dr. Wogaman undertake to help answer these questions to help relieve the moral burden from each of us, reminding us that morality is essentially a subjective perspective, even within Christian guidelines.	2003-07-30
US	52205720	R26PKGEH60GVBK	0879098740	397895828	Victimology: The Victim and His Criminal	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Unseen Guest	Having taken classes under this esteemed professor in 1969-1970 for a class in criminology, and assigned the book as mandatory reading, the greater scheme of how positives can become negatives are well outlined in this excellent treatise that examines society from the broader brush of choices and priorities of purpose and method, and whether they can be expected to achieve the ultimate goal. The process of social change, fraught with unseen dangers, and unanticipated results are rarely within the scope of protestors, criminals, or even negligent persons when crime is committed, any more than they are within the scope of those who attempt to change society in a positive manner by the quick fix methods they all claim will work like the snake oil salesman (consultants or politicians, do-gooders, or even ministers) they are. The unique perspectives found within the examples of this excellent study of human disasters should make the book required reading for all who would alter society in unconventional ways because even the waves of immediate success have undercurrents and aftercurrents of backwash, much like the backdraft that can accompany the fires made famous in fireman's lore and depicted on screen. The first rescuers in are often the victims of this backlash as they are in entrepreneurial ventures. When solutions are made to capture both the victim and the criminal in the net of either criminal or social science and welfare policies designed to fix one, both often are enveloped within the tangle of not so seaworthy solutions. Of note is the fact that the book was a lifelong effort by the author in many countries and in many expert capacities where he evaluated the potential of the dilemma, and examined the aftermath of the solution, much like a forensic examiner of the trainwreck that once occurred, needs to be explored for the knowledge of prevention in the future. It was also published during the time of civil rights where angry protesting formed the platform for the backlash of resentment and free flow of animosity into which the good efforts at revolution descended, much like the characterization of the Anti-vietnam platform that plagued the nation for so many years. In an engagement that requires two or more, both and all are forever caught among the outcome, whether they prefer to be there or not, and are rarely easily extricated with great success, being both fused into the problem as well as the solution, and inseparable apart from it. Well worth the reading for the insight and the direction so desperately needed in policy programming today.	2003-07-17
US	52205720	R123BZSJEAVHTC	0805058265	37432183	Passionate Marriage: Keeping Love and Intimacy Alive in Committed Relationships	Books	5	7	75	N	N	Counting the Strike Outs!	Although it's always worth a try - many, in fact. The difficulty of self help books is that too often, couples find that either one or both are never quite ready for the ultimate fix at the same time, much like the realm of sexual desire. It also happens that despite the fact that it takes two to tango, each may be on a separate platform with the prospect of what is seemingly the grand canyon between them. Since most people can't fly, the task seems worthy of what might be required of a world class gymnist, or aerial acrobat to arrive together on the same platform, assuming each decides that that location is the ideal place to unite or reunite. If they can overcome gravity, and desire to, the reality may be worth it, but the trip over may well be treacherous, and even defy the odds. In that case, however ideal it may be, this advice may help that prospect, but is, in no event, made for cowards. Hence, it may well be the decision to try to fly by sheer willpower, and one that society doesn't exactly understand or support, which, of course, encourages the self questioning of whether it is worthy of the extravagant effort. Since only discomfort tends to \\"move\\" people, the odds are much like winning the lottery with the extraordinary odds against that probability. But, people try daily to win, don't they, in hopes of winning the big one?	2003-07-13
US	52205720	R2S1V7Z2QOEYX1	0802072380	127736522	More Alike Than Different: Treating Severely Dissociative Trauma Survivors (Heritage)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Tolled and Climbing	The value of identifying the traumas associated with abuse enables an understanding of the extent of the disassociative state that allows concepts to govern practicalities as they are known throughout the traditional world. While most have presumed muliple impact to be all negative, and all psychologically damaging, the unique reactions and perceptions of the independent who finds himself or herself in this state, may have more in common with history's uncommon thinkers than to be assigned the category of ill or eccentric. Einstein, Freud, the Wright Brothers, and Edison may all have had interestingly common experiences that result in unique perspectives, etc., and inventions that depart from traditional design. Writing off even severely dissociative trauma victims is as much a mistake as writing off associative non-trauma victims as boring and uninteresting. While different approaches to value may be necessary or required for such a person to be productive, the effort is well worth the results. The key is often difficult to find, even harder to use, and sometimes fraught with danger and/or disappointment, but the obscure brilliance that lies dormant perhaps even encased in its own uniquely configured protective armor yields sometimes surprising results, a common outcome in such instances. The careful and delicate psychological surgery required to enable fruition is not for amateurs and not for the biased and conforming. Openmindedness and a nonjudgemental attitude is a prerequisite, however, since at the sight of danger, the psychologically frail and vulnerable multi-impacted victim envelops him or herself in safety by returning to the cocoon in which he or she is most familiar and comfortable. It is definitely not for the uninitiated, and definitely not for cowards. Generally, the widest scope or range of resources are required to address the many conflicting messages that are typical of the breed to correct the errors of past performance in an environment of acceptance, stimulation, understanding. Most thrive under the influence of empathetic souls who may be able to help guide them in a trusting relationship of unquestioning loyalty. The relevance of such an analysis is that currently more numbers of children have become victims of multiple trauma in busy, economically challenged families where one or both parents work, and have little time for the nurturing that might be present but are missing.	2003-07-09
US	52205720	R243JFC599MQE7	0743243412	591087141	Wacky Chicks: Life Lessons from Fearlessly Inappropriate and Fabulously Eccentric Women	Books	5	4	46	N	N	Shades of the Butterfly	Men and women are incredibly complex creatures, especially by the time they reach the age of 25 or so, the time they begin to search for compatible mates. Women too often are undeveloped in that they are not the explorers they might be, and men are more likely than not to have been more explorers than they can handle sufficient to reduce themselves to the stability of marital life, bliss or not, requiring the kinds of responsibilities expected from husbands. This dissonance is not easily abridged by couples, heterosexual or homosexual. Still completing development from childhood, and conditioned by society in all manner of inconsistent methods of marital intimacy, and even possibly of dishonor of women, a relationship is unlikely to reach the breadth and depth required of marriage without each insisting upon their own unique personality, that, hopefully, will coincide with each other to produce a fruitful relationship that complements rather than supplements. While every person brings supplemental attributes to a union, complementary traits are critical to its survival. Hence, pretense and good behavior is always wrong. First, it never stays good, and it usually can't survive the brighter light of day in its pretense over long periods. Wishing is best for stars, and fountains; not for relationships. They either work or they don't, with some modicum of flexibility. They are either inspirational to each other, or they are not. They believe in each other or not; they allow each other the freedom required of healthy living or they don't, without serious accommodation and without stalking each other. Any occasion of stalking is usually a bad sign, showing distrust, mistrust, and weak flaws that show an undeveloped relationship, if not one incompatible and incomplementary. Compatiblity always shows without effort and without the need for show. Commitment is always a two way street, and cannot work otherwise since one is always left behind, usually repetively, and usuallyalways the same one. Reciprocity always works, always honors, and is usually attentive enough to qualify as love. Very little else is. When it is unlikely to work, the signs are visible and deep, both to the individuals and publicly. Compatibles do become like each other and don't seek others, as close friends or as lovers. Either shows defects that may be insurmountable and will require an eternal uphill battle to survive, usually without considerable success. Forced decisions rarely turn out good because the commitment of both has not had time to develop sufficiently. It is not about freedom, but about commitment. With commitment, there is no need of restraint...the butterfly comes to rest where it is most comfortable and wants to be, be it male or female. Love can produce discontent, but not wanderlust. Wanderlust shows a desire for more. Discontent shows burdens difficult to bear. Where wanderlust exists, dissatisfaction exists from lack of readiness and commitment, not necessarily lack of desire or lack of ambition. Adaptability is the only recourse for lack of readiness along the faulty and struggling path of reducing potential alternatives into the too small space because of the ill fit, representing opportunities lost, or perceived as lost, causing regret and forced self containment. It is a sad outcome as the basis for a relationship that was designed for flowering, and developing into the blossom designed for it, preferably before the potential of children become the self selected boundary of reality contemplated. Nature provides the impetus for these life inspirations if couples are well matched and ready for commitment to each other, knowledgeable and open to the changes that naturally affect each, altering the individual into one half of a couple ready to embrace the difficulties of life's challenges together.	2003-07-08
US	52205720	R3GLQJTTHWGN2T	1572242310	310846468	Children of the Self-Absorbed: A Grown-Up's Guide to Getting over Narcissistic Parents	Books	5	25	157	N	N	Flying Upon Leashes	So sad that the forlorn must rely upon their children to provide the solace and stroking that many parents are not receiving from either their parents or their spouses, that causes them to look to their children to fill the loss. If teaching the world to sing might be considered ideal, helping adults avoid having to burden their children would be even better. Not actually guilt, but the restraint that prevents them from flying free, as if eagles tied by a tether upon a foot, the eagles quickly learn that freedom comes with limits. Spouses sometimes do the same for fear of being left behind, or from sheer jealousy, irrespective of how well they themselves are doing in their own lives. Although often seen as a need for control, it is, in fact, a desire for control more than a need, the need expressed only in the panic, anxiety, and loss after the object of their safety is out of sight, perhaps to prevent being out of mind. To insure their security, a pattern of capture and release - the greatest roller coaster of all of life - falls upon the victim, entrapped by attached emotions, and too fearful to let go. When both spouses feel thus, co-dependency is the result, addicted to the security even without safety. In parent-child relationships, it becomes impossible for the child to \\"mature\\" because he or she feels tethered forever clouding the breakthrough of individual vision, allowed the security of parental nurturing but not free to fly alone or with a favored companion/spouse. Mistrust of the bonds of love become rooted to creep throughout the human organism to prevent the development of full love measured by mutual sharing; a Linus syndrome where the blanket becomes the \\"comfort anchor\\" required to shadow the individual to feel normal, or the little guy with cloud that follows him around. Trust requires the natural severance between parent and child (like the bird from the nest learns to fly) so the child may develop the independence to test his or her own knowledgeand confidence, hopefully to be folded into relationship with a chosen, and well selected spouse who offers similar confidence in well developed abilities with only a minimum amount of support because of that trust, that confidence, and the faith that the relationship may stand on its own without being coddled, pandered to, or reversion to old patterns of pre-development independence where the new spouse becomes the new tether that provides security shed for self actualization and exploration. Much like an airplane remotely controlled, or a kite on a string, flying within boundaries is usually all that can happen unless someone who recognizes the invisible thread encourages its cutting, allowing Willie to go free like the whale held captive by habit. Transitions are always painful and difficult terrain to traverse since they are always fraught with uncertainties built too often on mistrust requiring the fledgling to return to the nest for security and safety absent the anxiety that comes far too naturally. Normally absent, the tethers of the narcissistic stroke and reward to an extent that it undermines self confidence and self esteem inducing paranormal reliance on the source. Children of the narcissistic may become devoted to a fault, almost too attentive from the guilt and expectations they have been conditioned to honor and respect in repetitive minor losses of independence that are nearly unnoticeable. Sensitive parents and spouses aware of this weakness offer support by strengthening self reliance without abandonment to wean the young for his or her own strength of character to aid self reliance without any loss of love required for trusting relationships to encourage natural maturity.	2003-07-08
US	52205720	R2Y5H8NXIT40YW	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	1	19	N	N	Death Bed Conversions	The power of death bed conversions recognizes the fact of the now, and the importance of the soul of each human being that supercedes the convention of society and how expectations guide the things that stir our souls, the moral spirituality that honors the life within, the the heart that beats with less time than it had yesterday. Death bed conversions honors the total person that forsees a time when the body no longer serves the soul, but is frail and helpless in its humanity. The inspiration that allows a person to be, and feel alive, is one that is intensely personal, and one that has a uniquely subjective outlook designed to maximize the moment, as the dying swans's extended overture of an end game of enormous proportions, the experience of many before us.  The inspiration to extend the earthly time to accomplish both bodily and mindfully important tasks meant to appease the soul of any individual in his or her capacity to influence the vision of his or her surroundings before life drifts into the oblivion of being erased. It relies not upon the acceptance of others but the recognition that what good or help might be completed is far superior to the desires or expectations of others who might limit, curtail, or prevent that instinctively agressive human impetus - to full personal objectives, according to one's own internal clock as seen from the perception of life in its full contemplation of limits, and consistent with one's own priorities. This exercise of the free will is incredibly important and a part of the human experience that reveals the instinctive man or women struggling to fulfill its total mission on earth, to achieve the serenity that will allow it to disappear in honor, respect, and dignity, the ideal of every human being destined to disappear in his or her own good time. This soul clock is untamed by man or religion since it conceives its intent from one's own self perception of possibilities and potential, played out upon the abbreviated passing of time that is allocated to each of us. Hence, the inspired rushes through to accomplish everything possible since haste forecloses both complacency and the untimeliness of those before us, built into our instinctive sense of time. So, we challenge the propriety of inconsistency or incongruency of spiritual risk to develop fully the human potential of our destiny or what we feel is our destiny by the vibrations which flow through us. Life being somewhat uncertain, the body and the soul clock each attune themselves to each other to accomplish this human mission, hopefully with time to spare. It is God's gift, this instinct for survival, for mission and for directive, a self help unique to each individual, aware of his own frailty and of his own potential, at once, his personal collage of significance, all too aware of his or her personal contract with his maker, and in harmony.	2003-07-08
US	52205720	R15CPLK0LWILZT	0060518057	591760941	Dilbert and the Way of the Weasel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Way of the Weasel more active in Politics	Political weaseldom, interestingly, has been raised to an artform rarely seen in the annals of business where performance is more easily seen. Recent political practice shows the &quot;way of the weasel&quot; growing exponentially among the consultants and political promoters. What is always surprising, however, is the number of times that the weasel is proud of his weaseldom, and in fact, takes credit for many of the beneficial events that occur, as if their services were vital and irreplaceable, the conjecture being, supposedly, that at some future point, the narcessist weasel will become the main event, the heir to the throne. The affliction is alive and well in most political circles and represents a growth industry to Dilbert, or some enterprising soul, since the cartoons strike so many accurate chords and are seen by so many as incredibly precise. Of course, political weasels are so visible that they make easily identifiable targets, prone as they are to capitalize upon their weasledom, consistent with their narcissistic personalities, ususally to the detriment of their unwary prey. What a golden opportunity for reflection and characterization. If there are classes of weasels in business, there may be many more in the political arena, perhaps too numerous to classify, ranging from pretend loyalists to pretend enemies, always in an effort to maximize the moment, a boon for cartoonists who thrive upon the vulnerabilities and the flaws of their targets. An insightful and timely foray into the art of the weasle, but merely a beginning to understanding either the corporate or the political weasle. A great start!	2003-07-06
US	52205720	R1AX2WS2RWXB9S	0891092897	609278879	The Wounded Heart: Hope for Adult Victims of Childhood Sexual Abuse	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Superb Title	For the title alone, I would read this book since it recognizes that anything that happens to a person, or any experience, affects the heart and soul as well as the attitude and perspective, all of which are required to be reconciled in order to trust another, and to entrust oneself to another. Few recognize the extent to which the heart is so wholly involved in anyone's personal experience. Truly, each person can be thought to have a \\"purple heart\\" that thrives from passion, and/or resists pain. This should be on the cardiac book of the year list for an award given the nature of anxiety, its causes, and the probability of physical and emotional disturbances that result from not recognizing the degree to which the heart is involved in healthy living, a design worthy of the soul's honor and need for self help. Because all abuse is, and can be, sexual abuse, or more specifically, human abuse, the book is pertinent to everyone, to heal or to help.	2003-07-05
US	52205720	RA4OOHCXQNLRB	0830816461	317243143	Haunted Marriage: Overcoming the Ghosts of Your Spouse's Childhood Abuse	Books	5	4	61	N	N	Haunted Houses	Because the body is the house of the soul, it should not be necessary to focus on abuse, either emotional or sexual - actually, one and the same, really, as limited only to females; many men are composites of enormous stress, unresolved conflict resolution, and highly leveraged disciplinary measures from childhood and indeed up until manhood. As I watched a parent today require his 2 year old son to remain sitting in the chair he was in (despite his son's drive to \\"move\\" consistent with nature's instinct and drive), I wondered how such patterns of restraint might affect him, and their relationship later. What messages were being sent by the father? What messages were received by the son? Beyond the fact of this dominance display, the reasons were frail if not inadequate to produce the mandate in this instance, although they are not always. The pattern was used throughout the day by both parents, and I wondered if they were trying to teach \\"patience, and self restraint\\" in so young a child who is little more than a bundle of energy, new to the possibility of moving, and hence, inspired by his new found ability. What happens to the desire to move when it is so abrubtly curtailed in so young a soul? When nature conflicts with man's desire to control nature, doesn't nature always find a different avenue of expression, some not so natural? Requiring a child to \\"stay,\\" as if he were a pet may not be the ideal method to teach values or mechanics, but instead displays power that children are apt to emulate as they become adults. While safety is always an issue for children, convenience often supercedes the issues of safety and become the dominating factor in relationships instead, to the detriment of nature's logical progress, destroying the ability to reach the compromises characteristic of natural selection. Nature rarely destroys, but instead adapts.	2003-07-05
US	52205720	R1KMFEKO2LUPG8	0891097031	240695268	Bold Love	Books	4	3	19	N	N	The Measure and Weight of Love	Like a democracy, love is not a passive sport for mere observation as spectator, but a full commitment involving our deepest convictions expressed with total &quot;surround sound&quot; Godly spirituality, preferably in stereo with vision for its potential, awareness of its vulnerability, and respect for its limits, governed mostly by the delicacy of its timing to produce the progress expected of it. As a living expression of feeling and attachment, it could not be otherwise and still be called love. The passion poured into its potential arises from belief in both its effectiveness and trust in its methods to derive the heights of mutual benefit capable from that attention, devotion and commitment, as an investment in that object, child or adult. It is the opportunity to play the music of the soul upon the heart of another, to be moved by the exchange of inspiration and enchantment, hopefully reflected back in the precise measure of that grant, or gift. Lack of faith cannot produce bold love, the only love that is capable of full commitment in practice and in theory. Anything less is shallow, by definition, and unworthy of the effort.	2003-07-05
US	52205720	R35J8NQ47XKK14	0743214277	479818734	Why Is It Always About You?: The Seven Deadly Sins of Narcissism	Books	5	6	70	N	N	Clinton's Nemesis?	Long familiar with the patterns of, if not the vocabulary of, the narcisstic personality (and what woman isn't?), delving into its unique characteristics, I am surprised to see the syndrome invoked into the political arena in the last several years, by even trusted advisers - perhaps the source of the idiom, &quot;politics makes strange bedfellows?&quot;<br />Hindsight brings forth numerous perspectives that are not exactly recognizable at &quot;first glance,&quot; but narcissistic personalities and their effects are not difficult to appreciate when the phenomena is seen in a realistic light. While Clinton, himself, may be a narcissist of varying degree, the number of narcissists surrounding him were far greater in number and degree than perhaps he may have been, adding to the speculation that his Presidency could not have been unaffected by this very real burden. Simply measuring the number of persons in his cadre who catapulted to prominence during and after his terms in office reveal the prevalence of this phenomena at work, perhaps in any Presidency, the rather unique well of synchronous abjectivity that has come to reflect the office and its use. Whether the impeachment proceedings were an evolution of the syndrome or not, they are certainly open to question and scrutiny as to the existence of the opportunity embedded, and taken advantage of, by whomever might have been benefited at the time and thereafter. No partisan conspiracies required. The fact that the Democratic Party itself is partitioned in divided loyalties of long time standing itself increases the probability that such phenomena existed. Any everyone is familiar with the fact that narcissistic personalities are drawn to politics like flies, ..er, bees. What better reservoir in which to sample the honey that flows from the office, no matter who inhabits the &quot;throne?&quot; In fact, it would be unlikely and abnormal if such phenomena were not present. More normal is that it is alive and ongoing as a matter of course, as it is in most &quot;power circles.&quot; At best, the task becomes defining just who might have really been Clinton's nemesis, after all, which means analyzing who are the underlying &quot;big game hunters&quot; among the many probabilities. Interesting inquiries, for sure, given the number of pole-vaults from his &quot;side,&quot; - during his &quot;rise and fall.&quot;	2003-06-28
US	52205720	R3SRVR7BOIHDE1	0156695006	716502903	On Violence (Harvest Book)	Books	5	16	33	N	N	Castration and Power	The irony of viewing the natural need of men (and increasingly, women) to view power as dominance over rather than as a part of a coooperative spirit toward mutual goals is the foundation of this articulate and simple philosophy where violence becomes a part of the political and economic landscape. Arendt stopped short of asking to what extent men will sacrifice to acquire the power through violence that is supposedly the motive underlying the methods used. When males sacrifice both their honor and their natural masculinity for power, one wonders what limit, if any, is man willing to condone in himself to \\"win\\" the power or money he fervently and diligently pursues. Although supposedly, man comes equipped with the height of survival instinct, it is remarkable how willing he is to castrate himself in pursuit of essentially man made goals that symbolize success, often crippling many others in the process without hesitation, too often, in violation of the religious teachings of compassion and brotherhood. Given this rather historically well documented pattern of acceptance in mankind, it appears the decision to request increasingly more of man's sacrifice for that pursuit tilts the seesaw in the other direction. What man hath wrought, man will deliver in the finest mode of free market principles, leaving us to question whether indeed there are limits to what man ought to be asking other men to do, i.e., to what extent moral and logical principles are allowed to become the modifying influence that limits the scope of that pursuit and the credible measure by which such decisions are made.	2003-06-05
US	52205720	R3ETA92T1IAFYP	0312099150	395932577	Southern Ladies & Gentlemen	Books	5	7	27	N	N	Southern Perspective	The drawl that deceptively covers the importance of the very extensive scrutiny and judgment taking place in the Southern mind serves to avoid the unpleasantness that might be too prominent as practiced in the north, for Southern comfort. To be sure, the natural buffer - mostly learned from birth - is often misconstrued as ignorance or crudeness, but in fact, is largely underestimated by others of other regions of the nation who cannot seem to appreciate the gentility that lies beneath the exterior that is duly sensitive as a result, perhaps, of the Civil War, where modest humility had to become an acquired taste, and practiced sincerely and earnestly to provide dignity and respect in the new society that is the South. Mistakes are often made of the tolerance that Southerners have for lack of sensitivity and awareness of others, however, due to their history in that war, however, since most have a strict and rigid boundary of person and privacy, which when exceeded, nearly always produces backlash and disgrace borne of contempt for not upholding their lofty standards of interpersonal realations that emphasize the dignity and respect each person is deservedly entitled to. Most hometown southern ways are designed to manage those complexities with grace and delicacy without the disruption or indelicacy of full frontal confrontation which can often get out of hand due to their persistent spirit of independence. It's all in the interpretation, and the exposure!	2003-06-04
US	52205720	R9ZOHG9VZQ521	0670891924	974490303	The Art of Seduction	Books	5	5	24	N	N	Too Soon Lost Art	The greatest failure of seduction is the too narrow focus upon the end result rather than by creating the dimension that gives full flower to the arc that symbolizes the magnitude of the effort, and the anticipated expectations that, if given credence, and with God's blessing, promise to become extraordinary events, rare, prized, and spectacular. The glory that lies within the chase to ferret out the most mystical intriques of a heart, mind and soul fully engaged is not like any other human experience. It falls within the divine, as if magical, and produces momentous results if destined to be become a reality fused from fantasy and interest, and allowed its natural course of expression. Not often consistent, nor constant, the dalliances of the heart are driven by the dreams of fancy, recognized or not, and form a long thread of adhesion often in hindsight, much like following a trail of markings to seek a buried treasure. The rush to accelerate merely cuts off the flow of inspiration that would be naturally generated, as if nipping off the bud of a flowering tree that takes time to develop, and replaces it with both the pleasures and the sorrows of the powerful flames of a love reduced to embers never allowed to break into the bondfire it could have been. The comprehensive exploration of all natural currents and facets of life that culminates in the fusion of souls, for a couple, or a group, depends upon the level of commitment brought to such a mission and is distinctive by its artistic excellence rooted in the innocence, honesty and purity of truth, or fails for the lack of such commitment to appreciate the benefits of the ultimate goal. The requisite of patience and diligence provides an environment to reach fruition, or becomes the never ripened fruit that lacks the nutrients to develop. The heart, mind, soul connection may be instanteous but never explored loses its efficacy in humans because of their great capacity to love, and their instinctive privilege to add significance to both their method, and their style of expression, separating the adult from the child in nurturing full emotional development worthy of complete commitment. Half-hearted seductions, like evil or simulated seductions rarely produce great loves, recognizable by God.	2003-06-01
US	52205720	R3VIG1QOEEWRP0	0374527326	515834350	The Male Body: A New Look at Men in Public and in Private	Books	5	6	15	N	N	The Double Bubble Bind of Physique	The author has accurately characterized the perpetual dilemma of a nation at once embarrassed by its own sexual parts and unduly thrilled with having them revealed in pornography to the extent that neither males nor females are realistic about sex. Men are far more likely to be dependent upon the \\"ideal female sexuality\\" as exposed by media empires, at the not so subtle conditioning of Hefner and his Playboy editions over the years, while women are taking the \\"fast track\\" to the same attitudes, a unique opportunity to reveal sexual gender conditioning at work. While it might be possible to blame the Puritans for this \\"sordid affair,\\" in reality, it has not been targeted so blatantly at men until recently, instead preferring to ignore their sexuality as evil and dirty owing to their own inability to exceed their inhibitions. All the while, women are challenged and encouraged to exceed theirs, the double bubble that fuels the taboo of pornography as well as realistic portrayals of gender differences. Sexless men often produce sexually aggressive women for some reason as women perhaps feel more comfortable to be revealing. Since there has never been a time when men were free to reference their sexuality or their sexual parts, it is as yet unknown whether a more accurate balance of propriety may eventually become the norm. Definitely it is a logical probability, however, based upon the attitudes of those in other countries who accept both their sexuality more easily, and are less brainwashed in their acceptance of the sexual diversity in gender as well as in the diverse physical characteristics of either gender that does not limit sexual ideals only to the plastic idealistic models of beauty so prevalent in the U.S., size wise, color wise, or in other aspects of appearance, certainly, a healthier approach to gender than defining beauty and sexual attraction only to the Kens and Barbies of the world. This would and does constitute sexual appearance selectivity and discrimination as presented and as applied.	2003-05-31
US	52205720	R3NYP4DQF1MZWL	0938817434	753234882	The Bunny Years: The Inside Story of the Playboy Clubs and the Women Who Worked as Bunnies	Books	4	10	36	N	N	Hefner's Bulging Envelope Finally Burst	Left with little more than a question of the significance of the fact that the Playboy Bunny upon whom the Clubs relied for survival was able to withstand the storm of protests that were the context of the Steimem brand of feminist philosophy, it's clear that Hefner may have undermined his own success - with clubs at least - and the potential that might have been possible - under the weight of boundaries pushed too far. Where the ideal of the Bunny and the simple design which made it so popular to men and women alike were seduced into the conflict with Guccione and the Penthouse decision to \\"bare all\\" in the name of exploitive art, the envelope burst at the seams along with the integrity of the costumes that showcased their popularity into profits, crippling what was then a burgeoning industry accepted by both males and females alike into one that was far beyond its capacity to deliver in a civilized world. The fact that there were never public bars in Playboy Clubs where singles could congregate as there are in strip clubs is evidence of the fact that Playboy Clubs and Bunnies were never intended to be the solitary fascination of exploitive men, but highly trained social vehicles to stimulate the ease of social gatherings in clubs that valued the heights of glamour and glitz that often constitutes the epitome of entertainment, and their venues, for the comfort and pleasure of the customer entitled to value for the money paid. At their heyday, they provided that environment to both men and women alike in an era where males, always better paid, were always willing to celebrate their manly and gentlemanly generosity and pay the bills to be so lavishly courted, and society managed to find ways to do that, unlike today. It was also a time when women recognized the value in allowing them that courtesy without having to feel ashamed or obligated to be shown that courtesy simply because they accepted the fact that their company alone was worth it. In the \\"feminist-offended\\" world of today, the ultra-sensitivity of economic disparity has challenged the self esteem of both to a point where only unisex is honorable and worthy of recognition. The author's very astute observation of the fact that the skill and comfort attained by females in the industry had no problem keeping their femininity - AND - converting those skills into personal and professional achievements in a world of both men and women, usually that had little to do with glamour and glitz, but without having to sacrifice that in order to succeed in the world of work. In ignoring gender differences and restricting their natural expression, the opportunity for exaggerated unnatural expression was greatly accelerated in the use and proliferation of strip clubs that greatly diminish the potential of graceful distinction and convert it too often into disgraceful appreciation of female intimacy and its boundaries, leaving a wide gulf of respectable chaos in its wake that has yet to be addressed or resolved.	2003-05-31
US	52205720	R4LV8AXJAPRXF	0785265392	946786743	Date...or Soul Mate? How To Know If Someone Is Worth Pursuing In Two Dates Or Less	Books	5	2	103	N	N	Mutual Benefits	Finding the one is a process of learning the difference between males and females, and the roles they perform in dual gendered relationships, and in some homosexual relationships. Conditioned to choose between one of two options which may come naturally to males - of either 1) search and destroy for dominance that the military and other organizations sometimes find so useful, or 2) possess and control, also for dominance - females seeking soul mates and/or loves of their lives are required to seek instinctively the male upon whom she may influence sufficiently to share the life of a male to the extent that she may modify the intensity of either choice. Often, that modification is merely a guide, or anchor, of how, when and where to focus those natural tendencies in her male to achieve the desired result, assuming she has respect of the male upon whom she relies. Without such influence, she has neither credence nor function except as ornament, social or economic freeloader, or servant. This time-tested tradition is not well documented, nor examined for its efficacy but may properly characterize the stress of living with males who are automatically thrust into the competitive arena. It rarely works in reverse however for some reason since women are not known to require this kind of support, nor have they traditionally found it in abundance among men to use at their disposal. Characteristically, the simplicity of this model may be applied to women to define the unique strengths males bring to the lives of women beyond the biological capacity of fertilizing them to produce children. Since the world continues to be mostly male oriented, however, we have yet to reach the question in order to answer it adequately. It may lie within the realm of security, however, to aid women in the blossoming of their confidence as they mature, and forming the parameters of any boundaries which may exist. Qualify under ....beyond the chemical balance of gender dynamics.	2003-05-31
US	52205720	R2DUKFXVW07MY5	080247134X	168150151	Bonds of Iron: Forging Lasting Male Relationships (Men of Integrity Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Amercian Friendships and Sources	Within the realm of Family Values, children are taught to value not only family, but also friendships. As adults, however, there is great pressure to discount the value of friendships among males and females, between men, and between women - particularly where marriage values are strong. For many adults who live away from childhood friends, or who have no childhood friends, close emotional support expected to be found in friendships may not be present, or cultivated as the necessary social relations they are. Most are the result of work or sports groups with whom people spend time but may not contain the emotional depth of childhood friends. The quality of dual gender non-spousal friendships is always suspect, increasing the need for male friends, or female friends, which may not be readily available for the types of associations adults require, as the natural consequence of having had childhood friends. Patterns of friendships and their sources (as well as their depth) is one of the little studied human behavior, perhaps the world over. At times, even the quality of friendships is undefined and confusing often being the result of mutually beneficial social or economic relationships rather than the simple, mutual appreciation and admiration of that between childhood friends. Intergenerational friendships, if at all, are often those associated with grandparents or other family members rather than outsiders, and increasingly problematic in view of recent news articles where children are exploited through friendship. A review and evaluation of the integrity of relationships between friends is more likely the need which this analysis begins to address to understand the need for, and the quality of, real friendships and hopefully, how they are made, since, for men, quality friendships are increasingly rare commodities unless they are rooted in the trust of childhood friends, carried over to adulthood. A relatively new field of exploration, the dynamics of adult friendships is unexplored territory in human relations.	2003-05-26
US	52205720	R2OO3X4L2DQKXE	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	34	70	N	N	First of Many Attempts	Still early to fully comprehend the dilemmas Clinton faced in the oval office as a result of partisan anxiety that erupted in the witch hunt that produced the impeachment side trip through which the media had a field day, and from which they've yet to recover, there is little doubt that sooner or later, it will become evident that despite those &quot;complications,&quot; Clinton followed Kennedy's style and perhaps his agenda from the outset. The dichotomy and enigma that continues to frustrate authors, however, is the failure to identify the different perspectives the two had in terms of support, and in personality when attacked. Where Kennedy may have been strong enough to dismiss attempts to discredit him, Clinton was hard pressed to contain his resentment, so prominent beneath his reserved exterior. These reactions are typical of perfectionists with high hopes who appear to be arbitrarily submarined as he was in many cases, owing to his agenda of doubling his efforts to control the outcome, and emerge a winner. That should have been evident during his administration, especially from his demeanor at the one and only aggressive attack made public. Though many behind the scenes have reported upon these unsettling facets of his personality, people forget that the gander is never far from the goose. And the goose always lays golden eggs, if any. Clinton may turn out to be the most distinctive and unusual President the country has ever seen when all is said and done, in hindsight.	2003-05-21
US	52205720	R3RUYASWPEFTWB	006019359X	701920231	Resurrecting Sex: Resolving Sexual Problems and Rejuvenating Your Relationship	Books	5	4	38	N	N	Golfer's Guide to Sex	It's clear from an initial reading that Resurrecting Sex is much like resurrecting the golf game. In fact, there are many similarities to the the anxiety reported by golfers when they suffer from performance anxiety in their swings, or on the green, most of which is caused by the inability to focus on their strokes, the feel of the game, and the concentration required to address the strategics of the game. Since that occurs with both experienced golfers as well as with newer players, male or female, it is a universal phenomenon that can benefit from relaxation and enjoyment rather than the intense overwork that often results in heightened stress and more failure. Much like the right club and the right angle, the right approach in golf or in sex makes a difference. Choke holds on the club don't often work in either golf or sex. Having always been a \\"gentleman's game,\\" sizing up the green as well as the partner can make the tee-for-two-time as comfortable as the regular tee time. The difference between the right woman and the one who isn't may have more to do with the similar difference between the champion challenge courses and those that are easier, but less challenging courses. It is a matter of taste, after all, in love or in golf.	2003-05-07
US	52205720	R31P8VT5DUAYXC	0446530077	765138691	Find Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rare Commodity - An Emotionally Honest and Brave Woman	While she may not be the most emotionally independent women, much of Rosie's success is that she has always been - all woman - by virtue of the fact that she is not only willing, but shameless, of revealing the emotional honesty that exists so rarely in the revelations of women today. Her bold approach enables women everywhere to idolize her courage, her honesty, and the unusual perspective of a woman willing to be herself, come hell or high water. Sensitive to her environment but willing to chance the high level scrutiny that can arise from her vulnerabilities, she boldly marches on building her own fanfare from empowering other women to be themselves in celebration of their intelligence, their intuition, and their life experience. A tough woman, beloved, and original to those who can appreciate her rare qualities, unsubdued and unapologetic. A model of intellectual liberation of great consequence; a real treat for other women!	2003-04-30
US	52205720	R1HGNN79BUQZW5	0935906029	513337301	A Heart Full of Love	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Self Contained Hearts	Self Contained Hearts as opposed to selfish hearts are always full of love, and do not depend upon others to provide the justification for living, or the direction for living consistent with their beliefs. While they may seek support and advocacy in their accomplishments, they rarely require that for motivation to pursue their interests. They possess internal engines and are usually self guided like heat seeking missles often driven by conscience relying upon tenacity and perseverance. Setbacks become hurdles to be overcome within the context of larger goals and big picture worlds made possible because the heart is full, and not partially developed and fully applied. They rarely rely upon the acceptance of others and usually define success differently than most.	2003-04-30
US	52205720	R1CX2YXJ4JQG63	0879804459	348071561	The Secret of Overcoming Verbal Abuse:  Getting Off the Emotional Roller Coaster and Regaining Control of Your Life	Books	5	5	75	N	N	Erasing the Gray	This book by Dr. Ellis sounds like a weak rationalization for justifying the idolization of Darwin's Survival of the Fittest Theory for the Ignorant. It's too bad that it seems to be skewed toward domestic relations where the stronger partner has license to ignore the sensitivity or the humanity of the weaker partner. Unfortunately, this pattern is not limited only to intimate relations but appears upon every street corner as well as every street, if not on every playground. There seems to be little evidence of reactionary refusals included in attempts to set limits on such behavior. In most cases, the &quot;stronger, more intelligent&quot; person refuses to stoop to the level of the ignorant person who uses such tactics to try to control, ideally, to prevent wallowing in the stench of the ignorant persons who use this method pretending it represents control, power, and strength. In most cases, it's not worth the bother since such &quot;acting out&quot; by weak-minded persons don't deserve to have their poorly constructed &quot;arguments&quot; met with legitimate response, and are usually too ignorant to understand the benefit of alternative methods. This &quot;typical bully behavior&quot; that doesn't even rise to the level of legitimate S&amp;M, much less pass for communication, deserves the only kind of response possible in such situations - complete dismissal because of its failed credibility. The public nusiance that it is, however aggravating, is best left to stew in its own disgraced juice, spiced by its own concoction of frustration. Why would it deserve more recognition than acknowledging its failings rooted more in its own ridiculous outbursts than by any legitimate concern that commands attention or authority? How can it be thought of as anything but ignorant? It sounds like a wonderful opportunity to appreciate the differences between black and white in areas where gray doesn't &quot;wear well.&quot;	2003-04-03
US	52205720	R1W0WB11LX7CVV	0521368413	195286209	Political Terrorism: Theory, Tactics and Counter-Measures	Books	4	1	21	N	N	Political Schizophrenia	Though it may have an ancient tradition, political schizophrenia where attack and the deploy of missiles aimed at political targets for intimidation and control is a sad use of these tactics to achieve political aims. Campaign finance reform and freedom of expression never had it so bad, and unbridled strongarm methods never had it so good. Both of which reduce the probability and the statistical possibility that individuals will exercise either their right to vote, to run, or even to participate in the political process as it was envisioned to operate. Once burned is usually enough! Rather like being run over by a train or allowing the heart to be carved out without anesthesia but remaining alive. The animosity of the political parties, and the factions within political parties intentionally or inadvertently place far too many individuals in the unfortunate position of having to opt out of political expression as a high risk activity. Voting records reflect that sad reality. Whether there are antidotes to such an abuse of power is unknown, and few have incentive to seek one, since the methods have long known to work, and work well, which is why they have been increasingly brutal in recent years. Drowning out American citizens seems to be the plan by which those who would be more powerful become so, and those who already are remain unchallenged. For the average citizen, once around this block is usually enough. Patriotism, in need is sadly not patriotism indeed. When respect is replaced by rhetoric, negligence and disregard, the entire country suffers.......and each individual becomes a man (or woman) without a country, even without moving.	2003-03-22
US	52205720	R2VW1HMFASKB59	0897933303	910817484	Virtual Foreplay: Making Your Online Relationship a Real-Life Success	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Virtuality and Introspection=Mutually Designed Relationships	Engineering has always required a great deal of thought. Intimacy engineering should, in theory, be no different. The too soon physical relationships of the past often preclude the possibility of introspection, assessment and evaluation that can come from remote relationships, aided by virtual contact confined to honest, intellectual and emotional exploration without investing enormous amounts of time and effort, or incurring levels of risk that are typical of spontaneous encounters commonly found in seductive settings. In theory, good planning is more likely to produce satisfying relationships by examining the facets of personality and intellectual interests, as well as cultural style and values that comprise the individuals before adding that extra impulse of physical love and affection that become the emotional habits that are difficult to break. Designer love configured to encompass all parts of a person are much preferable to sharing only a small piece typecast into the kinds of relationships that amount to the co-dependency coupling that seeks only superficial satisfaction. Ordinarily, only direct communication can accomplish the breath and depth of exploration to accomplish this, is not always possible or desirable in person, and may, at times, be more comfortable using letters or remote methods to achieve the same goals in addition to those typically used. Virtuality offers valuable additions to, rather than substitutions for, opportunities for self expression, a healthy benefit for relationships in context, and upon demand serving to fill the gaps that might not be able to be so easily filled otherwise. Such a conscientious use of technology can provide an alternative nexus for making beautiful and healthy relationships according to the needs of the parties, and designed by them to be an ideal mix of psychological, intellectual and emotional exploration of their unique personalities, the requisite for satisfying strong foundations.	2003-03-16
US	52205720	R1162FWEKN8IJ4	1557987017	439044602	A Terrible Thing Happened	Books	5	12	56	N	N	PTSD: The Children's Chair - recognizing their limits	Emotional Toxic Shock Syndrome, or PTSD, thought by many to exist only in situations where extreme conditions cause children to fall victim to the illness characterized by its now well defined symptoms, is now a nearly universal phenomenon that goes largely unrecognized in its many variations. The interests of children would be best served by making the connection between violence, neglect and trauma that forms the foundation of PTSD, the perpetual kind, that undermines adult potential and leaves its victims vulnerable to and the most probable outcome of any and all \\"emotional overload\\" setbacks in childhood we tend to ignore or dismiss as unfortunate influences. PTSD, rarely the first inquiry (and rarely examined) as the most probable diagnosis of children caught in domestic conflict, or those troubled, or in trouble, is a constant and continuous affliction in modern society where family conflict is \\"nearly presumed\\" as ordinary occurrences. Diagnosed with a myriad of \\"other\\" less likely performance-undermining illnesses, it is far easier to medicate, counsel, and address anything but the real source of their problems, the desperate situations out of which their troubles come. Medication, inappropriate ridicule or punishment and inadequate counseling insures circuitous examination that prevents the real diagnosis and the real resolution of their problems, often leaving us wondering why they \\"cannot be reached,\\" or foolishly justifying the compounding of social and educational dysfunction laid upon them, and further crippling them for life ignoring all forms of social conscience due to our own neglect and ignorance. Failing to recognize that orphans, or orphan-like children are not likely to receive the remedial steps for recovery, and that adoptees are actually former orphans with unaddressed impact can only be detrimental to wellness. Continuing conflict among the almost-orphaned is little better. All reside in varying states and levels of PTSD which do not disappear with age but become buried within the makeup of the individual further complicating the healing and health of those who suffer, or once suffered the conditions that caused it. Recognizing the realities and necessities of treatment should be a first concern and the first step in diagnosis for any child, or any adult. Awareness is always the key to understanding how illness becomes health in the non-physical sciences, a.k.a., the world of emotional, mental and cognitive health. More discussion is needed, not silence.	2003-03-02
US	52205720	RGTO9U5VN9BQT	0553352660	535771858	The Feminine Face of God: The Unfolding of the Sacred in Women	Books	5	9	17	N	N	God for Women?	Reflectively, and logically, God did not exist for women within the construction of religious except as the afterthought in the creation of man, a theory to which religion has remained fixed throughout the centuries as evidenced by the inadequate recognition of women in the daily life cycle of everything but being used as a vessel of child bearing. This theory is substantiated by most theories of gender dynamics (created mostly by men) to form a view that while women are disappointed to recognize they are second class citizens in a world bound by traditional religions, their unique qualities have never been given &quot;equal time&quot; or encouragement to develop to apply to what is thought as traditional male pursuits, usually defined by the hierarchies of dominance in military formats. Altering the dynamics of that reality requires than women give significant thought to their own strengths and vulnerabilities in a &quot;larger&quot; context to define their own place in social,political space and economic space and stop trying to fit into that designed by men, for men. Redefining the interpretation of themselves within traditional religious context may well be a part of that requirement to release their innermost ability and capacity for expression and social impact, an historic recognized need but as yet unrealized by most, and unaddressed. Sharing God within the traditional biblical philosophies will not be easy given historic interpretations of their place in humanity but may well be worth the effort to study and examine. No doubt, finding God for women may well lie in the &quot;greater domain&quot; of integrating their capacity to give birth as well as to maintain it according to an experience that men are incapable of appreciating fully from that larger perspective. Ideal reading for all adults interested in Christian gender integration and power potential.	2003-03-02
US	52205720	R26LUYAWJ960E4	1592400000	263612847	Real Love: The Truth About Finding Unconditional Love and Fulfilling Relationships	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Absolute Acceptance - No Small Gift	Some might call it &quot;forgiveness;&quot; others might typecast it as &quot;foolish&quot; or &quot;naive;&quot; still others recognize its power but don't believe it exists or can exist except in the formation of animal-person friendships or parent-child relationships. But, it can, does, and will exist in all those cases where persons are able to see, feel, and hear the heart of another in empathetic sympathy, and recognize it as the only true love there is. Arising as it does as a &quot;gift of the heart for another&quot; rather than a &quot;gift to the heart of oneself&quot; often plagued by jealousies and conditions of reciprocity that so often becomes the standard of trust formed by individuals, components of real love often have the dual advantage of protection and sacrifice that complements the intimacies of reciprocal love which allows it to endure far beyond those of ordinary relationships. Unconditional or absolute acceptance is free from possessiveness but loves the attention of possession. It leaves the recipient wanting more but never requires more. It is unselfish love desiring only the &quot;best&quot; for the object of that affection regardless of expected responses. It is moved to make that possible knowing that heightened potential realized is the ideal glorification of the love felt, one uniquely focused upon the empowerment of that person and the power of love to accomplish that end. It is never martyrdom but some confuse it with that method of negative attention designed to reflect great sacrifice as love or passion, a chameleon of love. Absolute acceptance requires looking beyond the comforts of the moment to assess the total capacity and potential of benefit associated with a relationship, and investing it with a warranty that is unconditional, that doesn't depend upon reciprocity or possession to sustain it; it is total abandon to the commitment of love expressed for the sake of love itself, and nothing less than the greatest gift that one can bestow upon another - that absolute acceptance that both flatters and endows the person upon whom it is conferred. It is the ultimate embodiment of self confidence by the one conferring that endowment who requires no condition to verify its presence or justify its existence. It is love, pure and simple, pursued by many, and found by few. It is usually recognized as &quot;great&quot; love, and may, or may not invoke the desire for reciprocity by the other. If given, the contract made is enormously powerly and very highly valued as the epitome of love's ability to transform and transcend ordinary relationships.	2003-02-14
US	52205720	R4E4JHX0IN0GN	0883964902	104478006	I Love You: Poems on the Meaning of Love for People in Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Enduring Great Loves	To gain a sense of the \\"great love,\\" one that endures and is made more in the design of those that require great sacrifice and that can produce great momentum through the fusion of two souls and their expression, it is first necessary to glimpse the potential and art that love can produce. Ordinary loves of today that focus upon partnerships or sex often fail to envision the full body of the developmentally well formed love that requires the work and investment that is likely to produce it. Endurance comes from that personal and emotional investment. Such great joy and delight doesn't require constant presence but a sense of togetherness that is a presence, committed and faithful, regardless of what occurs in daily lives. Love is felt first in the heart, and extended to the mind to develop its potential, to radiate within its glory, and to move mountains, whether they are seen by others or not. To envision that love is not possible without \\"giving in to love\\" without preconception to discover its transformational power. Great and historic poems have captured this essence and been successful in describing it though few understand its process and give credence to its effect. Love is always humble in its beginnings and in its maintenance, and unashamed in its expression since the crime is in not acknowledging its power. The sharing of love helps to keep the world a kinder place, a necessity for most, to feel optimistic and to be productive. How unkind a world it would be were there no love in the lives we live, and how fruitless and wasteful. The blossoming of love is the essence of beauty and expressed most clearly in the natural blooming of flowers, especially roses. The baby's breath combined with roses is to help us appreciate the special delicacy of love and how important it is to nurture those feelings, even in their tiny white purity that displays the passion and complexity of the blossoming flower of love which is enduring but can die without being appreciatedor explored in its spiraled intricate interior. Poems like this help to reveal that vision for greatness, as traditional as ever.	2003-02-13
US	52205720	RY79QP8BFPEME	0876307594	1198371	Compassion Fatigue: Coping With Secondary Traumatic Stress Disorder In Those Who Treat The Traumatized (Psychosocial Stress Series)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Finally, Help for the Helper	Designed as help for the therapist, it is also appropriate, and may be as or more important, for helpers who happen to be mothers, spouses, children, or even friends who find themselves suffering from the personal after-effects of being around physical, mental, emotional or psychological trauma of others - acting as mediators, menders, negotiators, and/or reservoirs of the pain and troubles of others. They may also need to address their own baggage of current or distant pain caused by disruptive circumstances in their own past to complicate the difficulty of handling multiple sources of distress and stress. Seen frequently in domestic violence situations, or arising from elder or ailing parents, or in trying to accommodate severe illness in anyone close to them, long term stress becomes the distress of psychological trauma. It may or may not be recognized by others, at work, or by those who are in a position to give relief. It may or may not be a known fact within the family where caregivers rarely allow themselves to acknowledge being weak, or in needing services themselves. Left unattended, the helper may become the person needing help, often some time beyond the time that help is being given (in the form of an aftershock) which may or may not be seen as having come from overextending themselves in serving the needs of others. Rescuer's remorse, it might be called, to identify the time when caregiver's come to assess the harm done to themselves and the need for recovery. It usually follows burn out in time when adjustment and incentive may be lacking with the realization of being psychologically or emotionally spent as well as physically tired and fatigued. It also happens to children (when in orphan situations, or even in single parent families) where they have been a primary emotional carrier of siblings, or younger children, a source of support for siblings, or even parents, in daily or sporadic struggles of emotional trauma. Often, refusing to give in to the need they also require for care, support and affection, they develop an overdeveloped sense of the &quot;atlas-syndrome&quot; where they cannot allow themselves to give in, for recognizing their own weakness, realizing they may not have a resource to turn to in that event. In denial of their own weakness, they forge onward without acknowledging their need for affection and solace. While admirable, it is also self destructive, however necessary they feel it to be. Long term deprivation of their own needs can have difficult emotional, physical, emotional and educational ramifications in addition to social consequences inconsistent with their desires and their intention to attain their own extraordinarily high defensive standards. Failure of society to recognize this vulnerable class of persons usually means that they are misunderstood, devalued, and may be mis-classified as social misfits rather than the begrudging individuals they are who willingly adopt the problems of others, sometimes to their own detriment.	2003-01-23
US	52205720	R3M9UGMFDUUQ24	0966639715	231961147	Right From Birth: Building Your Child's Foundation For Life	Books	5	0	21	N	N	Emotional Development of Children	Illogical to assume that a child's psychological and emotional development are not patterned as infants from the first day, and that his or her outlook and life attitudes of emotive responses are created by parental attention and attentive encouragement, this book is a long time overdue. Acknowledging this fact, and considering labor issues which remove parents from the household so much that this vital process is minimized threatens each infant born and promising to erode the value of human interaction and harmonious potential in all human resources areas. Valuable time, effort and progress which once lost is not recoverable is enormously important to America and to each country in the development of humans and their treatment of one another. Robotic clones without the emotions of compassion, guilt, empathy or sympathy can only promise a hard-hearted society, a direction of high risk detrimental to everyone of all ages in all capacities. This is a very much ignored area of human relations that addresses all of the social system involving mental health and the subsequent poor physical health that inevitably follows.	2003-01-19
US	52205720	ROS3DM4IU4UK1	0451184777	243045950	Secrets of Sensual Lovemaking : The Ultimate in Female Ecstasy	Books	5	6	45	N	N	Mutual Euphoria	There are few pleasures greater than being loved, and loving. Impossible without being sensual, it is also impossible without enjoying the person who is the object of that process of maximizing pleasure. There can be no failure in heightened mutual sensuality since it is not possible not to enjoy it, increasing both its value and its joy. Sensuality in sex or without it lights the fire in the heart (and sometimes the belly) but soothes the soul, and rests the mind. Ideally, it is essential for everyone and so called self love is no match for this interactive masterpiece God designed that humans are privileged to explore, enjoy and examine. Commitment is usually a forerunner providing the abandon required to be nurtured to life rather than squeezed to death. The blossoming of love is one of the most beautiful and natural of life's delights and offers the opportunity to secure it into a lifelong habit for two persons who care for, and love each other. There is no need for intimidation and violence in mutually loving relationships and \\"make up\\" lovemaking is merely a variation upon trivial disputes that form opportunities for closer harmony.	2002-12-19
US	52205720	R2ECTQKGAT8IF9	0892815566	972092553	The Phallus: Sacred Symbol of Male Creative Power	Books	5	31	38	N	N	The Magnificent Male Symbol	Of all the disputes of modern times, the most difficult to reconcile in a dual gender world is the grandeur of the male phallus and its idolization as a symbol of male strength and power. In the Bible, it dons the symbolism of all creation for its functionality and unique character, making it the tool of civilization. Oddly, within that burden rests a world unduly concerned with its exposure and exhibition, particularly in its  moments of swollen pride reserved for times of sexual excitement. Contrast the phallus at rest when its devine power is merely imaginable for its capacity and what results is its fascinating dual nature, too often judged by its larger dimension. The tool through which the real \\"family jewels\\" are delivered to deposit nature's bounty have been unfairly criticized in our puritanical history. A similar problem occurs for female genitals creating the great shame that burdens society in its love/hate schizophrenic resolve in what attitudes are appropriate in any given situation of that primary focus. Misrepresented by advertisers, condemned by religious leaders, what is a male to do? The pride of ownership by both sexes might be the choice of response along with the tender care that any other physical organ deserves and is consistent with the mental health concerns we take with every other part of our bodies. Yet, the sensitive and private areas reserved for intimacies of enormous emotion and passion are often resigned to shameless hiding to survive where both men and women are conditioned to avoid or ignore these bodily parts so that both are unfamiliar with them throughout their lives. God given body parts that are integral to the sum total of our existence, including the ability to have children, are rarely the product of adults who have already had children for their value has been proven, and appreciation is accepted for its (or their) unique function. No need for shame. There is a need for understanding through the education that might be available to reach acceptance of these parts as no different from other organs of our bodies. Of greater sadness is the ridicule that is produced from the general and common functions these parts are meant to perform in our daily lives that ordinary, unthinking people consider gross. The unnatural contemplation and distain of the phallus, rooted in centuries of conflict, no doubt strives to live a normal life where its unique powers may be accepted and appreciated, and even proudly displayed in art, in sculpture, and when appropriate, in private. Overreaction of horror is unnatural for an educated society distorted by its taboos of shame. For God's finest glory designed for its distinct purpose, it is shameful treatment to condemn and irrationally hide God's artwork.	2002-08-13
US	52205720	R1IVYFVTNV6VDU	0486245349	51811218	Paris Fashions of the 1890s: A Picture Sourcebook with 350 Designs, Including 24 in Full Color (Dover Books on Costume)	Books	5	1	10	N	N	Starter Fashion	From the days of John Adams, his wife, Abigail, commented in David McCullough's book about those times, how impressed she was with the fashions of the day in Paris and England at the time, but would never have worn such fashion here in America. The reasons she gave in her letters were that 1)America was mostly &quot;puritans,&quot; and/or 2) poor so that much of the European fashion industry was alien to this country where women had to make do with simpler garments. Over the years, it's possible we have not had a clear vision of what constitutes female fashion to its fussiest and frilliest advantage. What little there was in the 1920's 1940's gave way to the men's wear fashions of today where women are taught to compete with men by wearing similar styles, sadly. The ability to manufacture more cheaply now could encourage a revival of designs that challenged Americans throughout her history that the times now may be right for, though not necessarily a return to Victorian times. &quot;Play clothes,&quot; especially for women could be much more imaginative and fun, and perhaps women deserve that privilege without having to dress like men even while competing with them in business. Should femininity be so restrained as to make women anomalous and obscure in 2002 as to be nearly a uniform?	2002-04-18
US	52205720	R14G016UW4QENX	0385500866	565005229	Crowns: Portraits of Black Women in Church Hats	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Inner Beauty Blossomed in Worldly Events	I'm so surprised to see this book published since I was just in a small church in Harlem and was admiring the gorgeous hats I saw on the women there. I'd never been to a church of mostly black women, and decided then that their hat appeared to provide the external sign of their inner strength and beauty that lies within, as it they were the crowns of glory each felt important to display. I hadn't realized that it was a tradition until I saw your book listed on Amazon. I think it would also be nice in color since much of the color adds to their plumage similar to the beading I see in the braids of young girls and women which I decided served a similar purpose. How exellent it is that the females are so willing to reveal themselves with such grace and passion for living. I rather wonder if white women haven't missed something along the way, in making themselves so available to the world in choosing to allow such scrutiny in such a dignified manner without the pretense of having to do it with clothing. It may well be a lost art that black women have kept alive.	2002-04-18
US	52205720	R2Y28SB69WA323	0800755561	316899122	Healing the Scars of Emotional Abuse	Books	5	15	103	N	N	Souls are Unisex	Laying open oneself to another is an act of love unlike no other because it is an intentional removal of the protective layers through which self insulation protects us from the world and the misinterpretation which can result in pain, or worse, hardening of the heart. Unlike hardening of the arteries, hardening of the heart affects many more people than just the person to whom it happens. Hard boiled hearts do not permit entry, obviously, without gently and delicately trying to crack through the outer shells to reach the tasty treasures within that can be had only with this special, nurturing mission - a revival of the heartbeat necessary to pulse within the rhythm of other harmonious lives through which synchronous melodies are obtained rather than the discords of chaos, all too common. Symphonics or the ability to hear the music that inspires falls mainly to those who are not tone deaf and are never gender related. While there may be fewer men than not because of the nature of the environment in which they live, it is through the rare artist of empathy that the ungodly sounds of the earth are cultivated, even in a godly world where god may have been left behind. While we tend to think that, for example, it is children, or lovers who are left behind, it is actually God who has been left behind in a world where the respect of God has been sorely challenged, or ignored. In these times of Godly distrust where men are so eager to rely upon themselves, possibly to the exlusion of God, everyone suffers because it is a derivative illness whose ripples are far reaching. The obligation to attend to our souls to prevent this outcome is imperatitve and critical to preserve or revive the souls so damaged, so in pain, and so hardened. The ability to realize that what stalker's remove, other stalker's can return is an important facet of this book where being open to either is the main business of life.	2002-04-05
US	52205720	R2HF9O5CBOV1MV	0871544113	35718582	Fathers' Fair Share: Helping Poor Men Manage Child Support and Fatherhood	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Poor Fathers who can't budge	Among the saddest consequence are the couples who realize that a marriage doesn't work, and both feel trapped due to the recognition that society expects both to manage children born to them from birth to adulthood. In increasingly expensive societies, the ability to do this has become harder forcing the system into a social nightmare and crisis often resulting in domestic violence, broken hearts and broken dreams for everyone. Mothers cannot afford to live alone and raise children; fathers are financially strapped to despair, and children suffer the consequences of both, often none being able to maintain a decent quality of lifestyle configured to expect that it is justifiable to live in that condition for so many years. Multiple jobs worked can only go so far in easing the situation. Addressing these sometimes hidden needs is important in a nation where divorce is sky high, and housing is at the top of the list. For these desperate families, there must be an answer, but it is unlikely to come without serious consideration of affordable housing options. Like women, men often refuse to consider group housing after being married wishing to maintain their autonomy and independence. It's conceivable that this assumption needs to be reexamined for its practicality. Perhaps, in addressing those issues, children can be cared for, and both women and men can achieve more successful divorces while still maintaining a reasonable attitude toward relationships and life. The alternative, of course, is to continue to sacrifice precious hours that could best be spent with offspring, or in activities that are more enjoyable, rather than continuing in unhappy relationships where not budging is the only option.	2002-04-05
US	52205720	R37LDBBFSUW9SU	1560253517	977504948	Woman's Inhumanity to Woman (Nation Books)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Female Backscratching?	Thank God Phyllis Chesler wrote this book. It's about time humanity recognized that despite the \\"sisterhood\\" that is supposed to characterize and represent the \\"male brotherhood\\" of the \\"old boys club,\\" it definitely doesn't work that way with women. In the backscratching that males do to aid each other, people forget that women have nails, and that backscratching becomes backstabbing more often than not. Whether it's attributable to the fact that women who feel their powerlessness feel a sense of desperation to hang on to it, or whether they are simply frustrated in having been deprived of it for so long, women's defense mechanisms can be far more devastating to other women than they could be, and often prevent that power from growing into something sustainable that can compete upon an equal footing for men in the challenges to be more autonomous. While men have long been known to be spiteful and shoot themselves in the foot, the phenomenon has been little discussed in the \\"women's movement\\" where small minds made big differences in failure, and may actually cripple progress. The unwillingness to delegate is part of the problem where so many women feel a possessiveness about their work that they are frantic when questioned or challenged by someone else. There is so little ground upon which to fight that it's a far more embittered battle for the little turf that exists. It may well be considered TARA amplified to its grossest outcome, to everyone's discomfort and disgust even though no one desires it, and might not even admit it.	2002-04-01
US	52205720	R1FI3OJTNN4GJK	0060928972	297500558	Emotional Blackmail: When the People in Your Life Use Fear, Obligation, and Guilt to Manipulate You	Books	5	10	29	N	N	Is Turn About Fair Play?	While emotional blackmail within family relationships or among small groups of workers can be quite destructive, there are any number of business groups who typically use such tactics as an &quot;ordinary course of business&quot; in their trade. The domain has for the most part been used by enterprising men in search of the ever popular &quot;competitive niche,&quot; it has rarely been used by women - often because women are thought to be, and usually are, more &quot;nurturing&quot; types. Conceivably, however, it may be possible to view even from a woman's perspective the need to equalize the tables especially in circumstances where women, children or the elderly, or the poor, a.k.a., the most vulnerable are put at risk by unthinking or negligent persons in most firms where they are comfortable walking the tightropes of humanitarian principles. While this book may be geared to universal practices characteristic in any emotional blackmail circumstance, it is useful to examine it also for the opportunities which may be found therein to adjust the scales - in personal or in professional environments.	2002-03-25
US	52205720	R1A6L1TR2VRVY9	1582342024	760922117	Wifework: What Marriage Really Means for Women	Books	5	17	24	N	N	Wife or Maid-en?	After 30 years of marriage, I've decided that men and women don't view wifehood the same. In fact, they're entirely different perspectives altogether, and if any book can enlighten women to this fact - and men - way before they marry, both will be able to choose partners who may be able to live up to their unique expectations of what they each seek. It's about time we had books devoted to wife hood rather than motherhood since the largest majority of women's lives are spent within the conflicts of wife hood rather than motherhood. Somehow motherhood comes naturally; wife hood doesn't necessarily, particuarly, where duties are not evenly dispersed, freedom is curtailed because of those duties, and the amount of glue to hold families together is often borne by women alone, often because of their willingness to sacrifice in order to provide an environment in which their children may thrive. The importance of this is not solely because of romance but instead because raising children as a single parent alone is a very difficult job by either spouse. To date, society has yet to conquer the burdens of biology where women can comfortably work and receive similar rewards men receive, and to find a suitable outlet for all of the energy and muscle that is unique to men, that often results in aggressive conduct up to and including wars as they challenge their older contemporaries. This of course doesn't include the peculiar problems where it shows up as domestic violence and emotional harm to those so readily available to be overpowered, their wives and children. If we could conquer our own biology with understanding of its demands, we might be able to live peacably together cross gender and cross country. It might not hurt our government relations either in lieu of the competitive sideshows to which we are treated as simulating performance.	2002-03-22
US	52205720	R20T79SYO1MTIQ	0151003823	851936297	Father Courage: What Happens When Men Put Family First	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intimacy in Childhood?	Using the fatherhood revolution to &quot;ease the burdens&quot; on overworked parents where employers fail to acknowledge the needs of families is a start but in truth, Gloria Steinem's prophecy cannot come true without employer understanding of family dynamics and the time it takes to devote to family, to oneself, and to one's spouse. Are children entitled to parental intimacy? Can they expect to achieve adult intimacy without it? Is it sufficient to receive it from only one parent? Does it matter which one? Some call it bonding, but isn't it realyy more than that, in providing the foundation for the unconditional love they will be expected to provide to spouses, and to their own children later? Men who fall victim to routines that lack sufficient time for them to appreciate their valuable role in family life may just be spinning their wheels. But everything helps; at least, it's a beginning awareness of how children behave. Now if employer's studied the same topic with the same enthusiasm they study their Profit &amp; Loss statements each week or month, families might be able to alter the dynamics so they have a real chance to learn to dwell with each other rather than simply pass each as ships in the night, struggling to get along. Congratulations on a fine topic of immeasurable value.	2002-02-26
US	52205720	R7R10NLWQPNJZ	096516960X	218847016	In Sheep's Clothing: Understanding and Dealing with Manipulative People	Books	5	18	49	N	N	The Lion's Revenge	I'm pleased to see someone thoughtful enough to deal directly with the concepts of Covert and Overt Aggression. I am unconvinced that everyone need use some type of fighting, or loving, to get others to agreement, and the overuse of covert aggression merely undermines the respect of the person who uses it by the person upon whom it is used. In short, it backfires, and shows the high degree of ignorance exhibited by those who so foolishly expect that any given person's self esteem relies upon acceptance or dignity in the eyes of such a manipulator. Self esteem can only be lost when it relies upon another's presumption that it is important to that person. If self confidence is challenged by those who are obviously inferior enough to stoop to such levels in the mistaken belief that such ridicule can erode or impair another, a basic premise is overlooked. That premise is that if the self confidence did not come from those who ridicule, it is logical that it will be undisturbed. For all practical purposes, it is only the delusion of those that ridicule who think they are effective because they derive their own self esteem from others rather than by developing it through a spiritual connection in relationship to God. This is the value in \\"self made\\" men. They need no affirmation from others to validate their self worth; hence, impairment can only come from within and is rarely affected by the opinions of others, especially in ridicule, ostracism, or exclusion. While overt aggression is always a problem because of laws and possible physical impairment, covert aggression can be viewed as cowardice and faulty self esteem in the person who uses it. The inability to be forthright, honest, and challenge issues rather than the person who espouses them is marked evidence of fear of defeat so severe that the first response to any potential threat or risk is \\"overreaction,\\" showing a lack of confidence in oneself. The phenomenon is pitiful and sad since it underestimates the potential of every human being but especially the one who resorts to such dishonor.	2002-02-09
US	52205720	RH1ER1JVE5BXI	0671870742	316412553	Living with the Passive-Aggressive Man:  Coping with Hidden Aggression - From the Bedroom to the Boardroom	Books	5	12	31	N	N	Aggression and Self Defense	Unbelievably accurate portrayal of the psychologically misdirected \\"escape artist\\" who is deluded into thinking that others are fooled by their \\"acts\\" or who shroud themselves in the pretense of masculinity and maturity. The sad fact of watching someone who is afraid to confront his or her own feelings because he or she has always ignored them, or failed to question what their feelings were is a person who has failed to connect their actions to their results and to their self esteem because of that, the only method which can build self esteem. To question oneself and motivations is the only method of assessing effectiveness and providing self direction. The fascination for most people, particularly women (but not always) is the desire to provide the framework through which progress and growth can occur. That can happen only through understanding of that kind of personality, a healthy enough self esteem not to be threatened by it, and a desire to provide the flexibility in which aggressive tendencies can be self guided into positive directives rather than negative. Aggression has become synonymous with anger and need not be. Aggression is forward motion only. The desire and choice to self direct it to benefit others as well as oneself rather than to harm others as well as oneself is the distinction between good aggression and bad aggression, and perhaps between one who is humane and one who is not humane. The level of that selfishness or that humanity is visible to most and forms the basis for others to judge that person as unhealthy or as healthy, and to a great extent, provides the foundation of being able to share or not share oneself.	2002-02-09
US	52205720	R3352GZYG3WEYB	0897932838	880827489	Ditch That Jerk : Dealing With Men Who Control and Hurt Women	Books	5	13	35	N	N	Recognizing the Call For Justice and Help for both sexes	The books on this topic can be little else than the plea of women (and to a greater extent, but less realized), of men and of children to society to finally break the indignities that are traditionally encouraged in our male dominated society - which suffers none of the consequences and all of the benefits - of having men in control (however that occurs and is justified to themselves). This book seems to lay open the underlying flaws of such a premise to reach the short changing of men in society's continuing refusal to recognize its part in creating the situations which fall so often often women and children who are the personal victims. Far too much promotion of men using such control mechanisms are marketed to men (and to women) as normal, acceptable and &quot;natural&quot; to men, so that they never have to confront the effects of their conduct. Except for the physical abuse shown, the verbal and emotional abuse are common methods sanctioned by society for men to resolve their conflicts in many different situations, and such conditioning gives rise to abusive situations, but mostly in private. Occasionally, they are used in public as men band together to ridicule or criticize another, for example. In most cases, men are robbed of their tenderness, their ability to feel, and their capacity to love. Women and children have been sacrificed for society's success and prosperity upon which these &quot;control mechanisms&quot; rely, are used in business, and used more personally, and intensely, in the home which destroys their heroism in the eyes of their family members, and makes enemies of potential friends and lovers. There is no legislation because these are not legislative issues. But they are issues that impact enforcement rooted in remedies when damage occurs. To a great extent they are inherited problems. I found a relative from 1370 who kept all of his wives in a castle tower, for example. Developing countries often use their women and children as slave workers, for another example. I am delighted to see that some issues like the pretense of pompous righteousness, insincere apologies, and explosive &quot;power plays&quot; have been examined and placed in context since they are often the most common methods of rational excuse for abusive behavior, and often form the underlying foundation for the more subtle ones. It also helps to understand how abuse of weaker members of society is viewed as acceptable and even desirable by men in their &quot;competitive&quot; need to control situations and circumstances. I attribute this to the lack of flexibility society has for allowing men to fear, to feel, and to think differently than other men, i.e., to be the individuals they are without having to be defensive or control every situation. There is as much need for education of most men and women as there ever has been. A society which encourages men to defend themselves as such needs more help than the men and women themselves who fall victim to its flaws.	2002-01-20
US	52205720	R3K2AQ0RUDUKQK	189162069X	316457848	Vernon Can Read! A Memoir	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Random Walk Down Race Street...Through Grace &amp; Discipline	In finishing Vernon Jordan's book, I'm impressed by the fact of how important memoir's are to our culture. He is a black man who has not only done very well, but one who also has lived well by virtue of the fact that he began life within the warmth and care of two very nurturing parents who had the wisdom to cultivate his best talents, and those of his siblings, no doubt. As a Christian family, the values imparted were purposeful, deep and rooted in the dignity of equality even while social inequities were a part of our American life. That strength has seen him though the vagaries which always accompany the offensiveness of that inequity that alone can produce the injustice which undermines entire lives. There is little doubt that his has been a life of reserve and limited self expression within the context of the larger world upon that rise to esteem he has worked so hard and so humbly to achieve, and he acknowledges the fortunate guidance and commitment of his wonderful mother whose pride is unmatched as only a mother's can be. Under her tutelage and that of his dad, he has had the good fortune to meet and marry two wonderful women who've provided him with the care, intimacy and support his mother taught him to expect because he deserved that. Through that love, the beginnings of strength flower into a tolerance for life that can supercede hardships to enable the radiance of such warmth and excellence to be noticed by others and embraced by them for the benefit of others, confident in one's own purpose and direction. Part of his charm is that he lived during a time, obviously, when women were respected for their value and their ways, and men were willing to work for that privilege of romance and companionship that makes for healthy and committed relationships. It is particularly striking in that these qualities are seen in the life of a black man rather than where we are conditioned to view it, in a white man. That fact greatly enhances the value of his memoir tothe African American population who have had few role models at so high a level of business, law, government and politics. Much of his success appears to be due to his incredible ability for self reflection along with the ability to make decisions that work in the wider world as he was able to define it for himself always keeping his mother (and others) as his chief confidant in her belief of his potential. It also shows the value of human potential through that love and confidence and its ability to transform our lives despite setbacks. It's a very worthy and candid look inside a world few can glimpse but many can learn from, and should be an inspiration to all of those who embark upon his journey through his revelations. To whites, it should dispel myths and satisfy curiosities about the reliability and excellence of executives in people of color, and show that it is the style, character and personality of the person rather than the color of the skin that is the real difference.	2001-12-09
US	52205720	R2XUQH6R9MJ6AM	189162069X	316457848	Vernon Can Read! A Memoir	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Transitional Assistance	Not necessarily an &quot;easy read&quot; because of the extraordinary breadth and intellectual precision of the author, it's clear that this is an enormously important memoir, although I have just begun it. It's primary value lies in the fact that the author permits a glimpse of the indignities and attitudinal limitations under which black people (and minorities, by implication) have been forced to endure in spite of their &quot;freedom&quot; and the number of somewhat &quot;expanding opportunities&quot; offered in the professions. He also offers a view of the kinds of successful attitudes required to make that transition from previously outcast to ultimate insider status, an important perspective for all races and both genders to understand and consider. Whether this was intended or not by the author is unclear, but memoirs always seem to teach far more than initially planned because they provide a review of the options available to the author, those chosen, and often the basis for those decisions. In addition to giving critical history during a unique period in American life from a perspective not often reported upon, it provides an opportunity to &quot;fill in&quot; important gaps in historical governmental, civil rights, social and business maneuvers over the years. In addition, it gives an honest and candid look at the social orientation of blacks, their hopes and dreams, and the potential (or lack thereof) for achieving those. My projection is that the memoir will become a classic resource to define the kinds and quality of programs which are likely to work, and those which are not. The author is to be commended for his courage and willingness to reveal his innermost thoughts as a guide for others interested in making the transition from a race and class based society to one converted to a logical and rational all-inclusive world that can be used to abridge the presumed differences among all people that are usually more myth and fiction than fact. It is beautifully and earnestly written, and shows not only that Vernon can read, but he can also write. Highly recommended!	2001-11-22
US	52205720	R26CZCKN3NGZ74	0446676772	81651019	The Genesis of Justice: Ten Stories of Biblical Injustice That Led to the Ten Commandments and Modern Morality and Law	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Sounds of Silence	Back in the 1960's, the Beatles wrote and produced a song whose title is uniquely fitting for this book by Dershowitz, the &quot;Sounds of Silence.&quot; I saw the book in the bookstore recently and being familiar with Constitutional Law theory for which Dershowitz is most noted among the legal community, I was interested to see how he treated the topics of the Ten Commandments and the dilemma of the Madonna vs the Prostitute in religious dogma as it affects our laws now. <br />What I found was a most enthusiastic treatment of consequence where Dershowitz has outdone himself in addressing some of our most difficult moral problems rooted in our Biblical heritage to which we seem to cling with near steadfast loyalty.<br />I actually think this book outperforms the work of Dershowitz in Constitutional Law since he is clearly enthralled by the topics, and his combination of legal and religious knowledge offer remarkably logical analysis in why we think as we do, and whether it is appropriate to think as we do. He has used his logical and linguistic skills very effectively to illuminate subjects that need a rational approach. If anything, he may not go far enough in relation to his analysis of the double standard that so affects the female in our culture as it relates to the economics of power and social freedom, but which also affects males due to their loss of equivalent resources from combining their talents in a life alliance. The aggregation of resources does not necessarily produce the benefits it should due to the low wages and glass ceilings their women cannot penetrate. It appears to be a very valuable read and a thoughtful, unique analysis of our human condition. I think he should do more since revelations like his can help to break &quot;the sounds of silence&quot; that such injustices rely upon to maintain the status quo.	2001-09-11
US	52205720	R3NB6ZXRKPRF8D	0449910792	190147082	No Visible Wounds: Identifying Non-Physical Abuse of Women by Their Men	Books	5	33	37	N	N	The Stark Reality	In our historic quest of honor and patriotic bravery, America has often forgotten the honor and bravery of protection and preservation in its human relationships as this spectacular book clearly shows. It applies equally well to men and to women since both are subject to the verbal and emotional abuses of each other when we allow ourselves to ignore the needs and sensitivities of others, especially our spouses. It is an excellent anthology on the behaviors which we sometimes ignore as abusive, or justify as legitimate, despite the damage they cause to the intimacies we are pledged to uphold in the vows we take when we are first married. It also does an excellent job of showing how such treatment is neglected in the courts and before judges who are rooted in the old fashioned leverage of justice where equality and equal treatment are not a part of civility, and the grandeur of chivalry (by males or females) is long forgotten as a part of our expectations. It shows why communications fail, why they are unlikely to be fixed, and why persons tend to stay with spouses who are abusive either to provide a stable environment for their children, or because much needed public services and support are not available to address their needs. It should be a required reading for all human relations training.	2001-09-11
US	52205720	R26MMNAG62VTYE	1881576604	577197925	Back Home in Williamson County	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Better Homes and Gardens: Country Living	I've only seen the 1986 &quot;Project of Homecoming&quot; done by Lyn Sullivan but having spent many joyous times in Williamson County, Tennessee at my grandmothers during high school, I was delighted to see the project &quot;bring to life&quot; the simple pleasures and larger than life people who make up such rural communities. Neglected for too long because of limited funds, information access, and motivation, the small towns of America tell the more important tales of common hardworking folk who helped to make America the fine country it is. The small country towns of people unique to the backroads of America have long been its strength and goodness, often reflected in surviving years of potential conflict in harmonious cooperation that many in the cities might emulate to reduce the crime rates even further. As small towns, everyone must always have a place - or move - and if they move, they usually leave all family ties behind, so they've learned to accommodate each other instead, accept their weaknesses, not dwell upon them, and to appreciate their strengths instead in a communal dignity most city dwellers are not aware of despite the fact that they are often highlighted in the lyrics of country tunes. A very welcome, first class anthology of historic importance for revealing the beginnings of America's rural towns and counties. I love the pictures. It shows how innovative and inventive America people are when they've a mind to do it! Rascals and scallywags, to boot!	2001-08-06
US	52205720	RKU9JR510QIVV	1878067923	959805248	Getting Free: You Can End Abuse and Take Back Your Life (NiCarthy, Ginny)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Shortcuts to Freedom	Few think of escaping verbal, emotional or physical abuse as shortcuts to freedom, but it surely is, and is likely the only route to get there. Babysitting abusers is rotten work, and keeps them from &quot;facing the music,&quot; robbing both of what might be happy lives. Anyone who is an abuser deserves to go it alone, and has &quot;earned that right&quot; many times over, usually at the expense of the abused.	2001-08-06
US	52205720	RO7IRO95KHK9X	0385474423	592493195	1001 Things Everyone Should Know About The South	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Slowing Down	Slowing down along all those back roads of the world that is the South is the only way to appreciate the unique outlook of the southern spirit where life and events are often taken with a grain of salt due to the fact that the important things were the same yesterday, and the day before, and all the days before that. Emotional health is probably the most valued commodity, and perhaps the most scrutinized quality of southern communities. In many cases, it is the most important development to watch and gauge since much of the south is far from the pyramids of power that are often created in locations like New York, Washington, D.C., Chicago or Los Angeles. It is eons away from foreign influences of Paris, London, Asia or Japan. The living is easy and the sun is hot requiring local dynamics to be the most valuable in terms of acceptance. It gives a new meaning to the idea of majority and minority but not necessarily confined to color. To know the south, time spent there is a must. Southerners appreciate the meaning of home grown and honor their own perspective on life, which sometimes isn't the same as it is in other parts of the country. Rebel yells have a different meaning than up north and don't always reflect the civil war years. It helps to understand Hank Williams, Jr. and some of the other country singers who have it in their blood. 1,0001 facts about the south can only help people appreciate this unique part of the country where life is meant to be savored, not swift. It is greatly aided by a partner of commensurable sentiments.	2001-07-20
US	52205720	R3TM30C1V4O29P	0897932897	122212439	Extended Massive Orgasm: How You Can Give and Receive Intense Sexual Pleasure (Positively Sexual)	Books	5	4	50	N	N	For Golddiggers Only	Goldmining is hard work as one might imagine, especially when you have to pan the gold by hand. Actually, gold is rarely found without using the brain to figure out where to dig. Then, infinite patience is always required to be successful. Of course, much of what was found in California was &quot;fool's gold&quot; as everyone knows. Only the truly committed managed to locate the valuable commodity of real gold. For that reason, the analogy and dynamics works well for those who wish to mine the gold that represents the biggest and best universal cookies around. Just gobbling down a handful rarely highlights their tasteful assets. Most are found through mining the recesses of the brain beneath the layers of conventional projections that we identify as the personality to get beneath to the core of the person that lies hidden awaiting discovery and exploration by the tender tolerance, encouragement and trust that can combine two souls into the intertwined purpose and embrace of life that honors each's remarkable attributes. The book sounds like an excellent preparation for that long, active and lively process.	2001-07-19
US	52205720	R119AGDMLVRJ58	0809237946	69968972	Nasty Men	Books	5	34	43	N	N	Instinct and &quot;Nasty&quot; Men	Without having read this book, I can tell it is valuable for its insight from the reviews offered. Having lived with an &quot;innocently harmful, but uncaring &quot;nasty&quot; man&quot; for 30 years, any book that attempts to reveal the uselessness of trying to get through and change the behavior of men or alert women who put up with them in a world that ignores, supports or encourages such behavior must be worthwhile. There have been few joys in trying to deal with such a person and women need to listen to their instincts before they become so entrenched in life with such people. The only way to accomplish that is to disassociate their conduct with those of men in general so that women can differentiate those who are safe to become attached to. We females have done little about challenging the propriety and authority of men to teach younger women about the differences in nasty or ugly, controlling men who do not like women and tender, warm and loving men who do like women. I also think that it is the responsibility of men to make that effort to teach about the differences. Why should all men get a bad reputation because of the behavior of some? Likewise, why should all women get a bad reputation because of the behavior of some? It is a personality profile that has escaped review too often hidden within the cadre of gender ignorance. Much of that is due to the fact that we idolize and make perceptions based upon outward appearance rather than scrutinizing, praising and celebrating the person within. In our power-driven competitive society where finance is king, the qualities that matter to provide intimate and satisfying relationships are often obscured by the facade or veneer that people try to project to live up to those images. Young women are often naive and vulnerable to the hype that draws them in since they've often come from sheltered families where their Dads were sheltering and nurturing and appropriately loving. Because many of these people do not &quot;display&quot; until after their victims are &quot;safely caught under their control&quot; it is a difficult social problem for the men or women who need to recognize and escape from such persons. Because it is a universal problem and not confined to gender, the personal qualities and tactics that people use to cultivate intimate relationships need far more analysis, evaluation and publicity so that people can learn to recognize the danger signals of controlling people, or bullies - male or female. Somewhere in the transition from childhood to adulthood, we lose the ability to make that distinction, often due to the social marketing that accompanies dating and mating dynamics. Size, brains, wealth or beauty that comes with its own automatic hammer is not much of a bargain when you have to pay with the quality of your very short life!	2001-06-19
US	52205720	R3O1DYEG2G4BLF	1558505822	37880475	The Verbally Abusive Relationship: How to Recognize It and How to Respond	Books	5	14	19	N	N	When It Can't Be Love	Women are programmed to give love.....to those who show themselves cognizant of, and appreciative of, the love they offer. Unfortunately, verbal abuse is so common among male spouses that it is all but impossible to sustain those feelings over the long term after they finally give up trying to defend such poor treatment. Children in such an atmosphere feel the tension as well. It is rarely limited only to normal spousal heterosexual relationships however since it occurs whenever one person uses the mechanics of intimidation and dominance to control the communication in relationships. Throwing up the hands and giving into the fact that it feels useless is a frequent outcome. Hence, the book is extremely important to everyone to properly focus upon the incidence of, and the corrective fixes, if any, to insulate oneself from this damaging and harmful result to self esteem. Highly recommended for those who wonder why they cannot continue to feel affection toward their abuser without impairing their own self esteem along with it. If you're not quite sure, this should help you decide how bad the situation really is, if not the reasons for it.	2001-05-02
US	52205720	R1MAYDBTG1JU30	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Preference for Fluff	I'm not familiar with the author but having finished most of the book by now, I consider it to be about 20% truth, and 80% fiction. To be honest, it is one of the most seedy collections of anecdotes I've seen on the Clintons matched only by the &quot;accidentally revealed&quot; impeachment depositions and documents of his second term. If ever there was evidence of grudge and harrassment against Hillary, this surely speaks for itself. How much is accurate is debateable, of course, but even a reasonably careful reading shows the book to have incorporated every negative possible of the interpretation of Clinton's Presidency and his wife's influence and involvement. Even a logical reading indicates that most could not be true, or if true, is such a distorted picture of the two lives that it renders it both inexplicable and unbelievable that anyone would spend time constructing supposedly factual information such as this and marketing it as nonfiction. For anyone who was even the most casual observor of the two terms, it will surely bring forth concerns of how authors use their writings to distort events, personalities, and circumstances to create an illusion of truth based upon circumstantial evidence and assumption. To the gullible, it can be quite damaging since it is presented as truth, and due to the quotations, reads like truth. If I had written the book, and was trying to discredit the subject, I couldn't have done a better job. No one knows exactly how much of previous books and materials published contain accurate information about the Clintons, events, or their relationship together, this is not likely to be one of them. But each person will have to decide for himself/herself. Good luck!	2001-02-22
