US	52214553	R3ENVO11Y7AWS9	1929175205	469110820	Strength And Honor: The Life Of Dolley Madison	Books	5	22	23	N	N	all history ought to be half this well written	I have actively studied history for a quarter century.  Rarely does it get this good, and it doesn't get any better.<br /><br />From the standpoint of pure reading enjoyment, _Strength and Honor_ is an outright winner.  Mr. Côt&eacute;'s pace, dramatic timing, word choices and level of detail are just right.  There isn't a slow page, never a `say what?' moment.  The portrait of our most revered First Lady is engaging, credible and perceptive.  The author has the prized ability, one I don't think can be taught, to put oneself into the other gender's shoes and describe the world as another would view it.  Dolley Madison thus smiles at us from these pages with all the insight one might expect of a female author.  The result is charm like unto Dolley herself.  I looked forward to each day's reading session.<br /><br />As history, this is far more than one prominent woman's life story.  This is an essay on a young Republic in all its lusty, bumptious, disorganized glory.  In Constitutional arguments, you know you're in for a load of baloney when someone begins a sentence with \\"If you read the Federalist Papers, the Founding Fathers intended...\\"  Few have ever read them for themselves, nor even realize how they were first published and by whom.  Here are some views of Founding Fathers and Federalists as seen through the eyes of the wife, friend and confidante of several.  Dolley Madison was Thomas Jefferson's White House Hostess (stand-in for a First Lady), then James Madison's First Lady.  She saved many national treasures from British fire while armed militiamen fled for their lives.  She was perhaps the most influential American woman of her time.  She lived into the era of early photography, so we are even treated to actual daguerreotypes of Dolley in her sprightly, impoverished, dignified final years.<br /><br />As told by Côt&eacute;, her story remedied many embarrassing weaknesses in my own understanding of the era.  I would propose _Strength and Honor_ as an excellent candidate for college-level American course material.  It is an important contribution to American history, to women's history, and to the world of enjoyable literature.  If William Manchester were to have written a biography of Dolley Madison, he might have done as well.<br /><br />History isn't boring; most people just write it that way.  Work such as this is the clear antidote.can course material.  It is an important contribution to American history, to women's history, and to the world of enjoyable literature.  If William Manchester were to have written a biography of Dolley Madison, he might have done as well.    History isn't boring; most people just write it that way.  Work such as this is the clear antidote.	2005-03-14
US	52214553	R3FN7P3QOMVPD4	0399152075	780503006	By Order of the President (A Presidential Agent Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	good Griffin in an interesting new series	In _By Order of the President_, the special ops people must thwart a post-9/11 terror attack plan.  The premise is pretty credible and includes some interesting subtleties.  The action is pretty consistent.  Griffin remains a powerful force in military, police and intelligence community fiction portrayal.<br /><br />Some credit is also due to the reduction of Griffin themes that were growing hackneyed, such as the virgin defloration and total loose cannon.  In the past, you could predict the sexual misadventures with ease.  I really like the way such things have been toned down, made less predictable; they now enhance rather than annoy.<br /><br />There are imperfections, well noticed by other observant reviewers:  German issues, ATC dialogue issues, and so forth.  Not desirable, but I bear in mind that Griffin books traverse an incredible gamut of countries and cultures and situations, and jump directly into esoterica.  Getting all that esoterica right is an incredible authoring task.  While noticing what's wrong, it's good appreciating what's right--and a lot of Griffin's esoterica shows excellent research.  I can live with the occasional slip.<br /><br />I would have liked to see better character development for some of the participants, but even when Griffin doesn't give us his best character development, his is still much better than most.  If I had 4.5 stars to give, I probably would, but I'm so pleased with the way he has sanded off the really rough edges that I can live with a few minor ones.<br /><br />Whether the new series can flow well remains to be seen, since some of its dates are actually in the future relative to its date of publication.  As Ian Slater could probably tell us, maintaining a series when real life keeps diverging from the fictional story line can be a tough row to hoe.  We shall see--perhaps WEB will school us on how to do this right.  I'd bet on it.	2005-01-22
US	52214553	R2J95XDL32UBTK	0764320726	86292880	Treasure Craft & Pottery Craft Stoneware: California & Hawaii's Last Major Pottery	Books	5	13	13	N	N	more than just a great pottery collector's reference	The book's focus is the pottery of two California-based companies, Treasure Craft and Pottery Craft, throughout the second half of the 20th century.  Higby is intimately acquainted with his topic:  he grew up on the West Coast with the pottery, he did business with its manufacturers, he has actively collected and traded in their wares for much of his adult life.  He had personal access to the eyewitnesses, for reasons other than simply being an author or collector, and it shows.<br /><br />My first impression of _Treasure Craft Pottery & Pottery Craft Stoneware_ came when I opened it to the middle:  \\"Whoa!  This is gorgeous!\\"  I refer to the consistent flow of excellent photography throughout the volume:  clear, near, well-cropped images in vivid colour and great quantity.  Two typical facing pages will have six photos, occupying the bulk of the space but not all.  All are clearly captioned as to era, value and size; somehow, the author (or publisher) worked in enough white space to avoid overwhelming the reader.  Looks like 650 photos for 176 pages including the index:  pretty impressive.<br /><br />For someone who collects the pottery, it's hard to imagine a more definitive work.  Bazillions of captioned, priced photos, who collects it and why, a pricing guide, condition, care, even how the stuff was made.  If you're serious about collecting it, you're going to want it.  But even if you're not, there are a number of reasons you might.<br /><br />As the author says of himself, if you were born before 1990 this pottery was probably a part of your life whether you realized it or not.  These companies must have done thousands of designs:  hula dancers, salt shakers, cookie jars, condiment jars, little gnome creatures, fish trays, anything that could be made of pottery.  In this timeframe, too, Hawaii went from \\"Place of bombed-out aero-naval base we will avenge\\" to \\"New state and national jungle gym.\\"  As Hawaii rose in the national awareness, so did interest in Hawaiian-themed images, and so on.  If you just like to look at pictures, as many of us do but few will cop to, you can enjoy the book as a visual journey.<br /><br />If you have a deeper interest, you'll appreciate that Higby has gone much farther:  he places each pottery era in the broader context of its time, describing how the pottery was meant to mesh with popular wants, issues and mores.  I have always loved to see history, any history, written well and without wonkiness.  Rarely is it this well researched and broad-minded, free of the infuriatingly buzzwordy affectations that paralyze much business historical writing.  The broader historical overlay is the theme of American-made crafts as a dying breed:  Treasure Craft's long, tenacious rearguard action to remain an American company making American products to sell to Americans.<br /><br />_Treasure Craft Pottery & Pottery Craft Stoneware_ also has much to interest potters:  anyone who works in clay and cooks their stuff in a big hairy kiln at temperatures that scare me.  \\"How'd they make this stuff, anyway?\\" The author has included a lot of technical detail on this score.  My wife has been after me to get a pottery wheel for years, and when I lose that struggle--as surely I must--I know she will load up on ideas from this book.<br /><br />It's kind of ironic that a book about items that used to sit on coffee tables now qualifies as a coffee-table book, one perfect for the collector but of interest to nearly anyone else who remembers the popular pottery of the 1950-2000 era--or who lived through it and would enjoy the nostalgia.<br /><br />The number of parents and grandparents who would love this as a gift must reach into the tens of millions, and I bet most neither have it nor know where to find it.  Wife and I are going to have an easy Christmas this year.ian-themed images, and so on.  If you just like to look at pictures, as many of us do but few will cop to, you can enjoy the book as a visual journey.<br /><br />If you have a deeper interest, you'll appreciate that Higby has gone much farther:  he places each pottery era in the broader context of its time, describing how the pottery was meant to mesh with popular wants, issues and mores.  I have always loved to see history, any history, written well and without wonkiness.  Rarely is it this well researched and broad-minded, free of the infuriatingly buzzwordy affectations that paralyze much business historical writing.  The broader historical overlay is the theme of American-made crafts as a dying breed:  Treasure Craft's long, tenacious rearguard action to remain an American company making American products to sell to Americans.<br /><br />_Treasure Craft Pottery & Pottery Craft Stoneware_ also has much to interest potters:  anyone who works in clay and cooks their stuff in a big hairy kiln at temperatures that scare me.  \\"How'd they make this stuff, anyway?\\" The author has included a lot of technical detail on this score.  My wife has been after me to get a pottery wheel for years, and when I lose that struggle--as surely I must--I know she will load up on ideas from this book.<br /><br />It's kind of ironic that a book about items that used to sit on coffee tables now qualifies as a coffee-table book, one perfect for the collector but of interest to nearly anyone else who remembers the popular pottery of the 1950-2000 era--or who lived through it and would enjoy the nostalgia.<br /><br />The number of parents and grandparents who would love this as a gift must reach into the tens of millions, and I bet most neither have it nor know where to find it.  Wife and I are going to have an easy Christmas this year.	2004-10-21
US	52214553	R34ECGDT6C24UN	0060722002	382472980	The Atkins Shopping Guide: Indispensable Tips and Guidelines for Successfully Stocking Your Low-carb Kitchen	Books	2	300	312	N	N	bah...never pay real money for a glorified brochure	First off, my credentials:  I lost fifty pounds on this diet.  This is a review of this guide, not of the diet.<br />The beginning part of the book gives a brief, peppy rundown on the diet itself.  It has some good information, but the tone is irritating.  The phrase 'doing Atkins' may be colloquially understood, but it sounds amateurish and is heavily overused.  No opportunity to pimp Atkins brand products is passed up.  The result had me on edge by the time I began reading the actual shopping guide, and then it got worse.<br />The useful parts are those dealing with raw foods, ones that don't involve 'branding' (that's corporate newspeak for \\"ramming the product name into your head and keeping it there,\\" folks):  fruits, basic meats, cheeses.  Gouda is gouda; tofu is tofu; beets are beets.  Unfortunately, even these parts suffer from some degree of measurement inconsistency.<br />If you're going to compare nutritional facts from item to item, you have to use the same size portions for each item in a class.  It is no good referring to 1/2 cup of most vegetables, then switching to 'half a baked potato' or 'two tablespoons'.  Sure, the reader can convert, but isn't that why I bought the book? Pick a half cup and stick with it.  Or an ounce.  A ton.  I don't care, as long as it's consistent, and the book's measurements are often so inconsistent as to be impractical for reference.<br />Where the book really begins to go south is when it comes to any form of 'branded' food.  Atkins Nutritionals, or whichever branch of the Atkins empire put this out, has naturally listed Atkins brand products first in every category.  Okay, fine, we're big kids and can read past this obvious shill; but even so, a lot of the other name brand products evaluated are going to change as the market reacts.  That's going to make a big chunk of this book obsolete.  Plus, the obvious placement of Atkins brand stuff first leaves a lingering suspicion:  how did they choose the brands for the book? I can't find a lot of them on my local shelves.  Is it possible that the ones chosen were those that would look undesirable relative to Atkins brand products? I don't know; I'm not a professional nutritionist or supermarket chain buyer.  All I know is that the array of choices sure makes the Atkins stuff look like the best in every category.  Funny how that worked, eh?<br />The problem with low-carb dieting, at this writing, is that our food providers have decided to brand a lot of their products with the 'low-carb' label, as if merely saying so will make it so.  The guide states, correctly, that this stems from a lack of regulation.  A balanced, professionally written guide would have been a great step forward; the message urged upon the reader from nearly every page of this book--\\"Just buy ours!\\"--is a step backward.<br />Like any sales brochure, this should be free.  Don't pay $7.50 for it.I can't find a lot of them on my local shelves.  Is it possible that the ones chosen were those that would look undesirable relative to Atkins brand products? I don't know; I'm not a professional nutritionist or supermarket chain buyer.  All I know is that the array of choices sure makes the Atkins stuff look like the best in every category.  Funny how that worked, eh?<br />The problem with low-carb dieting, at this writing, is that our food providers have decided to brand a lot of their products with the 'low-carb' label, as if merely saying so will make it so.  The guide states, correctly, that this stems from a lack of regulation.  A balanced, professionally written guide would have been a great step forward; the message urged upon the reader from nearly every page of this book--\\"Just buy ours!\\"--is a step backward.<br />Like any sales brochure, this should be free.  Don't pay $7.50 for it.	2004-05-11
US	52214553	R3NWX8OANEVHDG	1902602870	871049875	Turn Left at Greenland: In Search of the Real America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	fair, intelligent and perceptive	Mark Little was an Irish TV correspondent in D.C. for several years.  If his reporting was as good as this book, he's sure to enjoy more success.<br /><br />I admit that I'm a sucker for a great first chapter title.  Thus, when I opened this book in an Irish bookstore and saw:  Chapter One--The Potato-Sucking Moron, Little had my attention.  He never lost it.  He lived long enough in the United States to come to know us perhaps better than we know ourselves.<br /><br />The problem with European authors writing about us, Americans that is, is not that they're usually wrong.  We usually deserve whatever lumps we get.  The real consistent problem with Eurowriting about the USA is that the Eurowriter tends to hypocrisy--to fail to also see our strengths and his or her own nation's weaknesses.  Being lectured about our violent, racist society rings pretty hollow from the continent that birthed two horrific world wars and even now faces extreme-right nationalist movements that promote xenophobia.<br /><br />That's what I like best about Little:  he does not roll the same tired old gutterball.  His observations about politics, society, commerce and climate are all tempered with balance and no small amount of wit.  A case in point is his inside look at the latter days of the Gore 2000 presidential campaign:  the marketing focus, the cynicism, the utter absence of actual principles and ideas.  For my money, he summarized the faults with our current political climate better than any American has yet done.<br /><br />_Turn Left at Greenland_ is a worthy purchase.  Special-order it if you have to.	2004-05-07
US	52214553	R1EWJ0PC3XBKEH	0399150811	702256178	Retreat, Hell!: A corps Novel	Books	5	15	18	N	N	going strong and getting better	After _Under Fire_ I felt the _Corps_ series was at a bit of a crossroads.  We'd skipped the end of WWII, deactivated a number of great characters, and had a mostly combat-free book.  What was coming next?<br />Now that I know (thanks to a bookstore that was casual about release dates), I like the direction it's going.  In this installment of the _Corps_, the Korean conflict is under way.  The old warhorses are summoned to the colours again, or at least those Griffin has kept.<br />Griffin has always portrayed military and naval culture superbly; I think he could do it in his sleep if he cared to.  He is the Gale Sayers of the genre; like the Kansas Comet in his own field of fame, there just isn't anyone who can catch him.  The strength of the story lies in some fairly vicious twists that left the ending very much in doubt:  might this character die? Would Griffin kill him off? I am a veteran of every Griffin military book, and I could not predict the story's outcome.  It clamped on--and held, to the end.<br />I have never really let up on Griffin over the years with regard to the instant defloration of virgins and speedy bed-jumps, and fair's fair:  he's improved this to where I think we can let it go.  I can't say that it's gone--and it remains just about the only area in which his stories are quite predictable--but it does not dominate this story.  There is also decreased dependency upon rich smartalecks with trust funds:  the book takes that shortcut less than I've seen from Griffin for a long time.<br />In my mind there is little question:  while we might not have in Korea a backdrop as rich and desperate and high-stakes as World War II, we have a great story going on here.  I hope that we'll see Stecker and Rickabee again, from the old _Corps_ books, but even if we don't, Griffin has revitalized one of the best military fiction series there is.  I hope it continues for a long time.	2004-01-05
US	52214553	R1D4X2NW7R2BWF	0425194736	491304674	Agent 146: The True Story of a Nazi Spy in America	Books	3	10	16	N	N	interesting information balances flawed presentation	I liked _Agent 146_ more than I disliked it.  With any espionage book, of course, one always has the question as to what percentage of the truth is being told.  I felt that Herr Gimpel was as fair as possible to those he encountered, both German and American, and remembered many interesting anecdotes that had the ring of truth--both from an American and a German standpoint.<br />Unfortunately, this book--first published in 1957, according to my copy--was evidently written by a British ghostwriter.  There is no other explanation for the fact that each and every single solitary American in the book speaks entirely with British terminology.  Until the part where Gimpel is captured by the FBI, it isn't a factor, but thereafter all the terminology, slang and diction of every American depicted is purely that of the United Kingdom.  It is very disruptive to the reader to see Americans acting American yet speaking British.  It would be just as disruptive had Gimpel fallen instead into English hands and then later had an American ghost make a great colonial hash of all the British participants' speech.<br />Recommended even so, but the publisher should be severely censured for having so lazily allowed this to pass.  We all know that it is very hard, years after the fact, to precisely quote people one only met briefly.  Sometimes, as in this case, we are forcibly reminded just how imprecisely the person in question remembers the conversations--for that's the obvious explanation.  Gimpel must have furnished sketchy notes, and the ghost turned them into a book, using the form of speech he knew:  British English.<br />If you can get past the surreality of a bunch of Americans having suddenly and inexplicably adopted Anglophilia, it's a pretty good spy book.	2004-01-01
US	52214553	R3O0E8BSZ1V91N	0970911718	578663064	Foul Ball	Books	5	27	27	N	N	still throwing the dancing literary knuckleball	Jim Bouton's pitching days are past, but his love for baseball will never end.  _Foul Ball_ tells the story of his efforts, in concert with a good friend, to save a historic minor league baseball park.<br />Anyone who has ever read Bouton knows of his style:  entertaining, self-deprecatory, perceptive and candid.  This greatly broadens the appeal of what would otherwise be a book of fairly narrow interest.  By the time I finished it, I was willing to collect signatures for a petition to save the place, so fully was I drawn into the story.  If I ever pass through Massachusetts, I simply have to see Wahconah Park.<br />But what makes the story so relevant to many far from Massachusetts is its description of the constant conflict between small-town America's city governments and people.  Bouton's story rings very true with me because I live in a town of similar size to Pittsfield (40-50,000), and I see locally the behaviours he has chronicled:  an arrogant city government more concerned with building itself Taj Mahals and handing out fat contracts than doing the will of the people.  A newspaper that works hand in glove with the city functionaries to further its own selfish interests.  Legal harassment of those who dare dissent openly, and city employees acknowledging that the system is horribly corrupt but terrified to say so.  And overshadowing it all, the pandering of city government to corporate greed and pressure--in the case of Pittsfield, GE and its apparent history of gross PCB spillage.<br />Fighting City Hall is not easy, and few do so, but Jim Bouton and Chip Elitzer had the guts to do it, for the love of baseball and history.  When the original publisher mysteriously reneged on its agreement to put this book into print--gee, I wonder why--Bouton self-published it.  It was well worth my money.  Recommended for baseball fans, as well as anyone who has ever seen a city government wield power 'just because it can.'	2003-09-11
US	52214553	R5I0619A5IEHG	0786918004	593065494	Legacy of the Drow Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms(r) Omnibus)	Books	3	13	20	N	N	wonderful story, great vocabulary, terrible technique	This massive tome incorporates a whole series of books about the battle of a Forgotten Realms dwarf-kingdom, and specifically a number of great characters, with the wicked Drow of the Underdark.<br />There's a lot of great adventure, and the characters are quite well developed.  The author handles the emotional byplay with good credibility, and no one has yet painted as evocative a picture of the evil dark elves and the renegade they seek to bring back for sacrifice.<br />So what's wrong? Simple:  my head hurts after reading it.  This is because Salvatore constantly falls prey to the shortcoming of weaker authors:  he tells rather than shows sentiment.  Thus, we are always clonked over the head with 'The character felt xxxx'.  This is poor writing, and lazy; far better to show how the characters act, and let the reader infer their feelings from their actions and gestures and expressions and speech.  I don't remember Salvatore doing this in the series about Drizzt's early life, so I'm not sure what happened, but the writing here is just plain amateurish despite Salvatore's obvious command of vocabulary.<br />If this were a book with less great adventure, I'd have put it down after ten pages.  As it is, it's still worth reading for the richness of the characters and the parts that touch on life in the Underdark.<br />Just wear a helmet.	2003-02-16
US	52214553	R1P4JWIK23IZDE	0515134376	551427604	Under Fire: A Novel of the Corps	Books	4	10	10	N	N	one step forward, one step back	This novel continues the _The Corps_ series by Griffin by skipping the rest of World War II (whatever for?) and jumping right to Korea.  The basic opening premise is that McCoy has predicted the imminent Korean War.  No one wants to hear it, so the brass cans him from the Corps... or at least, they plan to.<br />While McCoy, the Pickerings, Ernie, Banning and Macklin are all back and being themselves, the majority of what they do in the book is politicking and interacting rather than wage war.  The timeframe is the retreat to the Pusan perimeter, but not many of the characters are engaged in the combat.  Also, they're great characters, and some good new and old ones make appearances, but not as much effort is put into developing the new ones that show up.  Too bad; this has always been a Griffin strength.  Some are pretty well absent; what happened to Sessions? Rickabee?<br />At least Griffin has taken one criticism to heart:  there is no parade of virgins eager for defloration.  That was really getting old.  The sex and romance in this book is understated and in proper proportion to the story.<br />Hate to say it, but this one feels 'churned out'.  I get the sense that Griffin is a little tired of the series--how else to explain the skipping of two years of action-intensive WWII as well as nearly the whole interconflict period?<br />It's still very good compared to much of what's out there, but Griffin has done better (and, in fairness, worse as well) in this and other series.  Most Griffin fans will still like it, but it will not rope the reader in by main force as the early _Corps_ books did.	2003-01-13
US	52214553	REQXRD97NCENN	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Anita's libido in chains... or rather, unchained	This was okay, but I'm glad I waited for it in paperback.  While Hamilton remains a great, imaginative writer, the storyline and pace of this story don't match up to her past efforts in the series.<br />It used to be like this:  Anita clung tenaciously, endearingly, to her humanity as it slowly slipped away from her.  The more she dealt with the monsters, to borrow a concept from Nietzsche, the more she felt herself resembling them.  In the meantime, there was a delicate balance:  her contacts with humanity through her work and play, and her tendency to become snagged in the web of preternatural politics and struggles.  Through all this there was a great deal of action, often libidinous but always fast-moving and exciting.  A woman, small of stature but with a streak of chutzpah a foot wide, took on monsters who could throw her--and tended to win.<br />With _Narcissus_ the balance that marked the series dies its final death.  I don't recall her workplace even being mentioned.  Her police contacts make a couple of widely-separated appearances.  Two-thirds of the book is about how horny Anita is.  Jean Auel ran into this problem as well:  the more sexual the main character becomes, the less interesting or exciting the sex becomes, until it degenerates into a steady stream of it.  With Auel, we have the eternal 'nodule' between Ayla's legs.  With Hamilton, now, we have the various flavour-related metaphors by which Anita 'tastes' everyone's lust, skin, blood, fear, and so forth.<br />The quality of Hamilton's writing, her ability to create new and interesting characters, and the remnants of Anita's struggle to remain truly human are always of value.  So good, in fact, that they compensate for a somewhat subpar story with repetitive 'action' (mainly lust, and the slaking thereof) that doesn't remind you much of the previous books until the final third.<br />Also, on an intangible level, there is sort of a bitter undertone to the whole book.  A previous reviewer perceptively noted that Richard's dismissal seemed almost vindictive, as though Hamilton got really angry with a person who inspired him.  Even the author's expression in the back-cover photo looks bored and vaguely annoyed.  I begin to wonder if she isn't thoroughly sick of Anita, having reached the point of marquee name recognition at which publishers will pressure an author to keep pumping out the same sort of thing because it's sure to sell books, and who cares about the soul of the long-term storyline as long as we're all making money and receiving endcap space in bookstores.  (For an ultimate example of this phenomenon, see either Auel or Leon Uris.)  If so, I hope Hamilton is in a position to tell big-money publishing to get bent, and to write material in which she can really invest heart and soul.<br />The book is good, but the series is no longer great.  Laurell, please come back.  We know what you're capable of.vely noted that Richard's dismissal seemed almost vindictive, as though Hamilton got really angry with a person who inspired him.  Even the author's expression in the back-cover photo looks bored and vaguely annoyed.  I begin to wonder if she isn't thoroughly sick of Anita, having reached the point of marquee name recognition at which publishers will pressure an author to keep pumping out the same sort of thing because it's sure to sell books, and who cares about the soul of the long-term storyline as long as we're all making money and receiving endcap space in bookstores.  (For an ultimate example of this phenomenon, see either Auel or Leon Uris.)  If so, I hope Hamilton is in a position to tell big-money publishing to get bent, and to write material in which she can really invest heart and soul.<br />The book is good, but the series is no longer great.  Laurell, please come back.  We know what you're capable of.	2002-10-02
US	52214553	R1PFLRFY8NWW2T	0345405668	65820129	American Empire: Blood & Iron	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I do believe it's the best in this series	I've read most of Turtledove's alternate history, and I'll agree that he's as good as anyone.<br />In this story, the USA and CSA are at peace.  Turtledove's portrait of postwar actions in America (both halves) draw on actual history of other countries in the era after WWI; the best way to describe it is that it's the rise of Nazism and socialism, but with a distinctly American overlay.  A number of characters we've come to know well are transformed in motives and goals.  For a Turtledove book with no wars in it, there really is a lot of movement, and there's even some closure to longstanding plot threads--an essential development if the series is to remain fresh.  It was the way the author built toward the multiple climaxes (nicely sequenced) that caused me to think, three quarters of the way through, &quot;Wow.  This is the best thing he's done since _Guns of the South_.&quot;<br />From a technical standpoint, Turtledove's writing is superb.  Descriptive, intelligent, entertaining.<br />The small downsides are minor quibbles.  For example, the way his Francophone characters speak does convey a French personality, but he need not go so far as to have a character say 'you have reason' for 'you're right'.  I still think he has one or two too many subplots going.  But frankly, both are matters of taste.  Neither significantly affected my enjoyment.<br />Great stuff.	2002-07-04
US	52214553	R1DXXWFVYL85YF	1840680490	30798312	Caligula: Divine Carnage	Books	1	39	40	N	N	interesting, but pornographic, repetitive, and false	I'm all in favour of making history interesting, but it should be well written and accurate.<br />This book is pornographic.  Coming from me, that's not only not always a perjorative, but in fact I'm about the last person to start criticizing sexual content.  Unless, of course, it represents ill-concealed fetishism for the sake of shock value with no redeeming artistry or value.  The authors seem to be fascintated with buggery, body fluids, and sadism, because that's all this is about.  If this book were to be believed, the people of the Roman Empire really never did anything but find new and imaginative kinks and S/M activity to amuse themselves, with their emperors leading the charge.  Read _Hustler_ instead--it has more literary value.<br />This book is repetitive.  How many times must the common people be referred to as 'plebeian scum?'  How many times is it necessary to describe blood (and/or other substances) fountaining forth in great gouts?  If you read the first ten pages, you've got the picture.  It's good that Amazon has them available, so you can do just that and decide not to waste money on the remainder.<br />This book is false.  It purports to be history, but it has little substantiation, primarily because said support mostly does not exist.  It's true that some emperors of Rome were sadistic perverts; no one doubts that.  However, I've read most of the relevant ancient sources, and there simply is no documentation, none, to back up the vast majority of what is in here.  Nor is it plausible, for the simple reason that had the Roman Empire really been like this, it would have been overrun by any roving band of bandits while deeply occupied in waste, frenetic omnisexuality, and intoxication.  People will rarely just sit still to be murdered, and a great deal of this book is about murder.  If the authors were going to write sensationalized creative fiction, they should have admitted that, and not tried to call this garbage 'history'.  It is not.<br />In short, it's one of the worst books I've ever read from nearly every standpoint.  Spare yourself.  I wish I had.short, it's one of the worst books I've ever read from nearly every standpoint.  Spare yourself.  I wish I had.	2002-01-20
US	52214553	R2FT4IA5F3028K	1929175345	399906401	The Redneck Riviera	Books	5	6	6	N	N	great fiction, with a historian's research work ethic	In this, Cote's firm first step into the world of fiction, a single South Carolinian mom pulls out all the stops in a battle for her daughter's heart, health...and life.<br /><br />The portrayal of Dolly Devereaux, battling for betterment in a region focused mainly on the sexual needs of Canadian golfers (who are quite amusingly satirized here), is credible and consistent.  The author has superbly handled the challenge of writing as not just one, but *several* well-developed female characters in a story that will surely reach out to women everywhere.  The plot holds consistent interest and is quite relevant to today's life.<br /><br />Probably the strongest impression I formed, though, was of the author's research.  This can be divined through the inclusion of a good deal of authoritative detail of the type that can only be credibly offered from an author's personal recollection, and this is what separates Cote from many far more famous novelists.  From the chemical issues associated with the manufacture of methamphetamine ('crank'), to the lure of quick money offered to women considered attractive enough to get paid to take their clothes off (and perhaps sell what's underneath), it is obvious that he spoke to people with firsthand experience who shared candidly.  This is what separates him from the shallow mass-market thriller novelists everyone has heard of, but who aren't hungry enough to do their homework now that they're big names.  (Don't know about you, but I weary of the fate of the whole world always resting mysteriously upon the endeavours of some intrepid but unconventional and about-to-be-fired journalist, lawyer or detective.  Dolly Deveraux, manager of a lingerie and sex toy shop, is a refreshing change indeed.)<br /><br />Cote's fiction is very good now, and is likely to make the transition from 'very good' to 'excellent' sooner rather than later.  This novel can be recommended with equal strength as either a regional study or a heartrending emotional drama (one perfectly suited for a movie script)--take your pick.ited for a movie script)--take your pick.	2001-11-16
US	52214553	R2ACXI3IMMFX5V	068811895X	450128581	The Lip: A Biography of Leo Durocher	Books	2	5	5	N	N	The Gyp	You know, for someone who's written as many sports books as Eskenazi, you'd think he'd have done better.<br />For one thing, this sizable Durocher biography lacks depth.  In many cases Leo's statements vary from those of others.  The author definitely did some research into who was lying and who was not, but he doesn't take a stand very often.  In a book about someone like Durocher, this is an unfortunate weakness.<br />For another, it doesn't reveal much that we didn't already know.  Peter Golenbock, in _Bums_, was far more candid about Durocher.  For another, it's not funny or even very entertaining.  How one could make a subject like Leo Durocher dull is a difficult question to answer, but Eskenazi succeeded.<br />What's far worse, though, is the weighting of coverage.  My copy is 315 pages.  Eight years of Durocher's managerial career were spent managing the Cubs and Astros in the late sixties; dozens of players and executives from that era who worked with Leo are alive, well and probably willing to discuss it, but Eskenazi seemingly didn't think that was worth his time:  the part about the Cubs begins on page 292.  292 pages for childhood, Yankees, Reds, Cards, Dodgers, Giants and Dodgers again; 23 for Cubs, Astros and Durocher's penile implant.<br />I recently ordered another baseball book by Eskenazi.  I sure hope it's better than this.	2001-08-11
US	52214553	R4VN8GH16Y1WV	1560449446	605401381	It Happened In Nevada (It Happened In Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	well-researched, easy Western history read	One of the great weaknesses in the teaching of history, by and large, is to believe that we need not be creative in how we go about it.  With this book, Gibson has researched and documented a collection of Nevada stories from ancient times to the late 1990s.<br />These thirty quick reads are arranged chronologically and cover events ranging from Anasazi times to the Comstock Lode to the modern speed record attempts at the Salt Flats.  The array of topics touched upon is too broad to list here, but ranges from aboriginal to judicial to economic to industrial to political and beyond.  In addition to a lengthy bibliography, a nice collection of Nevada-related facts wraps up the book.<br />I find Gibson's approach to debatable historical topics (such as, for example, the fate of Butch Cassidy) to be refreshingly dispassionate; I do not get the impression that she was ever predisposed to any conclusion, and was open to whatever she might discover--an approach too many historical writers fail to emulate.  The result is high credibility for that which she presents to us.<br />Maybe some of the greedmongers who run Las Vegas can give a little back to their state by purchasing enough of these for every school in the state of Nevada--it would be a welcome way to interest children in history.  Recommended, in any event, for those who appreciate Western history presented with hardly a preconceived notion or bias to be found.	2001-04-05
US	52214553	R7TPL22FXIELX	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	3	0	0	N	N	needs variety, old chap	Ah, Bryson. He's as good as anyone at coming up with humourous metaphors, but this time he wrote a dull book.<br />When I reached the end at long last, I realized that I could easily have skipped the middle. Bryson's travel cycle goes: &quot;I (took the train/walked) to a (charming old/sterile modern) town. I was (delighted by the quaint old unprofitable stuff/disgusted by the new, economically viable stuff) around me. I went searching for a meal and ran into a weirdo. The meal was (lousy and overpriced/surprisingly good but overpriced). I went to a historical/cultural attraction that was deserted except for ways to collect my money. I found a hotel, ate some more and slept. It rained some. Overall, Blotchley-on-Bracegirdle (met my expectations of gemutlicheit/bored me to tears).&quot;<br />There you go. While Bryson's sometimes funny as he repeats this cycle endlessly with minor variations, he's not at his best here. A so-so value.	2001-02-21
US	52214553	R39YQ2QFCDK8IQ	0671578200	437252316	Field of Dishonor (Honor Harrington Series, Book 4)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	a dramatic final showdown	If you have been reading the series up to this point (good idea), this will be a departure from the spaceship combat and naval operations focus we've had so far.<br />To my mind, this is the book where Honor finally becomes a fully developed character:  we see how she behaves when pushed to personal extremis.  It is a story of transition for her; her naval career will never be the same.  Readers cynical about politics and politicians will find themselves scowling a lot as the story unfolds; those who are not yet cynical will probably be nudged that direction.  Honor's stolidly loyal Grayson armsmen, very important characters through the rest of the series, are first developed here.<br />Strong drama, good characters, and a willingness to radically change the circumstances of the protagonist are all Weber strong points, and all are present.  I can honestly say that none of the books so far has been the same as any other.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-09
US	52214553	R3VGGB64SXH2SS	0671875965	973278393	The Short Victorious War (Honor Harrington Series, Book 3)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	like an old hotel mattress, sags a little in the middle	To begin with, the Honor Harrington series (of which this is book 3) is a good read all the way through.  Even when it's not at its best, it's still very good.<br />That said, this isn't the best of the bunch.  Its strong points are Weber's character development (he can introduce a new character and in a few pages you have the 'feel' of him or her), the depth it adds to Honor herself in terms of romantic relationships, and our first real look at the inner workings of the main enemy's government.  There are some really great moments.  However, by and large, the middle of the book is taken up with somewhat mundane activities.  Mundane, that is, by the standards of the series; normally, I have trouble putting them down once I pick them up.  Everyone kind of seems to spend a lot of time in the middle waiting for The Big Event, which doesn't really quite come in this book.  At the end it leaves you hanging, with war and revolution frozen in motion--very much a teaser for the next book.  One nice point is the appendix at the end about 'Honor Harrington's Navy', which gives some 'technical' details.<br />Not a good first read in the series; start with _On Basilisk Station_ would be my advice.  If you're reading the series, and already hooked, it'll be worth reading for you and will lead to more exciting things.  Despite weak points, it's still great SF reading.	2001-02-03
US	52214553	R1RENFY74QPUI4	0671578642	65617579	The Honor of the Queen (Honor Harrington #2)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	tremendously exciting, with plenty of surprises	It's fair to call this (the second in the series) a very pivotal book, because the main character's entire future is completely transformed by its events.  While the books are designed to stand alone well enough, the only way to understand some of the key relationships is to read them in sequence.<br />Religious and gender issues come to the forefront here, with Honor experiencing attitudes almost unheard of in her homeland.  This is the only part of the book that is questionable in its consistency:  Honor's emotional reaction to the situation is a little too emotional for someone supposedly raised in such an egalitarian society.  Even allowing for a couple of very bad experiences in her career, and that words can hurt some people more than pulser fire, I can't see a character as strong as Honor taking her ball and going away--even briefly--just because the nasty sexists are rude to her.  She's too strong a woman for that.  However, that said, the remainder of the personal interaction picture in the book is creative, sensible and richly interesting.  Weber is not afraid to have permanent consequences to characters and no one's future and health, not even Honor's, are certain.<br />Although Weber takes an awkward turn once in awhile, this is still some of the most engrossing space opera out there--especially in terms of a well-developed heroine who enjoys a growing position of authority and respect.  This series will be of special interest to persons of the Christian faith; while the opening pages of this book make you think that you're on the way down the path of stereotyping, as the portrait of Grayson develops, even someone of entirely different beliefs (such as myself) comes to respect and like a lot about Graysons and their faith.  Good stuff.	2001-01-31
US	52214553	R2QKTUF3K3804I	1879181177	730913509	Transforming Your Dragons: How to Turn Fear Patterns into Personal Power	Books	5	55	55	N	N	really interesting, easy-to-digest approach	I was required to read this book for a class, so my outlook on it was more skeptical than normal.  It went on to surprise and please me with its practical accessibility and good sense.<br />In brief, the premise is that our weaknesses--the ways in which we defeat ourselves--can be broadly categorized.  In so doing, we can work to defeat these 'dragons'' grip on our personalities.  It includes an exam to help identify your dragon(s) and stage of maturity, an in-depth discussion of each dragon, a section on how they work together, and a generous list of ideas for self-guided therapy to regain the particular dragon's virtue without suffering its failings.<br />Easy to read, well organized, makes intuitive sense, practical:  a refreshing list of qualities.  Recommended whether one simply seeks to better understand oneself and others, or is seriously intending to undertake personal transformation.	2001-01-29
US	52214553	R3DTN1U9X7TCT1	1929175159	516581287	Greenbelt : A Nostalgic Return to a Texas Childhood	Books	5	3	3	N	N	lively, genuine, and entirely too short	Here we have Jim Man's portrait of a summerful of visits to a lake house in north Texas of 1972 (age 12).  The outstanding quality of Man's writing is its credibility:  on a topic almost hand-crafted as a foundation for tall tales, I'm darned if I don't believe just about everything he says.<br />I too grew up in the 1970s in the West, and we did in fact use to shoot at one another with BB guns, dig through any half-ruined building available to us, and gad about on any wheeled vehicle we could scrounge up.  While Jim's story is one of a lot of fun--some better and cleaner than others--it is a story of lessons learned about himself and others.  Jim's friend Dwight is an especially compelling character, the kind you can't invent; they either are authentic or they are not.  (His accent, by the way, is authentic.  He sounds precisely like my very rural, very Texan father-in-law.)  By the end of the book--which I wish had been longer--I really wanted to know what ever became of the boys in the book.<br />As a book for young people, I'd rate it PG-13:  the author could have easily pushed it toward R-17, but a visible effort was made to take the edges off the language and content; this effort might not get the credit it deserves, but parents buying books for their children will appreciate it.  If you're raising kids today, _Greenbelt_ will encourage you to pose the question:  how come we turned out all right in spite of the fact that we behaved like Jim and his cohorts? It will appeal especially to anyone who likes motorcycles, fishing/boating, and modern-day Tom Sawyer hijinks.  For anyone who grew up in rural Texas, naturally, the appeal will be even stronger. I came away liking the genuinely warm, adventuresome Man family, and I reckon a lot of readers will too.	2001-01-26
US	52214553	R2YV9ND4GVKOKU	1885211554	168837340	Not So Funny When It Happened: The Best of Travel Humor and Misadventure (Travelers' Tales)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	ok, but not a must-read, even for Cahill fans	Normally, I devour almost anything Cahill associates himself with, and that's why I bought _Not So Funny_.  It wasn't bad, but it wasn't really that great a value.<br />Reviewer Ivy, below, summed up my sentiments pretty well with some really well-penned observations.  While most of the big adventure travel names are here, most of the really interesting stories seem to have already shown up someplace else.  Most of these are pretty short, so I suppose it'd be good before-bed or throne room reading, but I just didn't find most of them compelling.<br />If you don't have elevated expectations brought on by reading a lot of Cahill's stuff (as I do), you may enjoy it more than I did.	2001-01-22
US	52214553	R1KBQ4AL6G6PAW	0399146466	599085133	Special Ops: A Brotherhood of War Novel	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Griffin is back to his old standard of excellence	Having been critical of some recent Griffin efforts, I wasn't sure what to expect here; rarely does an author reverse a downward trend.  The master of military fiction is definitely back, doing everything well that he once did well.<br />He already had a batch of great characters to work with here, but he takes time to introduce them for those new to this series (which we had all thought was over with years ago), so the book will stand alone well if need be.  The premise is interesting even if one does know the ultimate historical outcome.  The portrayal of LBJ, in particular, is marvelous.  The action is exciting, both human and military, with a number of good old-fashioned Griffin 'senior officer annoyed rants', one of the things he's best at.  Griffin has always been good about avoiding excessive ethnic stereotyping, and in a plot that includes strong African American, African and Hispanic characters this talent really shines through.  If I could find a weakness to report I'd do so, but there aren't any.<br />It may be that this book was a long-unpublished manuscript that was gussied up for print; it may also be that Griffin has completely corrected all the recent downward trends of his writing and is back with a vengeance.  Either way, this one is his best effort in years--a keeper for sure.	2001-01-20
US	52214553	R37NQ42QXMLXCL	0940328240	405649917	Patriot Dreams : The Murder of Colonel Rich Higgins	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a new chapter in the history of guts and loyalty	Let me be clear: by guts and loyalty, I mean Robin Higgins.  I do *not* mean the leaders who, incredibly, abandoned her husband in his captivity.<br />_Patriot Dreams_ is LTC Robin Higgins' story of the way she kept two oaths that she never imagined would be brought into conflict:  her duty to her husband and her oath as an officer.  What stands out about the book is the composure with which she writes about the topic, which gives voice to her determined but very mature and dignified efforts to obtain her husband's (an unarmed UN peacekeeper) release from brutal captivity.  It's very likely to push the reader's buttons, not by design but by the nature of the topic, but you'll very likely come away with great respect for Robin Higgins.  I did.<br />Worth reading for anyone wishing to pay respect to two fine Colonels of Marines, for starters.  It would also appeal to those who enjoy reading about true commitment in marriage.  One other group, in my view, should give it a read:  those who still maintain that women should be barred from combat military roles.  I'm not taking a position on that topic here, but I do encourage this:  if you feel that way, then read Robin Higgins' book, and then ask yourself if you'd want to be the one to tell her--and others of her calibre--she wasn't up to combat leadership, or for that matter if we can afford to exclude her brand of guts and loyalty from leadership in battle.	2001-01-17
US	52214553	RGPBHUHJ3OKUG	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	3	4	N	N	it may not flatter Bryson, but it's pretty entertaining	When Bryson was young, he toured Europe.  A generation later, he went back for another look, and this is what he saw.<br />Enough has been written about this book that my goal here is to help the prospective reader sort it out.  Yes, it's true, Bryson's got a sharp tongue and an Americocentric streak two feet wide.  He does come off as petulant when what he wants doesn't just sort of appear before him.  A lot of his dissatisfactions can surely be attributed to his own spasmodic trip management and monolingualism. At the same time, he ranges from funny to hilarious.  He spots a lot of interesting things about other countries.  There were a lot of places he really liked, and he said so.  And it must be admitted that he made it to some out-of-the-way places:  Hammerfest, Capri, Locarno, Sofia.  I have to respect the effort that required.<br />So who'll like the book? It depends on your approach.  If Bryson dogged your country/city/favourite landmark, and you're inclined to get annoyed at such things--or if American tourists are your (understandable) pet peeve, probably you won't much care for him.  If you enjoy funny travel writing from someone not afraid to show his complete ignorance and make a merry fool of himself in public, Bryson is for you.  While Bryson pokes a lot of fun at grumpy ticket counter people and waiters, he is his own single largest target.  I'll raise a beer stein to that.	2001-01-16
US	52214553	R1GOZR6LYC5IKR	0345430239	508419979	Down to Earth (Colonization, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	entertaining enough, still room to improve	Probably the most interesting thing about Turtledove's alternate histories is the twists he comes up with as events develop.  He still runs too many subplots for most of them to have much depth, but he does pull such a multitude of them off well considering that there are too many.  A good example:  the events in China in the book could have been tremendously important, involving some of the series' oldest characters.  In this book it is a dull backwater.<br />Mr. Usher's comments below are so cogent I won't try to reiterate them in my own words, but simply associate myself with them.  In spite of its flaws, I enjoyed _Down to Earth_ more than I had expected to from the reviews I read, and this was because Turtledove is an interesting storyteller who always surprises, isn't afraid to kill off a key character, and whose writing style is always easy reading.<br />Recommended to fans of the series; if this is your first look at it, best to start at the beginning with the _Balance_ subseries, which leads into the _Colonization_ subseries of which _Down to Earth_ is a part.	2001-01-14
US	52214553	R3OURS3VXJUH6G	0671040774	596893174	Centauri Dawn (Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, Book 1)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	not especially well written, but manages to be interesting	When you write a book based on a standout computer game environment, special skills are required:  you have to write the book for non-game-veterans as well as players.  In this regard, Ely doesn't really succeed here, but he's got enough storytelling talent to carry the day.  He could have made it a first-rank SF book doing true justice to the game, but we don't get that.<br />What's good is the character development, the growing suspense as tensions between factions increase, and the degree to which Ely took advantage of the rich environment Brian Reynolds created in the computer game.  What's not so good, and heavily impacts the suspension of disbelief, is the lack of detail as to the development of the factions.  It is too easy to assume that they just sprang up out of pods that scattered from the mothership, and that's too sanitary a conclusion.  There was tremendously fertile ground here for storytelling about how the factions went from 'the bunch of castaways who happened to land with Deirdre Skye' to 'the Gaians', and Ely bypassed it--pity.  How'd they end up factionalizing as they did, beyond the on-ship bickering prior to the start point of the book? Where'd they get their faction names? How about a map to put this into spatial perspective? No luck.<br />A decent SF book mainly of interest to fans of the computer game, but one that radiates missed potential.	2001-01-08
US	52214553	R3VRQQOYME929Q	0425124495	596039498	Hitler's Elite	Books	3	5	8	N	N	sensationalized, but contains good information anyway	While you can tell that this is a mass-market paperback (the type found in the 'true crime' section rather than the 'history' section) by its unapologetically emotional tone, there are still good reasons to use it as a quick reference.<br />The motivations, thoughts and attitudes attributed to the characters here should generally be checked before accepting as fact, but the basic events they were involved in are mostly accurate enough.  A particular gem is the inclusion of the sentencing statement of the Israeli judge who sent Eichmann to the gallows, which I have since quoted a number of times for its eloquence and reason.  Recommended with the above caveats.	2001-01-07
US	52214553	R27DJUJYQ4JS4M	0816160147	372389225	I'm Glad You Didn't Take it Personally	Books	5	13	13	N	N	how has such a great book dropped into obscurity?	This relatively small but engaging book tells the story of Bouton's last half season (not counting his comeback in '78), his work in broadcasting, and all the aftermath of publishing _Ball Four_.<br />It reads exactly like a continuation of _Ball Four_, and in fact I'm surprised that the two have never been amalgamated into a single edition.  Here Bouton shares the ways in which his first book changed his life, making him both famous and (to some) notorious.  A number of letters he received are included, as are some of the book's early reviews and reactions.  In rereading it for this review, I not only laughed a lot, but I came away astonished once again at the conniption big league baseball had.<br />If you like _BF_, you've got to find this one.	2001-01-06
US	52214553	R25KTNOY44YM74	1558681752	76418814	Culture Shock! Taiwan (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	5	9	15	N	N	one of the best of the Culture Shock! series	While I haven't visited Taiwan, I did work for two years for a company owned by Chinese folks from Taiwan.  From what I have been able to observe, culturally speaking, this book is right on.<br />The breadth of topics covered is impressive.  A bit of language, enough history to teach you why things are as they are, information on doing business and entertaining, what you should worry about and what you should not, climate, traffic, politics, religion, philosophy, the culture of the small business owner, and even varieties of food are addressed.  I would recommend it strongly, not only for the traveler to Taiwan but for anyone with close friends or co-workers who hail from it--if I'd had it years ago, I'd have committed fewer faux pas and had a better time.	2000-12-29
US	52214553	R188S3ME4AVT10	0451170296	102083361	Behind the Mask: My Double Life in Baseball	Books	5	9	9	N	N	candid, gutsy account of a very difficult career	It's really hard to rate _Behind the Mask_ without dividing it into two categories:  as a book about gay life, and as a baseball book.  I found it interesting and valuable in both areas.<br />Pallone, it must be remembered, came of age in the seventies, when the idea of being 'out' was difficult for anyone--much less a professional sports official.  His story has the ring of truth and honesty, and would in particular be a good read for young people wrestling with sexual identity issues:  it does not contain explicit sex scenes.  Probably PG-13.  Of special value is Pallone's own self-analysis; he has come to understand why he handled life the way he did, and the picture we see is of a man who has regrets about some things but is at peace.<br />With regard to baseball, we get a lot of closeups of Pallone's colleagues.  Like anyone else, some good, some not so good; some competent, some not so competent.  The degree to which umpires will engage a vindictive streak to the detriment of the game truly stunned me, and I'm generally a defender of the officials. The politics and union/management wangling that go into deciding just who gets to be a big league umpire are laid bare.  Pallone contends that he was fired for being gay, and I don't think he necessarily makes the case for this very well; while I wouldn't put it past the league owners, it's also possible that he was fired for being controversial, and that his revelation of his sexuality was simply the one more bit of awkward press that baseball didn't want.  Either way, it took a lot of courage for him to pursue his career in the face of a lot of adversity, and I'd proudly shake his hand.<br />A good read from either standpoint.	2000-12-20
US	52214553	R3OOT1L5OW3DWY	1929175043	486366689	Mary's World : Love, War, and Family Ties in Nineteenth-century Charleston	Books	5	36	39	N	N	dispassionate, deep and well researched history	_Mary's World_ traces the life story of Mary Motte Alston Pringle, a prominent South Carolinian woman, from her youth in the early 1800s to her passing at an advanced age.  Much of the story is drawn from her own writings, which are voluminous and articulate, though Côt&eacute; steers clear of the trap of overquoting and invests the effort to interpret and present--just as an historian should.<br />Most authors would be delighted to succeed in one significant way with a book--Côt&eacute; succeeds in many with _Mary's_.  It is dispassionate history, navigating the shoals of one of the most partisan events in US history (the Civil War) without demonizing or deifying either side.  It is 'herstory', if you will, giving us a view of times past from the standpoint of a courageous woman who went from genteel wealth to genteel poverty.  It is also African American history:  the blacks who played integral roles in Mary's world have names, faces and attitudes, which naturally changed with society.  It asks and answers deeper questions about the protagonists' motivations, ideas, beliefs and viewpoints.  It makes abundantly clear that Reconstruction was an equal opportunity failure, destroying rather than redistributing wealth.  Côt&eacute;'s style is uncluttered, perceptive and engaging.  It plays no favourites and panders to no one.  The notes often explain contemporary slang and add value to the main text; the index is very helpful; the bibliography is impressive.<br />Strongly recommended as 19th-century US history, Southern history, Civil War history, women's history and/or black history.  It would be of particular value for the high school or college student of US history writing an essay or looking for inspiration for one, and I look forward to more work of this calibre from the author.	2000-12-20
US	52214553	R1S7F8M1T9TV49	0805065377	92302129	Eight Men Out: The Black Sox and the 1919 World Series	Books	5	26	29	N	N	a dated classic perhaps, but a classic	In its time (1965) this book really blew the lid off the long-sanitized version of the Black Sox scandal available to the public.  Its readability, depth and refusal to glorify any of the participants are what make it the starting point for any baseball lover seeking the true story of the whole sordid affair.  Its placement in greater historical context is especially well done; the reader is reminded that it did not occur in a vacuum.  WWI was just over, Prohibition was coming, and the dominant national mood was 'we're very noble, we won the Great War' (all historical debatability of that point aside).  Game-throwing was nothing new to baseball, as Asinof points out, but the idea that a full third of a team would throw a World Series was a body blow to what had become somewhat of an egotistical nation.<br />While some new information has come to light in the last thirty-five years, it has only supplemented what Asinof learned--to my knowledge none of it has been refuted.  Considering the number of basements and old offices likely cleared out in the intervening time, and at least one definitely pertinent discovery that I'm aware of (the Grabiner notes), this is quite an accomplishment.  Recommended both as baseball history and as a portrait of a lusty, turbulent time.	2000-12-06
US	52214553	R1FLUAMCE3WN27	0449005585	169260531	Force 10: USA vs. Militia	Books	3	7	8	N	N	improved in some ways, slipping in others	In Slater's latest _USA vs. Militia_ novel, we are taken almost completely away from Freeman and his commandos and introduced to a new protagonist.  Here we find a decent adventure story in which Slater has corrected some historical weaknesses but has evolved new ones.<br />From the reader's standpoint, the exchange of Slater's traditional commando protagonists for a new one carries with it one major problem:  the new protagonist manages to see a novelful of action and interaction without ever once experiencing character development.  At the end of the book, I still didn't feel I knew anything meaningful about him except what I knew in the beginning:  that he was an ex-SEAL.  Freeman and the SAS/Delta commandos, whose appearances here are brief, may be less than credible, but they are well developed.  Poor trade from the reader's standpoint.<br />As ever, Slater demonstrates very good local geographical knowledge.  He has corrected the tendency to misportray locals (mostly by not portraying them much), and is now much less prone to the monotonous repeating of a 'pet theme' than in past books.  While the storyline isn't very plausible, it is at least pretty fast-moving and exciting--always a Slater strength.  And he seems to have finally learned not to superimpose Australian slang on American characters.  The title, it turns out, has hardly any real signficance as to the story.<br />Not a very charismatic book, but exciting enough to please most Slater fans.  Worth considering, especially for readers of many Slater books who are tiring of the cast of characters that has been with us since the precursor _World War III_ series, but best read without high expectations.	2000-12-04
US	52214553	R3KOHJ5P918F8P	039541055X	243604121	001: The Gathering Storm (The Second World War)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	great history, superlative writing and insight	If you have never before read Churchill, you're about to discover why it is that his work stands alone:  it is because there is no one who has used the English language quite like he did.  In this area his work ranks as pure artistry.<br />This is not to overshadow his efforts as an historian; his history of the increasingly tempestuous thirties--in which he was largely in the political wilderness--is insightful, and it is one of the only times in the entire six-volume series in which he writes from outside a position of political power.  By this point in his writing career he had a lifetime of experience at the trade--indeed, it's mainly how he paid the bills--and it shows in his observations about the situations he witnessed.  Even the discussions of Parliamentary wrangling are made interesting.<br />As an interesting bonus, the back of this (and each other) volume is filled with memos, letters and notes that document what was going on at the time.  They run the gamut from formal notifications of this or that to Churchill's grousing about the run-down look of the Admiralty's flag.  It must have taken a whole room to hold all the source material for this series.<br />If you love the masterful use of English, or take any interest in the history of the Second World War, many happy hours await you.  There is no reason I can think of why one should not simply save on the shipping and get all six in one go.	2000-11-30
US	52214553	R17H0556UNFORV	0671662228	119256537	The Hustler's Handbook (Fireside Sports Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	great read, albeit with a somewhat wandering focus	This out-of-print work treats us to the great combination of Bill Veeck's insight and sense of humour as rendered by Ed Linn (recently passed on... rest in peace, and thanks for all the great reading), one of the best authors any baseball figure ever wrote a book 'with'.  It is dated about 1966, before the era of free agency, baseball strikes, and Veeck's second stint as owner of the White Sox.  It doesn't really live up to the title, it wanders a bit, and at the end it leaves one wondering whether Veeck had a message to convey (beyond, of course, the standard refrain that baseball owners generally shouldn't be trusted any further than one can throw a slider underwater).<br />The above doesn't detract from my strong recommendation, because even as a dozen-odd independent chapters that relate only marginally to one another, it's still wonderful stuff.  Old stories about almost-forgotten figures, commentaries on various owners' catfights, and plenty of gaffs at Ford Frick.  One of the most interesting parts is the chapter devoted to the interpretation of the long-mislaid notes of Harry Grabiner.  (Who cares?, you might ask? Ever hear of the Black Sox scandal? Well, Harry was in the Chisox front office when that happened.  A lot of people should be glad these notes weren't published until 45 years after the fact, and Veeck's commentary on them is most incisive.)<br />A definite search candidate, and if you dig in it enough, contains a lot of insight into the operation of a ballclub.	2000-11-27
US	52214553	R2HAR53KGLLO59	0679770798	51425776	Jaguars Ripped My Flesh	Books	5	4	5	N	N	more climbs, strange beverages, dives, and adventures	If you are familiar with other Tim Cahill books, this contains similar stories; sky dives, sea dives, caving, climbs, and so on.  It has more stories than usual about his own part of the world (Montana near Yellowstone) and lets us see in one story a strong sense of outrage at events surrounding endangered species in Mexico.  If you prefer your authors to at least have strong feelings about some topics (I do), and the heck with dispassionate journalism, there's some satisfaction here.<br />Everything from proper approaches to mountain gorillas to the eruption of Mt. St. Helens is here, and the stories are usually quick reads.  Perfect reading for those who grab their moments of reading enjoyment in blocks of 5-10 minutes in between other activities.<br />Can't see how it could fail to appeal.	2000-11-22
US	52214553	R1FBWNK0DBX0P0	2034205022	142908151	Larousse Concise Dictionary French English/English French	Books	5	16	16	N	N	helpful, readable, comprehensive	I was translating a rather involved and esoteric webpage from French to English and picked this up to supplant a much weaker dictionary; I was not disappointed.  It proved to be of great value.<br />It's big, the entries are easy to work with, it covers slang, it has good pronunciation guides.  Would serve one well in commercial, private or educational use.	2000-11-11
US	52214553	R1MRF25IQBXM0S	0375755241	436362016	The Brendan Voyage: Sailing to America in a Leather Boat to Prove the Legend of the Irish Sailor Saints (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	59	59	N	N	whoa...what an achievement!	Tim Severin, joined by a small crew of hardy men, set out to test the plausibility of the legend of St. Brendan's voyage from Ireland to Newfoundland.  They built and sailed their own leather curragh (a type of Irish boat design), and this is the story of both the construction and the voyage.<br />The unique value of this book is in its equal appeal to a wide variety of readers.  If you enjoy the intricacies of craftsmanship using leather, wood and grease; if you like great adventure travel; if you tire of hearing ancient legends cavalierly dismissed and would like to see one defended; if you love seafaring tales; if you love and/or trace lineage to Ireland; this book is for you.  Severin is a self-effacingly enjoyable storyteller one can't help but like--and, apparently, one heck of a captain.<br />Based upon this book I now plan to read my way through Severin's complete works.  This is that rare book in which tremendous accomplishment and great storytelling have the wind on their quarter.	2000-11-09
US	52214553	R3B8LPUA8ZNSSL	0394532368	144444453	Funny Money	Books	4	12	13	N	N	interesting read on the Penn Square failure	Singer, an Ivy Leaguer from Oklahoma, gives us a pretty good look at how the failure of Penn Square bank nearly took several much larger ones with it back in 1982.<br />Where Singer's portrayal contrasts with that of others is that he speaks from personal and cultural acquaintance with many of the primary characters.  This does not stop him from having a little fun at the expense of what he calls 'Okiesmo', the wildcatting and high-living ethic of the oil and gas industry, but it does mean that he sees his subjects as being (in most cases) basically decent human beings who made bad assumptions and boneheaded business decisions.<br />The only thing Singer lacks is a deeper exploration of the factors at the upstream banks (Seafirst, Continental, Michigan National, Chase, and more) that allowed Penn Square to balloon out of control.  As someone who has seen a few related documents that he can't say much about, I can tell you with certainty that the 'wild and crazy guy' ethic was not limited to Penn Square, and that without the eager participation of larger banks, the whole affair would have been relatively insignificant.  Good book for those interested in Oklahoma history, the gas drilling industry or (naturally) the Penn Square failure.	2000-11-07
US	52214553	R2AJF824WORV78	1558681671	442581680	Culture Shock! Hong Kong (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	dated but beneficial cultural reference	While I've not been to Hong Kong, I've had supervisors and co-workers who were Hong Kong persons, and have done some reading about this unique cultural mix.  Thus I can't speak for the accuracy of all details except to say that the ones I can verify are accurate.<br />The authors' knowledge of the SAR is clearly that of the native, and an effort has been made to explain cultural nuances that a non-Hong Kong author might never have seen.  (Example:  the way of life of the vast majority of low-paid publicly-housed wage labourers, most of whom are Chinese.)  Of course, there's a tradeoff:  we do not get the perspective of a non-Hong Kong person as to what stands out.  Ideally one author would have been native and another an immigrant.<br />It was published, however, before the 1997 handover, so a lot has probably changed since then and I can't recommend it for those interested in the politics and government of Hong Kong.  For those interested in the culture--which will change only slowly, barring drastic action by Beijing--it's a very useful reference.	2000-10-30
US	52214553	REQLC0WYKH1YI	0809236591	270375130	Don't Go Europe!	Books	4	3	3	N	N	good parody both of Europe and of American expectations	Harris deserves credit for an original topic and title.  While a lot of travel authors might snipe at Europe, few would make it the title of the book.  It definitely gets your attention.<br />Inside, the major nations of Europe each get a rundown (in both senses of the term).  It's usually pretty funny, but what's funniest is that it could also be construed as a humourous look at the stereotype of the 'ugly American', who goes abroad and promptly finds fault with anything that isn't like his homeland.<br />It is a little expensive for what you get--it's really sort of thin--but it's amusing nonetheless.  Would make a good gift, especially as a gag gift at Christmas parties for known Europhiles.	2000-10-28
US	52214553	R1P3G1SGJ1XZDZ	0964056054	487848563	What Car Dealers Don't Want You to Know	Books	5	11	12	N	N	a 'Robin Hood' book to definitely read before you buy	Ok, we all knew that what we were hearing from car dealers was largely baloney.  What we lacked was the knowledge to cut through that baloney in an assertive way without having to be unpleasant.  That is, until now.<br />Eskeldson is clearly familiar with the business and goes into a lot of detail.  Trade-ins, 'dealer cost', negotiating tactics, 'no-haggle' dealers, financing, extended warranties, sales tricks to look out for, and the various shell games that are typically played with customers' money are exposed in thorough detail.  This is a bible of guerrilla auto purchasing tactics that's sure to drive some dealers to drink.<br />There is no way any auto buyer, especially one who dreads the whole ordeal, should be without this book.  I cannot possibly see how it could fail to save you the cover price.	2000-10-26
US	52214553	R2S56315SKFWUZ	0671804464	267070192	Nice Guys Finish Last	Books	5	5	6	N	N	funny, point-blank, opinionated, entertaining	Leo Durocher was one of those characters people either love or hate.  A win-at-all-costs player and manager, he never really developed much tact, and he was definitely a product of his era.  But I've never heard anyone say that he, or his teams, were boring.<br />What the Amazon entry for this book doesn't tell you is that it was written with Ed Linn, who sadly passed away not long ago.  Linn had the unique gift of preserving the subject's style so perfectly that you'd be hard pressed to tell that there had been a co-author at all.  What this means for the reader is that the book is much better than it would otherwise seem:  you get treated to Leo's pungent, egotistical and judgmental style as though he was talking to you in person telling old stories.  That's what makes it so much fun.<br />If you are a baseball fan, this belongs in your library and is well worth the search.	2000-10-26
US	52214553	RQ99I1T3NBJ8Z	0140165428	631547381	Baseball Babylon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	fairly comprehensive bundle of baseball's sordid details	Well, if anyone was still putting major leaguers on a pedestal, this book would cure them.  _Baseball Babylon_ is a well-organized compendium of stories and lists concerning the game's sexual misadventures, suicides, murders, accidental deaths, fisticuffs, substance abuse problems, and criminal activity up through 1992.<br />Based on its take on certain events I think the book is at the right level of credulity; Gutman has the honesty to admit when he doesn't know for sure what happened, and he clearly did copious research.  While it's a fairly depressing read (which shouldn't be held against it; that, after all, is its topic), a lot of people will find it morbidly fascinating.  Of particular value is Gutman's follow-through with regard to a given story; he made the effort to find out, for example, how Ryne Duren's story of a career lost in a bottle ultimately ended.  Like life, some are happy and others are tragic.<br />Probably a good value for those ready to hear the proof that ballplayers are, like the rest of us, only human.	2000-10-25
US	52214553	R1G7EACI2YLT7P	0446602027	468411829	Tripoint	Books	5	16	17	N	N	probably one of Cherryh's best stand-alone SF novels	As far as freebooting space opera goes, C.J. Cherryh's many Alliance-Union novels (many of which are not part of a specific series and can stand alone) are one of the high refinements of the art today.  _Tripoint_ is in the top tier of that elite grouping.<br />Cherryh's character development abilities are really showcased here:  a young man stuck on a ship captained by hostile step-family, a fascinating navigator present under tantalizingly suspicious circumstances, a diverse and interesting crew.  Beyond it all is the sense of the void--the feeling of an impersonal universe that will kill you if the airlock seals give way, and not experience regret for you--that helps you imagine the experience of being in space.  As ever with Cherryh, predicting the ending is difficult to impossible.<br />Really high-quality SF, and will appeal to fans of same.	2000-10-24
US	52214553	R1NI6R4W4BZYKE	1556115180	335328718	Shadow Wars	Books	1	1	1	N	N	my most difficult reading experience in some time	About twenty pages into _Shadow Wars_, a 'thriller' about intrigues concerning Israeli nuclear technology, I wanted to just put it aside--far aside.  Then I decided I had a duty to other readers, however painful, to finish the book so as to be able to give it an honest review.  Now I feel like my literary sensibilities have been beaten and left for dead, but I may yet save others from this fate.<br />Why? Well, at the top of the list I'd put the use of language.  Farnsworth has a large vocabulary and is sure to use it whenever possible.  Sample snippet:  &quot;Dmitri tipped a little of the rich, black, glutinous caviar onto his bread.  The eggs were smooth and oily on his tongue, and as he chewed, they popped and tingled almost erotically.&quot;  For a moment I was afraid he might get amourous with the caviar jar.  Or:  &quot;At Princeton he weighed the parallels between an old car engine and the universe.  Some bolts were tiny and remote as dwarf stars.  Piston rings were black holes.  God was the universal voltage regulator.&quot;  Hey, what'd Princeton ever do to Farnsworth, anyway? I'm serious.  I couldn't make this stuff up.<br />On the positive side, Farnsworth seems to have consulted some pronunciation and linguistic references; on the downside, he overdid the shallow and bungled when it got at all deep.  He has an adult male Israeli addressing another as though the latter were female (a grammatical distinction in Hebrew that stands out like a neon sign).  The shelf in the apartment can't just be a simple shelf; no, it's an '&eacute;tag&egrave;re'.  And on, and on, until we say 'oy, vay, sacre bleu'.<br />The story had potential and even held some periodic excitement, though the suspension of disbelief was generally hanged by the neck, so to speak, in most parts.  Let's put it this way:  any book whose demonization of the CIA strikes me as unbelievably harsh must truly have strained credibility.  In another area, one of the technologies (cold fusion; no, *really*) in the book would have applications extending far, far past the uses portrayed, yet not until deep into the book does this even occur to anyone.  One just cannot picture real people in the real world behaving as do the characters in the book.<br />Hard to say to whom _Shadow Wars_ might appeal.  There's something here to turn off just about everyone.  I recommend you let it pass you over.book would have applications extending far, far past the uses portrayed, yet not until deep into the book does this even occur to anyone.  One just cannot picture real people in the real world behaving as do the characters in the book.<br />Hard to say to whom _Shadow Wars_ might appeal.  There's something here to turn off just about everyone.  I recommend you let it pass you over.	2000-10-19
US	52214553	RA94PW6SU705Z	0886779103	69921656	Precursor (Foreigner)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	best of the series to date	This is one of those series in which the books do not stand alone well.  If you haven't read the first three, best to start with _Foreigner_ and work up.<br />As a strong Cherryh fan, I was a little dismayed by my own lukewarm reaction to the first three books, which made this one doubly pleasing:  in terms of action and interest it is in my opinion the best of the series thus far.  As ever, we are treated to Cherryh's economy with words and superb treatment of aliens, but this time we get some additional good stuff.  Notably, the story here is more exciting; Bren has a new, important twist on his role, and it puts him into the thick of action.  In addition, we see some very human familial issues showing us a dimension of Bren we hadn't seen to date.  The question of whether Bren's increasing affinity for the aliens motivates a visceral fear of loss of his own humanity is left to the reader, to Cherryh's credit.  It's a delight to read the work of an author who doesn't feel she has to belt the reader over the head with every personality twist evinced by the protagonists.<br />This book has definitely increased my interest in the series and I hope to see it continue.  Strongly recommended.	2000-10-17
US	52214553	R2ZB2D5DDYRCDM	0684834421	130215658	Ceasefire!: Why Women and Men Must Join Forces to Achieve True Equality	Books	5	14	18	N	N	cuts incisively through the haze surrounding gender issues	Young makes a very strong case here for an end to the polarizing peeing contests that seem to crop up any time male-female relations become the topic.  Refreshingly, she does so not by appealing to our biology but to our intellect and sense of fairness.  I was expecting 'can't we all just get along', and I got instead 'here is why we don't get along, and here are some strong reasons why we ought to be able to'.<br />_Ceasefire!_ is well laid out with each chapter gathering together a group of related issues and making a detailed examination of the prevailing viewpoints, statistical claims, and inequities (if any) that comprise the issue in the public mind.  She turns the tables quite neatly on dozens of hypocrisies currently being put forth from many different camps, by no means picking only upon feminism.  I can't say that her style is exciting but this, after all, isn't a novel; it's a serious, dispassionate look at issues that touch all of us every day.<br />She ends the book with a listing of common-sense recommendations as to how we (both women and men) can and should stop and think before we start making claims of sexism, harassment and maltreatment.  It is important to note that Young isn't any happier about spouse abuse, rape or the 'glass ceiling' than anyone else; she simply challenges us to carefully consider our definitions of these and other injustices.  She does not minimize the achievements of women's rights advocates in the past, but her concern is for where we are today, and how we should deal with one another so as to live in amity.  I found it especially interesting to read the reviews of the book in light of what Young has to say.<br />Recommended, especially to those who feel almost certain they will disagree with everything Young is saying:  if you do not find yourself seeing the merit in her viewpoints, you will then understand that much better why you dissent from them.	2000-10-17
US	52214553	R1IPRY6I85T53G	003064156X	31307418	Transit Point Moscow:  The True Story of an American's Imprisonment in a Soviet Gulag and His Astonishing Escape	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a little-known gem with very wide appeal	If I were going to pick something really stupid to do, I'd say that smuggling heroin through Moscow in the days of the Soviet Union would surely qualify.  This book lets us see the typical consequences of such rash activity.<br />I found it full of humourous incidents (probably more so for the reader than for Amster), very valid and fair in its take on Russian culture, and almost always credible.  All this adds up to a very entertaining read.  Amster is a semi-sympathetic character at best, but this doesn't detract from the book, because the portrayal we see adds to its credibility:  no one would make up some of the experiences he details, yet he does not portray his captors as being particularly better or worse than he.  He and they are just *there*, and have to deal with one another, and all the expected variety of human qualities is present.<br />The only persons I can possibly think of who would not like this book would be those who hope to use it as a source for the brutality of the Gulag system.  Solzhenitsyn's _Gulag Archipelago_ would be the far better choice in that case; Amster definitely wasn't in the Four Seasons Hotel, nor even a Motel 6, and his life was definitely unpleasant, but he wasn't dragged to a torture chamber every day.  Moreover, as an inmate in a 'foreigners'' camp, he didn't see a clear picture of the mainstream Gulag system of the times.  Probably the two above points are correlated to a degree.<br />For everyone else, this one is worth a search.  Adventure travel fans in particular will probably enjoy it even though it's not precisely in that genre.	2000-10-17
US	52214553	R3GHLA2H0D6TPF	0807118834	284265029	Jennison's Jayhawkers: A Civil War Cavalry Regiment and Its Commander (Civil War Paperbacks)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	fair, readable, accurate, even witty and amusing	Jennison's Jayhawkers, also known as the 7th Kansas Cavalry (not to be confused with the postwar 7th US Cavalry of Little Bighorn fame) were major players in one of the most vicious theatres of the Civil War:  the Kansas-Missouri border.  This book tells the story of the origins of that conflict, the importance of the issue of slavery in the region, and the detailed history of one of the most infamous formations in US military history.<br />There is a certain class of professorial writer who avoids being dry and ends up writing a pretty entertaining book while remaining focused in a proper academic manner, and it's a joy to encounter him or her.  Starr definitely qualifies; his style is pleasant and holds one's interest.  He poses excellent questions and does his best to answer them, always with the honesty to admit where he is surmising or conjecturing.  I'd definitely be open to reading more of his work; it feels like a discussion with a learned historian in easy chairs over a libation.<br />What is really odd about it is I found myself going back and forth between sobered sadness and laughter.  As someone with a proud Kansan heritage, to read that Kansans committed atrocities (and there is no doubt at all that they did), retaliatory or not, is always saddening; I suspect other Kansans reading the book might feel similarly.  Yet how can one not laugh at, for example, this snippet summing up the battle of Valverde:  &quot;On February 21 the two forces clashed at Valverde, a short distance north of the fort, and the balance of inexperience and incompetence being slightly in Sibley's favor, Canby was defeated.&quot;  The cast of colourful characters in Kansas military politics during the Civil War gives Starr many such opportunities to amuse us, and he makes the most of them with wry wit.<br />If you're interested in why Kansas and Missouri have a rivalry but that it mostly manifests in good-natured kidding, this book will tell you why:  we both know from history what it is like when the rivalry is not good-natured, and we aren't going there again--best to keep it to the sports arena.  Strongly recommended for anyone interested in Civil War history, Kansas history or Missouri history.t it is like when the rivalry is not good-natured, and we aren't going there again--best to keep it to the sports arena.  Strongly recommended for anyone interested in Civil War history, Kansas history or Missouri history.	2000-10-11
US	52214553	R2B8IYOJO10SV5	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	5	1	1	N	N	well researched, full of surprises, and plausible	If you've ever wondered (as I have) what would transpire in case a third party candidate ever gained a lot of support without self-destructing in some way, here's a chance to find out.  Field has come up with a Constitutionally accurate, healthily cynical and very exciting story about just such a situation.<br />I kept waiting for the big implausible shocker to spice up the story, the event that would be totally unrealistic but would make the story more exciting (the sort of thing a publisher would shove down an author's throat, in other words), and it never came.  Well done, because the story is already interesting enough and doesn't need to stretch credibility to hold the reader.  The portrayal of the American electorate and its sound-bite oriented, mercurial nature--and the impact of the news media upon that nature--certainly square with what I've seen in elections past and present.  Character development is generally good and balanced, with no total saints and few total villains.  The third-party candidate's platform is sufficiently convincing that I'd like to see a real candidate espouse the same ideas.  The ending is cleverly done and stands a good chance of taking you by surprise.  It did me.<br />One caveat:  if you order it, before you start reading, remove the dust jacket and set it aside without examining it.  The back of it, if read before the book, will basically ruin it with a list of irritating plot spoilers for which I'm not sure of the rationale.  Happily, this is easily remedied.<br />Well worth reading as a political novel, a look at political science in general, and perhaps as a tool for insight into why so many political campaigns develop a shady side.	2000-10-10
US	52214553	R2X339JO4SG4Q2	0441007813	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	interesting and exciting as always... for strong stomachs	The Anita Blake series continues some trends here and breaks with some others.  This is the thickest, perhaps the most interesting, and surely the most disturbing Anita Blake book to date.  It also is the first one that cannot possibly stand on its own--if you haven't read anything else in the series yet, best start with _Guilty Pleasures_ and work up.<br />There are plenty of good points here for Anita fans.  We learn more about Edward here than we had learned in the previous eight or so books, so if you're interested in Edward, odds are good you'll like it for that reason alone.  One thing Hamilton does really well is to delve into the magical and spiritual traditions of an historical culture and extrapolate them into an interesting modern-day situation; she seems to do her folklore/archaeology homework quite well.  As always, she provides us with an exciting storyline with an ending difficult to predict, and she proves for us that she can do a whole story with hardly an appearance from any of the usual characters except the aforementioned Edward, with her usual high standard of character development.  (I begin to get the impression Hamilton's a little sick of St. Louis, Dolph, and that whole local scene, and needs to vary matters a little in order to hold her own interest.  Quite understandable after nine or so thick books.)<br />The only potential negative I can think of is that this is definitely the grossest and most disturbing Anita book to date.  To put matters in perspective, I'm quite sensitive to shocking scenes in movies but almost immune to them in books.  At one point in _Obsidian Butterfly_, I found myself cringing and dreading what might come next.  (If you thought sex with rotting vampires was bad, you ain't seen nothing yet.)  I can't mark Hamilton down for this (it's her genre, not fair to her), but it's just as well the reader knows about it, so s/he can factor this in.  It may be that Hamilton feels compelled to up the horrification ante with each new book--if so, I offer the comment that she's too talented to need to do that.<br />At least Hamilton has finally learned the difference between a machinegun and a submachinegun.  That's a relief.  In fact, I'd say that she's done some new research into firearms based on this book--it displays a higher level of education on the topic.<br />Recommended if you're an Anita fan, particularly if you like Edward, but if you're easily sicked out or disturbed, this book may find and push a button you'd rather had remained inactive.ch new book--if so, I offer the comment that she's too talented to need to do that.<br />At least Hamilton has finally learned the difference between a machinegun and a submachinegun.  That's a relief.  In fact, I'd say that she's done some new research into firearms based on this book--it displays a higher level of education on the topic.<br />Recommended if you're an Anita fan, particularly if you like Edward, but if you're easily sicked out or disturbed, this book may find and push a button you'd rather had remained inactive.	2000-10-08
US	52214553	R1HZCRHG44NIQ8	0684848287	927431741	Kaffir Boy: An Autobiography--The True Story of a Black Youth's Coming of Age in Apartheid South Africa	Books	5	37	38	N	N	hard-hitting tale of sorrow and hope	Not much of an introduction needed here:  the full title of the book accurately sums up the subject.  This was a book that I bought in used paperback not certain whether I'd finish it, and found myself deeply engrossed in the story and in reflection upon Mathabane's descriptions of life under apartheid.<br />Mathabane shows a great many literary strengths here.  His candid expression of his own feelings can't help but inspire the reader's respect and interest; the whole book feels 'spoken from the heart'.  His prejudices, embarrassing moments, times of despair, moments of triumph, and peer relations are all here.  Of particular interest to me (naturally, as a white non-South African) was the development of his views of white people--South Africans and foreigners--and how his understanding becomes broader as he meets a wider variety of people.  I came away thinking that I'd probably really like Mark Mathabane in person.<br />His youth in fact makes a good story, one that builds nicely to a conclusion I won't spoil for you except to carefully mention that this is the story only of his youth, not of his whole life.  And his descriptive talent, which painted such vivid and contrasting portraits of the life he led, is worthy of the great storytellers of the proud tribes of southern Africa from which he is descended.  I would offer the caveat that the book contains explicit sexual and violent scenes that most people would consider inappropriate for children under 14 (and even then I'm assuming a pretty well-adjusted child).  Mathabane is never himself vulgar, but some of his experiences certainly were, and he gets through them as quickly as possible but I see why he didn't omit them.<br />If you ever wondered what life was like for South African blacks under apartheid, particularly for a highly gifted member of that group striving upward against every barrier that several cultures could place before him, this'll be a revelation.	2000-10-06
US	52214553	R2C7SQURA2BHOP	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	4	11	13	N	N	harsh, at times even mean... but accurate and funny	Enough has been written about this book that I'll focus on trying to help the prospective reader sort it out.  It is praised for being funny and for its brutal truthfulness; it is maligned for its harsh comments and putdowns.  Both are true enough, so the real question is whether you would like it or not.<br />If you have a romantic feel about small-town America, and if you're firm in your conviction that it's the world's greatest country, I doubt you'll enjoy Bryson's take on it.  He sees no beauty in a plain landscape; if it's not fancy and breathtaking, it bores him, and he says so.  It's safe to say that if he ever retraces his steps, there will be a few detractors here and there who'll take him to task for what he had to say about them.<br />If on the other hand you believe that we should above all be able to take a joke, and that if it's the truth, it needs to be said even if it's pretty unflattering, you're going to really like Bryson's approach.  I've seen a good portion of the parts of the nation Bryson saw, and the fact is, he's right.  We can either have a good laugh on ourselves, or we can pout, but it won't change the facts--and if we don't pout, we prove ourselves maybe not to be as small-minded as he thought.  And his perspective, after twenty years abroad, is fresher than ours.  I think he has some great insights.  Even if he's all wet, he sure speaks his mind.<br />The only area in which his portrayal rings a little hollow is when he describes tourists.  To hear Bryson talk, every American tourist he saw was an overweight, flowery-shirted, pasty-fleshed dork, talking loudly, tipping meanly and appreciating nothing.  Here's a little bit of honesty for Bryson (fair's fair, right?):  considering how much of America he didn't appreciate because it didn't overwhelm him with its urbanity, neatness and monumental beauty, he hasn't really given us any reason not to consider him as just another tourist conforming to his own stereotype of tourists.  In fairness to him, though, let it be said that he occasionally does at least catch himself in a moment of undue harshness, and that in the end, his own home state of Iowa looks pretty good to him--flatness, down-home attitudes, croplands and all.  (I could have told him that in advance and saved him a lot of driving.:))<br />If your main goal is to enjoy humour about America, or to read perceptive observations about it, this is a must-have.  Wouldn't be a bad gift for foreign friends interested in learning more about the real America, too, if you get sick of people thinking the whole country is basically L.A.  If you're prone to take some harsh comments about your state or region or the people in it personally, though, Bryson may offend the heck out of you and you probably wouldn't like his book.ness to him, though, let it be said that he occasionally does at least catch himself in a moment of undue harshness, and that in the end, his own home state of Iowa looks pretty good to him--flatness, down-home attitudes, croplands and all.  (I could have told him that in advance and saved him a lot of driving.:))<br />If your main goal is to enjoy humour about America, or to read perceptive observations about it, this is a must-have.  Wouldn't be a bad gift for foreign friends interested in learning more about the real America, too, if you get sick of people thinking the whole country is basically L.A.  If you're prone to take some harsh comments about your state or region or the people in it personally, though, Bryson may offend the heck out of you and you probably wouldn't like his book.	2000-10-04
US	52214553	R16YZ2OMY1M4GV	1558682465	906874928	Culture Shock! U.S. South (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	nice effort, but missed a lot of chances to be informative	The _Culture Shock_ series of books are some of my favourites.  While this one has a fair amount to like, and some pleasant surprises, there's also a lot it misses out on, which is kind of too bad.<br />Winter does correctly communicate what I believe to be the single most important thing anyone can take South with them:  the knowledge that the South is a very diverse region, generally misunderstood and accustomed to being misunderstood, and is more complex and changing than is typically realized outside the Southern states.  Winter makes clear that if you go without a bunch of assumptions, and give people a fair shake while having the courtesy to let them be themselves, you'll maximize your odds of a good experience.  Those are good procedures anywhere you go.<br />The markdown is for two reasons.  First of all, the quiz at the end of the book really takes the cake for silliness; it insults the reader's intelligence and adds no value.  It's the worst I've seen so far in six _Culture Shock_ books.  The other weak spot is the coverage of regional cultural and accent differences.  The mountain South and Texas are given fairly short shrift; the focus seems mostly on the Deep South and Piedmont.  We are told that there are half a dozen distinct Southern accents, for example:  great, how about teaching us learn to tell them apart? We get a big section on the role of Christianity in Southern life; ok, fine--but what does that mean for the non-Christian...is the popular image perhaps a media exaggeration with little relation to reality, and does it vary by region? We hear about Atlanta's cosmopolitanism, great; my impression of Austin is that it does pretty well also, but I don't think it's even mentioned in the book.  And so on.<br />Recommended because even though it falls short of what it could have been, it's still a good book for the visitor or new arrival to the South, or for someone marrying into a Southern family.	2000-09-29
US	52214553	R3L6LFAE7VJMBE	081171182X	766148580	The Orphan Brigade: The Kentucky Confederates Who Couldn't Go Home	Books	5	21	21	N	N	entertaining and at the same time tragic	This is the story of the brigade (in the Civil War, from 5000 to 2000 men or so depending on the stage of the war) of Kentuckians who fought for the Confederacy.  Kentucky being occupied relatively early in the war, they fought on far from home through the war.<br />Davis does well at covering the breadth of experience of soldiers:  the life of the private in the ranks, as well as of the senior officer, is well researched.  He captures the unique cultural distinctions of Kentucky quite nicely:  masters at obtaining bourbon, an informal approach, raw courage, and love of horses.  The bungling of generals is not soft-pedaled, which is just as well considering how much the Orphans suffered from it.<br />Worth adding to any Civil War library, but of particular interest to Kentuckian history buffs.	2000-09-28
US	52214553	R1B7UB17JGTREM	1558682473	685949335	Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette: Ireland	Books	4	15	15	N	N	much to like, but appeal will vary a bit	Obligatory caveat: I have only been to Ireland once.  For this reason I disqualify myself from making authoritative statements as to whether Levy's impressions are accurate; I can only compare against what I do know.<br />With this in mind, what I found most helpful is the up-to-date impressions of the author concerning the issues that tear at the national psyche of the Republic. She makes clear that much has changed in Ireland in the past forty years in almost every aspect of life, and gives the right amount of detail. Her suggestions as to pub etiquette are quite good, and pub culture is a key aspect of Irish life because they are in fact community centres of a sort. Her tone is that of someone who likes Ireland and its people, but is not blind to their foibles and weaknesses. Stereotypes are addressed head-on and debunked where necessary.<br />There is a distinctly feminist tinge to a lot of Levy's commentary. I don't think it reaches the level of polemic, but it would affect the reader's enjoyment of the book positively or negatively depending upon receptiveness to the author's views. Myself, I thought most of it was on the mark but that a few of the comments needed some balance. Those supportive of feminism will find it refreshing; those hostile to it will likely be put off.<br />The factor that bothered me most, oddly, was the consistent misspelling of Gaelic terms. While I understand that spelling Gaelic using the Latin characters is in some ways not an exact science, the misspelled words are among the most commonly known and the errors are glaring--if you pronounce the word as printed, you do not get the word that is commonly known. I felt this to be sufficiently glaring for a markdown.<br />Recommended with the specified reservations. Would form a good basis for avoiding pitfalls and entering into discussions with the Irish if you were planning to visit.	2000-09-25
US	52214553	R1E3FLXI0E07RG	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	4	1	2	N	N	amusingly educational collection of columns	The title pretty well spares me the need to describe the book except that it is in the format of reprints of previously published columns for a British audience.  What is nice here is that we see not only how we look, but what about us would 'jump out' at a foreign people.<br />I think you either like Bryson's brand of humour or you don't.  Myself, I think he's hysterical; he's a lot like Dave Barry, so if you like one you'll probably like the other.  He's a little less silly in his approach than Barry; the humour doesn't mask his actual emotions about what he encounters.  I find him to be a keen observer of his own native land, but since by and large his criticisms are similar to mine, I guess that's no big shocker.<br />Marked down only because all the material is previously published, and because there's one flaw here and it's one to which we Westerners are quite sensitive:  except for allusions to his Iowa childhood and some travel around the country, by and large he's talking about the Northeast.  The unspoken assumption is that he's in the only part of the country that really matters or has any character and that the rest of us live in big, boring, empty, non-cozy, everything-was-built-yesterday states.  As for me, I think all parts of the nation have value.  His 'Notes on Returning to America' are really 'Notes about moving from Britain to New Hampshire'.<br />A very good book nonetheless, and on the bright side, a good look at New Hampshire for those of us who haven't been there.	2000-09-24
US	52214553	R18CXCEW2S99FC	0441005748	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	exciting, fast-moving story with some new twists	It is very interesting to see Hamilton take us through a whole book while hardly mentioning three of the characters that have up to now been very important (Jean-Claude, Bert and Edward).  This suggests to us that the series could survive the death of virtually any character in it except Anita herself, which means we had best not assume anyone is safe.<br />The primary thread of the series, on the surface, has up to now been Anita's love interest.  The deeper thread, though, has been Anita's growing discomfiture with her breaches of what she believed to be her core values:  propriety, premarital chastity, and the dividing line between herself and the monsters.  In _Blue Moon_ Anita's gut feelings and her by-now tattered value system have their showdown, which is well handled by the author.<br />If you haven't read an Anita Blake book, let me give you a small taste of the sort of humour that leavens the series.  Anita is talking about her talents in college before she got full control of them:  &quot;One night, the shambling corpse had come to my dorm room.  My roommate got a room switch the next day.  She had no sense of adventure.&quot;<br />While the series started out as Anita the Vampire Slayer, it has matured into an exceptionally complex portrait of a young woman with some unusual talents.  Recommended without hesitation.	2000-09-24
US	52214553	R187PZJSNNKB5S	0441005241	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Anita gets deeper, and the books move to a new level	If you aren't currently an Anitaficionado, best to start with the first book (_Guilty Pleasures_).  Not required, but recommended.<br />Over the series, we have seen Anita's values shift somewhat.  By this book, she has begun to question her basic truths--particularly, her definition of who are the monsters and who are the humans.  Specifically, she is increasingly aware that not only may the line between monster and human be blurry--but she may by now be on the wrong side of it, and weirder still, she isn't 100% sure that's such an awful thing.<br />It is interesting to watch Anita continue to come into her own power, while continuing to give short shrift to monsters who behave monstrously--and get by with it, for the most part.  With her romantic triangle about 80% resolved for the moment, we get an interesting view of the vampires' council and some more depth on shapeshifters.<br />Thus far Hamilton always has something new and interesting for us, and _Burnt Offerings_ lives up to the standard.  Recommended in strong terms as a great vampire story or as fiction that goes much deeper than hack-and-slash.	2000-09-21
US	52214553	RWFG6OIHV1525	0441003745	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	good story, but some reasoning gaps need bridging	If you are new to Anita Blake you will want to begin with the first book  in the series, _Guilty Pleasures_.  However, the books stand alone as well  as any I've seen in a series.  Anita, one of the most interesting  characters in modern horror/fiction, is as defiant and tough as ever--and  she's evolving at a nice pace, as are some of the other characters.  In  fact, by this point in the series I'd say that considering the number of  characters who have made repeated appearances in multiple books, Hamilton  has developed them with impressive distinction and depth.<br />Here we see  some new types of preternatural beings introduced for the first time, and  the interaction between them and vampires--and the fact that the same  precautions don't work on both--creates interesting suspense.  What isn't  so well explained is the issue of how the skeletal zombies--who no longer  have speech apparatus--are supposed to talk and answer questions if Anita  raises them, which would call into question the fundamental plot task that  gets her into the soup.  While a certain degree of license is of necessity  always granted to writers of science fiction, fantasy and horror, we at  least should expect their reasoning to be internally consistent.<br />Marked  down slightly for that reason, but still a fine book that would have gotten  4.5 stars if possible.  Hamilton continues to flesh out an interesting  world that, while often not for the soft of stomach, has come to appeal to  a very broad spectrum of readership.	2000-09-19
US	52214553	R2C6F0ABQ7A8R0	0441002935	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	enjoyable, but too dominated by romantic interest	With Anita Blake we can usually count on a lot of smart-mouthing, gutsy  defiance of creatures that you'd think would tear her to pieces.  It's  enjoyable watching her win, and she's a definite fictional heroine to all  of us who were undersized growing up.<br />What I like a lot about this book  is the depth that is given on some of the social structure of the creatures  Anita deals with.  Hamilton's come up with some very creative stuff in this  regard.  On the weak side, though, the plot is overdependent upon her love  interest(s).  I don't want to spoil anything, so that's all the detail I'll  go into, but for me this detracted from the book.<br />If you already like the  series, you'll probably like this one more if you enjoy a strong romantic  aspect, and less if you're more interested in the mystery/action angle.	2000-09-17
US	52214553	R2X8ZIN7MGXSTX	0425168166	676687443	Nick Fury, Agent of Shield: Empyre	Books	5	6	7	N	N	a lot of fun, if you're Fury's type of reader	For those who don't know, Nick Fury was a comic book character known to  many of us thirtysomethings as Sgt. Fury of the Howling Commandos, a  forward-looking comic book series if ever there was one.  (It presented  issues of diversity years before the Civil Rights Amendment, for example.)  While you don't have to have been a Sgt. Fury aficionado to like this book,  it sure doesn't hurt.<br />As long as you're willing to accept a little  superhero-genre reality fudging, there's a lot to like about this story.  Fury and Dum Dum Dugan (his perennial sidekick) are faithfully presented,  but are not the main protagonists--that honour goes to a part-Native psi  specialist who is well developed over the course of the book, earning the  respect of the reader.<br />It ain't going to make Oprah's book list, as Nick  Fury might say, but it's a fun read.  Recommended to any fan of Fury or  pseudorealistic superhero adventure with an interest in psi-phenomena.	2000-09-12
US	52214553	R3NPV3AHCMJD81	0449214206	724495638	The Covenant	Books	4	44	51	N	N	fine novel of the history of South Africa, only minor flaws	In _Covenant_ Michener takes us to a society that has always been more  complex than many would like to believe:  southern Africa.  I truly felt  better educated after reading it.  It is important to note (in case you're  not very familiar with Michener) that it was written during the latter days  of apartheid, when it was looking shaky but not yet tottering.<br />Michener's  efforts to see the unfolding South African history through many different  sets of eyes (of multiple colours) remind us that it is not only South  African blacks who have many cultures, but whites also:  French, Dutch,  English and Germans all took root.  The book does not minimize the  historical origins and impacts of segregationism, but it has the breadth to  see that not every European has always supported the apartheid system.  We  see that some have bucked it, and paid the price.<br />A weakness, in my view,  was the lack of much real cultural depth on the widely varied African  tribes.  On two or three, we get depth; on the rest, little.  The other is  debatable, not really a weakness but a caveat to the reader:  there are  major events depicted in the book (such as the Mfecane, a sort of mass  self-destructive movement supposedly sweeping through the tribes and  depopulating them) that are now asserted not to have occurred.  Certainly,  when Michener wrote, whites were telling most of the history; however, by  itself that does not validate or invalidate any of the history--it simply  means it's open to question and should be investigated further.  In that  light, before allowing Michener's take on major events to plant itself as  definite historical truth, one should take care to seek multiple viewpoints  and deeper evidence than what is presented in this novel.<br />Recommended to  Michener fans, those interested in South African history, and those  desiring to see how religion can shape the very core of a society.	2000-09-12
US	52214553	R2IJOISIF4IMK0	0870217410	594164848	Caviar and Commissars: The Experiences of a U.S. Naval Officer in Stalin's Russia	Books	5	8	8	N	N	much to enjoy and appreciate here	Kemp Tolley was an attache to the Soviet Navy during WWII.  He wrote this  book during the late Cold War, which makes its general fairness all the  more impressive.  Don't be fooled by the title, which sounds like some sort  of role-playing game--this is a keeper.<br />There are numerous funny stories  in this book.  Tolley, who spoke (perhaps present tense; word is he's still  around) fluent Russian and adapted to Russian culture rather than  attempting to bend it into something Americanesque, genuinely liked the  people of Russia.  He has done a fine job of separating this from his views  on the Soviet political system, giving us a very fair portrayal of Russians  (and to a lesser degree other USSR ethnic groups).<br />This would be a fine  read for anyone planning to visit Russia.  While the politics have changed  a lot, the culture has changed far less, and this book would help the  visitor to appreciate it.	2000-08-15
US	52214553	R1RQGS887HEU9B	0886776376	252894133	Foreigner	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a different type of Cherryh SF novel, definitely	Or at least I think it is.  It took me two tries to read this one, and I'm  a big fan of Cherryh's work; I pretty much forced myself to read it even  though I didn't find it that engrossing.  After a lot of consideration, I  have to put that down to some intangible factor the book lacks that I  cannot identify and that probably is not a factor for many people.<br />I  think that's pretty much a matter of personal taste here, because it is  unquestionably a very deep book with an interesting, original alien race  (rely on Cherryh every time to do that right) and a lot going on.  By all  appearances, it should appeal to me more than it does.<br />Given four stars  out of fairness--I can hardly give five stars to a book I didn't exactly  adore, but I think it was more a matter of chemistry (me/book) than any  identifiable stumble on the part of the author, and it does include a lot  of what Cherryh does well.  Might not be the best choice for one's first  taste of Cherryh (for that, I suggest _The Dreaming Tree_, _The Pride of  Chanur_, _The Faded Sun_, _The Morgaine Saga_ or _Downbelow Station_), but  will probably appeal to most established Cherryh enthusiasts.	2000-08-11
US	52214553	RQM6SWFCEVTA8	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	it's not Frank Herbert, but it's still quite good	This prequel to _Dune_ is apparently based on Herbert Sr.'s notes and vision for the series, tragically unfulfilled.<br />If you loved Herbert Sr.'s  style, I regret to let you know that you won't find it here.  There was only one Frank Herbert.  After reading _House Atreides_ I'm glad Herbert Jr. and Anderson went ahead and wrote in their own style, which is smooth,  enjoyable and interesting.<br />_Dune_ fans will like the  meatiness and direct relevance of the story to the later books.  The majority of characters here are familiar to _Dune_ readers.  Portrayals are consistent (of course, we see them all in younger years; the timeframe of the book is roughly that of the accession of Shaddam IV).  In fact, I really hadn't anticipated that the portrayals would be as good as they are, so that was one of several pleasant surprises.<br />Heartily recommended to those who want more _Dune_.  Devotees of Herbert Sr.'s unique style won't find more of it here, but it's still good SF.	2000-08-07
US	52214553	R2XLI2T419PBR5	1558680942	960966165	Culture Shock! Australia (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	helpful book, squares with my experiences	Full-disclosure comment: I myself have not been to Australia.  I review the book from the perspective of one who has known many Australians, though, and called a number of them friends.<br />That said, this book rings  true with what I've seen of the Australian people--an exceptionally diverse  group who are, as Sharp shows, a more complex people than some give them  credit for being.  Those cultural facts that are particular to Australians  are well detailed.  Topics that are hot button issues inspiring strong  difference of opinion in Australia seem to be detailed in a fair manner.  Americans in particular may find the comparison of the Australian  frontier/outback ruggedness ethic to our own cheerful Western cowboy  self-reliance (so to speak) of great interest.  They differ, but with  similarities.  Both have worked their way well into our respective national  psyches.<br />Someday when I hopefully visit Australia, I believe I'll feel  better informed about the various dos and don'ts of Australian life thanks  to this book.  Recommend for anyone going to Australia, or who has a close  Australian friend and wishes to better understand him or her.	2000-07-30
US	52214553	R2WWWLBLWUT32Y	155868056X	341184130	Culture Shock! France (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	helped me better understand my French friends	Full disclosure:  I myself haven't been to France.  I speak French and have close French friends, though, and have invested a good deal of reading and discussion in comprehending French ways of thought and action.<br />This  said, what I really liked about this book was that it cut to the heart of  some of the areas where my own people (United States) and the French often  don't communicate well.  Taylor, who has lived a long time in France,  explains quite credibly why it is some people find the French to be rude.  How shocking to find out that they consider *us* rude.  In any event, what  makes this book attractive is that it offers sound behavioural tips and  suggestions to break these boundaries and have a good time, always bearing  in mind that in any place some people will be rude no matter what you  do.<br />A simple example, without spoiling the book for you.  In my homeland,  the American West, a limp handshake with no eye contact (especially between  males) often causes distrust or gives actual offense.  In France, we are  told (and I have verified), to fail to greet the shopkeeper, waiter or  whomever ranks at the same level:  a slap in the face.  This is what I mean  about the book:  having read it, you would enter the little knickknack shop  and politely say 'bonjour, madame' to the proprietrix, and give her the  time of day, avoiding a pitfall you'd otherwise maybe not have known  existed.<br />I think this book should be read with an open mind.  Everything  in it that I could test on French people tested accurately.  I think it  would be a significant help for anyone who plans travel to France or who  regularly interacts with French people.	2000-07-30
US	52214553	R1GZTPUKRVXXCN	0722532717	979117750	Wicca: The Old Religion In the New Millennium	Books	5	30	30	N	N	easily one of the better and most informative books on Wicca	I first read this some time ago when investigating Wicca.  I still think it's one of the most candid and accessible reads for the newcomer to the topic.  Given the number of not-so-good, me-too books out there on the  topic that we saw published in the 90s, it stands out even more.<br />Its  strengths are a matter-of-fact style, a balanced and pretty unbiased  portrayal that doesn't try to make a political statement, and the large  volume of information it offers.  It is a sophisticated book that talks a  lot about history, about initiatory experience, and about perceptions of  divinity.  The only flaw I can readily find is that it is a bit dry; just  as its cover doesn't look like Tinker Bell, neither is the style.  I can  hardly mark Crowley down for this, but it's worth mentioning because it  could affect the reader's interest.<br />Will appeal most strongly to the  serious seeker with mature tastes in reading who is looking to be informed  rather than entertained.	2000-07-29
US	52214553	R1I71P5GZR6G55	0062737384	509103202	The World's Most Dangerous Places	Books	5	42	46	N	N	has evolved without losing what makes these books great	Thinking of going to someplace dangerous? Not sure if it's dangerous or not? Not even considering it, but want to read up anyway?<br />Pelton can help you.  He and his colleagues show every sign of actually going to most of  these places, or of interviewing people who did.  In the sort of laconic,  matter-of-fact style you'd expect of a seasoned mercenary, Pelton tells you  what you'd need to know to either survive the trip or (more likely)  sensibly decide to go somewhere else.:)<br />What's really attractive about  this book, which is roughly the size and shape and thickness of an almanac,  is the absolute wealth of information in it.  Scores of links to websites.  Chapters on countries, including historical and cultural notes.  Chapters  on crime categories.  Stuff on diseases.  Tables comparing countries in  certain categories (air fatalities, for example).  Arguably it should be in  the reference section although it's pretty hard to defend moving it out of  the travel section.  In any event, it makes a wonderful companion to an  almanac as a way of learning more about the rest of the world.  Refreshingly, the United States (Pelton is Canadian) gets listed and its  hazards considered just like any other country.<br />Recommended either as  travel information or as a reference on world cultures.	2000-07-23
US	52214553	R2ILK4J16UVOEH	0061098442	355477185	Redemption  Reissue	Books	2	7	10	N	N	sad state for a great novelist to have reached	After _Trinity_, one of Uris' best works, we are given his worst.  It is almost as though he is having trouble remaining focused on the story; there are frequent flashbacks to the climactic passages in _Trinity_, usually for  no apparent reason.  Some stories gallop, some walk purposefully;  _Redemption_ meanders aimlessly, retraces its steps, and bonks into  trees.<br />The only redeeming feature of the book is the description of  Gallipoli, which is still a sore point in Australia and New Zealand and  deserves comprehension and remembrance throughout the Western world.  Unfortuately one must suffer through the rest of the book to get to the  Gallipoli part, and unless you are extremely interested in that particular  topic, this book is not time well spent.<br />For an idea of what Uris has  accomplished in the past, try _Topaz_ or _QB VII_ in addition to _Trinity_.  Given the other great reading Uris has provided us, let's forgive him for  this one.	2000-07-23
US	52214553	R3T8K6CQA3S9Y	0394758374	993069245	Road Fever	Books	5	10	10	N	N	frenetically-paced, often amusing travelogue	Cahill, a fellow who does interesting things and writes about them for a living, went with Garry Sowerby of Canada on an endurance driving trip from Ushuaia in southern Argentina to Deadhorse, Alaska; this is the  story.<br />Where Cahill succeeds most here is in descriptive talent.  From  his conflicts with Sowerby to the smells of the inside of the vehicle to  the terrain around him to the encounters with customs officials of a dozen  nations, he never fails to paint a credible and interesting picture.  Tim  has always been good about telling the story even if it makes him look  foolish, and this sense of literary integrity is strong here.<br />The only  thing I felt a little shorted by was the virtual lack of any description of  any activity between the US/Mexican border and Fairbanks.  I can imagine  them blazing across the US and Canada up to the Alcan in a day with no  trouble, and maybe not much happened, but the real Alcan gets more  interesting as you get into the Yukon and beyond; it seems it was glossed  over.  If I had a half-star markdown I might use it, but it wouldn't be  fair to Cahill to mark him down a whole star on what is otherwise a great  book--maybe not much really happened, which would explain why not much is  said.<br />Recommended for adventure travel lovers, particularly those focused  on South America.	2000-07-20
US	52214553	R1AYQ80EOIH25Q	0312965788	546505387	All Creatures Great and Small	Books	5	4	4	N	N	interesting, whimsically funny, but above all instructive	You have probably heard that Herriot is heart-warming, enjoyable, and all that.  (It's all true.)  But how so? And what is so instructive about it?<br />Herriot was a small-town veterinarian who practiced for over half a  century in Yorkshire, Great Britain.  He took notes and remembered stories.  He did such a good job of it that he was able to put together half a dozen  books of his recollections.  The accumulated stories are a delightful  account of his efforts to get started in the practice, the whole gamut of  farmers and pet owners in his area, and all the little details you normally  wouldn't hear about.  What a man he must have been to have for a  grandfather.<br />The great unheralded benefit of Herriot's writing, in my  view, is for the small businessperson who has a limited number of potential  clients and who must win them over to succeed.  By seeing how Herriot  handled a certain type of customer, one can improve the way one deals with  one's own customers.  The excellent results he ultimately got while dealing  with some very tough customers in difficult situations can show the way and  inspire you to greater patience and effort.  This, in my view, is the  hidden value of Herriot.	2000-07-19
US	52214553	R3SRXT4Y8DCF3C	0553282670	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	5	7	7	N	N	makes the history of Stalingrad personal and exciting	If you really want to know how it was, you ultimately have to ask those who were there.<br />So Craig did.  We have Russian snipers and Italian doctors and German sergeants and many, many more, with their personal  stories all woven into the greater tapestry of the history of the siege.  Not only does this method make this one of the most interesting history  books I have read, it also ranks as a real service to society:  as I write,  probably many of the men interviewed are now no longer available to  interview.  How much history did Craig preserve that would have been  otherwise lost? I'd say plenty.<br />There really isn't any excuse for this  book ever being out of print.  It's like reading Stephen Ambrose but with a  higher excitement level.	2000-07-19
US	52214553	R1M2J42RHSRQ4E	0886777828	56538478	The Dreaming Tree	Books	5	15	18	N	N	magical, Celtic, complex, engrossing	This partly rewritten combination of two earlier books shows her  versatility, taking us to Celtic lands of fantasy.  Cherryh got up to her  elbows in Celtic language, myth and culture for our benefit; the resulting  portrayal is powerful and evocative.  The character development is  excellent; the characters effortlessly take shape and flesh out, inspiring  strong reactions and a lot of wonder as to how the story will go.  A  pronunciation guide in the back, with English synonyms for names, is of  special interest for those who like to roll a name off the tongue to get  the feel of a book.<br />If you truly enjoy this book, there is a song called  'Arafel's Lament' inspired by it done by Heather Alexander that really  captures the magic of it.<br />Worthwhile for any fan of fantasy, particularly  Celtic fantasy.	2000-07-18
US	52214553	R1FBW0B2TAOU2T	0449210928	544373078	Texas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	fine job of showing just what went into the making of Texas	Texas is a land of extremes that inspires pretty strong reactions.  This  means that any book about it that wants to be credible must walk the line  between blind, gushing adoration of all things Texan (right or wrong) and  mean-spirited bashing of cherished icons and legends of a very friendly  people.  Neither extreme of portrayal is really fair, when you get down to  it.<br />Michener, as usual, finds that midpoint.  In this novel he includes  the many peoples that have lived in Texas, viewing the legends and stories  with a receptive and forensic eye.  Each new wind of history that has blown  over Texas is recorded and its impact portrayed.  In the end, ultimately,  we see how Texas came to be Texas, with all that that entails today.  I'd  say it's fitting that this is a pretty large book.<br />Enthusiastically  recommended to fans of Michener, those interested in Texas, or anyone who  enjoys the genre of 'faction' (fiction closely paralleling history).	2000-07-18
US	52214553	R2T6VD6UBPNYA9	078690514X	252807435	Daughter of the Drow (Forgotten Realms: Starlight and Shadows, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a capable author succeeds in following a tough act	I enjoyed Cunningham's portrayal of Liriel and Fyodor, two radically  different characters brought together by destiny.  Rarely in fantasy novels  do characters ask themselves basic questions about their own evolving  worldviews, and it is a treat when someone creates fiction with that level  of depth.<br />The cross Cunningham bears is that anything about the Drow will  always be compared to Salvatore, which really isn't fair to Cunningham but  such are the travails of writing about the same topic as one of the greats.  Her style is different than that of Salvatore but is entertaining in its  own way.<br />Worth the read.	2000-07-18
US	52214553	R270SKVSVKMXDN	0451190475	778748464	Dress Gray	Books	4	6	8	N	N	entertaining story, but strains credulity	The author actually attended the USMA in the timeframe of the book, so this is probably a pretty accurate view of the odd, cloistered world that was/is West Point (circa 1967).<br />The portrait painted by Truscott of the  USMA is hardly flattering, though it should be pointed out that Truscott's  USMA produces some superbly honest, loyal and courageous officers, NCOs and  cadets to set against the bad guys.  I have no trouble believing that  senior officers and cadet officers could behave as they do in the book,  because I saw them behave just about this way (both the good and the bad)  in Army ROTC; different environment but similar in a few ways.  Where  credulity starts to slip is in the extreme experiences of a single cadet  and in the bungling by the officers who seek to silence him.  In the real  world, I can't quite envision either situation.<br />There are too many typos  for my taste, but not so many as to get on most people's nerves.  A good  entertaining military novel, of special interest to anyone closely  connected to a West Pointer--or, for that matter to anyone contemplating  the way the military mind reacts to homosexuality.	2000-07-18
US	52214553	R219BKC8DHZZRW	0875422918	792360924	Teutonic Magic: The Magical & Spiritual Practices of the Germanic Peoples (Llewellyn's Teutonic Magick Series)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	very deep and detailed discussions of the runes	Caveat:  this review is focused upon the portion of the book covering  runes and divination, because that was what I used it to study.  That  represents about half the book.  Further caveat:  I'm no expert on Asatru  or the runes.<br />With all that said, I found Gundersson's study of  rune-reading to be tremendously helpful.  He includes rune-spreads,  techniques and a thorough take on each rune itself, complete with a  beautifully-written meditation.  I'd also read other books if you were  planning on working intensively with runes--just to get differing  viewpoints--but this would be an essential reference.	2000-07-18
US	52214553	R3NCUCEB9UM7NB	039912022X	167153390	The Dosadi Experiment	Books	5	29	30	N	N	more of Herbert's mastery of the closed society topic	If you read Dune (or almost any other Herbert book) you know that one of his favourite themes is that of the sequestered/closed society in a harsh environment.  No one ever did it as well.<br />_Dosadi_ offers a lot.  It  offers a very interesting alien race (well, more than one, but one that  gets the most attention) that is truly alien, with a fascinating legal  system that questions the basic assumptions we start with.  The plot  unfolds like a sunrise, letting out bits of information gradually until the  reader comes to understand just what a monstrous timebomb has been created  by shortsighted beings.  The protagonist and other main characters are  well-described and interesting, as is the interplay among them.<br />This is  not light reading, but if you like fiction that inspires you to question  your assumptions, this is one of the best examples of same.  Especially  recommended to those with an interest in the topic of law and legal  proceedings, or to anyone who has already decided they like Herbert's  style.	2000-07-17
US	52214553	R3KH2L6V83B6ZW	0671541447	891160076	National Lampoon's Doon	Books	4	6	9	N	N	has its moments, but doesn't compare to _Bored of the Rings_	This book has some really funny parts.  I've got to hand it to whomever came up with the whole culinary backdrop--it creates a lot of amusement.  Some of the dialogue is really well done and the author has given us a few  good-natured laughs at some of Herbert's trademark stylistic quirks.<br />So  why the lukewarm review? Well, it's funny, but it's not funny enough of the  time.  Many of the names given were quite juvenile and didn't really  reflect adult (as in mature, not as in sexual) standards of humour.  I  mean, 'Freedmenmen' for 'Fremen'? That just sounds dumb, not funny--at  least in my opinion.  ('Mauve-bib', by contrast, was pretty good, and the  naming ritual was hilariously done.)<br />I'd really just as soon give it 3.5  stars if I could, but I can't in good conscience give it three, so 4 it is.  Recommended provided you have modest expectations.	2000-07-17
US	52214553	RWR6OO1MB8BA8	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	5	4	5	N	N	one of the funniest ever... worthy of all the gushing	I buy up every used copy of this I find in a bookstore, so I always have some available to give to friends.  It's that good.<br />Why? Well, remember how the orcs were the perfect balance to the elves in Tolkien? This is the  perfect balance to Tolkien.  Everything that is noble and beautiful in LOTR  is cleverly parodied here.  It's hard to describe without spoiling  anything... ok, one example that you'd get in the first few pages.  'Bilbo  Baggins' becomes 'Dildo Bugger', a skinflint with an interest in dirty  Scrabble.  You've got to read the dialogue to appreciate how funny this  is.<br />Only small quibble--and it is a very small one--is that a lot of the  names used in parody are sufficiently dated that readers born after 1960  will probably need to find a baby boomer to explain some of them.  This is  worth doing because the more of them you understand, the more you will  laugh.<br />What ever became of these guys? They displayed tremendous talent.	2000-07-17
US	52214553	R3CT3LX12KZUXE	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	6	7	N	N	a towering classic that not everyone will necessarily enjoy	Since enough has been written about the _Dune_ story, let me focus this review on helping the potential reader sift through the accumulated viewpoints.  I will allude to some degree to the series that follows it, on  the grounds that this pertains to whether one would want to invest the time  in the first book to begin with.<br />First off, _Dune_ is deep.  It's  exciting, and Herbert is a master of creating The Moment.  It has some of  the richest character development you will ever see.  It is often very  subtle and will tend to inspire you to question some basic assumptions.  It  is a very egalitarian book in which both genders are quite deadly.<br />So who  might not like it? Well, on your first go, it can be hard to 'get it'; my  first effort didn't succeed, as a matter of fact.  I read on, bewildered,  not understanding much.  (Lucky for me I gave it another go at a later  date.)  You should be prepared for there to be a large leap between each  book (sometimes thousands of years).  Herbert handles these quantum leaps  interestingly, but they can throw you a curve.  Also, if you want light  reading, Herbert isn't it.  And there is no question that there are mature  and sometimes disturbing themes.  (If your child is old enough to make  sense of it, s/he is probably old enough to deal with the disturbing  parts.)<br />Essentially, _Dune_ (and the series) is one of those works people  either love or they hate.  My recommendation is to try it--it is surely a  masterpiece in the eyes of many, myself included--but to be prepared to  invest time and brainpower in picking up the storyline, mulling over  questions, and other cerebral pursuits.  If you go into it armed with this  understanding, your odds of enjoying it are excellent.	2000-07-17
US	52214553	RD2RR4GLHW792	0345405625	264906896	Walk In Hell (The Great War, Book 2)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	good alternate history, pretty much vintage Turtledove	You know, reviewing Turtledove's books is a little difficult because of one of his strengths:  the interesting twist.  To reveal these twists in a review is tempting but would be a spoiler, and it's challenging to give a  good description of where the book takes you without spoiling surprises.  In this continuation of the Great War series, we see more evidence of  Turtledove's ability to question assumptions about what certain real  historical figures might have done in an alternate history.  When he does  this, he produces the many interesting twists I'm referring to.<br />The story  is good (as usual) and there is plenty of action, but Turtledove gets  marked down a star for running far too many subplots.  Some of them end up  treated rather shallowly and character development, as ever, pays the  price.  There aren't very many characters (leaving out historical ones) in  the book whom it is easy to picture in one's mind, for example, and this  well into the series.  The author needs to work on this.<br />One issue in  this book (and the series in general, but more so here) some may find  disturbing, as I did:  Canadians and US folks who consider themselves  friends of Canada may find the portrayal of the ongoing US occupation of  Canada increasingly depressing from a human rights standpoint.  (Some may  also find it morbidly fascinating.  Just wanted to caution you; your  mileage/kilometrage may vary.)	2000-07-15
US	52214553	R2EKCAR76GCGT9	0679740031	586694728	The Civil War in the American West	Books	5	9	12	N	N	admirably fills a serious void	As a lifetime Westerner and Civil War buff, I can't say enough good about this book.  It covers the major issues and events of a war that stretched over great distances.  While there weren't that many people living in the  West at that time, Josephy shows us how the events of the Civil War shaped  what the West would become.<br />This is a good reference for the  participation of many then-territories (now states), for just about all  battles in the Trans-Mississippi theatre, for the participation of Native  tribes on both sides, and for the social impact of the war in areas where  there was little or no actual fighting.  It is rounded out by well-done  maps with an elegant feel.<br />A definite for your Civil War library,  particularly if the Western view is of interest.	2000-07-14
US	52214553	R1PABHIO0BB0ES	1885211279	112881289	There's No Toilet Paper on the Road Less Traveled: The Best Travel Humor and Misadventure (Travelers' Tales Guides)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	after many horselaughs, my advice is 'get it'	This is a collection of humourous travel stories by some pretty capable authors.  They write from different perspectives and about places all over the world.  I found them all amusing in one way or another, whether due to  turn of phrase, comical circumstances or just flat-out ridiculousness of  the moment.  However, I like MAD Magazine, too, so this should be  considered when deciding whether you would like the book.<br />Marked down a  star only because it's moderately expensive for a book that's not  especially thick.  If you read a lot of travel essay books that are quite  serious about it all, this will offer you a bit of amusing diversion.	2000-07-12
US	52214553	R245EY58E428LC	0446359807	412952031	Army Blue	Books	4	6	7	N	N	interesting read from a well-informed source	In case the reader isn't aware, Truscott is an exceptionally well-informed source.  Not only is he a graduate of West Point, his family has been eating Army rations for a long time and has produced some very  distinguished soldiers.  The family in this book bears quite a resemblance  to them.<br />At first blush it seems that Truscott is taking out his  bitterness on the Army, but as you read along you see that he's actually  quite fair.  Good soldiers, bad soldiers; good NCOs, bad NCOs; good  officers, bad officers.  What he really shows us is that while there are  some unmitigated heels at all levels of the service, there are also some of  the finest and most dedicated people you could hope to meet.  I found most  of the characters credible and interesting.<br />While I wouldn't say it's  superb in any area, it's a creditworthy portrayal.  Truscott shows hints of  the ability to create 'moments' that you remember many months after  finishing the book, but there are not quite enough of them for five stars.	2000-07-11
US	52214553	RFW162WS9R3I2	0812564669	596423105	Household Gods	Books	4	7	9	N	N	engaging tale based on good research	This is the story of a SoCal yuppie who wishes a little too hard for the  'good old days' and gets them, warts and all.<br />The strengths here are the  depth and accuracy of research, the interesting and complex characters, and  the many little touches that show that Tarr and Turtledove really gave  serious thought to life in an ancient Roman provincial town.  I don't see  how anyone who enjoys ancient Roman fiction could go wrong here, and those  with no experience in the genre will get some worthwhile grounding in the  non-military aspects of second-century provincial Roman life.  (Special  kudos to the authors for not simply plopping the protagonist in Rome, which  would be the easy way.)<br />So what's not to like? Well, rather, what's to  like a little less.  For someone so intelligent, the protagonist has an  extremely difficult time letting go of her cultural assumptions and  expectations.  It's still believable, if one assumes her to be pretty  narrow-minded, but she's awfully bright to take such a long time to realize  that the rules are different 'here'.  The whole 'a conservative is a  liberal who's just been mugged' political bent is taken a little too far  (though some of it is germane to the protagonist's experiences).  The  ending is no great surprise nor is it especially climactic.<br />The negatives  don't even come close to outweighing the positives of the book.  You are  much likelier to enjoy it if you have an interest in ancient Roman fiction  or if you've got a strong appreciation for attention to historical detail.	2000-07-10
US	52214553	R1T4FS1V38ASDB	0809226030	737666003	Baseball's Forgotten Heroes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	the author's dedication shows throughout	This is a book written by someone with a lot of love for the game of baseball. It will mostly benefit others with the same love: Salin has found sufficiently obscure figures that I had only heard of half of them. Where feasible, he lets them tell their own stories, thus preserving their style of speech and bringing them to life (very important as most are very elderly or since deceased).<br />Salin must be a persuasive fellow and is certainly a persistent one; he wangled an interview with the very reclusive Pete Gray, who played major league baseball with only one arm (true story). He has gathered a collection of amusing and interesting stories that tell a lot about the times in which his subjects played.<br />And as if all that weren't enough, there's a great bonus at the end:  a pronunciation guide to baseball people's names.  How is someone like myself, born in the early 1960s, supposed to know how to pronounce a lot of the names of the past? What a superb inclusion, and the list is both long and phonetically clear.  I couldn't believe my good fortune when I got to that part, having thought that the book was over, and was so pleasantly surprised.  It was like a performer coming out for a superb encore.<br />Well worth the money and time for enthusiasts of baseball history.  I'm going to keep my eye on this author, and I hope we get more.	2000-07-05
US	52214553	R5GH0XQIF4EFJ	0886774314	137588323	Downbelow Station (Alliance-Union Universe)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	succeeds in several ways at once	The easiest way to describe _Downbelow_ is in terms of what it achieves:<br />As always with Cherryh, it depicts a truly alien race and the issues humanity faces interacting with it.  Also as always, the writing is  quite dense; no word is wasted and no section is padded.  Can't scan-read  Cherryh.<br />Everyone and everything *feels* right.  The Mazianni feel like  the quasi-pirates they are.  The honchos running Pell feel like oligarchs  trying to balance against many forces.  Union feels like a distant,  dangerous force.  Dockside feels like a large, rough, dangerous  place.<br />The characters are interesting and their interactions are the  spice of the story.  Mallory really feels like the sort of captain you'd  want if your ship was set against powerful forces, and her attitude towards  her erstwhile superiors is great.<br />It tells a great story, leaving the  outcome well in doubt for a long time and weaving all of the above into a  tale that deserved its awards.  Belongs on every SF reader's bookshelf.	2000-07-04
US	52214553	R2GQ7FACGM8A3R	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	4	5	N	N	easier to read this than to get details from a submariner...	The 'Silent Service' is aptly named--they don't talk about it.  It's for this reason we rarely hear how much guts it takes to perform submarine espionage.  That is, until now.<br />I picked this up and read it cover to  cover, fascinated by the accounts (which seem well documented) of maritime  espionage and hijinks in the Cold War.  We don't often reflect that while a  foreign frigate or bomber isn't just off the beach  (or we'd see it), a  foreign sub just might be.  Apparently it's not so uncommon.<br />Say what one  will about the book; far as I can see, the one thing no one says is that  it's a pack of lies.  I got further confirmation when I asked one of my  best friends, a former submariner, what he thought of it.  His reply:  &quot;My only reply will *ever* be an enthusiastic 'no  comment!'&quot;<br />Highly recommended for the authenticity and for the  tribute it pays to people doing a dangerous job.	2000-07-01
US	52214553	R8UVPUYGPFHU	0761515844	593356231	Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri: Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	2	9	9	N	N	plenty of reference, hardly any strategy	While it's generally agreed that Prima's guides are often letdowns, the Civilization-type games have usually been a noteworthy exception to the trend.  Until now.<br />There are 28 pages (out of 320) of straight strategy.  There's a useful section in the back on customizing 'modpacks'.  The bulk  of the rest of the book is a description of the base enhancements, techs,  secret projects, and so on--all of which is available in the game with a  mouseclick.  (They do at least offer some suggestions on the relative  values of the items.)  They deemed it worth their time to include an  index.<br />What's missing is: an in-depth look at play as each faction; some  hints on designing your own units (and how to get the most out of the  fairly clunky unit design interface, about the only clunky part of the  game's UI); and a meaningful sense of the diplomatic aspect of the game  (which can be important).<br />Mileage will vary, but compared to what Civ  fans are used to this guide doesn't measure up.	2000-07-01
US	52214553	RWNGLS7S01ICL	0253341027	828154150	The Iron Brigade: A Military History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	definitive history of the Republic's finest	Special praise is reserved for the historian who tells well-researched history as an interesting story, because its appeal is broader.  When he succeeds in capturing the mood of a past era in the process, the result is  something special.<br />Meet Alan T. Nolan, who has achieved the above in this  definitive work on the famous Iron Brigade (an elite unit consisting of  Wisconsin, Indiana and Michigan troops).  We get to know its officers and  its soldiers; we see it well handled and mishandled; we see (for example)  the 24th Michigan earn its right to the distinctive black hat, then suffer  80% casualties--without routing, mind you--to prove to history that it  surely lived up (or died up, one might say) to the proud reputation of this  Western unit.<br />Recommended to Civil War buffs, those interested in the  psyche of elite units, and to those who love the West.	2000-07-01
US	52214553	R1PCWD1PBV2FE8	0812501403	772829655	Another Day, Another Dungeon (Cups and Sorcery, Book 1)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	there's some serious Costik wit here	Costikyan has been around the RPG/gaming world about as long as I have--since the seventies.  I recently reread this hilarious D&amp;D fantasy story and I still got some major laughs out of it.<br />Want an  appetizer? Greg's orcs speak with a heavy New Jersey accent.  &quot;We  tanks you for our victory over da youmans&quot;, that sort of thing.  (No  offense to Jersey intended.)  The book is full of great touches like this,  such as a lisping lizardman and a fraternal order reminiscent of the  Elks.<br />Search for this one.  It's good.	2000-07-01
US	52214553	RXISFBYCBUNS4	0399146121	921680812	The Fighting Agents: A Men at War Novel	Books	5	24	24	N	N	a return to classic Griffin military/intel writing	After some lackluster recent efforts, Griffin reminds us why he's considered one of the most capable military fiction authors out there.<br />Excitement level is good; as is often the case, Griffin takes us  to a new region (Yugoslavia/Hungary) and shows good area and language  knowledge.  He leaves the future and survival of one of the main characters  of the series in real doubt throughout most of the book.  The recent  tendency of Griffin to be over-reliant on sex and infidelity as themes is  absent.  Either the original version (of which this is a republishing)  lacked those themes, or it was rewritten.  Either way, the romantic stuff  doesn't detract from the storytelling, which is classic Griffin.<br />As a  bonus, we see some of the less-emphasized characters of the series gain  development and fullness.  The afterword, which I will not spoil for you  except to say that it refers to Griffin's real world acquaintance with  historical figures, is revealing and interesting.<br />If you've read the  first three, this is a strong continuation.  If you have not, the whole  series is worth your time and money.	2000-06-30
US	52214553	RGKGN9ZJDUDLY	0886775590	529065623	Chanur's Legacy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	new twist on a superlative SF series	Cherryh's specialties are simple:  she creates aliens that are *very* alien, and she is economical with words.  Both specialties are in short enough supply that anything she writes merits serious  consideration.<br />_Legacy_ follows the career of one of the primary  characters of the four previous _Chanur_ novels (all highly recommended).  Thus, except for a couple of familiar faces, there's a new cast of  characters.  They interact in a lively story that is meat and drink for  anyone who appreciates fine SF writing.<br />One should read the previous four  novels (or the compendium, recently released) to get the necessary  background for _Legacy_ to be a smooth read, but that said, one should read  the whole bunch anyway.  This series may be Cherryh's finest work, and  _Legacy_ is an interesting continuation with plenty of interest.	2000-06-19
US	52214553	R3LZR9QEKVTZOK	0312198574	864836524	Dirty Little Secrets of the Vietnam War	Books	4	9	14	N	N	generally very good, could have gone deeper	I really liked this book--well enough to recommend it to my father-in-law, a Vietnam veteran and history buff.  The title is accurate and Dunnigan and Nofi's scholarship is generally dispassionate and sensible.<br />It's well  titled; a lot of the information here is not common knowledge.  Their take  on the ebb and flow of the conflict is straightforward and well supported  (the 'why did we lose?' question).  I like their view on the MIA issue, and  they deserve credit for neither ducking it nor kowtowing to either side.  The descriptions of the loss of credibility of pro-war and anti-war  activists speak volumes.<br />There's a lot of information about the units  that were there, but I think more detail would have been welcomed.  The  ARVN in particular is not heavily covered.  They copped out a little on the  Phillipine contingent; couldn't come up with details as basic as death  figures.  The defoliants were mentioned but the nonlethal chemical agents,  Adamsite (DM) in particular, aren't well covered.  And so forth.<br />Very  much worth reading with the caveat that if you want to drill deep into any  aspect of the war (for example, the ARVN Rangers, or the organization of a  Special Forces camp) you'll have to look elsewhere to get the detail.	2000-05-13
US	52214553	RVL9YQ4X1OPU7	0449207331	441215676	Iberia	Books	5	110	112	N	N	an impressively deep, honest and affectionate view of Spain	This is not like most Michener books, which are generally fictional; this is his personal travelogue of his impressions of many travels all over Spain.  It should be understood that it was published in the late 1960s and  that much has since changed in Spain since that time.  While 'Iberia' is  normally taken (in the USA, at least) to incorporate Portugal, Michener is  writing almost exclusively about Spain in this book.<br />Michener clearly  loved Spain and knew many Spaniards as friends.  He discusses Spain's  history, culture, art, literature, dance, geography, sports, and  spirituality.  Rather than putting all that into nice neat little buckets,  he weaves it all together to paint an entrancing picture of the Spanish  soul as he knows it.<br />Unlike many such authors, Michener uses photos very  carefully to illustrate aspects of Spanish culture, from the assuredly  adamant eyes of the Guardia Civil to the warm smiles of the poorest people.  He also takes a lot of time to explain words that are difficult to  translate and what they tell us about Spanish culture.<br />Recommended with  equal enthusiasm whether from the viewpoint of history, religion, culture,  or art.  Also of special value to those living in Spanish-speaking  countries or regions with large Hispanic populations, as Spain's influence  on those cultures, as a mother country, is readily apparent.<br />Bravo, Sr.  Michener.  Faltan mucho a Ud.	2000-05-05
US	52214553	R15168RS8VAYL5	0515128023	413260522	Soldier Spies (Men at War)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	some Griffin goodness, but also disturbing flaws	This, the third in the Men at War series, takes us to the European theatre with Canidy, Whittaker, Bitter and company.  Strong characters such as Fulmar, the Duchess and Canidy are back.<br />There's a reasonable amount of action, although it's somewhat disjointed, as if certain minor gaps in the  story were a little too much trouble to fill.  The large amount of material  on the German characters gives an interesting look at life in the black of  the SS-SD.  We see some of the 'military/naval moments' that Griffin does  so well.<br />On the other hand, we have the usual bodice-ripping sexual  stuff, with the normal number of oversexed females practically ravishing  males.  At least in this book none of them seem to be virgins suddenly  surrendering their 'pearl of great price', as Griffin usually describes the  hymen.  And, of course, we cannot get through a book without at least one  character being unfaithful to a spouse.<br />Be advised also that this is a  reprint of a book first published long ago, so its current state may not  reflect the evolution of Griffin's style in the intervening time.  If you  are new to Men at War but not to Griffin, this may catch you a bit off  guard.<br />Recommended provided you are accustomed to, or don't much mind,  some of the weaknesses.	2000-05-04
US	52214553	R5QDQU7P77XB7	0312203535	412053610	Plague Wars: The Terrifying Reality of Biological Warfare	Books	4	4	9	N	N	truly frightening, some new information... but credible?	Goldberg and Mangold cover the history of modern biological warfare in some detail.  The writing style is noticeably British and is usually frank and interesting.<br />To their credit, the authors are bringing to light some  instances and situations that are generally not well known, particularly  South Africa's active use of biological weapons in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).  There's a lot of good information on the Soviet/Russian biowarfare  programs, not too difficult since the defection of Kanatjan Alibekov,  author of _Biohazard_, who was heavily interviewed for this book (as we  know because it is copiously referenced).<br />My only reservation  about the book is as to credibility, specifically that of the reporting on  United States biological warfare activity.  If we are to believe the  authors, the US government's assertion that development of offensive  bioweapons ceased decades ago is the absolute truth.  The authors do not  make a very convincing show that they questioned this claim too  closely.  Maybe key information sources might suddenly have become unavailable if they started questioning the wrong people's official  positions; we cannot know.  In my view, the omission calls the authors' credibility into some question.  After all, if it's really true, it's worth knowing for sure.<br />Recommended with the above  reservations, plus one more:  one of the illustrations is appalling enough to give a very sensitive reader nightmares.  If that's you, you may want to avoid the first photo section.  (Neither photo section adds much to the book.)	2000-04-29
US	52214553	R30J2GYDI5X7OA	0385061781	85016961	The Anchor Atlas of World History, Vol. 1 (From the Stone Age to the Eve of the French Revolution)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	surely can't remain out of print for long.. it's too good	This, the first volume of two pocket atlases on world history (prehistory-1792, 1792-present), is the perfect handy reference for rapid historical factfinding.  The dozens of maps are gorgeous; the annotation is densely packed but well done; the graphs and charts that accompany the maps  are very illustrative.  (Example:  on one page, a flow chart showing the  structure of the government of the Late Roman Republic; shortly thereafter,  a similar chart set in the Late Empire.)<br />For anyone who is interested in  world history, both volumes are tremendous bargains.  Well worth a search.	2000-04-29
US	52214553	R1V7SR7Q7OY6Q1	0886773768	323945225	Sword-Dancer (Tiger and Del)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	superb, thoughtful heroic fantasy	One can read this series from the viewpoint of social commentary on gender relations, heroic fantasy, or both.  It speaks well for the author's talent that it succeeds in either category.  Whatever you do, begin with this  book, the first in the series, and read them in order.<br />The Tiger/Del  relationship is notable for its complexity as well as the variety of  interactions.  To a certain extent, both are required to show some  adaptiveness over time; one watches them learn and grow.  As products of  very different societies, we see their pre-existing cultural expectations  giving way--obstinately--to the realities of life.  It is impossible to  miss the feminist statement that Del represents, but there is much more  going on than just that.<br />If you could care less about sexual politics and  just want to read about interesting characters in a richly detailed  environment with a very high excitement level, you also came to the right  series.  While there is some obvious linguistic and cultural borrowing from  medieval earth, it never detracts from the tale.  It also has a delightful  level of mature humour to keep matters lighthearted.<br />A must read.	2000-04-26
US	52214553	R1X2UG1OU2ORMX	0812574923	767718582	1916: A Novel of the Irish Rebellion (Irish Century)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	one of those books on which your mileage will vary greatly	_1916_ has been justly praised for good historical coverage of a period that has always fascinated those, like myself, who enjoy seeing David eventually prevail against Goliath.  While we don't get to that point during the book (whose timeframe begins with the Titanic and doesn't extend  much past the Rising), we do see the birth of the 20th century Republican  movement.<br />If you're interested in the history of the times, the  difference between this and a history book is sort of like the difference  between a small-plane overflight and a walkabout on the actual ground.  You  don't see as much of the forest, but you see the trees very well, and that  of course is the focus of the book.  It's very outspokenly feminist  (whether that's a positive or negative probably depends on your personal  views).  The use of contemporary headlines at the ends of chapters is a  masterful touch that keeps the story in context; too bad some chapters have  them and some don't.<br />I did have some trouble imagining the main character  as a credible human being, what with his propensity for always landing  right in the midst of the action.  For someone who's supposed to be so  intelligent, he isn't especially introspective and doesn't really appear to  foresee any consequences to his actions.  Can't help but like him, though.  The pace of action is generally pretty good even where the writing isn't  that creative.<br />The epitome of a mixed review:  if you like its strengths,  you'll like it.  If its weaknesses are your pet peeves, you may not.	2000-04-25
US	52214553	R2XYVUKXTX53XM	0192835769	344302423	Upanisads (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	41	45	N	N	helps make the Upanishads a little clearer	Some caveats have to apply here.  For one, the challenge of rating a book like this with stars is obvious; who am I to pass judgment on such ancient literature? Or the translation, since I don't read the original language?  With that in mind, I confine my review to the style in which it is rendered  for the novice.<br />The Upanishads are not an easy read, and I have seen them  done in verse format and in paragraph format; the latter is used here.  I  find it more readable, but others prefer verse.  Whether you will like this  translation depends largely on your preference in this area.<br />It does  have (parenthesizations) after many words showing the original word, which  helps a lot when learning to define terms like 'prana' and 'upanishad'...  e.g., &quot;... show me the hidden teaching  (&lt;i&gt;upanisad&lt;/i&gt;)...&quot;.  This not only helps the reader to  learn the meanings of these difficult-to-render terms, but points up the  challenges involved in translation.<br />I found the foreword helpful in  setting up a historical and cultural backdrop for the Upanishads.  A good  half of the work is taken up by a single Upanishad (the Brhadarayanka), but  that was probably inevitable.<br />What I would have liked to have seen was a  little more interpretation.  As a novice reader of the Upanishads, it was  really a struggle to understand what they meant in context, and I never did  make head or tail out of much of it.  A section at the end of each chapter  (or some well-placed footnotes) would have gone far to make the work  accessible to those for whom the cultural reach was a bit lengthy.	2000-04-12
US	52214553	RC88VQ3QQ9Q7F	0449211479	241253921	The Source	Books	5	4	5	N	N	a classic for many reasons	What makes _The Source_ so rereadable and interesting? There's a lot to like:  watching the waves of time and humanity wash over a spot in Palestine, the unfolding of a modern archaeological dig with concurrent storytelling about the findings of that dig, a deep look into the Jewish  and Arab cultures of the region, richly developed characters with little to  moderate stereotyping, and its fair share of humour.  The portrayal is  every bit as vivid as any of Leon Uris' novels--but more  balanced.<br />Strongly recommended from the point of view of fiction, Near  Eastern studies, or simple appreciation of fine authorship.	2000-04-11
US	52214553	RRCHTMLIMWJUS	0832304468	451281308	The Klickitat Indians	Books	3	4	4	N	N	interesting and unique, but could easily have been better	I write from an interesting position; I used to live in Mrs. Neils' former abode, so I know the country and its people.  In fact, I know some of the people she mentions in the book (she misspelled their names).  The area's definitely gone downhill since the Indians were pretty well driven  out.<br />The history is reasonably well done.  It's unfortunate she couldn't  include more of the tribe's legends and cosmology; it's unclear whether she  didn't consider it important or (just as likely) there was no one left who  remembered most of it.  Which points up a quality that overrides the book's  flaws:  Mrs. Neils is probably the only person who had the ability,  contacts and knowledge to write this history.  Had she not done so, it  would not have been done.<br />The reader is cautioned that some of the  terminology used is a little retro.  (It really isn't fashionable to refer  to Indians as 'bucks' and 'squaws' these days, though I think for the most  part Mrs. Neils tries hard not to be ethnocentric.)  Some will find this an  adjustment.  There are spelling errors.  A moderate amount of information,  (including a lot of the pictures) also, is recycled from Mrs. Neils'  earlier _So This is Klickitat_, which was more about the whites of the area  than the Indians.<br />Recommended for those interested in the history of  southern Washington, or of Native peoples' unsensationalized early  experiences with whites.	2000-04-02
US	52214553	R3PBOIAFEY8JAD	0782126014	903245874	Star Trek: Starfleet Command Official Strategies & Secrets	Books	3	17	17	N	N	helpful, yes; definitive, no	Starfleet Command came with a better manual than many games, and this guide is a helpful add-on to it.  The mission analyses are useful; there is good discussion on campaign play and play vs. humans; the tactics sections  and tables are well done.<br />However, since the manual was published,  Interplay got around to releasing the Hydran campaign special missions;  those, obviously, aren't in the book.  Not a knock, just something the  buyer should know.  Conspicuously absent is a section on how to fight  against and with each nationality; such sections exist for the different  weapons, but not for the entire nationality.  (For example, a discussion of  anti-expanding sphere tactics, or how best to avoid ever letting a Hydran  get a close range shot at you.)  While there's a listing of all the ships,  nothing is said about their unique qualities (for example, the old  Federation destroyer not having nearly enough power to charge its weapons  and move).<br />Better than many of the 'strategy guides' being sold, but  could have been better still.  Recommended mainly if you're finding some of  the missions frustrating.	2000-03-29
US	52214553	RH3O6JE9O5LVK	0679729089	495181865	Bad Trips: A Sometimes Terrifying, Sometimes Hilarious Collection of Writing on the Perils of the Road	Books	3	3	3	N	N	good variety, albeit kind of lackluster overall	This was a book I started, got bored with, and came back to later when the book pile was about exhausted.  That should tell you something:  most of the stories simply weren't too enthralling.  I didn't notice a lot of  humour; in fact, I found very little.  When I came back to finish it, I  liked it a little better but not too much.  Most of the stories are too  short to really satisfy.<br />On the positive side, quite the cast of authors  has been assembled, and they can indeed write.  The variety of places and  circumstances is impressive.  I found at least half the stories interesting  and worth reading.<br />As adventure travel, it doesn't compare to anything by  Tim Cahill for excitement and uniqueness, or to William Least Heat-Moon for  depth and powers of observation, but it'll do.	2000-03-29
US	52214553	R1H9KHYTJ4RDKB	0688013996	640996451	One-Night Stands with American History	Books	4	16	17	N	N	it's entertaining, but not always necessarily history	Shenkman has a gift for digging up interesting events and facts about history.  In this case, the material is presented as a long string of anecdotes, organized about as well as one can organize such a collection.  It's often humourous, it's usually enlightening, and it's full of the  irreverence with which we should be viewing the 'official' version of US  history.<br />Unfortunately, its conclusions are at times debatable, so while  it is valuable as a historical study, it is by no means definitive.  Before  you cite Shenkman on any point, I would look up his sources and satisfy  myself as to context and credibility.  To Shenkman's credit, the sources  are referenced, so one can do just that if one feels  motivated.<br />Recommended, especially for people who profess to hate history  because of the way it was taught.  That, at least, Shenkman can probably  remedy--there's nothing to hate about the way Shenkman relates history.	2000-03-24
US	52214553	R3S2Y5A69Y67F4	0886778778	790232584	The Morgaine Saga (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	some of the finest heroic fantasy ever penned	If you're ready for a real heroine--not someone in a chainmail haltertop and g-string, but a warrior haunted and driven by a mission that possesses her very existence, it's time you met Morgaine.<br />Cherryh's well-known  economy with words means that dull spots are rare to non-existent.  Morgaine's vassal Vanye is a great character, human idealism juxtaposed  against Morgaine's grim practicality, with both ultimately influencing one  another.  And when Cherryh describes Morgaine's weapon, if you close your  eyes, you may well feel an icy chill down the back--that's how talented  Cherryh is with words.<br />Recommended to any lover of good fantasy, but most  especially recommended to fans of women's heroic fantasy who are tired of  stereotyped and lame portrayals.  Morgaine is efficient, intelligent, and  quite feminine (assuming one's definition of same isn't too narrow).  Don't  think of Xena--think of Honor Harrington, another of the great heroines  conjured by an author's talent.	2000-03-19
US	52214553	R90KM8WLN9ZXU	0886778697	881068875	The Faded Sun Trilogy: Kesrith, Shon'jir, and Kutath	Books	5	11	14	N	N	wonderful assemblage of a compelling story	Cherryh is an incredible creatrix of alien cultures and worlds.  Here she showcases her ability to toss aside humanocentric assumptions and come up with completely fresh ones.  Watching these various sets of assumptions  interact with those of humans is what makes the story so  interesting.<br />This book also delivers a sobering thwap upside the head to  the tendency to think of humans as the most intelligent and noble species  likely to exist in the galaxy.  _Faded Sun_ will convincingly challenge  both suppositions.  After you finish it,  you may find yourself reflecting  on how far we are from what we could be.<br />It would be a pity for any lover  of SF to miss out on this volume.	2000-03-18
US	52214553	R26L2VV0VS5VE4	1556110804	373317449	The David Kopay Story: An Extraordinary Self-revelation	Books	5	8	11	N	N	well-written, gutsy and illuminating	This is David Kopay's account of growing up gay back when there were very few books or support groups to turn to, which makes it stand even taller.  He describes his experience as a college and professional football player  as well as being in a fraternity.  I find him candid, readable and  likeable.  He never asked for any special favours, just the right to live  his life his way and do what he knew how to do.<br />I'm proud that David is a  fellow Husky; his name adds honour to the reputation of the University of  Washington, both as a hard-nosed athlete who hit like a freight train and  as a man of courage.  Just about anyone could benefit from reading his  book.	2000-03-17
US	52214553	R33HRVLXVBNSS5	067972026X	857223161	A Wolverine Is Eating My Leg	Books	5	24	26	N	N	unique stories, different from his other books	While Cahill is always very entertaining, his later books have focused more on the caving, scuba, climbing and flying aspects of adventure travel.  In _Wolverine_ the stories include a broader variety of journalistic endeavour, taking him from Jonestown to a bizarre religious cult to  encounters with mountain gorillas.  This was the book that hooked me on  Tim's writing.<br />What makes it so good is, for one thing, that he's never  so detached as to reek of smug pseudo-sophistication, but never so involved  as to let his emotions and opinions interfere with the story.  The balance  between the two extremes is perfect.  For another, Tim simply does and sees  things hardly anyone else ever sees and does, let alone writes about.  For  yet another, he is often very funny in a dry, Montana sort of way.  If you  are new to Tim Cahill, you're in for quite a few hours of great reading.	2000-03-14
US	52214553	R1LZEJ005HNRGM	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	9	10	N	N	excellent reading, breaks new ground, although...	Diamond has set out to explain why certain cultures ended up with all the heavy weaponry (thus, the power) and why others continued to subsist on stuff like sago pulp.  I find his arguments quite compelling.  I don't see  him sidestepping any of the tough questions the issue raises; he meets them  in a refreshingly direct manner.  I'd consider it required reading for a  good education in ancient history in any geographic area, because its  theses are applicable to all.<br />With so many people screaming either 'yay,  a non-racist explanation!' or 'this is *so* PC', let me attempt to cut  through that thicket for the potential reader.  Yes, it is quite apparent  that Diamond set out to come up with a non-racist explanation (as opposed  to setting out to answer the question, prepared to accept the truth whether  it bothered people or not).  It does raise the question:  had a racial  explanation resulted, would he have put it forth? I think not.  The effect  of this is to make Diamond have to work harder to convince people of his  conclusions, because he was certainly predisposed to a given tenet.  This  is too bad, because his conclusions are quite compelling.  It would be  shortsighted to dismiss his excellent work without hearing him out, though,  even if one cannot quite shake the suspicion that he mainly wanted to prove  that his hunter-gatherer friends in New Guinea were smarter than most  people give them credit for.<br />The other issue with the predisposition away  from a racial explanation is that said predisposition is, itself, often  racist, and Diamond does fall prey to this:  just because Europeans  ultimately developed napalm bombs, nuclear weapons and nerve gases, is that  necessarily a positive? One could argue that it speaks well for the  residents of ancient Africa, for example, that they never put any effort  into learning how to incinerate an entire city or pollute the atmosphere  with dioxins.<br />One area of wasted effort was the photo section.  He's got  pictures in there of peoples from all over the world.  Ok, fine, but what  do the pictures illustrate? I guess if one has never seen a Spaniard or a  Yanomano before, this'll help, but there is no use of the photos to support  his perspective.  Too bad--if the effort had been spent on diagrams and  maps, Diamond could have used these pages to help make his  point.<br />Strongly recommended because the strength of the reasoning  outweighs all else:  no matter how he did it, Diamond's given us very good  information.He's got  pictures in there of peoples from all over the world.  Ok, fine, but what  do the pictures illustrate? I guess if one has never seen a Spaniard or a  Yanomano before, this'll help, but there is no use of the photos to support  his perspective.  Too bad--if the effort had been spent on diagrams and  maps, Diamond could have used these pages to help make his  point.<br />Strongly recommended because the strength of the reasoning  outweighs all else:  no matter how he did it, Diamond's given us very good  information.	2000-03-10
US	52214553	RR0GTBXNPDDDG	031286311X	724506625	Legends and Lies: Great Mysteries of the American West	Books	5	25	27	N	N	strikes a fine balance, well researched	What makes _Legends &amp; Lies_ so attractive is that, as the book's foreword points out, it avoids the two traditional pitfalls of Western historical writing.  Typically what we get is either fanciful types whose  mantra is 'I don't care if it's true or not, that's the way I want it to  have been' or cold-hearted sorts who assume that if it's being repeated as  a legend, it could not possibly be true.  It's hard to find authors who  truly love the West and respect both legend and fact, with no desire to  tear down either, and Walker is that rare type.<br />I like the breadth of the  sources he considers.  He blindly accepts no one, always putting effort  into evaluating the source's credibility.  The stories in the book  (Sacajawea, Billy the Kid, and Custer to name a few) are ones known to  anyone with a nodding acquaintance with Western history; in some cases I  hadn't even realized there was a question as to what happened.  He doesn't  pander to political correctness, but he does recognize that it took two  genders and a lot of colours to make the history of the West, and writes  accordingly.<br />Highly recommended (by a lifetime Westerner, if it matters)  to anyone interested in Western history.	2000-02-25
US	52214553	R2Q6R9INZO5YXI	0738801526	318910510	The King of Vinland's Saga	Books	5	15	18	N	N	innovative, exciting, a resounding success	I admit it:  I bought this book more to support an interesting concept in literature than because I thought I was going to love it.  Well, once in awhile we all look a little foolish.  I'd have been safe having much higher  expectations.  Within the first ten pages the story had me deeply  engrossed.  The Icelandic sagas are one of the best adventure genres in the  history of literature, and Mirsky is true to them in style.  Geographic and  historic research appears quite good (though I am expert in neither as it  pertains to the book).<br />Character development is early and strong.  Portrayals are fair to both Norseman and Native; some are good, some are  bad, sort of like real life.  As you reach the ending, which I defy you to  predict until you have read it, the excitement builds in a crescendo and  mutes to a beautiful epilogue.  The only fair comparison I can find for the  ending is to invoke a name I rarely drop in literary analogy:  it reminds  me of Tolkien.<br />Oh, by the way, it's his first book.  Writers normally  improve as they get some feedback and practice.  It makes me very eager to  see how he might possibly endeavour to top it.  If you have any interest at  all in Scandinavian culture and literature, adventure stories, or  alternate/hypothetical history, I don't think you'll soon find a better  value.	2000-02-22
US	52214553	R75TJE0TTRIFV	0345323440	202451186	Footfall	Books	3	7	9	N	N	very good in ways, not so good in others	Pournelle (for I believe it is he who did the work) has come up with a reasonably interesting SF book here.  Excitement level is all right.  Portrayal of aliens is moderately alien, though not up to the standards of  the best alien-creators in SF.  Originality of theme is limited, but  originality of type of alien invasion is well done.<br />Probably the most  interesting aspect is the way the aliens' internal politics take precedence  over practicality, which is quite credible given that our own species lets  internal politics take precedence over practicality all the time (thus we  could imagine that other species would as well).<br />The worst aspect of the  plot--and it's one that seems to be going around in SF these days--is the  notion that somehow SF authors will make a significant contribution to the  outcome of a human/alien confrontation.  To me, that seems almost  self-gratifying (and I'd use a stronger word if I thought I could get by  with it), pure fantasy on the part of SF authors.  This weakens a decent SF  book that was doing just fine without that particular plot twist.	2000-02-20
US	52214553	R2JYJIZAUIP6UL	0679741836	488867373	Molly Ivins Can't Say That, Can She?	Books	4	14	17	N	N	lives up to the title, a laugh riot	This, Ivins' first book, is a collection of her columns.  She is one of the better-known writers on Texas politics and has a national following.<br />Strongest point about the book? As the title implies, she says  things that many in her home state of Texas find outrageous.  (To the  credit of Texans, they seem not to hold it against her too much; in fact,  there is something characteristically and enjoyably Texan about her 'let it  all hang out' style.)  She is dearly fond of her homeland and in fact of  most people, which is how she can be critical without  carping.<br />Recommended either as a book on humour, a book on Texas  attitudes, or a book on near-current affairs--take your pick.  Denied five  stars only due to the fact that all the material has appeared elsewhere  before and is not original content, but if that's not a negative for you,  feel free to see it as five stars.	2000-02-20
US	52214553	R3CWC59JUOX0B6	0679754873	740816246	You Got to Dance with Them What Brung You	Books	4	12	15	N	N	great collection of Ivins' columns	It took Ivins some time to get around to writing another book (as she puts it, now she's an &quot;arthur&quot;), and I agree that it was too long.  She is funny and sincere at the same time.  In thirty years, when we try to  explain the 1990s to kids who weren't even born then, this book will shed a  lot of light.<br />A nice thing about this book is that the columns are  divvied up in to topical groupings, which makes it better organized and  gives it a better flow.  Other than that, it is standard Ivins:  bitingly  humourous political commentary with a Texan flavour.  It says a lot for her  that she likes her home state very much, and that it seems to mostly like  her.  It should:  she's a credit to it.	2000-02-20
US	52214553	R2JGT5J7F7HF6X	0375503994	196227364	Shrub: The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	4	80	92	N	N	interesting and pertinent analysis of Bush's character	This is Molly Ivins' first original-content book (as opposed to collections of previously published columns), and its timing is certainly good.<br />What I like about Ivins' and Dubose's analysis is the way it is categorized.  Bush's past actions concerning the environment, crime, religion, business, education, and so on are discussed, all in light of the unique backdrop that is Texas politics. The portrait painted of Bush is not particularly flattering unless one is a laissez-faire capitalist, and does not show him as having much real depth beyond doing what it takes to get along with his likely supporters.<br />One thing to consider is that this book isn't nearly as funny as Molly's earlier books.  However, its analysis is correspondingly more focused.  Whether that's a positive or a negative is up to the reader.  The other factor is price.  At full retail, this book is too thin to be worth the money.  Happily, amazon's selling it for about 2/3 of that--a fair price, in my view.	2000-02-17
US	52214553	R27CS8RI9NRJRU	0201567776	385507895	Green Cathedrals: The Ultimate Celebration of All 271 Major League and Negro League Ballparks Past and Present	Books	5	4	4	N	N	comprehensive, nostalgic, delightful	It boggles my mind that the author actually did all that research to find out the dimensions, important events, descriptions, and in many cases photos of every major league ballpark ever to host a game.  The result is a  feeling like I imagine it would be to see a game at Fenway Park:  a visit  to a temple of baseball.  The title could not be more perfectly  chosen.<br />Lowry has also promoted a bit of healing.  Having recognized what  any aficionado of baseball history knows--that the Negro Leagues of old  were surely major leagues on a par with the AL and NL, except in  recordkeeping--he spurs interest in a too-often forgotten part of  baseball's past.<br />This book is absolutely essential to the library of any  true lover of baseball history.	2000-02-16
US	52214553	RRXFKEU4WAW1C	0345430220	526175623	Second Contact (Colonization, Book 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	good adventure, some interesting twists	In general I would recommend beginning with the first in this series, called _Worldwar: In The Balance_.  While this book does move the timeframe forward a generation, it is substantially a continuation of the _Worldwar_  series.<br />What Turtledove does really well here is to surprise the reader  with some interesting events (which I won't spoil).  The criticism that his  Lizards's military technology is so coincidentally similar to 2000-era US  military tech is a valid one, and I'd like to see Turtledove account for it  at some point.<br />Not as strong as the earlier books in the series, but  still quite good.	2000-02-16
US	52214553	R3GS9CH4IMNULK	0907871216	435954727	Nunaga: Ten Years Among the Eskimos (History and Politics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	many interesting revelations, generally candid	First of all, don't let the availability of this book daunt you.  There are plenty of copies out there to be found by search.<br />Pryde was a Hudson's Bay fur trader among the Inuit (Eskimos) of the Northwest  Territories.  He lived pretty much as they lived, did pretty much as they  did, and assembled a lot of cultural, linguistic and handcraft lore about  them.  Also, worthy of note, he made friends in the process.  He passed  away in 1997, and the new territory of Nunavut posted a eulogy for him.  This speaks strongly for the authenticity of his account; if he had not  been truthful, the Inuit would hardly consider him a friend.<br />Pryde is  very frank about the basic details of life, from his sexual exploits with  Inuit women to common myths about the Arctic which he takes pleasure in  refuting.  However, for an interesting account of what Pryde neglects to  tell you about his actions in the timeframe of _Nunaga_, check out the  excellent _Going to Extremes_ by James McGinniss, who ran into Pryde in  Barrow, Alaska.	2000-02-15
US	52214553	R267KPCCQPL9CB	0887308554	454560507	Accidental Empires: How the Boys of Silicon Valley Make Their Millions, Battle Foreign Competition, and Still Can't Get a Date	Books	5	7	8	N	N	hilarious, biting, an easy read	If you aren't in the IS profession, Robert X. Cringely is/was a pseudonym for the best gossip columnist in the industry.  He's been in it so long he's familiar with most of the burial places.<br />Cringely paints a picture  of an industry dominated by people who were driven more by ego than by  materialism:  they had something to prove.  In most cases it is hard to  fault his analysis.  His statements and conclusions about industry personae  and events square with everything I've been able to verify.<br />Cringely is  excellent at explaining technical concepts to a non-technical audience  using analogies, which are often riotously funny as well as helpful.  This  and the generally bouncy pace of the book will enable it to appeal to you  even if you don't consider yourself a techie.	2000-02-07
US	52214553	R19KG3PTU9C439	0345430220	526175623	Second Contact (Colonization, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	not a masterpiece, but still good work	_Second Contact_ marks the continuation of (and a time shift from) the _Balance_ series of novels about a hypothetical alien invasion in 1943.<br />Turtledove always shows linguistic cleverness, perhaps a little too  much so--his non-Anglophone characters' speech usually betrays their native  tongues with subtle clues.  (I love the concept.  Only problem is that the  sort of errors his characters are making are errors people in the real  world don't make.)  He has built on the fine character development work he  has already done--in other words, if you haven't read the earlier books,  best go do so before buying this one.  (Search on '_the Balance_'.)<br />The  interesting twists we have come to anticipate from Turtledove are present.  Who might have been Fuehrer in the early 1960s? Premier of the USSR? How  would human youth react as the first generation was born under alien  occupation? I will spoil none of the above for you--they're too  intriguing.<br />An ongoing and valid criticism of Turtledove's aliens is that  their military technology seems to have frozen at roughly USA 1999 levels,  which to put it mildly would seem to be one heck of a coincidence.  He has  never explained why this is the case, which costs him a point or two for  imagination--an area where Turtledove normally doesn't get marked down.<br />I  can agree that the ending doesn't make the book stand alone all that well,  but I don't think that ruins the book by a long shot.  Recommended.	2000-02-05
US	52214553	R27BAXAWUARC08	0451170768	967197808	Slugging It Out in Japan: An American Major Leaguer in the Tokyo Outfield	Books	5	6	8	N	N	insightful, candid, and fair to Japan and the US both	Cromartie played long enough in Japan to actually develop moments of affection for the experience, a statement not normally made of foreign players.  His description of the normalcy of race prejudice there will stun  people from countries where such prejudice is not considered acceptable.  He tells a lot about Japanese life as well as Japanese baseball from the  perspective of a man who earned the respect of his Japanese teammates as a  leader.  I find his commentary very revealing and strongly recommend this  book.	2000-02-02
US	52214553	R2OSR0PSKEE0BJ	0875420907	913768329	Ancient Ways: Reclaiming Pagan Traditions	Books	3	29	29	N	N	disorganized but a delight for the handcraft-oriented	If you are pagan and you enjoy things like cooking and making things at holidays, this collection of craft ideas will probably appeal to you a great deal.  This book contains a wealth of such ideas, more or less strung  together at random.  (It's supposedly organized by Sabbat, but I'd take  that with a grain of salt.)<br />If you are looking for valuable history or  theology, look elsewhere.  Just as one might buy Buckland's blue book for  the reference materials or Starhawk for the beautiful incantations and  ritual poetry, one would buy this one for the creativity it inspires.	2000-02-02
US	52214553	R3IW81WYBRHWJS	0887306292	470896892	Hard Drive: Bill Gates and the Making of the Microsoft Empire	Books	4	16	17	N	N	good research, good insights	The authors have done a pretty good job at guessing what the future might hold, as we look back from several years after its publication.  (As some gifted souls have so insightfully noted, the computer industry does  actually change fairly rapidly, thus a book from the early-mid 1990s might  be sort of dated in 2000.)  What is impressive is how well it's held up  over the years.<br />The analysis of Gates' psychology, the corporate culture  of Microsoft and its evolution, and the various spasms of its early years  are all right on the money, and particularly interesting in light of the  current DOJ proceedings.  The material about Ballmer will be of interest to  anyone keeping current with his rise in management at the company.  It also  paints an irresistable picture of the IBM that once was certain it could  tell us all how we would use computers.<br />Strongly recommended.	2000-01-30
US	52214553	R20MZVAIH3NH2H	0886774497	772478733	Kesrith (The Faded Sun, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	truly showcases Cherryh's talents in alien portrayal	Those who know Cherryh generally consider aliens to be her greatest strength.  Cherryh's aliens are *really* alien, with alien concepts that humans often won't comprehend.  Therefore, while the story unfolds, you  also see the unveiling and description of a culture with a completely  different set of assumptions than you're used to.<br />The _Faded Sun_ series  is strongly recommended as space opera, as a study in human/alien and  alien/alien interaction, and as the painful story of single human warrior's  journey from one mindset to another.  Definitely get all three books  (search on 'Faded Sun').	2000-01-23
US	52214553	R1ZSB91ZN2BLLC	0761525904	833635685	Half-Life Opposing Force: Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	3	5	7	N	N	not as good as the Half-Life one, but ok	As stated in my review of the guide for the basic Half-Life game, most guides are lousy.  Expectations need to be measured against this unauspicious standard.<br />In comparison to the one for HL, this guide isn't  quite as easy to use due to the paragraph-style walkthrough.  The numbered  lists and formatting in the HL guide were very helpful; this one has more  pictures and does have meaningful maps, but isn't as easy to follow when  you're playing through a tough spot.  The quality of the information is ok,  once you understand that long areas of nothing significant aren't even  mentioned in the guide.  (I don't fault this, but it threw me a time or two  early on until I realized it.)<br />The Marine DI tone of the book gets a  little wearing, but is in keeping with the computer game; first game I've  ever played where the actual menu choices call you names.:)  Other than  that, it's fairly readable but not as usable due to the lack of formatting  effort.<br />Probably worth the money if you're having serious trouble with  the game.	2000-01-23
US	52214553	R2QCEQH7645ODU	0886773210	905533318	Gate of Ivrel (Morgaine Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	beginning of one of the finest SF series I've seen	_Gate_ is a great beginning to the Morgaine novels.  Morgaine is an excellent heroine, breaking a lot of the lame stereotypes that lesser writers have fallen back on when it was too much effort to create a strong,  unique female protagonist.  If you appreciate a heroine who is all business  and only fleetingly vulnerable, Morgaine is the genuine article.  Vanye  makes the perfect foil to her:  fallible, afraid, loyal, and very  human.<br />To give just one example of Cherryh's descriptive talents without  spoiling the book, if you close your eyes and visualize when Morgaine draws  her primary weapon, a shiver will probably go down your back.  Rare indeed  is the author who can scare you without resorting to grossness.<br />You could  save time by ordering _Well of Shiuan_, _Fires of Azeroth_, and _Exile's  Gate_ at the same time you order this one.  If you order this one you are  going to want the other three anyway.	2000-01-23
US	52214553	R3TO3CYSYRK2CL	0671578332	640213224	Echoes of Honor (Honor Harrington Series, Book 8)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	another example of Weber's fine work with the series	In _Echoes_ Weber gives us shades of the time Hornblower sailed the recaptured HMS Witch of Endor into a foggy British port by way of escape from the French.  While the nicking of the idea is a little obvious, it  doesn't detract from the story.<br />There's a lot of tension here, and a lot  to tug at the sentiments of any Honor Harrington fan:  treecat messed up,  Honor messed up, no medical care available, eagerness to get off horrible  prison planet.  We do find that Honor continues to get more and more human  as the series goes on:  more able to be herself and less having to maintain  an impenetrable facade; this is a nice touch.  It's a lot of fun just  watching the People's Navy get repeatedly humiliated, too.  Say this for  Weber:  it's easy to hate his villains.<br />Fine reading.	2000-01-14
US	52214553	RBLVH4EZ1WMJZ	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	fine start to a series with a lot of appeal	Hamilton got the Anita Blake series off on the right foot with this one.  The high points are:  a) Anita herself, a plucky character and warrior; b) Hamilton's descriptive talents, which tell you a lot about a given  character in subtle ways; and c) the way she creates an air of danger.  From danger comes a great deal of excitement and anticipation, and it's  hard to predict how the book will turn out.  Recommended even if you  normally don't care for vampire/horror books.	2000-01-14
US	52214553	R2YFVJ37B1QJ29	0688170684	453078745	Dirty Little Secrets of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	20	22	N	N	great book but misleadingly titled	In many ways this is excellent history.  Dunnigan writes quite readably; his analysis is succinct and includes the right amount of information; a great deal of ground is covered.  While Dunnigan has mostly written about  military history matters in the past, he proves here that he is a versatile  historian well able to handle sociological and economic matters.  I find  most of his statements well defended.<br />The only problem seems merely  semantic, but it will affect most potential buyers:  the title 'Dirty  Little Secrets' leads one to believe that there will be a lot of classified  data, stuff people were keeping hidden on purpose, and other Great  Revelations.  The majority of the book does not contain that.  What it  contains is discussion of various social and economic events and how they  shaped history throughout the century.  There are few 'secrets', and few of  those are really 'dirty'.  In my opinion that's only worth a one-star  markdown on what is otherwise quite a good history book.	2000-01-11
US	52214553	R2OW10R4UERYI3	0517591979	129457482	Big Blues: The Unmaking of IBM	Books	5	7	8	N	N	if you're in the computer industry, don't pass it up	This is a penetrating and often amusing look at the rise and fall of IBM.  It's dated, much like any book about computers that was published about seven years ago is obviously expected to be.<br />If IBM is doing better now,  this book might have had something to do with it.  Things like corporate  hymnals, the ponderous decisionmaking process, and the reasons for the  failure of IBM's PS/2 line are all exposed in humiliating detail.  As a  former retail sales rep for an IBM dealer from 1988-1990, I can tell you  that in that time frame the IBM I saw looked a lot like Carroll's portrayal  (and completely turned me off about them).  This book is worth a search.	2000-01-10
US	52214553	R1RABISHI8O9PX	0761513604	661819822	Half-Life : Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	4	16	18	N	N	very good as hintbooks go, but overpriced	It must be remembered that the average deserved rating of a computer hintbook these days is about negative 2; worse than useless.  This guide must be considered against that rather forgiving set of expectations.<br />The  quality of the enemy and equipment briefing is very high, as is the  walkthrough.  My only quarrel with the walkthrough is the difficulty of  visualization with regard to the maps.  For US$20, you'd think it wouldn't  be too hard to draw a couple of stupid arrows.<br />Another black mark is that  this is one of the *most* obvious examples of PC game manual blackmail.  &quot;We'll just put in a thin, lame manual with the game, then sign up for  Prima to do the manual we should have included, and we'll take a percentage  of all the royalties.  That's easier than selling the game for what it  costs us to produce a respectable manual.&quot;  We all know it's how  things are, but we don't have to like it.  Of the above, only the US$20  expense involved in the hintbook is factored into the final  rating.<br />Recommended for the value of its information, but a lot of what's  here should have been in the manual and is not.	2000-01-09
US	52214553	R1NXV6WZH7298W	0679749292	107353519	Pecked to Death by Ducks	Books	5	9	9	N	N	up to Cahill's usual high standards	Really, it makes one wonder where Tim finds time and equipment to do all this stuff.  However, he certainly does it, and _Pecked_ does not disappoint.  Always willing to embarrass himself and always seeing whatever  humour can be found in a situation, he's effective when he's serious as  well.  The part on the British fellows and their stunts around the world  nearly caused me abdominal injury due to laughter.<br />I only have one  criticism to level at Tim:  he has not written enough books, nor have they  been long enough.  Hopefully he will remedy that by being more prolific.	2000-01-08
US	52214553	R4UDZUSPMPDUI	0070434239	364487960	Japan: Its History and Culture	Books	4	31	33	N	N	does pretty much what it sets out to do	Morton has made an effort to impart understanding of Japanese heritage and culture.  For the most part, he succeeds; the historical survey has about the right amount of depth for this type of book, and cultural issues are  discussed.<br />What would have made it better would have been a section on  specifically Japanese concepts that are hard for non-Japanese to grasp  accurately.  Many are touched on throughout the book, but words such as  'wa' and 'giri' really deserve a page or two each to go into full  descriptiveness, and that doesn't happen.  It is clear that Morton has the  understanding of them to share; I wish he'd done so.	2000-01-04
US	52214553	R2ZOZF4XBPI7EF	034531767X	85939685	Japanese Destroyer Captain	Books	4	5	5	N	N	fine, eye-opening account that took courage	Captain Tameichi Hara of the Imperial Japanese Navy was one of its more inventive and capable leaders.  His book tells the story of WWII as he understood it.<br />Its strengths are many.  Hara is an interesting character,  thoroughly Japanese yet very frank by Japanese standards.  It is not just  his own little story, or a dry account of naval warfare; it discusses  morale, naval skills, command competence or lack thereof, interservice  cooperation, and economic effects and issues.  It is really broader than  the title suggests and this is to Capt. Hara's credit.  He does not  hesitate to give credit to effective warfare whether by Japanese or Allied  forces, which suggests that we can take most of what he says at face  value.<br />It was not rated with five stars primarily for two reasons:  1)  his statement that the Rape of Nanking was greatly exaggerated needed to be  defended or not stated, and 2) I can't say that the book is a lively read.  It's not a bore by any means, but it is only exciting in parts.  This may  be a cultural factor owing to its translation, but the English translation  is the only version I can read.  It is strongly recommended in any case,  and worth a book search.	1999-12-31
US	52214553	R2H0H2DFIOUJXM	0440164842	495342112	Noble House (Asian Saga)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	high suspense level, up there with _Sho-gun_	This book makes a leap of one century from Clavell's _Gai-jin_, and presents an interesting look at the culture and economy of Hong Kong.  I cannot say how accurate it is except in one respect:  passion for gambling.  Having worked for years with natives of Hong Kong I believe Clavell has  captured this aspect well.<br />What Clavell does best with _Noble House_ is  to maintain a high suspense level.  Every character in the book could die;  one must wait a long time to find out how it's going to turn out.  Most of  the characters are interesting enough.  Just the shenanigans involved with  the Hong Kong economy would make this a worthwhile read.	1999-12-27
US	52214553	RBWDHRRDSIYS9	0515124060	227855713	The Investigators (Badge of Honor No. 7)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	decent story, but not as good as some of the others	Griffin's books always have a good deal of excitement, and so does _The Investigators_.  However, this one begins to strain credibility in some ways.  Just when we think Matt Payne (supposedly a very, very intelligent  man) can't possibly do anything dumber, he does just that.  Is the  Philadelphia Police Department really so paternalistic that such an officer  would remain on the force despite seven bookfuls of bungling? I sure hope  not.<br />The strength of the book, and the series, is some of the characters.  The toady Czernich (or however Griffin has elected to spell his name this  book; he never spells it the same way twice), the protective Lowenstein,  the genteel Savarese, and the fiery Carlucci are always entertaining.  Peter Wohl strains credibility a little but is an interesting  fellow.<br />Recommended but could have been better.	1999-12-22
US	52214553	R37JEHAX9SAECJ	044021680X	718061775	Gai-Jin (Asian Saga)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	not his best, but by no means a bad book	_Gai-Jin_ is unlike the rest of Clavell's Asian Saga, and in my opinion is not as good as some of the others.  However, Clavell is good enough that even his second-rank efforts make good reading.<br />What did Clavell do  right? He's pretty good at not telegraphing his endings; one can't be quite  sure how it will all come out.  I am not knowledgeable enough about Asian  cultures to say whether his portrayals are accurate--he gets both praise  and criticism for them depending on the reviewer.  I felt he told an  entertaining story.<br />What I didn't like was some of the stereotyping (a  little is ok, there's a little much here); the choice of time period (a  more interesting subject would have been Tess Struan's elderly years, and  this would have been better spaced between _Tai-Pan_ and _Noble House_);  the avoidance of any action in Hong Kong except as related by characters,  despite the fact that events in Hong Kong bear heavily on the outcome; and  the fact that there are no real compelling characters in this one except  for Tess Struan, who appears only in correspondence.<br />By no means a bad  book, but could have been far better.	1999-12-20
US	52214553	R28T0NK8FPRDQ1	051505643X	859629332	Brotherhood of War 01: The Lieutenants	Books	5	5	6	N	N	great start to a fine series	This book was written back before Griffin developed his general over-reliance on marital infidelity as a theme, and is interesting and dramatic throughout.  Very interesting look at the dirty little war in  Greece, and excellent development of the characters who form the backbone  of the series.  The attitudes of military men and their ladies are very  satisfyingly portrayed.	1999-12-17
US	52214553	R1OB27UP5DVCUB	0375502319	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	4	12	13	N	N	not for the faint of heart, but quite descriptive	Glanders.  Vaccine-resistant smallpox.  Bolivian hemorrhagic fever.  Pneumonic plague.  Pulmonary anthrax.  Tularemia.  This book is a rare chance to evaluate a man who devoted most of his working life to making  them more deadly.<br />I read this book with morbid fascination, I must admit;  it suggests to me that bioweapon research is much further along than I'd  realized.  On the downside, I'm not sure how much of what Alibek says can  be verified, particularly the details of the biological attack by the USSR  during WWII, but I suspect he's mostly telling the truth.<br />Recommended  with mild reservations as to accuracy and as to the self-portrayal of the  author.  While he's honest enough to admit to having personally done a  great deal to make these abominable weapons still more abominable, I am not  so sure he switched sides for the most altruistic of reasons.	1999-12-11
US	52214553	RJSAC15EZESSE	0515126985	539743686	In Danger's Path (The Corps, Book 8)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	always a good yarn, and has improved weak areas	This book continues the very popular _The Corps_ series, which may well be Griffin's best overall effort in novels about the profession of arms.  Exciting yarn, excellent description of the military (in this, case,  Naval/USMC) dialogue and character, good mix of people to like and not to  like, plenty of amusing stuff.  Everything, in short, that we have come to  expect from Griffin.  The reason he merits the top rating is that the above  are so consistently excellent that they always overshadow the usual  flaws.<br />Griffin's historical weaknesses are name consistency,  proofreading, and repetition of pet plot themes.  He has improved in most  of these areas but only marginally.  I mean, for goddess' sake, he's  misspelled Vinegar Joe Stilwell's last name.  However, the main  predictability is still with us:  males behaving erratically, copulating  with multiple females at same time, getting in *big* trouble.  I do wonder  if Griffin's capable of writing a book in which infidelity doesn't play a  starring role.  Nonetheless, I recommend _In Danger's Path_  enthusiastically.	1999-12-08
US	52214553	R3OM22145NVBYO	0345388526	512051457	In the Balance: An Alternate History of the Second World War (Worldwar, Volume 1)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	interesting, if a little bizarre	Turtledove's usually good for thought-provoking alternate history.  In this book, we get to see the human race through the eyes of aliens.<br />While he's no C.J. Cherryh (in my view, the ranking master of alien creation in  SF), the author comes up with a pretty interesting race.  He gets around  the globe a bit, providing us a less Americocentric look at how the various  WWII combatants might have dealt with an alien invasion right around the  time of Stalingrad.  Logistical issues are covered sensibly for both sides.  I tend to think he gets too many subplots going, but this isn't as much of  a difficulty here as I found it to be in his WWI books.  He maintains a  good level of suspense and is rarely predictable.<br />Not a must-read, but  worth the time and money.	1999-12-05
US	52214553	RN61YRZPC80NB	0375701117	913703407	Pass the Butterworms: Remote Journeys Oddly Rendered	Books	5	14	17	N	N	another Cahill success	How could anyone not like a chapter referring to Yogurt Riders? Tim Cahill's style is frank, entertaining and informal.<br />As with most of his other books, Tim has gone out and done a lot of interesting traveling.  He's always willing to write about embarrassing himself if need be, and I  doubt he embellishes much if at all.  _Butterworms_ is a collection of  stories of these sorts of travels, and is well worth your time and  money.<br />A special note:  Cahill books make superb gifts in my  experience--anyone interested in new things and places tends to like them.	1999-12-04
US	52214553	R2D9PNYNOQEBY1	0553261673	982668011	Temporary Insanity	Books	5	6	6	N	N	great baseball book by a funny, interesting man	Jay Johnstone memorializes his long and mirthful career for us in this and others of his books.  He is a library of humourous stories about baseball, and it would be a cold soul indeed who got through this book without  busting a gut laughing.<br />What makes it especially interesting is that he's  by no means a dumb jock/buffoon--he just played one.  Also visible is a  hardworking, dedicated athlete who wanted very badly to win, and who cares  about others--particularly his wife and daughter.  When you finish this  book you will probably wish you could meet him and just hang out with  him.<br />This one is worth asking amazon.com to run a search for if you like  baseball or laughter.	1999-12-03
US	52214553	R35BG52C02EPPI	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	9	9	N	N	one of the real WWII classics	This massive tome is still a solid treatment of WWII and the events leading up to it.  While its history isn't perfect, it is Nazi Germany as the author saw it--he remained there until late 1940, which took special  courage.  Shirer did not know all that we know now, but a lot of what he  says has held up.<br />It would be a much more wearying book were it not for  Shirer's unique and pungent commentary on Nazi figures he found lacking in  merit, particularly Ribbentrop.  (How can anyone resist a characterization  like 'insufferable ignoramus'?)  He delves into some of the more  interesting rogues in the Nazi gallery, such as Alfred Naujocks, giving  information not commonly known.  Strongly recommended, with the caveat that  one should also read other books to get a more complete historical  perspective.	1999-12-03
US	52214553	R25BKRJ2TG554O	0395636264	80989159	River-Horse:  A Voyage Across America	Books	5	14	16	N	N	another major success; classic Heatmoon	_River Horse_ is a treatment of a journey across the USA.  By boat.  With minimal portage.  Got to be pretty determined to pull such a thing  off.<br />To our good fortune, Heatmoon is a determined man.  In this book he  does the thing that no other does as well:  creative descriptiveness.  That  expression sounds as though I'm suggesting he makes stuff up; on the  contrary, I tend to believe just about every word he says.  What it means  is that he uses the cleverest ways I've ever seen to paint the picture.  Heatmoon is excellent with the language, but does not limit himself to it.  Most books include too many photos; the way Heatmoon writes, fewer is  better, because he tends to reduce the need for them.  He'll draw diagrams,  use metaphors, just about anything you weren't expecting.<br />He can also be  counted upon for a creative and interesting structure to his work, and he  does so here, breaking the journey up into perhaps twelve sections of  travel, each with a photograph.  The interplay between characters is  interesting and amusing, and thus his book includes not just the rivers but  the river people.<br />Nothing Heatmoon does is designed for those with  minimal attention spans, and _River Horse_ is no exception.  However,  everything he does is designed for anyone who wants a view of the subject  that is at once wide-angle and high-magnification.  Highly recommended.	1999-10-30
US	52214553	R34G1EF35FSYVX	0449150461	336296904	Manhunt: USA vs. Militia: #2	Books	3	3	3	N	N	decent story, but tends to showcase Slater's weaknesses	The topic is a (very) hypothetical ongoing conflict between militia groups and the US military in the near future.  Slater tells a moderately exciting story but, in so doing, takes some shortcuts.<br />In every Slater book there  is some factor which is harped on again and again by most of the  characters.  This time it is 'El Nino' and CNN.  Every weather phenomenon  is blamed on 'El Nino'; CNN becomes the bogey representing the world's news  media.  This gets repetitive.<br />He has gotten a little better with American  slang, but he still has Americans calling one another 'cheeky'.  In fact,  most Americans wouldn't even understand that expression.<br />What is really  lacking in the USA vs. Militia series is any sort of coherent alternate  history line, and the overall plots of his books don't vary much:  Trouble  starts.  The modern Patton, a General Freeman (a very politically incorrect  officer constantly on the outs with his superiors), is called in to save  the day.  His personal A-team, a mixed bag of international commandoes, are  called on to make this or that happen.  At least in this book, the group  manages to get somewhat outfought, which is refreshing.<br />What Slater  needs to do to get better is to develop a semi-credible scenario for his  subject, but to do that he'd have to develop an understanding of Americans,  and he doesn't show many signs of that.  He's great on geography--obviously  travels to the regions he's going to write about, and represents climates  and terrain well.  He'd do better if he devoted part of that time to  encountering some of the people in those regions.	1999-08-27
US	52214553	R25MCAABJJU9DI	0871133407	473833281	Mouthful of Rocks: Modern Adventures in the French Foreign Legion (Traveler)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	self-honest enough to lend credibility	Jennings portrays a simple picture.  A screwup in British life and in the Territorial Army, he joins the French Foreign Legion.  He screws up there too, surprising no one.<br />What I like about Jennings is that his  self-portrayal is too unflattering to be false; no one would make up such a  story about himself.  He has been criticized as a failure but he not only  does not deny it, he cites the evidence to prove it.  In so doing, he  paints a picture of the Legion which may or may not be accurate; I'm no  authority.  But it is an interesting read for anyone who wants a different  view of the Legion.	1999-05-26
US	52214553	RYR9COZC8LE1H	0803287321	355136192	Maybe I'll Pitch Forever	Books	4	24	24	N	N	a well-done tribute to one of the best	Any baseball buff worth his or her salt has heard of Satchel Paige.  This book is a reprint of a book first published in 1962, so all the language is quite dated.  Enjoyment of it requires a willingness to understand that  'coloured' and 'Negro' were once acceptable terms for black people without  getting bent out of shape.<br />The co-author to whom the book was told by Mr.  Paige did a good job, it seems, in standardizing Mr. Paige's English  without losing his unique and very entertaining mode of expression.  It is  fairly entertaining and Mr. Paige displays a good deal of self-honesty  concerning his strengths and weaknesses.  There is a lot about how he felt  at any given time in his career that gives real insight into himself and  his peers.<br />The reasons you want to read this book are twofold.  One,  there's a lot of good baseball lore being told here.  Two, and more  importantly, this man gave his life to the game, showing courage and  determination any American can be proud of.  With all Mr. Paige missed out  on due to the social structure of his time, to listen respectfully to his  words now is one way to pay tribute to him.	1999-05-18
US	52214553	R1KH9LN4RAY64W	0919345921	990645737	A Witches' Bible: The Complete Witches' Handbook	Books	3	12	15	N	N	informative, albeit dated and organizationally lazy	First off, this is *not* a Bible.  Picking that title was misleading.<br />It is, however, a useful collection of rituals and social discussion, with appendices, glossary and notes.  All this, however, could have been much  better; it's really two books bound together.  Therefore, you have two  indexes, two sets of page numbering, and so forth.  Why in the name of  Hades a little effort wasn't put into the integration of the two books  mystifies me; it has a sense of having been republished as a single volume  mainly because no one would have to do any real work.<br />The only other  serious flaw is that they take _The White Goddess_ as some form of gospel.  Looks pretty silly when Robert Graves, the author of _TWG_, has apologized  for many of the blithe assertions therein.<br />Useful if read critically, and  less annoying than most books on Wicca.  Too bad a little more effort  wasn't put into some editorial basics.	1999-04-24
US	52214553	R1H49VLLRXADC	0886774276	892129249	Starstrike (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	contrived, stereotypical, weakly researched	On the bright side, Gear develops some fairly interesting characters in spite of the failings, and keeps a high suspense level.  He did make a real effort to create aliens who thought in an alien way.<br />However, his humans  are hopelessly stereotypical.  Just as every Chinese person a Caucasian  meets does not say 'ancient Chinese secret' every time s/he comes up with a  bit of wisdom, neither do Israelis make constant Holocaust/Lebanon  references, nor did Russians (late Cold War) make constant statements about  political matters, and nor do black Americans always make reference to the  mean streets of Detroit (or wherever).  If the characters had been allowed  to be themselves, rather than their nationalities, they'd have been more  interesting.<br />While on the topic of nationality, Gear had best do some  more research on language.  'Yeled' means 'child' in Hebrew, and is not a  likely name for a male.  One Russian character's last name is done wrong  for her gender.  On top of all this, it is too obvious that he got a lot of  his information on the Soviet Army from Victor Suvorov's (real name  Vladimir Rezun, a Soviet defector) books.  You'd think he would have at  least camouflaged the references, but authors who take the easy way always  get caught, and Gear is busted with the goods here.<br />If one can get past  all of the above, it's not a bad book.	1999-01-19
US	52214553	RSRSQFTVECWOU	0491004400	980933212	The Klansman	Books	5	11	13	N	N	pretty accurate for its time	Huie, now deceased, writes a very exciting novel about a Klan-ridden Alabama community during the timeframe of the civil rights movement.  I haven't ever been to Alabama, so I can't honestly say whether or not it was  at all reflective of small-town situations in that state during the late  1960s.  However, the picture it paints is not terribly dissimilar from  those I've seen in non-fiction writing about the period.<br />The language is  harsh and the scenes are described with shocking vividness; this book isn't  for the faint of heart and contains a lot more sorrrow than joy.  Such were  the times.  However, it does present a wide cross-section of interesting  characters, and avoids painting a picture of complete good vs. complete  evil--just about all the characters display faults and redeeming qualities,  rather than a cast of nothing but saintly, unselfish civil rights workers  or hog-nosed adder-mean racists.  It doesn't take deep reading of this book  to see how racial prejudice is often manipulated as a power tool.<br />If you  can find a copy, and you're interested in the topic, don't let it get away.	1999-01-01
US	52214553	R1U8V7FRC6NDRK	0877424209	573574791	Walking the Yukon: A Solo Trek Through the Land of Beyond	Books	4	9	9	N	N	nicely done, could have been more detailed	The closest I ever came to doing anything like what Townsend has done was  getting off the Alcan in the Yukon to make a pit stop.  I sank up to my  ankles in muskeg.  Half a mile down the road, we passed a sow black bear  and two cubs.<br />Now imagine a thousand miles of that, on foot.<br />I find  Townsend's account believeable, entertaining, and fairly descriptive.  He  certainly doesn't spare his own embarrassment and he is willing to go into  his personal feelings about what he sees.  His encounters with Yukoners  sound similar to mine:  generally quiet and polite, depending a lot on how  they are approached, but capable of revealing a great deal about their  territory if they believe the listener is interested for the right  reasons.<br />This book could have been longer without becoming dry.  It is an  account of 82 days of travel on foot.  Surely a lot more must have happened  than what he describes.  In particular, some more detail about the terrain,  flora and fauna would be welcome, as would better maps; the ones in the  book are not too good.  Still heartily recommended for the adventure travel  book enthusiast.	1998-10-24
US	52214553	R147NWZCQCTBPV	0062508148	128410882	The Spiral Dance: A Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great Goddess	Books	2	22	27	N	N	good in ways, irresponsible in others	_Spiral Dance_ would be a fine introductory book for people interested in  Wiccan and neo-paganism if Starhawk had the discipline to confine herself  to the topic.  Unfortunately, this eminently public pagan author considers  it acceptable to use this opportunity to preach her particular version of  ecofeminism.  The implication for the person new to paganism is clear:  &quot;These are the orthodox social, political and ecological attitudes of  the modern neo-pagan, and if you want to be a pagan and they aren't your  attitudes, you'd better acquire them.&quot;<br />This is as much a  socio-political book as an introductory treatise, and I'm disappointed at  the disguise.  She has written other books which are unabashedly political  and with these I have no quarrel.  I happen to share a fair number of  Starhawk's views, but I believe that one can be a responsible pagan and  disagree with Starhawk's personal take on society.	1998-10-16
US	52214553	R3DQEXEQWMG9B9	0385313489	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory, 1874-1932	Books	5	0	0	N	N	writing almost on a par with Churchill's own, in its own way	Manchester's work is what is properly called an achievement.  This is to  Churchill what Shirer's works are to World War II in general.<br />Mr.  Manchester had the good taste not to attempt to ape Churchill's unique  style, but in doing it his own way, achieved a height of his own:  readable, fascinating, and astonishingly detailed.  One is convinced he was  Churchill's lifelong right-hand man as one absorbs the detail and clarity  of his observations.  How any serious student of modern European history  could spurn this work is beyond me.<br />Now if only the third volume would  come forth, and perhaps even a fourth.  All who appreciate excellence in  authorship should wish Mr. Manchester long life and much motivation to  practice his craft.	1998-09-20
US	52214553	R2VIK7EXW3KELU	0449150453	721569053	Battle Front: USA vs. Militia: #3	Books	3	4	4	N	N	good adventure, flawed area knowledge and research	Slater churns out about one good adventure story per year, and _Battle  Front_ qualifies.  He doesn't know us (Americans, Westerners,  Washingtonians) as well as he thinks he does, but he writes an entertaining  yarn.<br />He also has some rather appropriate ongoing mild revenge against us  in the area of vocabulary and slang.  As American authors have been  butchering Canadian and Australian argot in novels for quite some time, we  should not complain when Slater has rural Americans using British Columbia  slang such as 'Holy!' and referring to one another, Aussie style, as  'cheeky bastards'.  I reside in the eastern part of Washington and we don't  sound like that, plain and simple.  _Battle Front_ is not particularly well  researched, but it is useful in that it shows us ourselves imagined through  Canadian eyes not far across the border:  stereotypically ignorant, bigoted  and blindly fundamentalist.  (He is right that we have such; he is wrong  that they are in the majority, and he is also wrong that pro-militia  sentiment is dominated by them.  The reality is that to get together the  militias in such numbers as Slater postulates, they could not help being  leavened by a good number of intelligent, reasonable people who know better  than to blame Jews or Japanese or whomever for the bungling of the Federal  government.)<br />His understanding and concept of the National Guard in the  US is also flawed.  _Battle Front_ perpetuates the Slater tradition of  portraying our Guardsmen as clueless, timid dorks unwilling to take any  real risks and insubordinate to their officers.  While it is true that  discipline and military bearing are more relaxed in the Guard, they are not  a bunch of cowards and fools.  Just because a Guardsman said &quot;F***  you, Lieutenant, I only do this on weekends!&quot; in the movie _First  Blood_ does not mean that one could expect that from Guardsmen as regular  behavior.  The Guard has performed well virtually every time it has been  called upon, come peace or war.  In researching his next book Slater should  spend some time on maneuvers with them and form an educated picture.<br />I  recommend _Battle Front_ not only as an action-packed adventure story, but  particularly to my fellow Washingtonians and Americans as a glimpse of a  new truth:  as genuinely unaware as typical Americans are of Canada and  indeed most other countries, people in those countries know us no better  than we know them.  Perhaps a bit more research is in order, eh?called upon, come peace or war.  In researching his next book Slater should  spend some time on maneuvers with them and form an educated picture.<br />I  recommend _Battle Front_ not only as an action-packed adventure story, but  particularly to my fellow Washingtonians and Americans as a glimpse of a  new truth:  as genuinely unaware as typical Americans are of Canada and  indeed most other countries, people in those countries know us no better  than we know them.  Perhaps a bit more research is in order, eh?	1998-08-23
US	52214553	RDY2OA64PUR	0671675400	768145139	Veeck: As in Wreck : The Autobiography of Bill Veeck (Fireside Sports Classics)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	he believed baseball should be fun--novel concept!	The book takes you through the career of Bill Veeck, owner and operator of many baseball teams over a fifty-year period.  If you truly love baseball, you want to read it.<br />Why? Easy enough--Bill loved baseball, so much so that he never sat in fancy box seats at games but preferred to join the fans in the bleachers.  He is hilarious, as in sidesplitting; he has many stories to tell about the funnier incidents he's been involved in.  And when you run a team Veeck style, you have a lot of funny incidents.<br />But the book is not just a compilation of Veeck buffoonery; he has strong feelings on many topics and expresses them with clarity and frankness.  There are tributes to magnificent performances and courageous actions throughout the book.  When you finish it, if you love the game, you wish only that you could have been an office staff person or groundskeeper following Bill through his career.  You could never possibly have been bored (or made much money).<br />This book is in the class of _Ball Four_--a defining work that gives real insight into real baseball.  To read it is to delight in the game.<br />As a partner, enough credit is not given Ed Linn.  I don't know how Ed does it, but any book written with him will be entertaining, well written, and will above all preserve the main figure's personal style.  I believe it is Ed's talent that takes the reminisces of sports figures and makes them a good read, and this deserves your appreciation and respect.	1998-07-08
US	52214553	R2KGELBEG0386Q	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	1	2	N	N	about time someone did this	This teacher sat down with a pile of high school US history textbooks and compared them.  He discovered what many of us knew already:  they lied to us, and they are still lying to us.<br />As most people in the US who graduated from high school will recall, the typical US history taught at that level is essentially a 'hurrah for us' cheerleading session.  Loewen debunks this with frequent references to actual high school history texts as his support, and he makes it quite clear that what most students get is a sanitized version.  His admonition to teach about 'ideas' as well as the events that resulted from them is well taken.<br />And for someone who (as one reviewer commented) is supposedly pushing his political agenda, he's very rough on Woodrow Wilson (as well he should be).  I think his agenda is to make history more interesting and relevant to the student.  Maybe if more history teachers were permitted to use texts like this one, we wouldn't always be listening to poll results that reveal that 80% of our high school students have no idea of the correct answer on almost any historical question.	1998-05-08
US	52214553	R9MTJBIY63EFG	0020306652	778679666	Ball Four: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It doesn't get much better than this	This book is still selling almost thirty years after it was originally published.  That ought to tell you something.<br />I first read it in 1975 as a rebellious teenager.  I found, and continue to find, Bouton's independent streak and courage to be admirable.  He refused to play along with the Neanderthals; he mouthed off to bosses; he loved the game and wanted to win and play well.  The type of person who could hold the above against him is the sort that is currently being parodied in _Dilbert_ books.<br />One thing about this book is that it is hilariously funny.  His account of his time with the old Portland Mavericks is as funny as his accounts of bullpen and locker-room humour.  His style is highly readable and never boring.<br />And goddess, how he loves the game of baseball.  And if you do, as well, and haven't read this book, you have a real treat ahead of you.	1998-05-06
US	52214553	R17HGTNAGYQTR8	0671797530	700041310	Joe Dogs The Life & Crimes Of A Mobster	Books	4	3	3	N	N	seems reasonably good	This book covers Joe Iannuzzi's life in organized crime.  I'm no expert on organized crime by any stretch, so I can't speak to the authenticity.  One must always consider the motive of the author when reading such a book.<br />That said, it is unquestionably an active and interesting read; a lot of exciting things happen, and a lot of intimate details are provided.  Iannuzzi certainly doesn't overglorify himself, admitting to various behaviors I personally wouldn't want to be guilty of.  It's as credible as any organized crime book.	1998-05-05
US	52214553	R14EUWMAVKHU4R	0395585686	53525621	Blue Highways:  A Journey Into America	Books	5	3	4	N	N	honest and adventuresome	Heat-Moon has done what many of us have only thought of doing--travel a large portion of the USA by road with no set agenda or time pressure.  He shows a knack for seeking out interesting people who *are* the United States; many colours, many religions, many interests.  Having lived for seven years in one of the towns he passed through and knowing the people he spoke with--and his account of them is quite believable--I'm inclined to believe as well that he represented the rest of the people and places honestly.<br />I send copies of this book to penpals in other countries, as one of the easiest ways to explain my country's character.	1998-05-04
US	52214553	R38LWRQEC6HTCL	0812860551	799795582	Napoleon's Marshals	Books	5	65	67	N	N	captures the spirit of Napoleonic France	Most of the time when you find something this interesting covering an historical period, it turns out to be 'faction' a la Michener.  The fun part about Delderfield is that this is *true*.<br />The foot soldiers and horsemen of Napoleonic France were good, to be sure, but it was their leadership that shaped their character.  Delderfield gives a fair account of them all, in their finest hours and weakest moments, and enables the reader to consider what it might have been like to follow such men to war.<br />None are overglorified and none are overmaligned.  Ney is present with skill, naivete and honour.  Massena's piercing eyes coolly look over advancing grenadiers and heaps of plunder.  Augereau begins as a lion and ends as a mouse.  Lannes fears nothing and no one.  The Emperor is irascible but has that special touch that drew men to his side and held them.  To be French and to read this book would surely evoke national and cultural pride, and it would be small-minded indeed to quarrel that a descendant of France's arch-enemies of the period wrote it.  He did them fine justice.<br />If, to you, war is Napoleon, then you simply must dig up a copy, even if you must charge into grapeshot to get it.	1998-05-04
US	52214553	R2RA7JTG44BT8M	0345329082	578369457	Julian	Books	5	101	106	N	N	good insight and generally accurate history	In keeping with my belief that one should clearly label one's biases, let it be known that I am not only a pagan myself but that Julian Augustus is my personal folk hero.<br />_Julian_ covers the time leading up to, as well as including, the reign of Julian the Apostate.  Several dynamics were present:  his precarious youth as a potential threat to the Roman throne of Constantius, his strong philosophical leanings toward Hellenism, and his personal courage, among others.  Vidal incorporates all of these factors, which shaped Julian's character, to weave a portrait of this emperor.<br />One of the more entertaining aspects of the book is that much of it is a letter exchange between Libanius (Julian's prinicpal contemporary biographer) and Priscus (a philosopher of sorts and adherent of Julian) after Julian's untimely death in Persia.  We thus are treated to humourously scathing margin notes by Libanius, generally expressing disdain for Priscus, who seems to be covering his posterior and his pocketbook.  A lot of the book is Julian's memoirs themselves.  It's an interesting and creative way to write a book, and a tribute to Vidal that it flows smoothly.<br />The book would be incomplete without speculation on the real reason for Julian's death. This part is something to look forward to.  I cannot easily refute the claim that is made when they get to it.<br />If you like the late Roman Empire, are interested in Julian himself, or simply enjoy a good historical novel, _Julian_ is a bargain.	1998-05-04
US	52214553	R16V4NRD1NWB88	039563752X	972359404	PrairyErth (A Deep Map)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	quite authentic--I should know...	Imagine my surprise to find a book by a major author about the county in Kansas where our family ranch is and in which both my parents grew up.<br />Let me tell you this much:  Heat-Moon portrays this land and its people accurately.  The level of detail is sufficiently great that some people with only passing interest or shorter attention spans will find it too much, but by my lights he did what he set out to do.<br />This book is a good way to understand the Midwest and we, its people.  It demonstrates clearly what I've been saying for years:  that those who drive through Kansas only at night on freeways at 80 mph should please keep driving--that way its unique character can be spared for those of us who appreciate it.<br />Furthermore, the author is a pleasant man, whom (by ridiculous coincidence) I happened to encounter at a Greek restaurant in Seattle one day.  He was approachable and gracious.  It was nice to find that his real personality was not different from his self-portrayal in PrairyErth.	1998-05-04
US	52214553	RZ1BL0N5U3SDN	0553276859	489676925	The Sackett Brand (The Sacketts #10)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	for my money, L'Amour's best	This book builds superbly, holding one's interest throughout.  One can easily sympathize with Tell Sackett, being generally hassled for no good reason, and the hard confidence of his kin as they ride to his aid sets up two or three of the best scenes I've ever read in a Western, period.  By the time they get there, you wish that you were yourself a Sackett--of whatever occupation--with the right to stand as one of the family when your relative is being ganged up on.<br />While the Sackett series is generally accepted as one of the best Western series out there, this one stands above the others.  Words are used economically to portray the characters; L'Amour doesn't waste your time.  I've probably read 200 Westerns in my life (not many, I realize), and if I could keep only one, this would be it.	1998-05-04
US	52214553	RY4MD4S0NIQ3Q	0679754881	143863999	Nothin' But Good Times Ahead	Books	5	31	32	N	N	can we clone this woman?	There really isn't a political writer quite like Molly Ivins.  Witty, down-home, and interesting are all good words to describe this book.<br />Molly's great skill is in pointing out what is ridiculous about government, politics and society.  She is a Texan who loves her home state and writes about its oddities with that in mind; no carpetbagger she.  It was the famous Saul Alinsky who said that 'ridicule is the one weapon for which there is no defense nor counter', paraphrased, and Alinsky would be proud of Molly Ivins.<br />Big money types aren't going to like Molly much, as she consistently advocates that they use their money for something more socially beneficial than yachts, and that if they don't, that government take some of it away from them and then do so.<br />The only reason she can't get a '10' is because the book is comprised entirely of reprinted columns.  In other words, everything you're reading was printed somewhere else first.  I would be glad to give her the top rating if the book's contents were original.<br />If you are of the USA, and you love your country, you'll like Molly because she is and does as well.  Nothing pleases her more mightily than a spirited exercise of the right to a voice.  Neither does she pretend to be 'objective', read 'non-aligned'; she has the honesty to label where she comes from, and then let fly.<br />I've never been to Texas, but I think I understand it better after reading Molly's books.  Recommended without reservation.	1998-05-03
US	52214553	RO000C2CHV9JK	0886772923	77563535	The Pride of Chanur (Alliance-Union: Chanur, Book 1)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	as good a treatment of aliens as one can find	The Pride of Chanur is crewed by members of a felinoid race that were latecomers to space travel, interacting with about six other races *not* including humans for the most part.<br /> Cherryh's aliens are *very* alien.  Some are barely comprehensible to others.  Some simply lack concepts that others are heavy with:  for example, the main 'bad guy' race in the book, the Kif, neither comprehends nor harbours racial bigotry (which cannot be said for the felinoid Hani).  What this all means to the reader is a refreshing need to abandon one's human assumptions while getting to know these cultures and races.  Watching them all interact is fascinating.<br />  The book, again typical of Cherryh, does not waste words.  Two are not used where one will do.  Therefore, scan-reading types like myself can miss a great deal by not taking their time, because the book is thicker than it looks.  As such it is a better bargain than its size suggests.  And since there is always a lot going on, this is a strength rather than a drawback.<br />  There is not a lot of emphasis on TSFBS; Cherryh apparently figures that her energy is better spent creating interesting characters, plots and interactions than trying to wow one with the futuristic-sounding devices she can come up with, and I believe she's right.  There is enough, but not too much, and it is never forced.  Emphasis is  on beings rather than gadgets.<br />  The matriarchal (at least in reality rather than in name) Hani are a great alien race to follow.  They are loud, brassy, and gutsy.  Many of them hate other Hani clans much worse than they hate other races, and this is ingrained in their culture.  Absent is the mindless assumption that all members of one race are likely to have common interests.  In the case of three of the races, it's not even easy to figure out what their interests might be.<br />  The entire Chanur series, of which this is the start, ranks with the Morgaine, Cyteen and Faded Sun series as superb reading of the rich type that few authors can give you.  Recommended without reservation to new or experienced SF readers.g of the rich type that few authors can give you.  Recommended without reservation to new or experienced SF readers.	1998-04-30
