US	52216484	R3A4CM2HBN2F8A	0140266909	326584985	Please Kill Me: The Uncensored Oral History of Punk	Books	5	2	3	N	N	History the way it ought to be written	This book never lets up. The format --- a collage of interviews with dozens of people --- keeps you glued to the pages. Every sentence comes from someone with something important to say. These people were there, they know what happened, and they are opinionated. Every key moment in the book is described by more than one person, giving you a kind of Rashomon perspective. It's appropriate that there's a quote from William Burroughs on the cover --- the format has the same feel as his cut-up novels, where a thousand shards of information combine into a single, complex theme. <br /> <br />The subject matter is equally interesting. Although the subtitle refers to \\"punk,\\" the focus of the book is a little bit more narrow. It's about the punk rock music scene in New York from the late 1960s to the late 1970s. Any punk fan will tell you there are at least two more places to cover (Los Angeles and London) but you can't have everything in one book. For details on those two scenes, you'll have to read one of the many other punk rock histories. <br /> <br />All of the details are here, starting with the absurdist anti-glam of the Velvet Underground, all the way through the Ramones. In between, you get the complete history of the MC5, the New York Dolls, Iggy and the Stooges, and a significant dose of the Sex Pistols. (A final chapter continues the saga through the 1980s, but it's an afterthought. If you want that story, read OUR BAND COULD BE YOUR LIFE.) <br /> <br />The underlying theme of the book is drug abuse, which is a surprise. Although the music is covered, no single subject comes up as often as \\"dope.\\" On every page, there's a comment about getting high, cleaning up, searching for money to get high, or overdosing. I'm not complaining --- if that's a big part of the story, that's fine with me. But if you want the music, you should just buy the old punk albums and listen to them. Reading about the music isn't going to work. You have to hear it to understand. <br /> <br />This is an important and endlessly entertaining story, a five-star book if there ever was one. It combines Burroughs with Studs Terkel in the best possible way. If you want to know about punk rock, you have to read this.	2004-10-03
US	52216484	R31LPMZEUMJ6HT	1859842844	676518692	No One Left To Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family	Books	3	26	55	N	N	Hitchens' petty outrage	This is Christopher Hitchens' anti-Clinton book. It is presented, as he says from the start, as a \\"cheerful polemic.\\" And that's just what it is. Hitchens clearly enjoys his contempt for Clinton the man, Clinton the president, and most of the people around him. <br /> <br />But the book is painfully weak. No matter what charges Hitchens levels against Clinton, nothing sticks. There are two reasons for this. (1) The left wing disliked Clinton for being too conservative. Clinton made a lot of promises, but when it was time to act he passed laws like a moderate Republican. (2) The right wing hated Clinton for just about every reason you could dream up. (Only the center of the spectrum --- basically, rich liberals --- genuinely supported the man.) <br /> <br />Somehow, his lack of support uplifted Clinton to a pedestal of sympathy. The attacks from left and right made him into an underdog, a man who spent most of his presidency fighting for his political life. You had to admire the guy, even if you hated nearly everything he did. <br /> <br />Hitchens wades into this swamp of contradictions without a clue. He has the facts, but he doesn't know what to do with them. His retelling of the execution of Rickey Ray Rector, for example, is devastating. But the Rector story is the story of Clinton as a candidate doing anything to get elected --- including using a mentally-retarded man's death to boost his poll numbers. Sure it's ugly, but no one except Hitchens would be surprised. <br /> <br />The rest of the allegations are all over the place: Clinton's bombing of a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan, allegations of rape, firing black friends like Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders, lying under oath, the health care plan, the Lincoln bedroom, the secret half-black love child, getting rid of welfare, and soft money from foreigners. It's a mix of real faults and Drudge-style accusations. <br /> <br />In the end, none of it matters. Simply put, anyone who reads the newspaper can write abook like this about ANY president. Just scoop up the real and the imaginary, the truly despicable moments and the tall tales, and you can write your own cheerful polemic. But if you write that book, you'll make the same mistake Hitchens does. By drawing his arrows from the quivers of the left wing and the right wing, he misses the target --- he makes Clinton look like just another lying, ambitious politician.	2004-09-20
US	52216484	R1TVGXJN6HZ3ZH	0896087107	875186396	The Checkbook and the Cruise Missile: Conversations with Arundhati Roy	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Roy's story of development, personal and global	David Barsamian asks good questions (he's had years of practice) but it's Arundhati Roy's answers that make this book so rewarding. She combines an impressive knowledge of facts with real commitment and passion. <br /> <br />She doesn't let the interview format get the best of her, turning her responses into lectures. Instead, she is a smart-alec sometimes and just plain smart at other times. Her dedication to making the world a better place is personal, with roots in her childhood in India. As she describes US imperialism, corporate power, and corruption in the Indian government, she ties it all to her own political development. This is an important book, easy to read but very informative and inspiring.	2004-09-17
US	52216484	RRDWI306QWSD2	156097589X	6726656	The Complete Peanuts 1950-1952 (Vol. 1)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	44	44	N	N	The first step in a long journey	If all of the Complete Peanuts volumes are this good, then Fantagraphics will stay in business forever. This first book is beautifully packaged (by semi-famous Canadian cartoonist Seth), with three daily strips per page. Sunday strips fill an entire page. The introduction is short and to-the-point. The essay after the final strip is very good; it explains why Peanuts became the most successful newspaper strip of all time. The books ends with a lengthy interview with Charles Schulz that goes a long way toward explaining what kind of person could create such a wonderfully sweet and sad comic every day for 50 years. Schulz was both ordinary and extraordinary at the same time, and his work reflects that contradiction.<br />But the heart of the book is in the panels, of course. As you read, you get to see the Peanuts world grow. Schroeder and Linus are introduced as toddlers. Snoopy doesn't talk or think until the second year. (He doesn't do much except eat Charlie Brown's candy, either.) Violet pulls the football away from Charlie Brown  before Lucy does. And so on. This book captures a comic strip world in its earliest stages, still forming. Even Schulz's drawing style grows from page to page, in very subtle ways.<br />It's going to be hard to top this first volume. The early strips have a lot of historical value, and the extras are great. Five stars.	2004-06-11
US	52216484	R2EFSL6BBL0LOU	0425181642	894540459	E=mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A bumpy ride through Relativity	This is a mildly eccentric book on Relativity. David Bodanis claims at the start that he won't be talking about physics and Einstein --- he's just going to tell you about The Famous Equation. But once he's done with the first chapter, which goes through the basic principles of the equation step-by-step, he gets into physics and Einstein. He loses his focus quickly, but he's always entertaining.<br />Bodanis loves colorful anecdotes about physicists, the art of discovery, contributions by neglected scientists (primarily women), and the prospect of the Nazis building an atomic bomb. It's this last topic that weakens the book. Frankly, the Nazis never came close to building an atomic bomb. Yes, they would have had a Fat Man or a Little Boy if they built reactors and had heavy water and understood the physics and had a team of scientists working on it and they tested it. But they didn't have any of it. \\"Might have\\" doesn't cut it.<br />The second half of this book is made up of biographies of scientists and extensive footnotes. Bodanis makes good use of the notes, giving you plenty of sources and a lot of additional information. His personal interests are on full display here, as he mentions whatever concept or story that the footnoted information triggers in his mind. It's fun to read, although it does tend to wander.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who's read a little bit about Relativity. It's a useful refresher, an eccentric view of the topic that will keep your interest. If you've never read about Relativity, try Gribbin and White's biography of Einstein first --- or, better yet, Richard Wolfson's book on Relativity (which is still the best).	2004-06-11
US	52216484	R3QQBQ4LXVOUXZ	039304582X	316976735	Screams of Reason: Mad Science in Modern Culture	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Amusing but sloppy	This is a light, unfocused book. It's supposed to be about mad scientist movies, but the author is all over the place. He starts off by re-telling chunks of his other book, The Monster Show. Then he writes about Mary Shelley and horror literature. He's off to a bad start, repeating himself and having trouble sticking to movies.<br />By chapter four, he gets to World War II and the post-war period, when mad scientists had become a significant part of popular entertainment. He tries to write about how the public reacts to the Manhattan Project and scientists like Einstein, but his analysis seems to be part of a different book. Is he writing about Mary Shelley, horror movies, science, or what?<br />Chapter five is all about alien visitations and flying saucers. Chapter six is about mad medical doctors like Mengele, doctor Frankenstein, Robin Cook's book 'Coma' (and the film), Dead Ringers, and AIDS. Chapter seven has something to do with flesh and cyborgs --- I think. It's not clear what that chapter was supposed to be about. The author wraps it all up with a list of famous mad scientists. The list is filler, but I enjoyed reading the &quot;mad ambition/achievement&quot; for each one.<br />This is good bathroom reading. The subject matter is fun because it's about popular culture and mad scientists, two topics that are never dull. But it's poorly-edited, with the feel of an enthusiastic rough first draft. My guess is that after the success of The Monster Show, Skal sent the idea for this book to his publisher, they loved the proposal, and he hammered it out quickly for fun. That's no crime, but I was really disappointed with it..	2004-05-19
US	52216484	R1L62MHVJA30JE	1574231359	699033664	Open All Night	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Truly poetic	Bukowski was the master of the personal detail. In these poems, released after his death, he examines his life with a drunken smile. He digs out the most significant moments of his life at the race track, among old friends, writing at night, listening to classical music, thinking about old girlfriends, and his childhood. He has a knack for mentioning the moments that matter, and leaving out the details that distract you from the point he's making. Every poem is good. This is one of his best books.<br />The poems are arranged in four sections. As you read, you realize that there's an underlying theme for each section. The first section, for example, is about burying the past. Each poem adds a thin layer to the theme until you feel it. It's quite an experience because it's so unpretentious --- he seems to be telling stories without any connection, but eventually you get the deeper story on your own.<br />I highly recommend this book. If you haven't read Bukowski's poetry before, this is a good place to start. Long-time fans will find this one a little flat, simply because it doesn't do anything new. They've heard all of these tales before. (But repetition was one of Bukowski's most endearing traits. He used it instead of a formal writing style.) So try Open All Night. You'll be pleased.	2004-05-19
US	52216484	R2XNCHR09FXS6O	0312147678	494593766	With William Burroughs: A Report From the Bunker	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The New York years	In the second half of the 1970s, William Burroughs lived in a converted gymnasium in New York City. Dubbed 'the Bunker' (because it had no windows), he lived comfortably, working on Cities of the Red Night with his assistant, James. Victor Bockris was one of many people in Burroughs' social circle at the time, and he decided to document the Bunker years with this book of interviews.<br />The results are interesting only if you are a Burroughs fan. This is a portrait of a genius surrounded by his not-so-smart celebrity friends. Burroughs spends his time politely tolerating the presence of these people. His friends don't really get it, however --- they think \\"Bill\\" is here to have a big party, and they go on and on about their lives, asking him inane questions,  while he waits for his chance to say something intelligent. He always comes across as thoughtful, someone who knows more than anyone else in the room. That's the best part of the book, when Burroughs gets an extended monologue on any subject.<br />But those monologues are too rare to justify reading this book. The interviews just don't dig very deep. You'll learn a lot more about Burroughs' cooking habits and his hobby of collecting canes (for self-defense against muggers) than you do about his ideas. If you've read everything else by --- and about --- Burroughs, you might enjoy this. But you would do better reading Naked Lunch, The Soft Machine, and Ted Morgan's biography..	2004-05-13
US	52216484	R11UK7VR1L2Z8T	B0000A09DX	657014958	Bradbury: An Illustrated Life : A Journey to Far Metaphor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A biography of Bradbury, told in pictures	There's a point in this book where the author says \\"You have to be an amazing writer to inspire so many illustrations and paintings.\\" And that's why Bradbury is so great. After reading a book like The Martian Chronicles, you can easily imagine what he was describing. And if you can draw or paint, you'll want to create those images on canvas.<br />That's why almost every piece of artwork in this book is so beautiful. Just take the Illustrated Man as an example. Each artist who was commissioned to create a cover for the book had the task of showing an almost-naked man covered in tattoos. But the tattoos had to show scenes from dozens of short stories. One artist made the Illustrated Man an obese, shirtless guy in a carnival sideshow. Another gave him technicolor cartoons across his back and shoulders, depicting roaring lions and men in spacesuits. The third image is the most famous --- a nude man with his back to the viewer, sitting, with all of the skin below his neck covered in images.<br />This approach is repeated throughout the book --- different artists interpret the most vivid images from Bradbury's best books and stories. Over a hundred paperback book covers are reproduced (including a few that I was obsessed with when I was ten years old), along with movie posters, paintings, movie stills, and comic book pages.<br />The text is just as good. This book serves as a biography of Ray Bradbury, tracing the arc of his career from science fiction author to short story writer for 'the slicks' to comic book writer, novelist, playwright, and screenwriter. Bradbury's relationship with EC comics is recounted through the correspondence between Bradbury and William Gaines. It's very interesting, especially when Bradbury catches Gaines stealing his stories and offers to write more for EC instead of suing.<br />If you're a Bradbury fan, you'll love this. It's the kind of book you'll pull off the shelf every month and flip through, just to marvel at all of the strange and beautiful images. If you don't know Bradbury's work, you'll still enjoy all of the artwork. Maybe the images will inspire you to read his books..	2004-05-13
US	52216484	R2X9I6KLYXHOKF	0393324885	443910056	The Natural History of the Rich: A Field Guide	Books	2	19	29	N	N	Disappointing	Richard Conniff's book on the habits of the rich is presented as a joke right from the start. He's decided to compare theories of evolutionary biology in the animal kingdom to the behavior of rich people, but he's not trying to be scientific about it. That tongue-in-cheek approach makes this book very easy to read. It's always light and often funny.<br />But Conniff covers two basic ideas over and over. See, the rich like to display their wealth the same way that a peacock displays its colorful tail. And all rich people want to be &quot;alphas&quot; just silverback gorillas in the jungle. That's it. That's the whole book, summed up in two sentences.<br />Conniff's idea that the rich are the fittest of the species is very weak. He disregards the fact that rich people inherit their wealth. If they didn't earn it, there's no reason to think they are the best of the best. Rich people aren't examples of alphas, either. Their displays of wealth are often impractical, hard to read, and too easy to copy among the general population. For example, when everyone has an SUV, rich people can't show off their wealth by driving an SUV. So they get Hummers. But Hummers seem too impractical to generate envy among ordinary people, so the display of wealth doesn't work.<br />These complications make the book a bit of a joke, which Conniff acknowledges right from the start. So if you want to read a light, humorous book of anecdotes about rich people throwing parties --- juxtaposed with anecdotes about plumage and gorillas --- this is the book for you. But you don't like wasting time, you should probably read something else.	2004-05-13
US	52216484	R3K1PU87YNKIWR	1560255560	282559023	Secrets and Lies: Operation Iraqi Freedom and After: A Prelude to the Fall of U.S. Power in the Middle East?	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The best book on the topic	This book is essential reading for anyone who wants to know why the US military invaded Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein from power.  Dilip Hiro has compiled a very detailed history of the lead-up to the invasion, the first four weeks, and the aftermath.<br />He starts with the post-9/11 White House, where the neoconservative Bush administration shifted their focus from fighting terrorism (and fundamentalism in south central Asia and the Middle East) to Iraq. The neocons were dedicated to removing Saddam Hussein, but no one else was. They had to convince Colin Powell, the US population, and the rest of the world. Dilip Hiro shows how the upcoming invasion was marketed using carefully-selected intelligence reports, creating a false crisis. From the yellowcake from Africa to the lies about ongoing inspections by the UN, Dilip Hiro documents it all.<br />But the invasion takes place anyway. He shifts his focus to the war, using detailed maps and newspaper sources to describe the battles, the setbacks, and the strategies the US military used. He covers the first month of the invasion, ending with the occupation and Bush claiming 'mission accomplished.'<br />This is a devastating critique of a US foreign policy completely divorced from democracy and world opinion. Every fact in this book, stacked up in page after page, creates a chilling picture of the wrong war for the wrong reasons. If you are only going to read one book on the invasion (and occupation) of Iraq, make it this one. You'll end up referring to it over and over in the next few years, reminding yourself of how we got into this mess.	2004-05-01
US	52216484	R2UGZWZS0INKZV	156584758X	47416732	Another Century of War?	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An important book	Few historians understand US foreign policy as well as Gabriel Kolko. Normally, he writes massive books packed with footnotes, drawing information from stacks of declassified government documents. But this time, he's used his decades of research to briefly summarize his thoughts on the post-9/11 world.<br />Fortunately, his opinions are kept to an absolute minimum. This book is full of historical information that backs up his point of view. He covers the US response to 9/11 in Afghanistan, the history of the conflict there with the Soviet Union, and its connections to oil reserves and political influence. Then he describes the connections between the KLA in Kosovo, Osama bin Laden, and Pakistan. It's amazing how he can condense so many facts into so few pages. He makes it easy to understand and impossible to forget.<br />He goes on to describe the failures of US foreign policy. This part of the book will get under the skin of some Americans, as Kolko shows that US plans for stability in the Middle East have failed miserably. He finishes up with a quick look at economic ties to foreign policy, pointing out that the military-industrial complex is unable to promote peace.<br />There is a lot of essential information in this book. Kolko knows what he's talking about. His conclusions are unsettling (to the say the least). He concludes that the world cannot survive another century of war, so the imperial ambitions of the US must change. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand what's happening in the world at the beginning of the 21st century.	2004-05-01
US	52216484	R29YBJF9SN7KCA	1565848470	276386269	Theater of War: In Which the Republic Becomes an Empire	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The war at home and abroad	Theater of War is a collection of 19 essays previously printed in Harper's magazine, written by the Harper's editor. They are arranged in chronological order, starting in October 2000 and ending in June 2003. (The introductory essay, written just for this book, is dated July 2003).<br />The essays begin with Gore and Bush running for president, and end with the US occupation of Iraq. In between, Lapham covers the Clintons leaving office, Giuliani and museums, recruiting for the CIA, conservatives trying to red-bait university professors, preparing for the invasion of Iraq, imperial arrogance, Bush's religious fanaticism, marketing the war on terrorism, and the White House promoting fear and consumerism.<br />Throughout the book, Lapham touches on two themes that are laid down in the introduction: (1) the &quot;script&quot; that politicians and the media follow like slaves, presenting the world as if it was a Hollywood film, and (2) the US as an arrogant imperial power, a modern version of Rome.<br />The best thing about the book is Lewis Lapham's writing style. He's taken great care to make each sentence quotable, but the words flow. It's a very easy book to read (I read it in a day without effort) but none of it is casual or padded out. These essays give the reader a wise view of the key political events of the last few years. I highly recommend this book.	2004-05-01
US	52216484	R3W2UQHCUUQ71H	0140042881	315046297	Steinbeck: A Life in Letters	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Five stars --- if you are a Steinbeck fan	Steinbeck left an autobiography of sorts when he died, a collection of personal letters to his friends. His widow and his friend worked together to gather the letters from everyone they could. They edited them for clarity and published them in chronological order.<br />The result is the personal story of a very creative, complex writer who worked every day with his hands. When he wasn't writing novels using pencils and a legal pad, he was mending the fence or fixing the roof. He loved people as much as he loved solitude, so he began each day by reaching out with these letters to his friends around the world. He talked about his surroundings and his thoughts and his ongoing projects.<br />All of this would be enough to make a wonderful book, but there's the added benefit of Steinbeck's writing style. Steinbeck used as few words as possible, always trying for a poetic effect without pretension. He wanted to be honest and accurate, but he knew the value of capturing an image or feeling with a colorful use of words. As a result, this massive book is a pleasure to read, from start to finish. Steinbeck's writing style keeps you interested but never overwhelmed.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who has enjoyed a few Steinbeck novels. Aspiring writers should read it, as well. When you're done, read the Steinbeck chapter in 'Alcohol and the Writer' and Jackson Benson's books on Steinbeck. You'll be glad you did.	2004-04-30
US	52216484	R2ML1QPL28O6F	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Plows, pox, and climate	This book is the beginning of a long and necessary effort to answer the question: Why did Spaniards destroy and/or enslave people in South America --- and not the other way around? It makes sense to generalize and ask, Why did ANY particular group of people consistently dominate another in history?<br />There has already been a lot of research into this topic that centered around intelligence: The Spaniards were smarter, that's why they dominated. But Jared Diamond rejects this conclusion immediately. Based on his experience, he doesn't think the colonizers have bigger or better brains, or higher IQs. So he goes looking for a materialist explanation, searching for the way that climate, crops, and animal domestication led to better immune systems and superior technology.<br />This theoretical stuff isn't a large part of the book. Diamond makes his case briefly and then spends 90% of the book on facts to back it up. And the facts are impressive. Diamond knows a lot about agriculture and animal domestication. He writes about it clearly. The information is important and interesting, which makes the bulk of the book very easy to read.<br />But does he prove his case? Well, obviously you'll have to decide for yourself. Personally, I think he came to his conclusions too quickly. The evidence is very good, but it's simply not enough. That leads me back to the beginning of this review --- this book is the START of a long research project, not the end. Reading this book is very easy, and it's likely to inspire you to read more on the topic. Jared Diamond might not convince you 100% that materialistic factors decided who dominated who, but you can't help but be impressed with the amount of information he's collected to back up his theory. My guess is that the IQ approach will wither away as this book begins to dominate the debate.	2004-04-30
US	52216484	R2ZGPE4RALZ63Q	0451213599	887327600	Four Past Midnight	Books	2	15	32	N	N	Stephen King on autopilot	Stephen King is a great storyteller. He comes up with a simple conflict between a group of characters and something powerfully evil, the he gives you just enough information to keep you turning the pages. As soon as he explains the last hint, he's given you a new one. The story unfolds at the perfect pace and you don't want to stop reading.<br />But when he begins the story with a bad premise --- a conflict between ordinary people and something that ISN'T SCARY --- his storytelling ability just isn't enough. This book has four examples of Stephen King at his worst, trying to scare you with bad ideas like<br />hungry red beachballs that eat reality<br />a stalker who wants to kill the writer who plagiarized him<br />a librarian from Hell<br />a haunted Polaroid camera<br />Then add a string of characterizations that would get a creative writing student kicked out of class. A British character, for example, talks about 'bobbies,' tea time, and the IRA. Can you say 'stereotype'? Then there's the guy in The Library Policeman who tells his tale of being seduced by a demon librarian and paying for it by drinking a lot of beer for the next twenty years. It has to be the worst excuse for alcoholism I've ever heard.<br />Add the strange reference to red licorice (which somehow hurts demon librarians), the Library Policeman who talks with a terrifying lisp (I'm not kidding), and a camera that summons a demon dog if you take too many pictures. Wow, this is a BAD book.  Worst of all is Stephen King's obsession with broken marriages. If a character gets divorced, his life goes into a tailspin. King describes his grief in great detail, as if ending a marriage is the most devastating blow a person can experience.<br />If you want to chart the decline of Stephen King, this book marks the beginning of his worst period. His first five or six books were written in a unique all-American style, and the stories were so well-told that he turned the horror genre into a minor book industry. Then he decided that every idea he came up with --- no matter how boring or mundane --- could be turned into a terrifying threat. This guy looks at his toaster and thinks \\"I've got a GREAT idea for a new book. The Toaster from Hell!\\"<br />Avoid this book. If you have to read Stephen King, go back to the novels that were based on scary ideas: vampires, a haunted hotel,  the end of the world. If you read this, you'll just read the work of a man who has run out of ideas, but still has enthusiasm for telling stories. You'll laugh long before anything scares you.he decided that every idea he came up with --- no matter how boring or mundane --- could be turned into a terrifying threat. This guy looks at his toaster and thinks \\"I've got a GREAT idea for a new book. The Toaster from Hell!\\"<br />Avoid this book. If you have to read Stephen King, go back to the novels that were based on scary ideas: vampires, a haunted hotel,  the end of the world. If you read this, you'll just read the work of a man who has run out of ideas, but still has enthusiasm for telling stories. You'll laugh long before anything scares you.	2004-04-30
US	52216484	R2AKXRVV1GJ67O	0345362462	105312528	Grumbles From The Grave	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Heinlein's thoughts, poorly edited	This collection of Robert Heinlein's letters would be very interesting if they were not cut into small chunks and arranged in a non-threatening manner. Heinlein struggled in the early years, working hard for recognition, trying to please indifferent editors, and this book documents that struggle. But nearly every letter is edited heavily, abruptly ended just as Heinlein gets going. The overall picture is fractured, leaving the reader to guess about the missing contents.<br />But the book is still worth a look. It provides a behind-the-scenes view of writing science fiction in the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s, showing how the field grew from stories about rocket ships to social commentary. Heinlein rode the wave from short story writer to literary author, and these letters show that progression. Unfortunately, the editing removes too much of the story. The editor did make one good move, however --- she devoted two chapters to letters about Stranger in a Strange Land.  The background on this seminal sci-fi novel is interesting. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know more about the history of science fiction. Other readers may be disappointed.	2004-04-17
US	52216484	RCFTY5SIS7RO	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The greatest story ever told?	It's easy to understand why someone would get upset reading this book. The authors take the history of Freemasonry (actually, the mystic legends that surround Freemasonry) and tie it to the &quot;real&quot; story of Jesus Christ. When you link conspiracies to Christianity, you're going to get under someone's skin.<br />But few books are as fascinating to read as this one. Think of it as one-third truth and two-thirds speculation. If the authors called it a fictional account --- a fantasy about the way things might be --- the result would be a strange sort of historical novel. It's wouldn't be as compelling. Instead, they present this story as nonfiction, breathlessly uncovering the greatest secret in the history of mankind. It's an approach that keeps you reading. In the end, you'll enjoy the story as a series of curious &quot;what if&quot; possibilities. If half of this is true, the world is more interesting than you thought.	2004-04-07
US	52216484	RAYBP69V3K9PA	0876854374	296531445	Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A good introduction to Bukowski's poetry	This book is like a 'greatest hits' from the 1970s for Bukowski. Ranging from 1970 to 1979, these poems show him working on familiar themes, but he's getting better at expressing himself. His chaotic life is drawing to a close as he settles into married life in the 1980s. These poems are more focused than his earlier efforts, but also a little looser --- he's able to sum up a mood, a day, or an old friend in half a page of non-rhyming verse. These poems are full of wry humor and romance, a far cry from his reputation for booze and sullen moods. If you haven't read his poetry, try this book. You'll find out what kind of writer Bukowski was. It's sure to inspire you to read more of his great work.	2004-04-02
US	52216484	R2M6JLQHI5SC7	1586420550	35250969	Farley: The Life of Farley Mowat	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A hard-to-put-down biography of a great writer	There are many sides to Farley Mowat, and this biography touches  on all of them. James King presents Mowat as an ambitious writer, a proud Canadian, a melancholy husband, a mischievous only child, and a passionate environmentalist. In the space of relatively few pages, King describes Mowat's very active life, remarking on every book, every beloved pet dog, many of his travels, the Second World War years, both marriages, and his troubles with publishers and editors.<br />Did he leave anything out? Well, you can be sure that the Farley his friends and family know is still private, but not completely. This is primarily a book about Mowat's relationships with people, his moods, and his mistakes. It's a &quot;warts and all&quot; biography, but it's written with Canadian politeness --- James King is even-handed and fair. Farley cooperated with King on it, opening up archives of correspondence and submitting to interviews. He made no conditions, and King honored that with a respectful portrait.<br />Aspiring writers should read this book. Farley had a bumpy but very successful career, starting with a controversial book (People of the Deer) in 1952. He spent the next 30 years trying to identify and master his literary strengths. His editors, his father, and his wife Claire helped him figure it out. If you want a successful writing career, you can learn a lot from this book.<br />For fans of Farley Mowat, you get to find out how he came to write each book, how well they sold, and which books had the greatest effect on him. (Never Cry Wolf is his best-seller. Sea of Slaughter meant a great deal to him and required a lot of time and emotional strength. The Top of the World trilogy was never taken seriously by his publishers. Etc.) This is a well-written biography of a great man. I highly recommend it.	2004-03-09
US	52216484	R1VQRFOH7R03EP	0941543269	10538528	Charles Bukowski: Laughing with the Gods	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Bukowski talks about life and poetry	I read this book right after Sunlight Here I Am, a collection of Bukowski interviews. This book is more of the same --- Bukowski is irreverent, with strong convictions about life and writing, but if you've already read a stack of his books, you knew that. He doesn't always deliver the goods in interviews (he's often bored with the questions), but his point of view is honest and world-weary enough to keep you turning the pages.<br />Fernanda Pivano brings a European and female sensibility to the affair. Bukowski is bigger in Europe than in the US, so when she asks him about fame, he has interesting things to say. (He can walk down the street and be anonymous here, but he's often recognized in Italy, France, and Germany.) And because she's a woman, the interviews don't touch on any macho posturing. She knows he's a big-hearted guy under the tough exterior, so she goes straight for the answers about art and love, bypassing the tales of heavy drinking and barroom fights.<br />All in all, this is a reasonably entertaining and insightful book for the new Bukowski fan. It's Bukowski at his most thoughtful and relaxed. For those of you who have read all of his books, you won't find anything new here (although you won't feel ripped off reading it, either).	2004-03-09
US	52216484	R69Y82G446HYQ	1878825011	839698892	What Uncle Sam Really Wants (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A good place to start	\\"What Uncle Sam Really Wants\\" condenses about 10 Noam Chomsky books into 100 pages. Looking at the footnotes of this book, you'll find references to entire chapters in Deterring Democracy, The Culture of Terrorism, Necessary Illusions, Manufacturing Consent, and others. This book was written as a kind of 'Chomsky for beginners' --- you can read this slim volume first, then go to the other books for the full story.<br />However, just because it's condensed, that doesn't mean it's vague or simplified. As Alex Cockburn once said, the genius of Chomsky's point of view is that it's so clear: The US has no more right to block democracy or violate human rights than any other country. Chomsky backs up this obvious point with a long list of detailed examples. Most of them can be grouped by country --- the US invasion of Vietnam, the war against Nicaragua in the 1980s, support for murderous regimes in El Salvador and Haiti, etc. He also touches on the abuse of power at home. For example, the US is the only industrialized country that uses a 'war on drugs' as population control. (You can make the argument that, although this method of population control exists, it hasn't worked very well.)<br />If you haven't read Chomsky before, this is a good place to start. He traces the fundamental principles of US foreign policy from the end of World War II to the early 1990s. On every page, he mentions an event or issue you are familiar with, but his take on it is radically different from what you've heard. What makes his view so important is that, although his take is different, it rings true. From the invasion of Panama in the late 1980s to the real roots of the Cold War, Chomsky's research matches what you secretly suspected all along..	2004-02-17
US	52216484	R278TFEO4216TU	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	5	27	31	N	N	An introduction to Chomsky's media analysis	Noam Chomsky's description of US foreign policy often causes people to ask, &quot;If this is true, why haven't I heard about it?&quot; That led Chomsky to write about the mainstream news media. His explanation is simple enough to understand, but it needs a lot of documentation to back it up. So Chomsky wrote a short stack of heavily-footnoted books on the topic, such as Necessary Illusions and (with Edward Herman) Manufacturing Consent. But it can be intimidating to pick up one of those books, so Chomsky wrote this introduction.<br />The footnotes are gone (more or less). The basic picture of the US news media --- how it works and who it serves --- is here, but in condensed form. If you want the nuances, the sources, and the case studies, you'll have to read his other books. Once you have a grasp of the broad outlines, you can get into the specifics much more easily.<br />This second edition adds the transcript of a talk Chomsky gave a few years ago. It was printed in FAIR's media watchdog magazine, Extra. In it, Chomsky imagines a Martian as an outside observer, someone who can analyze human affairs without being inside it. The Martian idea works well because so many Americans feel outside the mainstream media's message --- as Chomsky describes the current war on terror from the Martian point of view, you find yourself in total agreement.<br />The rest of the book is just as good. Chomsky talks about the history of the media as a voluntary propaganda arm of the government, citing examples from World War I to the Gulf War. His ten-year-old comments on Iraq (including references to WMDs) show how the old news has been re-packaged for a new decade. It's a new century, but it's the same old lies..	2004-02-11
US	52216484	R386D0LDXFA01D	0525673202	594713989	Vietnam: A War on Two Fronts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very good introduction	It's impossible to tell the story of the Vietnam War without taking sides, so Sidney Lens doesn't bother. He was (and remains) against the war for moral reasons, depicting the US as an imperialist power that stood in the way of Vietnamese independence after the Vietminh defeated the French. Lens traces the history of US involvement, including the lies surrounding the Gulf of Tonkin, the rise of the peace movement, the spread of the war into Cambodia and Laos, and the Strategic Hamlets that the US military used to control the Vietnamese peasants they were supposed to be protecting.<br />It's surprising how much important information he covers in just 100-odd pages. The result is an excellent introduction to the topic. If you haven't read about the Vietnam War, start here. You'll get through this book easily, and you'll see the war for what is was. After this one, try Marilyn Young's \\"The Vietnam Wars,\\" which covers the same ground as this book, but in much more detail.	2004-02-08
US	52216484	R19GHMK4CX0JLD	0060958332	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	An important and useful book	This book covers modern linguistics for the general reader. Steven Pinker writes very well, so he's able to unload an enormous amount of facts without boring you in the details. He starts off with basic linguistic theories, describing how our minds construct language. We think in words and images, we derive sentences from a common (raw form of) grammar that's in everyone's brain, and we make constant adjustments in words and syntax to suit our purposes. The key idea is communication --- it's built-in, it's always changing, it has a finite set of fundamental rules, and it has an infinite capacity for expression.<br />Then Pinker goes on to a variety of topics related to language. A few are very important and get a lengthy treatment. The location of the language organ in the brain, for example, is covered in detail. Other topics, such as artificial intelligence, are covered briefly. Pinker is interested in AI only as it relates to human language. AI doesn't tell us much, so he passes over it quickly.<br />The book goes on to cover teaching primates sign language, the evolutionary development of language, &quot;the language mavens&quot; (people who write newspaper columns about proper grammar), and language acquisition by children. This last topic is fascinating because so many of us have been there as we notice our kids are learning how to speak. Pinker offers a lot of interesting information about how and why a child learns to speak clearly and creatively.<br />I highly recommend this book. Steven Pinker knows his audience. He knows just how technical he can get, and how often he needs a personal anecdote or a joke to keep the layman awake and interested. He challenges you, cutting sentences to pieces and discussing dull topics like plurals, but he frames the  grammar scientifically. Instead of getting bored by the mechanics of grammar, you feel like you're understanding the human mind.<br />Finally, it's worth noting that Noam Chomsky comes up a lot in this book. Pinker is skeptical but respectful of Chomsky's linguistic work. Many people have read Chomsky's political books but haven't gotten into his linguistics. If you are one of those people, read this and you'll feel a lot more comfortable with linguistics and Chomsky's contribution to the field.	2004-02-08
US	52216484	R2W24DKJ8H0I0N	0919359124	114990086	Jaka's Story (Cerebus, Volume 5)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Uneven, interesting graphic novel	After exploring politics and religion in the previous three volumes of the Cerebus series, Dave Sim wrote and illustrated this personal story. It's all about Jaka, Cerebus's true love, and the men around her. Cerebus is there along with Jaka's husband Rick, Oscar Wilde, and Pud the tavern owner.<br />Two stories play out simultaneously. The first is written in chunks of prose with single illustrations, similar to a children's book. But the text is not childish at all --- it's Oscar Wilde's fanciful description of Jaka's life. Dave Sim put a lot of effort into recreating Wilde's style, which is admirable but difficult to wade through. The illustrations are beautiful, but the text is so overwritten, you can skip to every fifth sentence and still get the meaning. (There are at least two pages devoted to holding a doorknob and preparing to open it. Reading those pages will put you to sleep fast.)<br />The other story is presented in the standard comic book style, with cartoons and word balloons. Dave Sim's right-hand man, Gerhard, drew the backgrounds. He's a brilliant illustrator who combines the accuracy of a photograph with the simple effect of an animation cel. Some of the exteriors of buildings, mountain roads, and front porches are better than Sim's cartoon people. This part of the story moves along slowly but deliberately, letting you get to know the characters and their daily routine. Then, about halfway in, something happens that changes the pace and tone. I won't spoil it for you, but the second part refers to the first, putting it under a microscope. The tone shifts from the dull ache of ordinary life to real danger. It's an impressive bit of storytelling, flipping the mood upside down without losing the plot.<br />It's not easy to recommend this graphic novel to non-comic-book readers, simply because Dave Sim has hobbled his good ideas by setting the story in a fake post-Medieval world with a talking aardvark as the main character. Cerebus will distract non-comic-book readers. On the one hand, you have a story about real people and their relationships. On the other hand, there's an aardvark in love with Jaka and no one acts like that's weird or out of place. If you treat it like a joke, that undermines the seriousness of the story. Sim tries to have it both ways, but it doesn't work.<br />Comic book readers, on the other hand, will see Jaka's Story as a step up from the traditional superhero and fantasy stuff. Yes, it has a talking aardvark, but at least there are no supervillains of evil wizards. If you're going to get into Cerebus and you want to start with the early books, try Jaka's Story. Then go back and read High Society and the Church & State volumes.	2004-02-01
US	52216484	R11U4NGFRIYNUK	1592910122	97354692	Alan Moore's Writing For Comics Volume 1	Books	5	99	100	N	N	Short but very good	This is a collection of essays Alan Moore wrote in 1985 about writing comic books (with a follow-up essay from 2003 at the end). Actually, it's more about being a creative storyteller, not so much about comics. As you read the text, you realize that the nuts and bolts of panels, pages, and word balloons mean very little in comparison to honesty, inventiveness, intent, and understanding of your own talent. Alan Moore makes this clear as he writes, advising the aspiring writer to consider what he's doing long before he gets to the point of wondering how he can stack ten panels into a page.<br />Moore uses his own experience as a guide. Although he had not yet written (or completed) some of his greatest comics, by 1985 he had been working in British comics for years. He was also working on Swamp Thing and Miracle Man at the time. He uses Swamp Thing examples more than any other, which is good. That was the first great period of Moore's work, when he turned comic book writers into superstars along with illustrators. He describes one of his more daring stories of the 1980s --- a Swamp Thing issue in which menstruation is tied to a werewolf story --- from the ground up. First he had the social idea, then he came up with a framework for it, then he wrote the pages and panels.<br />Reading this short volume is a real inspiration for anyone who wants to tell stories. The advice here can liberate a writer from distractions and lead him (or her) toward the creative decisions that matter most. The final chapter adds a wonderful twist. Moore recommends that you avoid a personal style and focus instead of personal growth as an artist. Success should lead to experimenting, not a rut in which you tell the same lucrative story over and over. Alan Moore lives his life this way, so his advice has some well-earned authority behind it.	2004-02-01
US	52216484	R2XF9ZCOT5X9D8	0767903323	452949371	Buddhism Plain and Simple: The Practice of Being Aware, Right Now, Every Day	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Easy to read and honest, but dull	This book is a very good introduction to Buddhist philosophy, but it is also a little dull. The author explains the basic tenets of Buddhism in a way that anyone can understand. He repeatedly tells you Buddhism is about SEEING --- seeing who you are, where you are, and what is really going on. It only takes a moment for this  advice to sink in. You realize as you read that you rarely see yourself accurately, and you are not that clear about what's going on in your life.<br />Once that basic idea is established, the book gets boring. The author has more to say, but little of it has as much impact as the one important idea of SEEING. He tells you about the Buddhist practice of living in the \\"right\\" way, turning the clarity of your awareness into action and living a moral, gentle life. This approach means a lot to stressed-out, over-scheduled Westerners. The only drawback is that the information is too vague. When the author takes a moment to talk about his own experience, or to tell the story of a student, the book suddenly becomes much more interesting. Then he returns to plain philosophical points and it drags.<br />If you're looking for an introduction to Buddhism, this book is pretty good. It is clear and easy to understand, but also dull and vague. It will whet your appetite for more...	2004-01-30
US	52216484	R2ZYU1SF51X1RD	0060927240	341562000	Rule of the Bone: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The adventures of Chappie, teenage delinquent	The first part of this book is very good. Chappie, a young teenager with a bad home life, tells his story of smoking pot and selling pot. He leaves home and has quite a few adventures among all kinds of colorful characters --- bikers, lost children, a few stoners, etc. This part of the book is good because you don't care about the plot. It's fun following Chappie from one tight spot to another, reading about his crazy buddies, and wondering what he'll do next.<br />The book then takes a surprising turn to Jamaica. I don't want to spoil it, so I can't say much else. But the Jamaica part of the book is (a) entirely different in tone from the previous section, and (b) includes some implausible plot twists. I didn't like it very much, especially in comparison to the freewheeling section that preceded it. If you like stories of working class people, teenagers in trouble, and other &quot;underbelly of America&quot; fiction, you'll enjoy this. It's humorous and it feel authentic. But it will let you down by the end.	2004-01-30
US	52216484	RICRF5P2TBTNN	0671850237	506293795	It's All in Your Head: Remarkable Facts About the Human Mind	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good bathroom reading	The format of this book is fairly simple. The two authors read a few books and a lot of articles about typical pop psychology topics. They summarized what they found --- usually three paragraphs for each topic --- and they grouped the topics into chapters. Each little summary ends with a punchline, and a footnote listing the source.<br />The result is both good and bad. The bad part of the book is the flippant, not-at-all-skeptical approach taken by the authors. If they found an article in Redbook or Teen Beat that they liked, they summarized it right along with the articles from Psychology Today. Few medical journals are cited, and most of the books are of the self-help, non-technical variety. So as you read about relationships, sex, child development, the size of the brain, phobias, and procrastination, you are never challenged with ambiguity or analytic depth. In other words, this is a lot of fun to flip through in the bathroom, but nothing you'll take seriously.<br />The good side is the light, easy tone of the book. You'll learn a lot from this book. There's so much in here, you'll forget half of it before you're done. The authors know they're writing for a non-academic audience, which is great. We need more psychology books for ordinary people. The breadth of topics is impressive, too. You never get bored because the authors keep switching from one subject to the next.<br />If you've never read about psychology, this is a loose, amusing introduction. It's a worthwhile place to start. But don't expect anything quotable or revealing about human nature. For more complex and insightful information on the brain and human nature, you'll have to read something else.	2004-01-29
US	52216484	R12RUEOXLF79OD	0941543374	850585073	Charles Bukowski: Sunlight Here I Am: Interviews and Encounters 1963-1993	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Bukowski on Bukowski	Twenty-two of the 34 chapters in this book are interviews. The other chapters are pseudo-interviews --- profiles with Bukowski talking a lot, fill-in-the-blank questionnaires, and two excerpts from his books. All of it is worth reading.<br />In the early chapters, Bukowski is angry and a little unfocused. He seems smart, but he's not at his full strength yet. But by the third or fourth chapter, he's had his first novel published, a second one is done, and he's feeling good. Although Bukowski has a reputation for being a grim skid-row poet, in reality he had a great sense of humor and he was thankful for his success. As you read each interview, he becomes more and more aware of who he is and what he's doing. He remains impatient with dumb questions, but he doesn't bother to rant anymore.<br />By the later chapters, he makes it clear that he's avoiding the pitfalls of celebrity. This may seem like a contradiction for someone doing an interview, but it makes sense when you notice how rarely he gave interviews. (And how often each interview was for a friend who had supported him for years. Bukowski was loyal and did many interviews as favors for publishers of small magazines.) By the end, he's comfortable in his legacy.<br />For those who haven't read Bukowski before, you should start somewhere else . . . and then get back to this book. Try 'Women,' 'Ham on Rye,' 'War All the Time,' and 'The Night Torn Mad by Footsteps.' If you are an aspiring writer, this book will help a lot. Bukowski talks about his writing methods quite a bit in these interviews. His advice is specific (write at night, alone, with the radio on), and general (avoid other writers, don't go on book tours to promote your work).	2004-01-23
US	52216484	R3NR5VPTLJNA5Z	0375701133	441709531	The Hitler of History	Books	2	16	31	N	N	Not recommended	This book was a disappointment. On the good side, John Lukacs certainly knows all about Hitler, and the body of historical work *about* Hitler. In the introduction he says he will survey the Hitler biographies, pointing out their flaws and virtues, and he's well-equipped to do that.<br />But after the first chapter --- which goes through every major biography in chronological order --- he divides the rest of the book into aspects of Hitler's life. There's a chapter on Hitler as a statesman, Hitler and the Jewish question, Hitler and Munich, Hitler's apologists, etc. Lukacs uses the main text to describe Hitler's life, then he packs the bottom of each page with footnotes. The footnotes refer to the biographies of Hitler. Some of the notes crowd out the main text, making the book very hard to read.<br />Lukacs has two fatal flaws in his writing style. One is his habit of telling you which facts about Hitler are right, which are wrong, and never bothering to tell you WHY he thinks so. He quotes a biography, then writes \\"This is not true.\\" Okay, but why should I take Lukacs' word for it? I'm sure he appreciates a little skepticism, since this book is essentially about being skeptical of the way historians have depicted Hitler over the years. But Lukacs doesn't seem to realize that he can't just say yea or nay to each statement he quotes. It's not convincing.<br />The second fatal flaw is his need to criticize Marx, communism, Stalin, and the USSR whenever possible. Obviously, these topics should be criticized (especially Stalin). But statements about the bestial nature of Russians and the lunacy of Marx are a little too shrill. Do we need another historian telling us that the commies are bad? Lukacs treats Hitler's life with an admirable degree of nuance. Lukacs chooses his words carefully when he describes the Nazi party, Nazi Germany, Hitler, and even the term \\"totalitarian.\\" But when the commies are mentioned, that level of sophistication is gone. He just rants.<br />I can't recommend this book. It has a promising start, but it quickly drops in quality as you go. When I got into it, I looked forward to reading about other books. I wanted to know which Hitler biographies are best, and which should be avoided. But that's not what this book is.	2004-01-22
US	52216484	R16QIQB3MDQH2K	1893905241	304388091	The Extraordinary Works Of Alan Moore	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The story of a master writer	This is the autobiography of Alan Moore, in a way. George Khoury has taken the 50th birthday (and semi-retirement) of Alan Moore as an excuse to conduct a massive interview that stretches from his childhood to today. Moore's personal life, career ups and downs, and all of his stories and characters are discussed. It's exhausting --- but in a good way. For the Alan Moore fan, this is the Holy Grail.<br />Most of this information has been covered before elsewhere, but not with this kind of depth and inter-connection. Take Moore's family, for example. In other interviews, he's spoken about his marriage, divorce, and daughters. But here, with years of hindsight, he describes these events in a way that is respectful,  humorous, and free of gossip. It's all very matter-of-fact, but never dull. The more important topics --- the comic books --- are  approached in the same way. Moore is proud of his body of work, but he is honest about disappointments and unrealized ideas.<br />In the later sections, he gets into his exploration of magic and occultism. He sounds like a professor who has decided to experience his topic of study first-hand rather than reading about it. He's trying to find the source of human creativity, but without pretension. It's fascinating to read about. It gives you an insight into how and why he's created so many amazing comics over the last few decades.<br />Finally, this book is full of extras. Alan Moore's daughters get the first and final word of the book. Collaborators get small interviews and comic pages to comment on their relationship with Moore. There's a long bibliography at the end that covers 99% of everything he's done, and a sample of one of his scripts (which has never been illustrated).	2004-01-21
US	52216484	RWQQ2PNGLOQ84	0060577010	431651370	The Flash of Lightning Behind the Mountain: New Poems	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Bukowski at his best	There are three phases of Bukowski's poetry. (1) The hard-drinking, experimental 1960s and 1970s. In that period, he was putting out small chapbooks. His poems were short stories, but they felt a bit like traditional poetry. Bukowski tried some creative ways of stringing lines together back then, too. (2) The 1980s, when he was married and settled, spending time reflecting on his life. This is the best period, when Black Sparrow put out fat volumes of poetry and Bukowski had really found his 'voice.' (3) The post-death period, starting in the mid-1990s, when the back log of unpublished poems were released.<br />This book is part of that third phase. By this time, Bukowski knows exactly what he does best. Most of the experimentation is gone. This volume of one of the best of the third phase, right up there with The Night Torn Mad By Footsteps. Bukowski writes about his childhood, drinking, visiting the hospital for leukemia, the track, classical music, his father, relaxing with his wife, and  growing old in Los Angeles. He even squeezes in two political poems. Every poem is good. Some are great. If you made a 'greatest hits' collection of his post-death poetry, at least a  third of this book would be in it.<br />If you haven't tried Bukowski's poetry before, start with this book. If you're a fan, you'll be pleased with this new one. Previous 'third phase' books had some problems (&quot;Sifting Through the Madness&quot; was a disappointment), but this one shines. Bukowski is at his most reflective, with real control of his talent.	2004-01-19
US	52216484	R1A1SSLJ69S2J7	0375404538	712745860	Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sadly beautiful	Chris Ware deserves a lot of admiration for writing and illustrating this graphic novel. It took him years to finish this 400-page tale of an unhappy, withdrawn man. The story wanders a bit, forcing you to really pay attention. (Honestly, you'll like it better the second time.) At first, his artwork seems to contradict the mood of the story --- everything is drawn with the color and lines of logos, street signs, and architectural diagrams. Everything is rendered in flat pastels. But as you continue, the panels start to look empty, with a false cheer to it. It's a style that underscores the plot.<br />Chris Ware could have spent years writing a big graphic novel about superheroes, wizards, or vampires --- you know, something easy. But he didn't. Instead, he stuck his neck out and created this, one of the best graphic novels ever written, but also one that challenges the reader. Chris Ware makes it clear what a real graphic novel is. It's an expert use of the comic book medium that deserves a much larger audience.	2004-01-16
US	52216484	R3D4EK01A62HWG	189659770X	982739199	It's a Good Life, If You Don't Weaken: A Picture Novella	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A moving, understated short novel	In the 1990s, many non-superhero comics were autobiographical. Cartoonists told their own stories, revealing the details of their mundane habits, obsessions, love lives, and their work. Seth did it, too, in the second half of the decade, and his story is one of the most elegant and honest.<br />Taking his obsession with gag cartoons and newspaper strips as a jumping-off point, Seth tells his story about looking for meaning  in a rapidly changing world. You get the sense that he's worried about being pretentious (or boring), so he spices things up with conversations with his friend Chester, dating a cute brunette, visiting his mother and brother, ice skating, and smoking lots of cigarettes. There's some travel and a little detective work, too.<br />The images are not always tied to Seth's thoughtful narration. At times, he gives you landscapes to look at while he writes about his life. This could be disorienting, but it works very well. The words and images create an emotional effect that wouldn't exist if he narrated what you were looking at. His style is a personal variation on gag cartoons from the middle of the century, which turns out to be the perfect style for Canadian cities and suburbs.<br />If you're looking for something special --- maybe you want to read non-superhero comics, or you want a short novel with a twist to it --- try this book. It's perfectly suited for adults who feel a little out of place in the world.	2004-01-14
US	52216484	R1NMJQMXPQKRXF	0425163571	126824109	All I Need to Know about Filmmaking I Learned from the Toxic Avenger	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Funny and entertaining	This is a strange book. It begins with Lloyd Kaufman cracking jokes about everything from midgets on fire to belching green goo on secretaries. I laughed but I had no idea what this guy was talking about. Then he gets into making B movies with Troma, the company he started with Michael Herz after years working on Hollywood movies. He recounts his early failures and his first success.<br />That stuff is interesting, but then he goes right back to making bad jokes. I like his brand of humor --- he's the kind of guy who likes bodily functions, squashed baby heads, and tall tales about  Thai hookers --- but the humor is really forced. He seems so eager to please when all he has to do is tell the story of making cheesy, entertaining low-budget films. The Troma stories are really good. Lloyd Kaufman has a lot to say about how the film industry works, directing non-union films, setting up stunts, coming up with good exploitation movie ideas, and even merchandising. (The stuff about working in Japan and making a TV cartoon are particularly enlightening.)<br />But the bad jokes get in the way. Kaufman is a gifted storyteller and his subject matter is important and fun, so I can easily recommend this book. If you want to know about making movies that have no stars in them, this is the book for you. But you might be disappointed --- Kaufman could have described his work in greater detail, but he chose to amuse his readers instead.	2004-01-11
US	52216484	R21L7XHTR01VB4	0571211089	342149898	Kubrick: The Definitive Edition	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An excellent overview of entire Kubrick's career	With Stanley Kubrick dead and his final film released, Michael Ciment had the opportunity to update his biography/analysis of the great director's career. Rather than rewrite the entire book, he's decided to update it with new interviews and an additional chapter or two on Eyes Wide Shut. (The previous edition was updated to include Full Metal Jacket.) He's also added a lot more photographs --- stills from the films and images of Kubrick at work. The photos of Kubrick working on EWS are particularly interesting.<br />Early in the book, after a short biographical chapter, Ciment goes through a list of common motifs in Kubrick's films. These include the use of masks, actors in dual roles, character playing games such as chess and cards within the film, circular set design, and a close shot of a main character's eye. Because this section was not updated to include Full Metal Jacket or Eyes Wide Shut, you can decide for yourself if these motifs were carried on in the those two films. (In my opinion, many of the motifs are not found in his last two films.)<br />This is followed by an essay on 'Kubrick and the Fantastic,' a dull and pretentious piece that doesn't add much. It leads to the best part of the book, the second half, in which Kubrick and his collaborators are interviewed. Kubrick responds to questions with answers that are full of information, but he's evasive when he describes his own films. Later on, the author explains why: Kubrick felt his movies should be self-explanatory (after multiple viewings) and didn't like the \\"What's this movie about?\\" question.<br />The interviews with actors, set designers, co-writers, and costume designers are very good. Everyone has the same reaction: Kubrick exasperated them as he demanded their best work . . . but they wouldn't trade that experience for anything in the world. It's a testament to Kubrick that he choose people who were not petty. (The only sour note is Frederick Raphael, the co-screenwriter for Eyes Wide Shut.He seems smart, but not in Kubrick's league.)<br />If you're a casual Kubrick fan, this book is a worthwhile introduction. The photos are very good and, as an overview, it's excellent. It is, however, pretentious at times in the analysis of the films. For the hardcore Kubrick fan who has read (or is planning to read) everything on the director, this book ranks third or fourth. Read Baxter's and Herr's books first.	2004-01-11
US	52216484	RK59KYXBO4VCA	1896597637	566735703	Louis Riel: A Comic-Strip Biography	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The story of a Canadian rebellion	Chester Brown spent the better part of five years on this comic book biography. It was worth the effort. Louis Riel was a religious leader of an uprising in Canada in 1885. Brown describes the events leading to the uprising, he shows how it played out, and then he wraps up the story with Riel's final fate. Along the way he touches lightly on issues of religion, political conspiracy, and insanity. For those readers who want additional information --- or who want to double-check Brown's accuracy --- there is a bibliography and extensive footnotes.<br />What sets this book apart is the fact that it's a big comic book.  Brown tells the story using silent pictures whenever possible. Characters are drawn in a flat but beautiful way. No one is depicted as a cartoon, but the tone never matches a straight history book, either. Brown goes further by using the footnotes in a surprising way: He tells you that he got things wrong. Then he says he isn't sure why. At first, these tiny confessions seem strange, but then you realize he's just being honest.<br />If you're looking for a great graphic novel, this is the book to buy. Chester Brown has taken the story of a historical figure very few Americans have heard of and presented it in a unique way. Although it was written for adults, Louis Riel is a perfect gift for a young reader --- it's a comic book, but a very sophisticated one.	2004-01-07
US	52216484	R12M4IUW76R52W	0971865906	291676723	A Reader's Manifesto: An Attack on the Growing Pretentiousness in American Literary Prose	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A helpful critique of bad books	After trying to read Don DeLillo's 'Underworld,' I felt like a failure. I knew the book was supposed to be brilliant, but I couldn't get through a single paragraph without getting confused or annoyed. Was it me? How could a highly-praised book be so bad?<br />BR Myers takes DeLillo to task in the second chapter of 'A Reader's Manifesto.' Using plenty of quotes --- including passages that other critics have singled out for praise --- Myers  shows that the emperor has no clothes. For some reason, many people in the critical establishment like over-written and needlessly abstract novels.<br />All of BR Myers' book is as good as the DeLillo chapter. My only complaint is that it's too short. Myers even spends a few dozen pages responding to critics of the manifesto. But it turns out that the critics have willfully ignored what Myers is clearly saying --- bad writing does not deserve praise, and too many contemporary, prize-winning novelists write poorly. If you like reading novels and you feel pressure to plow through 'postmodern' books like 'Underworld,' you should read this manifesto first. You'll be glad you did.	2004-01-07
US	52216484	R3DE380J7YP15Q	0312195710	726590164	The Life and Times of R. Crumb: Comments from Contemporaries	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Useless anecdotes about a great artist	This is probably the least important book ever written about Robert Crumb and his work. Although it's packed with people --- each one of them talks about Crumb in their own words --- almost everything they say is forgettable. I think it's because the chapters are so short. Each person gives you two or three pages about reading Zap in the 1960s or hanging out with Crumb. I got bored hearing the same tale over and over. Two chapters stand out: Crumb's ex-wife Dana and Roger Ebert. The Crumb artwork in the middle of the book looks nice, but most of it is excerpted from longer stories. Instead of this, just buy Fantagraphics' Complete Crumb Comics.	2004-01-04
US	52216484	R2U2GKGAXYJLJC	0446530735	963326127	KISS: Behind the Mask - Official Authorized Biography	Books	4	17	19	N	N	The story behind the band	This is a very detailed book. It's so detailed, in fact, that I was exhausted after reading it. The first section makes it clear that the two masterminds behind the band, Gene Simmons and Paul Stanley, wanted to be pop stars, not respected musicians. That's great, of course, especially when they make it clear that their gimmicks are just a little more honest than other rock stars.<br />Stanley and Simmons, two Jewish New Yorkers who grew up on television and British bands, joined together to form Wicked Lester. They got a record contract and recorded an album, but the deal fell through. Then they met Ace and Peter, two guys with a little more interest in music (and getting really loaded). They changed their name to Kiss and started experimenting with makeup. The decision to disguise themselves and create four alter egos was a stroke of genius. Even if you never buy a Kiss album, you know Kiss and you'll never forget them.<br />But they needed songs to go with the image --- products to sell and music to play in concert. When you get into the third section, an album-by-album (and, at times, track-by-track) review of the entire output of the band, you see how Ace and Peter complimented (and frustrated) the two masterminds. This section is a long list of co-writers for the songs, album producers, and new band members who replaced Ace and Peter. By the end of the book, your head is spinning with names. Gene and Paul are at the center of it all, trying to keep their entertainment empire going.<br />Even if you have no interest in Kiss, you'll learn a lot from this book. It's as much about the music business as it is about the band. Even for those who don't care for Kiss' music, the phenomenon is worth reading about. You'll learn about overdubbing live albums, following trends to stay on the charts, and paying radio to play your songs and turn them into 'hits.' If you like Kiss, you have to read this book. There's so much information here, you'll have trouble putting it down.	2004-01-04
US	52216484	R3UAR0H5562LEM	0449906973	863596278	Instant Physics: From Aristotle to Einstein, and Beyond	Books	4	20	20	N	N	An amusing, surprisingly complete introduction	This is a lot like other 'physics for beginners' books, with a few important differences. First, Tony Rothman is a good writer. He keeps the text light and fun. Exploring the secrets of matter and energy is easier when you have a sense of humor, and he knows it. Second, the basic facts appear at the beginning and end of each chapter for easy review. It's a convenient way to organize the book.<br />Third and finally, Rothman dives right into the mathematics of physics without apology. Sure, this stuff can boggle your mind if you don't have a head for it. But I'd rather have them there, in the book, so I can see them. I've read too many 'physics for beginners' books without any equations and I had no idea just how complex the math is. With this book, I can see that it's not THAT hard. I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in physics. It's one of the better introductions to the subject.	2004-01-04
US	52216484	R1ITTGHTIH6K8J	0140138862	900807093	The Friendly Shakespeare: A Thoroughly Painless Guide to the Best of the Bard	Books	5	44	44	N	N	The perfect guide for the beginner	I can't imagine a better guide to Shakespeare than this. It's like a \\"for dummies\\" book, but better. The author covers just about everything, but she never bores you. In fact, I could hardly put this book down.<br />After a very lively introduction (about Shakespeare's life and the Globe theater), the author lists the plays in the order in which they were written. She divides them into four groups: the romantic comedies, the historical plays, the tragedies, and the romances. Then she tackles each of the four groups, writing about some of the plays. She tells you why the play is famous, she covers key characters (like Falstaff), and she explains the controversies that surround some of them. (For example, the charge of anti-Semitism about Merchant of Venice.) She makes a point of not covering every play --- if she covered them all, the reader would eventually lose interest.<br />Instead of getting bored, you are starved for more. The book is packed with trivia and intelligent observations. The author isn't shy about the sex and violence in the plays, either, which keeps things interesting. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants an overview of Shakespeare's work. If you don't know about his plays, you probably want to, but you need a guide that was written specifically for you. This is the book.	2003-12-14
US	52216484	R6J4ZIZFELG64	3822815926	798119162	Stanley Kubrick (Basic Film Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Kubrick's career, in pictures	This is a book-length essay on the films of Stanley Kubrick, accompanied by an enormous number of beautiful photographs. Most of the photos are stills from the films (as you might expect), but there are also quite a few shots of Kubrick at work. The examples of his work for Look magazine and stills from his first two movies are a nice touch.<br />The essay covers familiar ground for those who know his career: Growing up in New York playing chess and composing photographic essays, the early noir films, and then the classics: Lolita, Dr. Strangelove, 2001, The Shining, etc. The entire body of work is covered, including Eyes Wide Shut. The final pages feature promotional posters for half of the films and an extensive bibliography of books and articles for further reading.<br />If you're a Kubrick fan, you'll enjoy this. You won't learn anything new, but that's okay. If you aren't a fan, this book will make you want to see Kubrick's films --- the photos from the 2001 soundstages, in particular, will make you want to rediscover that film.	2003-12-14
US	52216484	R3UKWXQKT398LV	0471202576	205043400	Everything's Relative: And Other Fables from Science and Technology	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Who was first in science and technology?	This is a book about priority in science --- who gets the credit for being there first? One undisputed case is between Darwin and Wallace. Wallace came up with evolution on his own, but he was a friend of Darwin. When Wallace informed Darwin that he planned to publish the theory, Darwin quickly finished his Origin of Species. The rest is history. Evolution is credited to Darwin, but far fewer people know about Wallace.<br />Tony Rothman tells about two dozen additional stories like this in Everything's Relative. He divides the book into three sections: Physics, Technology, and Biology. The discoveries in physics center on explanations for the behavior of matter and energy. But so many of these explanations were &quot;in the air&quot; when they came to light that you can find at least one other person who should be co-credited for just about every major discovery. Einstein, in particular, wasn't inclined to credit those who came before him, but Rothman knows the facts. He tells you where Einstein got his ideas, then he leaves you to judge who was first.<br />This book was hard to put down. Somehow, Rothman takes a vast number of facts --- including a lot of dates and names I've never heard before --- and strings them together in a way that is easy to understand. With an average writer, I would have been lost. But Rothman makes it easy. This is a great science book. If you've read stacks of science books already, you need this one. It will correct some of your ideas about priority. It adds to your understanding of science, as well. For those who don't read a lot about science, it's a great place to start. I wish I knew all of this stuff years ago.	2003-12-11
US	52216484	R2TOTBHJ0OGIK1	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	15	23	N	N	Al Franken nails the right	On page 24, Al Franken writes &quot;Liberals love America like grown-ups. Grown-up love means actually understanding what you love, taking the good with the bad.&quot; This statement sums up Al Franken's point of view, and his method of expressing it --- it's a simplistic way of describing the difference between liberals and conservatives, but then it has to be. After all, Al Franken is a comedian. To make you laugh, he has to simplify things, keep them quick and entertaining, and poke fun at the right wing's worst moments.<br />He starts off with Ann Coulter's well-documented lies from her books and editorials. He moves on to Rill O'Reilly, showing that O'Reilly lied about his awards and where he grew up. His chapter on Sean Hannity includes the infamous chart that covers up Reagan's tax-and-spend policies. The chapter on the Paul Wellstone Memorial is the least funny, but the most important. Al Franken is really upset about how conservatives twisted the heartfelt sentiments expressed at the memorial.<br />Halfway through the book, he shifts gears. He returns to his &quot;Chickenhawk&quot; tale from his Rush Limbaugh book, adding new characters. He writes about infiltrating Bob Jones University and attending the White House Correspondents Dinner. He adds in a one-act play and even a comic book about Jesus. The examination of lies slows down in the second half, but the shift to personal stories keeps your interest.<br />If you want a careful analysis of the lies on the right, there are plenty of other books you can read after this one (like Joe Conanson's new book). If you start here, you won't regret it.	2003-12-11
US	52216484	R3LT73KBF6NSG5	1859844936	890921674	The Unfinished Twentieth Century: The Crisis of Weapons of Mass Destruction	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A brief book with little to recommend it	Jonathan Schell said what he had to say about nuclear war in \\"The Fate of the Earth.\\" That book is required reading for anyone interested in the topic. He followed it with \\"The Abolition,\\" which expanded the same themes and added some new information. But it wasn't essential. Now he's written this short volume which adds nothing new.<br />He tries to find a new angle by tying the threat of nuclear war to Conrad's \\"Heart of Darkness.\\" But the analogy doesn't work; it just isn't there. I was disappointed by this book. If it wasn't so short, I would have quit after 50 pages. But don't let this stop you from reading Jonathan Schell's other books.	2003-12-11
US	52216484	RPQRHFKZRIHSO	0060528370	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492-Present (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	14	21	N	N	A history of struggles for freedom, justice, and peace	By page 10, after a fascinating look at the journals of Columbus, Howard Zinn explains his approach to writing the history of the Unites States. Rather than write what Henry Kissinger called &quot;a history of states,&quot; Zinn chooses to focus on the stories of the people. The result is a sort of class history in disguise. The history of states is really a history of the people who run the countries --- a history of the powerful.<br />Zinn writes about strikers, the Abolitionists, socialists like Hellen Keller and Eugene Debs, environmental activists, and even a few crusading politicians like LaGuardia. He reveals a long trend in the US for resistance to new forms of tyranny. The word &quot;democracy&quot; takes on a different coloration --- instead of voting for a candidate, Americans have been forced to take to the streets, calling into question the whole system. Two excellent examples of this are in chapters 17 and 18, covering the civil rights movement and the resistance to the Vietnam War. In both of these movements, activists were not given candidates to vote for --- or they couldn't even vote due to racism --- so they had to march, strike, and pressure leaders.<br />A People's History of the United States has had a real impact in this country. Millions have bought it and read it. That trend will continue because so few historians are willing to take Zinn's approach. Although a handful of other historians have written their own people's histories, it's not enough to satisfy the average American. This book should be considered a revolutionary first step toward exposing the struggles that have been part of the US political scene since the country was founded. Rather than a revisionist history, it is a history of the stories that have been left out of the other books. Read it and you'll see the world in a different way.	2003-12-08
US	52216484	R3K0QK032VKMI3	1583670831	635977300	Killing Me Softly: Toxic Waste, Corporate Profit, and the Struggle for Environmental Justice	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The political economy of toxic waste	This book gives you an introduction to industrial pollution from a Marxist perspective. In this case, &quot;Marxist&quot; just means that the authors are willing to look at corporate causes, and show how the government interacts with corporations to ensure profits. Their description of the system is very good. In fact, it would be impossible to refute. They show how US taxpayers pay the cost for cleanup, then major chemical firms buy the cleanup companies and make a profit off of their own pollution.<br />After a brief but comprehensive overview of the chemical industry, public relations (&quot;greenwashing&quot;), and the history of dumping chemicals in poor areas, the authors turn their focus to a fight in Mercer County, Missouri. They tell the story of local activists trying to stop Waste-Tech, Inc.'s attempt to set up a toxic waste incinerator. Through public pressure, they struggle to defend their own health.<br />If you want a good book on the environment, try this one. The authors know how the system works and, although detractors may disregard their emphasis on the profit motive, everything here rings true. The footnotes are extensive, leading you to additional information.	2003-12-06
US	52216484	R1Y9J3F6867IDT	1400030757	646484022	India: A Wounded Civilization	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Well-written but unsatisfying	For those who want an introduction to India's politics and culture, look elsewhere. V.S. Naipaul writes beautifully --- every sentence is carefully crafted --- but his impressions do not amount to much. While I read, my head was filled with one vivid image after another. I assume this accurately reflects the complexity of India. But by the time I was halfway through, I was lost. What's he trying to say? What's really happening in India? The final third mentions Gandhi (and his complex legacy) on nearly every page, but little of what Naipaul has to say taught me anything. Although this book was a pleasure to read, I'm afraid I can't recommend it. It's simply too scattered and unfocused.	2003-12-05
US	52216484	R2I1I4TZJ00YJS	0375714499	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	5	12	17	N	N	How the US media really works	Americans are not happy with the performance of the news media, and a number of scholars and pundits have given their two cents on the topic. Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky --- who had already given more than two cents in the past --- joined forces to write their own critique in 1988. The result (reprinted in 2002 with a new forward) is one of the most important media studies ever written.<br />The book comes in three sections: A propaganda model, a review of  &quot;alignment&quot; news stories, and coverage of the Indochina wars. The propaganda model is fairly simple. The mainstream news sources are corporate entities with a set of built-in limitations. Reporters need to serve their government sources or they'll be out of the loop. Editors and owners will be watching for stories that slant the wrong way (too pro-union, for example). Meanwhile, freelance &quot;flak&quot; providers raise the red flag when a reporter --- or newspaper or TV channel --- is straying from the path of orthodoxy.<br />During the Cold War, communism was used to keep the media in line. If you stray, you might be labeled a commie or a socialist. These terms changed to &quot;liberal&quot; during the late 1980s (and became institutionalized in the 1990s). The words are different, but the effect is the same. Chomsky has said in interviews that the emphasis on painting reporters as &quot;reds&quot; was too specific --- flak doesn't have to take the form of red-baiting. (The references in the book on this topic feel a little dated.)<br />The second section is a collection of case studies in alignment: The media adopts a pro-US stance when covering foreign elections, demonizing official enemies, and counting victims from wars, massacres, and human rights violations. The case studies are over ten years old, but they still resonate today. Change the names of the countries from, say, Guatemala to Iraq and you have the same story: Reporters stay aligned with US policy by limiting their criticism to official enemies.<br />The third section is an in-depth study of the media's coverage of wars in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. This is the best part of the book. To say that these two authors know this subject  is an understatement. They go through one story after another, showing how the media colluded with the US government to carry out a murderous, imperialist war against a peasant population. The war was ugly, and the atrocities had to be whitewashed to keep it going. Chomsky and Herman have made a major contribution here. This section is required reading for anyone who wants to know what really happened in Southeast Asia in the 1960s and 1970s.<br />The book ends with a Chomsky/Herman trademark: A mass of footnotes. Track down these sources and you'll learn even more, or just read the extra bits of information tucked into each footnote. (There are a number of references to unpublished papers by Alex Carey. These papers were later collected in a book called Taking the Risk Out of Democracy. That book is an essential part of Herman and Chomsky's critique.)<br />If you want to understand the news media in the US, you should take a look at Manufacturing Consent. Herman and Chomsky make a case that is hard to refute. They discard to arguments over liberal versus conservative and get to the heart of the matter. Read this and you'll never watch the news the same way again.	2003-12-05
US	52216484	R2A6A5IRT7CZZR	0896087247	71159355	War Talk	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A passionate, intelligent collection of essays	This is a collection of six essays on the impact and ideology of international war at the start of the new century. The first three are reprinted from magazines in India. The fourth and sixth are transcripts of talks she gave in New Mexico and Brazil. The fifth is her introduction to the reprint of Noam Chomsky's book, For Reasons of State.<br />Arundhati Roy is outraged by the development of casual militarization that has increased over the last decade. In her own backyard, she watches as the government of India unveils its nuclear weapons program, pretending that this will lead to peace with its neighbors. She notes the deepening violence and poverty in India and asks why her government's priorities are upside down.<br />This leads to her assessment of US policy, which shows the same pattern. Speaking in Brazil at the close of the World Social Forum in 2003, she links the power of US corporations to the creeping fascism of the Indian government. She describes the way they have joined forces to exploit new markets in poor countries. War Talk serves as a useful introduction to the current state of the world. Using the footnotes, you can explore other sources. Arundhati Roy's anger is palpable, and her experience as an activist outside the Western world gives her readers a valuable new perspective.	2003-11-28
US	52216484	RWOL5P07X2GLA	1565847946	413406528	For Reasons of State	Books	5	41	46	N	N	A seminal work on Vietnam, anarchism, and human nature	In 1973, Noam Chomsky released this collection of expanded articles and new material. This was his second political book, published at the height of Vietnam war protests. The book begins with an in-depth examination of the Pentagon Papers. This confidential history of US policy toward Vietnam was made public in the late 1960s, leading to a lawsuit by the US government against the New York Times and other newspapers. The newspapers won (when midwestern papers started printing the confidential history, making the lawsuit irrelevant) and everyone was finally able to see what the Pentagon had been up to since the 1950s.<br />It's not a pretty picture. Chomsky quotes the Papers relentlessly, citing multiple versions of it. He lets the generals and politicians speak for themselves, revealing their real commitments, showing how they prevented democracy from breaking out in Vietnam in 1954. From there, he shows how the war expanded to Laos and Cambodia. The footnotes for these chapters are massive, citing hundreds of reliable sources. This section of the book is one of the best examinations of the Vietnam war you'll ever read, right up there with Gabriel Kolko's &quot;Anatomy of a War&quot; and Marilyn Young's &quot;The Vietnam Wars.&quot;<br />Then Chomsky shifts gears. He writes a brief but powerful essay on war resistance and the role of universities as subversive institutions. These chapters show Chomsky's commitment to peaceful, intelligent, democratic protest --- and his honesty about its limitations.<br />The final chapters are about behaviorism, anarchism, and human nature. Although these topics are quite a change from the Vietnam war material at the beginning, they are no less impressive. Chomsky's review of BF Skinner's behaviorism completely demolishes the concept. This essay single-handedly brought the field to a halt in 1972. (Skinner responded once, failing to counter Chomsky's arguments, and behaviorism never recovered.) He even takes time to explain, in a single footnote, why Richard Herrnstein's study of IQ is useless (which made &quot;The Bell Curve&quot; irrelevant twenty years before it was written). Chomsky's notes on anarchism and his reflections on the mystery of human nature describe his underlying attitude about people and their relation to the state.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants an education on Vietnam or Noam Chomsky's political work. The lies of Vietnam --- and the illegitimate authority of the state --- continue today in new forms. This book will inspire you to activism, and to learn more.	2003-11-26
US	52216484	R3SGMPISRYDO0B	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A frightening, realistic epic	This is the story of a group of people, each carefully drawn, travelling across the United States after an apocalyptic epidemic. In the expanded version, you get a few scenes showing how the apocalypse was released from its bottle. You also get a lot more background on the principal characters. The characters gather together and, as they try to rebuild their lives, they realize they have to confront a supernatural evil if they are going to survive.<br />I always liked this novel becuase, as I read it, I could tell that Stephen King believed every word of it. He doesn't stop to apologize for his wild ideas, or to explain how any of this could happen. When the survivors try to build a community, King explores frontier democracy through them. He doesn't flinch for an instant, doubting that he can switch from horror to politics. He just keeps going.<br />The expanded edition makes the ending much better. A few characters have to take a journey into the badlands to take their stand. In this edition, you get the whole journey, which gives the climax more context. I highly recommend this book to anyone, especially people who have never read Stephen King before.	2003-11-24
US	52216484	R1022BEPEC61MD	0740706721	470651737	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Lots of fun, could have been twice as long	I picked up this book in a book store while my girlfriend was shopping. I sat in a chair and read for a while. When she finished and said she was going to another store, I said &quot;I'll just sit here and read this.&quot; She came back an hour later and I was still reading, so I figured I should buy the book.<br />I couldn't put it down because I was FINALLY reading real criticism. Plenty of movie critics are just cheerleaders; they praise every major Hollywood movie, no matter how brain-dead it is. But Roger Ebert has the guts (or the clout, as America's most powerful film critic) to slam a movie when it deserves it. And, let's face it, a LOT of movies from the past 20 years are very, very bad.<br />Ebert doesn't make the mistake of picking on low-budget trash. That's like kicking a man when he's down. Instead, he gives zero stars to big-budget films featuring well-known stars. My favorite example is &quot;Her Alibi,&quot; starring Tom Selleck. In this movie, a house is blown up as Selleck and his supermodel sidekick escape. Half an hour later, they return to the same house. The filmmakers forgot it had blown up earlier in the story.<br />Ebert's reviews are full of these bits of information. It's a lot of fun to read. Hopefully, he will write a sequel --- but not just a collection of MORE reviews of really bad movies. He should take all those reviews and turn it into a lighthearted analysis of why Hollywood makes so many zero-star films.	2003-11-24
US	52216484	R2II9B6V43MPOK	0851703933	532979101	Taxi Driver (BFI Film Classics)	Books	2	8	14	N	N	A brief look at Scorsese's 1976 film	This is a very short book that summarizes the plot of Taxi Driver. The author adds a handful of ideas along the way, ranging from the obvious (Travis Bickle is a borderline personality) to the questionable (when buying guns, he's choosing from a wide range of penises). It helps that the author is a woman. Her take on the violence and sexuality of the story is slightly different from the other (male) reviews I have read. However, there's so little here that is new, it's not worth buying. This would be better as a chapter in a larger book.	2003-11-22
US	52216484	R6JSMXNYDN225	1565848586	667724133	Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Chomsky critiques scholars of Vietnam and Spanish anarchism	This is the first chapter from Chomsky's first political book, 'American Power and the New Mandarins.' Why did the New Press decide to break out this chapter and print it as a stand-alone book? I have no idea.<br />'Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship' is divided into two sections: US foreign policy in Asia in the 1960s, and Spanish anarchism in the 1930s. Chomsky draws these two topics together by quoting scholars and journalists, showing their bias against popular revolutionary movements. He uses their own words to show their bias.<br />Chomsky's critique is fair. In the section on Spanish anarchism, he focuses on a book by Gabriel Jackson, but first he praises the book. He's showing that even in a book by a competent scholar --- someone who knows his subject very well --- the anti-revolutionary bias creeps in.<br />Although the facts in this book are valuable, I can't recommend it. It is, after all, a chapter from another Chomsky book. It certainly stands up on its own, but it feels too slight. I'd recommend 'American Power and the New Mandarins' instead. From there, you can read extended critiques of liberal scholars on Vietnam in Chomsky's 'For Reasons of State' and 'Towards a New Cold War.'	2003-11-22
US	52216484	R2SNOPK7JX8V4V	1565848594	760414019	Towards a New Cold War: U.S. Foreign Policy from Vietnam to Reagan	Books	5	23	23	N	N	US foreign policy in the 1970s	This is a reprint of a book from 1982. It's a collection of essays and articles dating from 1973 to 1981. After a lengthy introduction (which could be published as a short book all by itself), Chomsky uses the first four chapters to examine the way the media covers up US imperialism. Picking up after his famous essay, &quot;The Responsibility of Intellectuals,&quot; he examines the complicity of journalists, editorialists, and other writers in making excuses for a murderous foreign policy. His remarks mention dozens of specific cases, naming names and quoting their morally repugnant words. You'll either laugh or cry when you see how war crimes such as the bombing of Cambodia were &quot;explained&quot; by the most prestigious writers in the country. <br />But his focus is also generalized --- he compares these people  to the commisars of the Soviet Union, showing that in any country (democratic or otherwise), serving state policy is the only way to rise to the top. After reading the first four chapters, you'll feel a sense of recognition. I guess we always suspected that this is how the media *really* works.<br />Chapter 5 is co-authored with Edward S. Herman. Herman is the principal author of one of Chomsky's best-known books, Manufacturing Consent. (They teamed up together in 1979 to write The Political Economy of Human Rights, in two volumes. He's written a few important books himself, including The Real Terror Network.) This chapter continues in the vein of the first four, concentrating on the way the media and scholars rewrote the history of the Vietnam war. As with the previous chapters, dozens of specific examples are given, creating a broad picture of modern propaganda techniques.<br />From there, Chomsky goes on to review Henry Kissinger's memoirs, conflict in the Middle East, the role of the US in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and (finally) a brilliant chapter on East Timor (written after the Indonesian invasion was in full swing).<br />I urge you to read this book. It paints a detailed portrait of consistency in US foreign policy. Intellectuals will insist that each invasion of each country is a unique moment in history, but Chomsky's meticuluous study shows the common threads. This book can be overwhelming at times in its endless parade of facts, but the effect is liberating. When you're done reading it, you'll feel that some light has been shed on what's really going on in the world.	2003-11-18
US	52216484	R1Q7C4M8HROAX5	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	13	20	N	N	The story they don't want to hear	Barbara Ehrenreich came down from the ivory tower of academia and lived the life of the working poor. She knows what you know --- that millions of Americans work very hard for very little money --- and she was willing to document it by becoming a waitress, a house-cleaner, and a WalMart employee. Along the way, she learned about going hungry, uncompensated labor, the paranoia of employers over unions, and why so many poor people with jobs can't even get adequate housing.<br />She saves the best for last. Anticipating the critics --- &quot;Your evidence is anecdotal!&quot; --- the final chapter gives you all the statistics. The result is like a smack in the face. You can't escape the personal stories OR the numbers.<br />Of course, Ehrenreich can't win. This important study of reality in America will be disregarded because she didn't become a REAL poor person. She *only* did it for a few months. But that's understandable. Many people don't want this story told and they'll do whatever it takes to avoid it. But if you're reading this review, you can probably handle it. Buy this book, read it, and lend it to a friend.	2003-11-17
US	52216484	RQ9G36XDNJ7CS	0375756140	949337727	The Cost of Living	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Dams, poverty, and nuclear insanity	This is a short but effective book. It's divided into two parts. In part one, Arundhati Roy writes about dam-building in India. This heavily-footnoted chapter gets a longer treatment in her next book, Power Politics. Here she introduces the topic, adding a lot of context to the statistics. Her outrage is palpable. This leads into the second part, and angry essay about India and Pakistan becoming part of the nuclear fraternity (both countries publicly tested nuclear weapons in May of 1998). Both countries have so many problems --- and so much tension between them over Kashmir --- that this development can only be considered a disaster for the hundreds of millions of people in the region.<br />Arundhati Roy is someone we should all listen to. She's an activist, novelist, and a great writer. This book is a good introduction to her work.	2003-11-17
US	52216484	RCBF54X5IVF7O	0306812711	271413555	Milk It: Collected Musings on the Alternative Music Explosion of the '90s	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A light but critical look at grunge, neo-punk, and hip-hop	Jim DeRogatis attempts to sum up the music of the 1990s (with an emphasis on the first half of the decade) by reprinting ten years' worth of articles. The articles come from a dozen different publications.<br />The result is admirable but unsatisfying. He's critical of the bands, which is good. His articles on REM, for example, reveal their careful manipulation of the media. He lets Courtney Love bury herself in outbursts, he slams NWA for selling hate, and he attempts to portray Rage Against the Machine's guitarist as some sort of socialist dupe. That's the kind of entertainment journalism we need --- something skeptical, not the usual fawning over celebrities and rock stars.<br />The problem is, the book isn't focused. The articles should have been re-written, expanded, and combined into longer essays. Too many of them are so short, you wonder why he bothered to include them. (Maybe to make the book longer.) DeRogatis trivializes his own point of view by touching on each band too lightly. This book is worth reading but not worth buying. I'd gladly read a sequel, a complete review of music in the 1990s, written from scratch. Hopefully, he'll make this flawed but interesting book an introduction to a better one.	2003-11-16
US	52216484	R16B2IL9MKTQBZ	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Easy to read and smart	Michael's Moore's \\"Stupid White Men\\" is perfect for liberals who don't read very much. He starts off with the election scandal of 2000. As he points out, conservatives want everyone to \\"get over it,\\" but conservatives never cared about democracy very much anyway. Then he writes an open letter to George Bush, asking him out his background.<br />Afer that, the book loosens up. Moore wants to entertain you, so he writes a lot of lists, he comments on living with women, he talks lightly about race in America, and takes on global warming and a bad education system. One of the best sections is \\"We're Number One,\\" in which he lists all the things the US is screwing up --- we're best at locking up our own people, at putting ourselves in debt, etc. This leads to a discussion of the US prison system and the death penalty, an important chapter everyone should read.<br />This book is popular (and it's going to stay that way) because it's so easy to read. You'll learn a lot and there's plenty of sources at the end if you want to double-check the facts. Michael Moore is very good at coming across like a smart Everyman. Buy this book, read it, and lend it to a friend.	2003-11-10
US	52216484	RORWIAWEAEDGY	1583225781	339259784	Full Spectrum Dominance: U.S. Power in Iraq and Beyond	Books	4	28	34	N	N	A smart, brief guide to the new Cold War	The high point of &quot;Full Spectrum Dominance&quot; is chapter 2, in which Rahul Mahajan examines the Bush administration's National Security Strategy. This public document outlines the basic contours of a new Cold War, a perpetual war fought against terrorists instead of communists. Mahajan reviews the important points of the NSS, then spends the rest of the book backing up his analysis with a brief history of US imperialism, attacks on Iraqi civilians during the 1990s, US disregard for international law, the drive to war in Iraq, and the oil cartels.<br />That's a lot of information for a 200-page, heavily-footnoted book. But Mahajan makes it work. This book packs a lot of important facts and insights into a small package. I recommend it to anyone who wants background on US foreign policy and the current war in Iraq, especially for those people who don't read a lot about politics and need a good place to start.	2003-11-09
US	52216484	R21A9UHYZUKFBR	0609807072	154381516	Gig: Americans Talk About Their Jobs	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Americans defined by their work	It's too bad it took so long for someone to put together another book like Studs Terkel's \\"Working.\\" \\"Gig\\" is a collection of interviews with over 120 Americans who talk about their jobs. The questions are removed, so you end up with 3- and 4-page monologues. It's an effective technique, letting each person describe their working life in their own words.<br />The editors retained the references to sex and a lot of swearing, which is good. That's how people talk, so you might as well leave it in. The degree of honesty isn't reflected in the tone of the interviews, however --- the people might feel free to swear, but they don't feel free to complain about bosses, insecurity about layoffs, being stuck in dead-end jobs, bad pay, poor career choices, illegal business practices, or annoying co-workers. All of these topics get *some* coveage, but only enough to remind you how rare they are. Frankly, I think the book is too positive, with far too many people saying they love their jobs and couldn't be happier.<br />You should read it for yourself and see if you get the same reaction. It's a very easy book to read; every interview is over before it can get boring. Everyone has a unique story to tell. The range of professions is wide, giving you a broad spectrum of people to listen to.	2003-11-09
US	52216484	RQBIAQ16RQRQ9	1559701269	882676573	The Temple and the Lodge	Books	2	19	25	N	N	Freemasons, the Templars, and the American Revolution	In \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail,\\" Baigent and Leigh connected the secret of the Holy Grail with Freemasonry. In this book, they follow-up on that connection by taking a closer look at how the Freemasons were formed, and why. The funny thing is, there's no way you'll know if this is all made-up or real. Almost every isolated fact in the book is undisputed, but the connections between those facts are disregarded as conspiracy theories. For example, they connect the persecution of the Templars with Robert the Bruce in Scotland. There is *some* connection, but how meaningful is it?<br />As you read this book, you'll either lose your patience with the authors' ability to turn small connections into secret plots, or you'll see a lot of truth in their research. Americans will love the final chapters, in which the authors present an alternative history of the Revolution of 1776 as a rivalry between Masons. Is that really what happened? Probably not, but it's an interesting idea. In the end, this book is little more than a way to make more money from the people who enjoyed \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail,\\" but it's easy to read and gives you a lot to think about.	2003-11-08
US	52216484	R25K8P2YHFLH5H	1565847709	706360630	After the New Economy	Books	4	63	65	N	N	Henwood describes the state we're in	Doug Henwood announced this book (his follow-up to \\"Wall Street\\") back when the so-called New Economy was still around.<BR>Those of us who read his Left Business Observer newsletter waited impatiently for over five years.<br />It was worth the wait. Henwood starts off just where you'd expect --- poking fun at the Internet revolutionaries, the intellectual<BR>frauds who claimed the US economy had reached a new age.<br />Then he gets into the numbers. Oh man, does he have numbers. Chapters two and three are all about productivity, income, and<BR>wealth. He gives you a few statistics, he explains what they mean, and then he tells you that the numbers can't be trusted. (He has a habit of saying, \\"What does this all mean? Honestly, no one knows. But I'll make an educated guess.\\") This kind of<BR>humility is rare among economists. He forces you to form your own opinion about the accuracy of the numbers and their<BR>relevance.<br />Despite the constant caveats, a clear picture emerges. The US economy is deeply integrated into the world economy, with Third<BR>World patterns of wealth and worker control developing right here in the First World. Although the US is still more comfortable<BR>than, say, Colombia, it's falling behind countries like Belgium and France. Divisions of wealth, a pathetic social safety net, and weak unions keep an overworked, low-paid, insecure workforce in their place.<br />Then he turns to globalization. This chapter has a few problems. Henwood likes cosmopolitanism --- the social form of<BR>globalization. And he says the international economy has been around for over a century, so we shouldn't treat it like something new. Then he picks a handful of people who don't represent the anti-globalization movement --- people from Earth First and self-appointed experts such as David Korten --- and uses their crazy quotes. But it turns out that he agrees with the<BR>anti-globalization protesters on most issues. So why does he take this approach? Because the anti-globalization activists are using the wrong name for their movement.<br />That might sound like a petty basis for a chapter in a book about the New Economy. And it is.<br />Then he gets back on track. He finishes with a brilliant chapter on finance. Picking up where he left off in his previous book, he<BR>shows that economists don't care how international investment or the stock market *really* works. He describes crooked stock<BR>analysts, corrupt CEOs, and disciples of the \\"broadband future.\\" He quotes former World Bank economist Joseph Stiglitz<BR>saying that the IMF can't avoid programs that bankrupt Third World countries because bankruptcy isn't in their computer<BR>models.<br />By the time you're done with this book, you'll want to read it again. It's packed with small, easily-understandable charts. The<BR>writing style is very good --- Henwood sounds like he's sitting next to you, talking to you about economics at your level. I highly<BR>recommend After the New Economy to anyone who cares about the current state of work and money in the world.	2003-11-08
US	52216484	R2YQVG9HRX4H74	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	128	138	N	N	A summary of Chomsky's view, backed by current information	During the 1990s, quite a few Chomsky books were compilations of previously-published material. He built books out of transcripts of talks, long interviews, and articles from Z magazine. Those books are all very good, but many of them had a scattered feel to them.  In &quot;Hegemony or Survival,&quot; he returns to the days when he sits at the typewriter and pounds out a new book.<br />This time, Chomsky sums up over 30 years of research on US foreign policy. He uses the current war in Iraq and the history of our policy toward Cuba as his key cases. That's not to say he leaves out other countries. In fact, this book mentions one country after another in which the US government worked hard to overthrow democracy abroad while covering it up at home. But, by putting emphasis on Cuba and Iraq, Chomsky shows the consistency of US policy --- the methods, the tactics, the justifications, and the effects.<br />It's the wide range of information that makes the book so convincing. Chomsky doesn't write opinion pieces. He presents you with a flood of facts, fully documented, and allows those facts to convince you. As you read, you'll say &quot;Wow. Is that really true?&quot; and flip to the footnotes. You'll find credible sources every time. You'll shake your head, wondering how you could have missed such important information. At some point, you end up reading with a finger wedged in the footnote section, flipping back and forth and making mental notes to double-check some of those sources later.<br />If you haven't read Chomsky before, start with one of the better interview books such as &quot;Understanding Power&quot; and &quot;Chronicles of Dissent.&quot; Then read this one. If you want to understand &quot;Why do they hate us?&quot; (and why that isn't even the right question to ask), Chomsky has the answers.	2003-11-06
US	52216484	RHS0TPSDTU4YP	0312252439	859125624	Do What Thou Wilt: A Life of Aleister Crowley	Books	1	13	23	N	N	Is Aleister Crowley boring? Is that possible?	It's a shame that this book is so tedious, because the author knows his subject. I read Lawrence Sutin's biography of PK Dick and I was impressed, so I had high hopes for this one. But there's no structure to the story, no plot. Sutin moves from one moment of Crowley's life to the next, never making it clear if he's describing a high point, a low point, a turning point, etc. Halfway through, I promised myself I'd finish the book, sure that as Crowley's life reached the end, Sutin would bring things to a climax. But he didn't. Sutin knows the facts but didn't present them in a compelling way.	2003-11-06
US	52216484	RR1ZJYHIKO87R	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	3	20	21	N	N	The greatest story ever told?	It's easy to understand why someone would get upset reading this book. The authors take the history of Freemasonry (actually, the mystic legends that surround Freemasonry) and tie it to the &quot;real&quot; story of Jesus Christ. When you link conspiracies to Christianity, you're going to get under someone's skin.<br />But few books are as fascinating to read as this one. Think of it as one-third truth and two-thirds speculation. If the authors called it a fictional account --- a fantasy about the way things might be --- the result would be a strange sort of historical novel. It's wouldn't be as compelling. Instead, they present this story as nonfiction, breathlessly uncovering the greatest secret in the history of mankind. It's an approach that keeps you reading. In the end, you'll enjoy the story as a series of curious &quot;what if&quot; possibilities. If half of this is true, the world is more interesting than you thought.	2003-10-29
US	52216484	R1HDFGQGLANCWB	0671797972	557658136	Dead Sea Scrolls Deception	Books	1	21	40	N	N	A lame attempt to find another religious conspiracy	After reading &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; I read this book. It's a sequel, in a way. It's also a big disappointment. The author tries to create a controversy over the Dead Sea Scrolls, speculating about their content, and how that content will shake the foundations of the world's Bible-based religions.<br />But it's all speculation. First of all, there's no indication that the Dead Sea Scrolls are full of radically new information. If you read books like &quot;The Gnostic Gospels,&quot; or any recent book on the life of Jesus, you'll find a wide range of ideas about the Biblical period --- including the revolutionary program of the Essenes. The Dead Sea Scroll information is either a repeat of facts that are already known, or the information is new but not revolutionary.<br />Second, the book describes a minor conspiracy to control the Dead Sea Scrolls, to keep them from public view. But that's understandable. No one should release a major archaeological discovery to the public without careful examination. We rely on scientists, scholars, and religious authorities to examine these artifacts FIRST. You wouldn't want anyone except qualified experts looking at them. Of course, once the experts have had their chance to examine the Scrolls, they should be released for examination (in some form) to everyone. But there's no cover-up.<br />This book capitalizes on the success of &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail.&quot; The authors realized they had a cottage industry going when other people wrote their own Freemason/Christ conspiracy books. So they followed up with this sequel, trying desperately to create another story full of stunning revelations (and dark designs to keep you ignorant). But it's doesn't work.	2003-10-29
US	52216484	RC26HYPK84PCO	1560254831	404105787	The Gun and the Olive Branch: The Roots of Violence in the Middle East (Nation Books)	Books	5	52	71	N	N	A complete history of the conflict	Whether you've just started to read about the history behind the violence in the Middle East or you've read hundreds of books on the topic, David Hirst's account is essential.<br />He begins with a 130-page introduction, a small book in itself, which brings the current conflict up to date. If you don't get any farther than this, you'll still learn a lot. By the end of this introduction --- which covers Palestian agreements to accept the loss of 78% of their homeland, the influence of the Israeli lobby in Washington, the Joan Peters' fraud, and nuclear blackmail --- you'll understand the basic thesis of Hirst's book: The Zionist plan to remove Palestinians from the Occupied Territories is the principle cause of conflict in the Middle East.<br />At that point, you'll either throw the book in the garbage and write an angry review, or you'll continue. If you continue, you'll read about the origins of the conflict, starting in 1882. Hirst quickly moves forward in time, hitting each major development (such as the Balfour Declaration) briefly but carefully. I liked this approach because I want an overview built on key facts, not an encyclopedic book that gets lost in the details.<br />Hirst continues, up to the early 1980s, where the previous edition of the book came to an end. The result is a 100-year history of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, fully documented from a wide range of sources. Although you might disagree with one or two sources (such as Arab newspapers), he never relies on a single source. It's an impressive exercise in honest scholarship.	2003-10-26
US	52216484	R28C25X8VQISJ7	0738204005	621059543	Coal: A Human History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A history of soot, smoke, and power	Barbara Freese's book has it all. It's about an important topic and it's very easy to read. The first few chapters deal with the discovery of coal as fuel, the pollution that resulted, the use of coal to run the British empire, and how coal was dug out of the ground. She describes the industrial revolution, noting that Thomas Newcomen invented the steam engine, not James Watt. (Although Watt did make important improvements.)<br />Then she switches over to the US. She describes the coal-mining regions of the Appalachians and the two types of coal. (One burns easier but is dirtier than the other.)<br />Pollution is a key part of the story throughout these chapters. That sets up the final third of the book: coal mining gets automated, alternative fuels are introduced, and the environmental impact of pollution is described.<br />If this is your first book on coal, pollution, or fossil fuel, it won't be your last. Barbara Freese makes the topic very interesting. She whets your appetite for more.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	RYJQYG22IRZ84	1556344295	331730472	GURPS Cabal	Books	3	4	27	N	N	The conspiracy of occultism	The worst parts of this book are at the beginning. The first chapter has a history of the Cabal that bored me to tears. I don't know what the author was talking about. Then, at the end of the first chapter, he mentions a guy named Dr. Selden Graves, and that was interesting.<br />It gets better as you go along. The next chapter covers the structure of the Cabal. That was a little too dry. It's basically just as you imagine it, with concentric circles of higher power, ranks, and lodges that work together and sometimes against each other. I could have written that part myself without research; so could anyone else interested in the subject. Then he goes on to cover hermetic magic, which is nothing more than a series of spell-casting skill modifiers based on conditions. It's simple and effective, but not creative.<br />The chapter on other planes has the same problem. On the one hand, it's just right. It fits the Cabal and hermetic magic. On the other, it's predictable. You can travel to the astral plane where you'll see astral beings, some of which are analogues for things in reality. Okay. I've seen that before.<br />When the author gets to the characters, campaigns, and monsters, you get the goodies. The new advantages and disadvantages are good. The creatures are good. The set of defining characteristics for the campaign is good, too.<br />This is a professional, predictable GURPS book. It describes what I expected. I didn't get anything new from it, but I don't feel ripped off because the author wrote exactly what he was supposed to.<br />I would've given this book two stars, but . . . well . . . believe it or not, I was originally contracted to write this book years ago. But I just couldn't do it; I couldn't figure out how to write it. Kenneth Hite did something I couldn't do, so he gets an extra star.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	R3H0HE1A0TAA4G	0195157133	286760963	What Everyone Needs to Know about Islam	Books	3	3	17	N	N	Even-handed and well-written	The author immediately states that Islam is not a religion of violence or terrorism. He covers the Five Pillars well, gives some good background, and repeatedly makes it clear that Islam is as imperfect (with fundamentalists) as any other religion. If you don't know anything about Islam and you are looking for a quick introduction, try this book.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	RR5OKB9GZ8Q24	0879515732	334599868	World Cinema: Diary Of A Day	Books	1	0	1	N	N	A good idea, poorly executed	This is a compilation is brief diary entries for June 10th, 1993, by people who make movies --- directors, actors, screenwriters, location scouts, producers, critics, archivists, set designers, cinematographers, and more. The date was chosen almost at random. (They picked a day that wasn't part of any major film festival.) It was the week of the death of a semi-famous female Japanese director, and the week Jurassic Park was released.<br />This is a very boring book. The diary entries are too short. Each person tells you what they did that day, and you read about their thoughts, but you don't get a sense of anything. Maybe the diary entries should be longer. But my suspicion is that the writers did not have very good instructions from the editors. Rather than give you an idea of what everyone in movies does on a typical day, you get lost in the indistinct descriptions of events. Is the cinematographer complaining because of his job, because he's a complainer, or because of the movie he's working on? When the writer mentions her past work and her current work, should I care? She's making a movie in Iran, but I don't know what that means. Maybe it matters, maybe it doesn't.<br />Fortunately, it's a very international book. Hollywood is just a part of the tapestry. Hollywood doesn't even come across as the center of the universe. These filmmakers (especially in the more technologically-advanced countries such as France, Germany, and Japan) seem to do their work without the shadow of Hollywood cast over them. I liked that. I liked reading about filmmakers from Brazil to China to Finland.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	RTZJA3F2F5GD9	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A literary B movie	The Tommyknockers is one of the books Stephen King wrote when he was coked up and running out of ideas. It rolls along like a freight train, packed with classic B-movie ideas like: a town turning into zombies, a hidden flying saucer, and a flawed hero trying to save everyone. By the end, everything is on fire and the hero is stumbling through the woods with most of his bones broken, running on adrenaline and fear.<br />It's a lot of fun. Stephen King dropped all pretense to being a serious writer when he wrote this little epic of trashy suspense. Sure, the inside of the flying saucer is a let-down --- and the fire-bug at the end is pointless --- but Stephen King really knows how to keep you turning the pages.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	R1LA4LOCKP99XX	1583670939	369333633	Behind the Invasion of Iraq	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The war for oil profits	This short book carefully and clearly explains why the US *has* to turn Iraq into a colony. The book begins with a brief history of Iraq in the modern era, then turns to US attacks on Iraq since the 1980s. In the final section, the authors tie the need for oil to the capitalist economies in the Western world --- without &quot;our&quot; oil under &quot;their&quot; desert, our economy doesn't work.<br />For anyone interested in understanding the current war --- or those interested in a quick introduction to US imperialism --- this book is highly recommended.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	R3J5A9C7BMZLW2	0670032549	511631376	The Gunslinger (The Dark Tower, Book 1)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Young Stephen King fumbles his way into an epic	This was a disappointing book. Although people complain about Stephen King's need for an editor, I think he works best with 800-page novels. This one is too short. Roland the gunslinger is interesting, but his backstory isn't. I enjoyed reading about his adventures in the town of Tull, but I laughed reading about being trained by a tough old Yoda-guy in a castle. And why does Roland love the boy? There's no explanation. He just DOES. Surprisingly, the story picks up at the end. The train in the mountain and the mutants are good. So is the conversation with the man in black. It ends suddenly, but with a promise that the next installment in the series will be much better.	2003-10-24
US	52216484	R1JWUOTMUXLGVO	0393051544	674026810	Simply Einstein: Relativity Demystified	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Worth reading twice	This is the best book I've read on Relativity. I think I understood all of it. The author emphasizes that the terminology you use can confuse people --- clocks don't really run slow, for example, it's just that your frame of reference is different so it seems that way.<br />The author does a good job explaining that gravity is a curve in spacetime. The book is full of helpful diagrams. I'm glad I found this one. Understanding Relativity is not easy, and even the smartest scientists have trouble explaining it. Wolfson got it right.	2003-10-19
US	52216484	R2MHJZLA6FNE5Z	0380728397	995875512	Don't Know Much About the Bible: Everything You Need to Know About the Good Book but Never Learned	Books	4	82	90	N	N	Light and easy to read	Davis writes like Isaac Asimov. He wants to educate you. In this book, he gets in and gets out fast --- which is good. He tells you the story of Job, for example, in one page. He knows he has a lot to cover, so he hits each point in a page or two. If you want more detail, you can read one of hundreds of other books after this one.<br />His coverage of the New Testament is good even though it's shorter than his Old Testament section. This makes sense because the New has less content --- fewer details, parables, people, and places.<br />Davis uses bad jokes and awkward pop culture references half a dozen times. These don't help. I don't need references to Madonna, Baywatch, Jedi knights, and (of all things) The First Wives Club. The references age fast. Some of them come across like the work of an amateur comedy writer.<br />Other than that, it's a really good book, as good as Asimov's Guide to the Bible. As an introduction to the Bible, it can't be beat. Sure, it's a secular approach, but if it wasn't, it would be twice and long and would no longer qualify as an introductory text.	2003-10-19
US	52216484	R2IC9EHDGRJ3QS	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A guide to writing and a personal horror tale	You have to commend Stephen King for getting right to the point. As one of the best-selling (and most-read) writers in history, everyone wants to know: How do you DO it, Steve? How do you write so many books that so many people love?<br />Unfortunately, the advice he offers is the kind you can get just about anywhere. He doesn't tap into the special way HE writes. Instead, he tells you to &quot;show don't tell,&quot; keep it simple and clear, and don't over-write. I'd much rather find out how he comes up with ideas, how the strings his plots together, and what goes on in his head as he's working out the events of the story. (Why does this character die and not that one? How do you reveal a good villain to maintain suspense?) He touches on these topics,  but he doesn't get into them in depth.<br />The final section of the book stands apart from the rest. All of a sudden, he's writing about being hit by a car while walking down the road. He writes about drug abuse and trying to get back on his feet, physically and emotionally. This section is very good. King dives into autobiography with both feet, using his considerable skill at pacing and description to keep you on the edge of your seat about deeply personal matters.<br />If you want to try writing novels and short stories, this book will help you get it right. If you're a King fan, you'll get this book done in a day. For the rest of you, just flip to the final section and you'll be pleased.	2003-10-19
US	52216484	RCALCOTB8PMH3	1557833478	704314599	The Battle of Brazil: Terry Gilliam v. Universal Pictures in the Fight to the Final Cut (The Applause Screenplay Series)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The fight to get Brazil away from Sid	This is an updated, revised, expanded version of the 1986 book by the same author. (Same title, too.)<br />It's really good, covering the fight to release the director's cut of the film. The villain is Sid Sheinberg, one of the executives at Universal. Sid says he doesn't want to change Gilliam's movie, but he wants to change the end. Changing the end changes the whole POINT of the film. So Sid pretended that the battle is over the length of the movie. He tried to get between the producer (Arnon Milchan) and Gilliam. He sort of succeeded, too.<br />Then the LA critics chose Brazil as the movie of the year, even though it hadn't been released. (The author was one of those critics.) That move raised the stakes much higher, and ultimately led to Gilliam's victory.	2003-10-19
US	52216484	R2US4S1N9IAVJC	0941543307	584305019	Bukowski and the Beats: A Commentary on the Beat Generation	Books	2	6	9	N	N	An excuse to publish a mediocre interview	Bukowski wasn't a Beat. He didn't like the Beats, either. In this book, the author scrounges up every reference he can find by Bukowski about Burroughs, Ginsberg, Kerouac, and Cassady. All of these references are *negative*.<br />So why publish a book about Bukowski and the Beats? Well, the author has this long interview with Bukowski and his wife. He needs a book idea as an excuse to publish the interview. He knows a lot about the Beats, so he spends the first three-quarters of the book trying to find a connection. There are a few connections --- the period in which Bukowski and Beats wrote, their unapologetic drug use, their wild sex lives, and trying to get their non-conformist writing published --- but Bukowski didn't like them and wasn't one of them.<br />So you have a book in two parts. The first is a colorful history of the Beat writers. The second is the interview. The history is okay and the interview is boring. Bukowski doesn't knock you out with his barroom wisdom in this one.<br />The best thing about the book is the large collection of black-and-white photographs. Seriously. If you are a big Bukowski fan, this book will disappoint you.	2003-10-18
US	52216484	R103ZKQM5MHR23	1560973218	157936136	Crumple: The Status of Knuckle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Innocent fun?	This is a short stream-of-consciousness graphic novel featuring talking animals, angry lesbians, and a lot of nipples. Dave Cooper is a strange combination of Walt Disney and William Burroughs. He uses funny animals and balloon-shaped people to depict a world of organic machines and imminent violence. It's funny and disturbing at the same time, with some sort of childhood sexuality under the surface. I highly recommend it to anyone with a healthy sense of humor and an open mind.	2003-10-18
US	52216484	R1K282CRNJ2T7U	0803221940	986810941	Forever Fat: Essays by the Godfather	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A brief and memorable collection of personal stories	This is an impressive book everyone should read. Lee Gutkind starts off with a brief essay on being the &quot;Godfather of creative nonfiction.&quot; When I read that, I thought &quot;What IS creative nonficiton?&quot;<br />I got my answer by reading the rest of the book. Gutkind writes autobiographical stories. He is comfortable approaching autobiography as an artform, one where you keep the stories interesting using the tools any fiction writer would use: good dialogue, parallel anecdotes, and vivid descriptions followed by heartfelt reflection. He tells you what happened, then he tells you how he feels about it.<br />It's a lot like Bukowski. Gutkind's life is completely different, but he writes for the same purpose, and with the same honesty, as Bukowski. By the end of the book, you feel you know the man. You feel like you read something REAL, not just another book of made-up, escapist fiction.<br />I'd give it five stars if it was just a little less middle class. Let's say it's a four-and-a-half star book.	2003-10-17
US	52216484	RYM0ZK63GDV5H	1570754306	623966871	I'd Rather Teach Peace	Books	5	26	26	N	N	How to teach peace...and how to learn to be peaceful	In 2002, I read 101 books. &quot;I'd Rather Teach Peace&quot; was the best one.<br />Colman McCarthy tells stories about teaching people to resolve conflicts. He describes what worked and what didn't. He also tells you what his students taught HIM --- he's humble enough to know he's a student, too.<br />I learned that I don't think about peace enough. Now I think about it more and I keep an eye out for conflicts that I can help to resolve. I don't know exactly how to create peace around me, but thanks to Colman McCarthy I know I need to learn.<br />This is an inspiring and simple book. I'd gladly read another 100 just to stumble across something like this again.	2003-10-17
US	52216484	R1X1AAMC30YLG2	0571202802	20492826	Gilliam on Gilliam (Directors on Directors)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The best book on Gilliam	If you like Terry Gilliam's movies, you need this book. He covers his childhood in surprising detail, talks about the Monty Python years, and then gets into each movie. The book drags near the end, but that's primarily due to the exhaustion you feel reading about this stuff --- like his movies, you can get overwhelmed by the details. This is the best on Gilliam I've read, and one of the best books in the 'Director on Director' series.	2003-10-17
US	52216484	RNWJL0PZ66BAC	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A brilliant analysis of the past century	This is a great history of the 20th century, starting with the end of the First World War and ending with the collapse of the Cold War. Hobsbawm's point of view comes from the European leftist tradition, which makes him sympathetic to revolutionary movements around the world. In addition to obvious topics like wars, he covers science, art, and the world economy. He writes clearly, as well. This is one of the best history books I've ever read. It led me to more of Hobsbawm's work, which is just as good.	2003-10-16
US	52216484	RDPTM39UFK3KZ	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Right-wing lies are very very funny	On page 24, Al Franken writes \\"Liberals love America like grown-ups. Grown-up love means actually understanding what you love, taking the good with the bad.\\" This statement sums up Al Franken's point of view, and his method of expressing it --- it's a simplistic way of describing the difference between liberals and conservatives, but then it has to be. After all, Al Franken is a comedian. To make you laugh, he has to simplify things, keep them quick and entertaining, and poke fun at the right wing's worst moments.<br />He starts off with Ann Coulter's well-documented lies from her books and editorials. He moves on to Rill O'Reilly, showing that O'Reilly lied about his awards and where he grew up. His chapter on Sean Hannity includes the infamous chart that covers up Reagan's tax-and-spend policies. The chapter on the Paul Wellstone Memorial is the least funny, but the most important. Al Franken is really upset about how conservatives twisted the heartfelt sentiments expressed at the memorial.<br />Halfway through the book, he shifts gears. He returns to his \\"Chickenhawk\\" tale from his Rush Limbaugh book, adding new characters. He writes about infiltrating Bob Jones University and attending the White House Correspondents Dinner. He adds in a one-act play and even a comic book about Jesus. The examination of lies slows down in the second half, but the shift to personal stories keeps your interest.<br />If you want a careful analysis of the lies on the right, there are plenty of other books you can read after this one (like Joe Conanson's new book). If you start here, you won't regret it.	2003-10-16
US	52216484	RIE15SGR77EHI	1563896680	128533016	Top Ten, Book 1	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Superhero cops in a superhero world	Alan Moore has a knack for overwriting a mediocre premise and turning it into something special. In the past, he would take someone else's comic and completely rethink it. The result was impressive, forcing you to look for the hidden potential in nearly any character or comic book series.<br />This time, he created his own mediocre premise: a city where everyone is a superhero. He focuses on the police station, where caped crusaders have to deal with criminals of all kinds. Even the petty thieves and drunks can fly, shoot laser beams from their fingertips, and read your mind.<br />Instead of writing a bunch of high-powered fist-fights, he has the characters interact. It's more of a soap opera than anything else. He even gets away with a woman-and-dog romance that is strangely touching.<br />Ultimately, this book is for long-time superhero comic readers like me. It's fun to read an adult version of the old superhero genre. If you've never read superhero comics, this will both bore you and overwhelm you. You'll see a LOT of detail, but hardly any of it will make sense. But it's still worth a try, no matter who you are.	2003-10-16
US	52216484	R1DZS6S9Y4YM5T	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	3	14	19	N	N	A quick overview of Chomsky's earliest reactions to 9/11	This slim Chomsky book has a lot of important information in it --- unless you've read Chomsky before. If you know anything about US foreign policy, this is a recap. If you've never read Chomsky before, this is an okay place to start. (A better place to start is Chronicles of Dissent.)<br />What does it have to do with the 9/11 terrorist attacks? Well, Chomsky gives you a lot of context. He shows you that these events didn't take place in a historical vacuum. But once you've read that, it's up to you to learn more, by reading dozens of other books.	2003-10-16
US	52216484	RD5QW5MODCQ3L	094679006X	675272280	Alan Moore: Portrait Of An Extraordinary Gentleman	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Inconsequential tribute to a great writer	This is a strange book. On the one hand, it's packed with art from a long list of talented illustrators. On the other, I don't know who these illustrators are; they all seem to be European. So, although I like their artwork, the fact that they are doing two-page tributes to Alan Moore means nothing to me.<br />And then there's the text. If the text isn't an interview with Alan Moore, it's not worth reading. 99% of it is just forgettable. There are three essays by one person (who shall remain nameless) that are memorable because they are so horrible. These essays are 'post modern' --- which means that they are full of silly jargon and obscure references to Derrida and that sort of thing. If you don't know what post-modern writing is, consider yourself blessed.<br />The one really worthwile part of the book is at the end, in an exchange of letters between the cranky Canadian cartoonist, Dave Sim, and Alan Moore. Moore takes the time to describe why he's interested in occultism and how his research in the last ten years has enriched his life. It's a unique story from a brilliant man. He seems to be spelunking his own psyche and then writing about his discoveries.<br />I can't recommend this book. It looks nice and the end is good, but it's not really worth the time.	2003-10-16
US	52216484	R3EYWT58H09J5P	1563896656	702953874	1: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen	Books	3	4	7	N	N	The beginning of something great	The idea behind this book is much, much better than the execution. Kevin O'Neill's illustration style is unique, but he sucks the action out of every panel. The characters are very stiff. Scenes of explosions and fist-fights are static --- you see the action before and after, but nothing in between.<br />The story is hard to follow. Honestly, I had no idea what was going on until the *third* time I read the book. Alan Moore seems to have cut any \\"establishing shots,\\" dumping you into different places without introduction, and keeping character motives secret. (Compare this to WATCHMEN, in which every location is identified and each character is carefully examined as they are introduced.)<br />To make matters worse, too many pages are rendered so dark, you can't see the artwork. Notice how the big splash page at the end of chapter 2 (\\"limehouse...\\") is too dim to see all the carefully-rendered details drawn by O'Neill.<br />What's good about this? Well, first of all the whole idea is so good, you can justify the effort to get involved. Moore and O'Neill could do this series for the next ten years and it would just get better. Second, despite the repressive Victorian setting, they've have thrown in a lot of sex (including  an invisible man fondling girls) and blood (slit throats, torture, and more). The ponderous plot is given constant injections of mayhem and titillation to keep you interested.<br />If you don't know Alan Moore's work, don't start here. (Start with WATCHMEN and FROM HELL.) If you know his work --- and if you  enjoyed Kevin O'Neill's work on MARSHALL LAW --- you'll like this. And it's only going to get better . . . the next book combines Edgar Rice Burroughs' Barsoom with HG Wells' War of the Worlds. Who could resist that?	2003-09-06
US	52216484	R5QAJ23K5N0GB	0609809911	524612057	The Tenacity of the Cockroach: Conversations with Entertainment's Most Enduring Outsiders	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Original but not much depth	This is a quick, easy read. The choice of subjects makes it work --- the people at the Onion went after the entertainers on the fringes, people whose careers have hit the ceiling. You get to hear about Elvira at conventions, the Unknown Comic living a normal life raising his daughter, and Roger Corman summing up an impressive career.<br />Then there are the bad interviews. No one needs to interview Harlan Ellison, for example. He rants a lot and says nothing. Henry Rollins promotes his ego over his work. And who is Quentin Crisp, anyway?<br />This would be a five-star book if some of the bad interviews were cut --- preferably replaced with more interesting people. The book can also be faulted for not digging very deep into the lives of these people. Too many interviews read like a fan's meeting with his idol, asking relatively smart questions, but not bothering to ask anything that might upset the subject.<br />But it's worth a read. You could do worse than find out what's on the mind of Pen &amp; Teller, Alice Cooper, and Ray Bradbury.	2003-09-02
US	52216484	R97IO769RAPSG	0316787531	614752116	Our Band Could Be Your Life: Scenes from the American Indie Underground 1981-1991	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An important book	The subject of this book is impressive: profiles of some of the most important bands of the 1980s who were not signed to major labels. Each of these bands accomplished something without being part of the mainstream music industry.<br />Fortunately, the author's writing as as good as the subject matter. He creates a profile of each band through the details of their concerts, music, members, and the musical influences that inspired them. Each band deals with the legacy of punk, either embracing or rejecting it to define themselves.<br />The chapter on the Replacements is the best, simply because they're the best band here. They deserve a short book of their own. The Butthole Surfers chapter is very funny. Big Black comes across as smart and relentless. Fugazi and Minor Threat come across as humorless. Husker Du and Dinosaur Jr are stories of pointless inter-band drama.<br />My only criticism --- which keeps this from being a five-star book --- is the missing chapter on the Dead Kennedys. They should have been covered here.	2003-08-31
US	52216484	R1TJS77BSH4LJ7	0316787531	614752116	Our Band Could Be Your Life: Scenes from the American Indie Underground 1981-1991	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An important book	The subject of this book is impressive: profiles of some of the most important bands of the 1980s who were not signed to major labels. Each of these bands accomplished something without being part of the mainstream music industry.<br />Fortunately, the author's writing as as good as the subject matter. He creates a profile of each band through the details of their concerts, music, members, and the musical influences that inspired them. Each band deals with the legacy of punk, either embracing or rejecting it to define themselves.<br />The chapter on the Replacements is the best, simply because they're the best band here. They deserve a short book of their own. The Butthole Surfers chapter is very funny. Big Black comes across as smart and relentless. Fugazi and Minor Threat come across as humorless. Husker Du and Dinosaur Jr are stories of pointless inter-band drama.<br />My only criticism --- which keeps this from being a five-star book --- is the missing chapter on the Dead Kennedys. They should have been covered.	2003-08-31
US	52216484	R19JYZJ7H5TT4A	0806520450	145323683	Ultraviolent Movies: From Sam Peckinpah to Quentin Tarantino	Books	1	6	6	N	N	A big waste of time	The author summarizes the plots of about a dozen violent movies, then he summarizes the critics' reaction to those movies. That's about it. The interview with Oliver Stone is pointless. If you want to read a really good book on this subject, try The Blood Poets by Jake Horsley.	2003-08-31
US	52216484	R3II5BMUVKJWYU	0743406567	588083863	Fargo Rock City: A Heavy Metal Odyssey in Rural North Dakota	Books	5	1	1	N	N	We need more books like this one	This book is great because it's so personal. If you don't like 1980s heavy metal, you should read this the same way you'd read about tribal customs in central Africa or Irish pub manners --- a first-hand account of a subculture.<br />And if you like that kind of music (like me), it's fun to read about someone who shares your guilty pleasure listening to Kiss, Motley Crue, and Judas Priest. Klosterman is good at blending his own life with his commentary on the pros and cons of the music, the antics of the bands, the videos, and the concerts. This book is easy to read and sincere.	2003-08-23
US	52216484	R34HYXLTOXGX8J	1560972556	307078805	LOVE & ROCKETS VOL 13 CHESTER SQUARE SC (Love and Rockets (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Probably the best of the first L&amp;R series	If you haven't read Love &amp; Rockets, start here. The illustrations are beautiful and the story is loose, funny, sad, and unlike anything you're read before. Jaime Hernandez writes women better than just about anyone. And he knows when to stop drawing and move on to the next panel.<br />The only drawback is the length --- I wish he'd write a full-size, 500-page graphic novel. Something that takes a few days to read. Chester Square is a hint of what that would be like.	2003-08-23
US	52216484	R3SS822WRKN4VX	0816043892	261775787	The Encyclopedia of Stanley Kubrick (Library of Great Filmmakers)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	For the Kubrick fan	This is a book of Kubrick facts and trivia, arranged in easy-reference format. The authors are opinionated about their subject, which is good --- they clearly love writing about these movies and everything that went into them. For the non-fan, this book could be tedious. Entries on actors veer off into complete discussions of the Kubrick movie in which they starred, minor details are repeated, and a few entries seem to be too technical or industry-based to be worth mentioning.<br />(For example, Kubrick says that at the end of Lolita, Humbert realizes that he loves her --- he's not just feeling lust for her. Kubrick calls this the most poignant moment in the story. This particular quote is repeated in the book at least five times.)<br />If you've read every other book about Kubrick, get this one. If not, read the books by Ciment, Walker, Herr, LoBrutto, and Baxter first.	2003-08-22
US	52216484	R2RQEA81EMDC7	1574231502	11784776	Beerspit Night and Cursing : the Correspondence of Charles Bukowski and Sheri Martinelli, 1960-1967	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Not essential	Black Sparrow is digging deep into the heap of leftovers to come up with some \\"new\\" Bukowski. This is the worst after-he-died book to be released. Almost all of the letters are by Bukowski. That's a relief because Sheri Martinelli's letters are unreadable. The spelling, punctuation, and stream of consciousness writing style make her letters impenetrable.<br />Bukowski's letters are readable, but he's too young here to have much to say.  Frankly, Bukowski's early work is pretty weak. It wasn't until the late 1970s that he became the great writer we know and love. Here, he picks up on Martinelli's racism, runs with it halfheartedly, and praises her for no reason. The letters are very drunk and usually pointless. Some of the angry wisdom shines through, but not much. This is a book for diehard Bukowski fans only. It's a bad representation of his work.	2003-08-22
US	52216484	RT2AZY7LH8MCZ	0312420315	727127766	Upside Down: A Primer for the Looking-Glass World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The state we're in	Drawing from first-hand experience and an impressive list of documentation, Galeano describes the effects of imperialism in the Americas. He writes in a style that is surprisingly clear for all the information he packs into each sentence.<br />This is an angry, insightful book worth reading twice.	2003-08-22
US	52216484	RI74BOA0V1FI9	0679429751	503562778	Close Encounters Of The Fourth Kind: Alien Abduction, UFOs, and the Conference at M.I.T.	Books	2	12	17	N	N	First half is good. Second half is silly.	The books starts out well. The author is attending a conference at MIT about abductions by flying saucers. He's skeptical but respectful. He introduces you to the experts, the scholars, and the abductees. So far, so good.<br />But in the second half, he gives you LENGTHY descriptions of hypnosis sessions with a pair of abductees --- two women whose stories start off where you'd expect and then get crazier as they progress.<br />Actually, &quot;crazy&quot; is the wrong word. &quot;Implausible&quot; or &quot;transparent&quot; would be better. The two women need to add a little extra juice to their stories to keep your attention, so they add more alien beings, more strange events, and new places to explore.<br />This book would be a useful addition to the dozen-or-so books on UFO adbuctions if the second half was dropped. As I read it, my mind changed from skeptical and entertained (why DO so many people say they were abducted by flying saucers?) to cringing with embarassment (the Nordic E.T. in the giant cowboy hat was too much).	2003-06-17
US	52216484	R3VJTX2OI99H9	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Weak but interesting	This is one of those books you feel you HAVE to enjoy . . . because if you don't, someone will say &quot;You just don't get it.&quot;<br />Honestly, there's nothing to get. Dan Clowes tells a story that almost makes sense. It feels like he made it up as he went along, so each chapter seems disconnected from the last. The end is contrived and plot threads are left dangling.<br />But it's not all bad. He art is tight, complimenting the claustrohic and static story very well. The book makes you think and wonder --- you'll have fun trying to put it all together, even if you fail.<br />And best of all, it might introduce you to the wild and crazy world of grown-up comic books, the kind of comic books that Fantagraphics publishes. If this one doesn't satisfy you, there's always Love &amp; Rockets, Joe Sacco, and Chris Ware.	2003-06-17
US	52216484	R2WEOWWVTAFMTI	1565847032	659479046	Understanding Power: The Indispensible Chomsky	Books	5	17	19	N	N	One of Chomsky's best books	It's better to read Noam Chomsky than to read what other people think of him.<br />Some of his earliest political books take some effort to get through. But not this one. Ever since (roughly) the 1980s, Chomsky has made his political research more accessible --- shorter books, books full of interviews, etc. This approach reaches its climax with Understanding Power. It's all here, presented in a way that anyone can read. If you want footnotes, they are easy to find online. (And there's a *lot* of them. They constitute a whole other book unto themselves.)<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants a view of US foreign policy and political history that is accurate and respectful of basic human rights	2003-03-16
US	52216484	R3W3CMMZTGCTCS	0060527358	443595384	sifting through the madness for the Word, the line, the way: new poems	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not his best...or his worst	When a new Bukowski book comes out, I buy it right away. Sometimes it's good (like THE NIGHT TORN MAD) and sometimes it's not so good. This one is one of the not-so-good books.<br />I love getting back into the world of Bukowski --- the race track, the alcohol, the wild youth, watching the quiet desperation of Americans --- but this time the magic is gone. For every keeper (like &quot;Where Was I?&quot;) there's 10 mediocre poems.<br />But hey, I'll be back for the next one...	2003-03-14
US	52216484	R1Y1IK7KPZBEJ5	1583225900	996674017	Power and Terror: Post-9/11 Talks and Interviews	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Like looking into a mirror	Another short book by Chomsky. He makes it hard to come up with excuses to avoid his work. You don't think you can get through 130 pages on foreign policy? Of course you can. Put down that remote...<br />Anyway, these transcripts of talks and interviews are a better response to the terrorist attacks than his \\"9-11\\" book. There are very few footnotes, unfortunately --- you'll have to read his other 50+ books for that --- but he lays it all out fast and furious here. The pages are *packed* with information.	2003-03-14
US	52216484	R2HW77FRL08LHB	0142002208	711008217	My First Movie: Twenty Celebrated Directors Talk about Their First Film	Books	2	8	16	N	N	75% fat	Most of this book is wasted on pointless anecdotes with filmmakers who forgot the purpose of the interview: to describe how their first film got made.<br />The best interviews are the first and last: the Coen brothers and James Mangold. Allison Anders comes across as very sweet and smart. Steve Buscemi's story is interesting IF you've seen Trees Lounge.<br />The rest of the interviews fall flat. I had no idea what Bertrand  Tavernier was talking about. Or Gary Oldman. Or Mike Figgis, Mike Leigh, Ken Loach...<br />Save your money and read those &quot;FamousDirector on FamousDirector&quot; books instead.	2003-03-14
US	52216484	R2QHC521XDCVGX	0449210197	999532728	Crows	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of my favorite novels	A great book about being (ab)normal in the Midwest. Lots of information about crows and working at a sporting goods store. It's a murder mystery, too. Kind of. Well, maybe not. If you like Larry Brown and Charles Bukowski, you'll like this.	2002-12-13
US	52216484	R29RH73T6LRATH	1574231650	410459813	The Night Torn Mad With Footsteps	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Working class stories	In these poems (from the 1970s and 1980s), Bukowski is getting away from the references to animals of the earlier years, moving into more specific events. Everything that happens is both small and universal. Nothing's too pretty. Kind of like real life!<br />He's not sentimental, he's sad, and he laughs at himself. One of his best collections.	2002-12-11
US	52216484	R1ZM07OF8G7IXR	1571741755	796027919	Rogue Messiahs: Tales of Self-Proclaimed Saviors	Books	2	23	31	N	N	A scattered book with no references, but fun to read	Colin Wilson is a good writer. He has a casual style, he puts a lot of emphasis on personal stories, and he's comfortable interjecting himself into the book. When he moves into the psychology or philosophy of a cult, he does it quickly, never letting the book degenerate into dull academic analysis. He mentions sex a lot, too, which will keep your interest.<br />But this book loses its charm in the second half. The references to sex become arbitrary --- anything sexual Wilson can come up with, he mentions.<br />He has trouble sticking to the topic of the book, too. For example, in a chapter on an offshoot of the Mormon church, he spends several pages describing a dozen murder victims, how they died, and where they were buried. I couldn't keep track of it all, and I wondered why he bothered to cover it in such detail.<br />He then moves on to a handful of people who are clearly NOT rogues, messiahs, or even cult members. In the final chapter, he tries to tie it all together --- the cults, the sex, the murder ---- with some kind of armchair psychology, spiced with evolutionary theory.<br />That would have been a three-star book; good bathroom reading. But because there are no footnotes, it drops to two stars. I can't double-check his sources because he doesn't list them.	2002-09-08
US	52216484	R1CXAEI6LSGSUV	185984393X	238281462	The New Rulers of the World	Books	5	14	16	N	N	As good as any Chomsky book	Pilger has all the facts, just like Chomsky, but he writes better. You'll get a lot out of this one. He starts off with what could be Chapter One of the BLACK BOOK OF CAPITALISM: mass murder in Indonesia in the mid 1960s, sponsored and supported by the USA. He continues in the same vein, documenting the crimes of imperialism and racism.	2002-09-06
US	52216484	R1RWXHKQ6QQNOU	0446394386	819073870	Joe	Books	5	3	4	N	N	take it or leave it	Larry Brown is obviously a fan of Bukowski. This novel is sparse and tough, with no apologies. Each character is framed by his weaknesses instead of his strengths. After picking this off a library shelf at random,  I read the rest of Larry Brown's books. Inspiring.	1999-08-31
