US	52216136	R944T9W7A20E5	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Get out of the house. Just. Get. Out. Of. The. House.	.<BR>If &quot;Paradise Lost&quot; was, as Johnson said, a book which no one wished was longer, I wonder how the Doctor would feel about this. Quicksilver is a 900 page part one of a trilogy, and if you do the math, you have to make sure you're enjoying this as you go along. This is a long trek, and if you're not enjoying it, put it down. That's what I'm doing, after 150 pages. I don't like the characters, their development, the plot, or the style. Mind you, I'm not put off by the erudition (as friends have asked me), because I can enjoy Gaddis and Pynchon; it's more that the erudition seems gratuitous.  The characters observe, and think, but I'm seeing very little emotion here, and reading it is laborious as a result.<br />I imagine others will disagree with me, and if your tastes run to novels of ideas like Harry Mulisch's &quot;The Discovery of Heaven,&quot; then maybe you will enjoy this. But I am not, and so I am just leaving the house.	2003-11-20
US	52216136	R3KAS4M81ICQYZ	0802714218	289794140	Samuel Johnson's Dictionary	Books	5	47	50	N	Y	An all-star book available again for browsing	.<BR>In the 18th century, dictionaries weren't just consulted, they were browsed. That was largely thanks to Samuel Johnson's mammoth 1755 achievement, wherein he defined not just the difficult words, but also common words found in everyday speech; to their definitions, he added illustrative quotations from the finest works -- creating a volume that was a pleasure to read, an education, and one which provoked the reader down long paths. If you have the AMS reprint of Johnson's Dictionary (reprinted in the 1970's) you  know it's a heavy volume, and not easy to sit in your lap. But Jack Lynch has extracted over 3,000 of the entries into a volume you can not only hold in your lap, but enjoy reading: the print is not tiny, so it's no strain. And it's a pleasure to read.<br />Jack Lynch has also provided an informative, breezy introduction, which puts Johnson's Dictionary in the context or prior efforts and those that followed, describes Johnson's task and process, and tells you the impact that Johnson had. A wonderful addition is in the back, wherein there are some great footnotes (such as, Johnson's definition of war was part of a US Supreme Court decision regarding the US decision to bomb Kosovo) and a reverse index of the types of words to be found... Jack Lynch ALSO provides a special Shakespearean index -- so you can look up which words Johnson supported with quotations from The Bard.<br />I already had the 1970s reprint, as well as the Cambridge CD-ROM, and wasn't sure I needed this. But I'm glad I bought it, it's wonderful to have, even for me.<P...<br />(By the way, I am not related to Jack Lynch, so it's not like I'm a family member trying to boost his sales.)	2003-09-29
US	52216136	R2PTS1B4JJ5KFF	0226038955	199427575	Achievement of Samuel Johnson	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful introduction to Johnson's major themes.	.<br />Walter Jackson Bate is famous for his biography of Johnson, but 20 years earlier he wrote this gem, which collects the major themes in Johnson's essays, and ties together the points Johnson made on them. It is not a quotation collection, it is Bate's analysis of the themes. There is a biographical chapter, but then about 150 pages of analysis. Those chapters are called:<br />1.  The hunger of imagination<br />2.  The treachery of the human heart and the strategems of defense<br />3.  The stability of truth<br />4.  Johnson as a critic: the form and function of literature<br />This is a great companion volume for readers of Johnson's essays and criticism.	2003-05-23
US	52216136	R3724M8SIM1FG9	184371003X	655873209	Samuel Johnson: His Career And Writings (History of American Thought)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is the &quot;other&quot; Samuel Johnson.	Just so you know, the Samuel Johnson covered in this anthology is NOT the more famous Englishman of the 18th Century (essayist, lexicographer, subject of Boswell's Life of Johnson, etc.)<br />Rather, THIS Samuel Johnson is the Anglican minister of Connecticut, who became the first president of King's College (later Columbia University). He was an important minister in his own right, and you can find one of his sermons in the Library of America's volume of American Sermons. But he is completely different from the more famous SJ.	2003-04-29
US	52216136	R17XO82GHBE02Y	0824099834	671092662	SAM JOHNSON BRIT PRESS (Garland reference library in the humanities)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The raw data of Johnson's &quot;presence&quot; in contemporary papers	.<BR>This book is a treasure trove of arcana for the serious reader of Samuel Johnson.  McGuffie sat down with the newspapers and monthly magazines of London and Edinburgh (plus some provincial publications here and there), and catalogued every instance in which Johnson, or a work of his, or an announcement of a work of his, r something in response to him (or announcements of publications in repsone to him...) and so on (you get the picture) came up.  It's basically a &quot;Readers Guide to Periodical Literature&quot;, but the only subject covered is Samuel Johnson.<br />By year and month, McGuffie lists the publication, the date, the author, a description of the content, and occasionally provides actual verbiage.  As such, it's a barometer of Johnson's fame prior to Boswell.<br />There are some very rich details here, such as the responses to the Rambler and Rasselas.  You get a feeling for the popular interest in Rasselas by the number of newspapers which printed extracts from it.  There are also is an instance where the French version of a Rambler essay was unwittingly translated back into English, under the mistaken impression that the French translation was an original work worth English readership!  There is notice of a letter to an editor where the writer speculates that John Wilkes was *really* upset about Johnson accepting his pension because Wilke's father was a distiller and Wilkes was offended by Johnson's definiton of distiller in his Dictionary (&quot;one who makes and sells pernicious and inflammatory spirits&quot;).<br />McGuffie has delivered something enormously valuable here, even in its present shape.  I wish, however, that there were tallies by year/month and type of listing.  Someone, someday, will classify these listings and give the future biographers a little better resource.<br />If you can find this book, my hat's off to you:  last I heard it was only in about a dozen libraries in the US, and it never seems to be avaialable in any used bookstores.  (I am looking at a copy obtained though an interlibrary loan, and regrettably must return it in two weeks.  Sniff, sniff.) So expect to pay dearly for it.	2003-02-17
US	52216136	R1L7JZ8OT6RKJI	1870626575	512913647	Letters from England	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Imagine Mark Twain, horrified at British trends, and laugh	.<br />In 1924, Czech novelist-playwright Karel Capek (R.U.R., The War of the Newts) visited England and sent his impressions back to his homeland.  Much of what he writes is about the culture shock he experiences, but he describes it so humorously (I think Mark Twain is a reasonable comparison) that it's easy to miss his concerns about the results of modernization.<br />Wit abounds:  he desribes block after block of houses that hue to the same fashions as if they were all under a curse, followed by another set of blocks seemingly under a different curse, following another fashion.  He expresses amazement at how the bus drivers know where to turn (if you've ever visited London, you'll remember that street signs can be difficult to find), and how streets are not where anything happens, because they are only to -use- in order to rush home.<br />But at the same time, there is a bit of horror about England and its modernization.  To us, 75 years later, the horror is not so obviously apparent, but it would have been to a Czech reader in 1925.  And to us, even if we -do- look at it with Czech eyes circa 1925, we might drop into complacency, because so much of what Capek has written about still holds true and we might say &quot;gee at least it hasn't gotten worse.&quot;  But if Capek were to visit today, he might merely write a -longer- book, adding to what's already here.<br />But it -is- an enjoyable book now, and was even then, as it went through several printings.  Just, when you read it, try not to get swept up by his wit.  This is not The Beverly Hillbillies, but an acerbic commentary on 20th century British life.	2003-02-09
US	52216136	R1UGDGFCAT79YG	3908247667	740931282	Here Is New York: A Democracy of Photographs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Captions would only detract from the emotion of the photos.	.<BR>As someone who worked in the NYC financial district, my memories of September 11 are largely from ground level; this book's photos capture that ground level perspective, as well as the human loss we all experienced in the coming days by hearing all the stories of the missing and the distress of the families and friends who lost loved ones.  All the efforts at finding the right words have sounded flat to me, and I'm glad this volume is largely without words.<br />This is a very human and respectful book.  Some have balked at a graphic photo of a severed leg, understandably, but I'm not sure that that image is any more raw than the sense of loss you feel when seeing page after page of people hanging on to shreds of hope, forcing back the dawning reality that their loved ones are gone.<br />This is a tremendous effort, solemnly packaged, and simply unrelenting.	2003-01-02
US	52216136	R3EWZG5EW12ANA	097190474X	32853921	English As She Is Spoke: The New Guide of the Conversation in Portuguese and English, in Two Parts (English and Portuguese Edition)	Books	4	49	52	N	N	Everyone laughs when they look at this.	.<BR>In the 19th century, there were no english phrase books for the Portuguese market, and the authors sought to fill that gap with this book, now reprinted in full.  Ah, what a futile, heartfelt exercise this book turned out to be, for they had no English-Portuguese/Portuguese-English dictionaries to work with, only English-French and French-Portuguese as a substitute, and knew no English themselves and had no English speaking editors.  The required gyrations led to hilarious results.  <br />Page after page of mangled sentences and hilarious absurdities follow the original Portuguese:<br />&quot;Where correspond the bells?&quot;<BR>&quot;She have always anything which is it bad.&quot;<BR>&quot;These are the dishes whose you must be and to abstain.&quot;<br />The authors also provided us with vocabulary for common terms (examples in the bed room are &quot;the bed battom&quot; and &quot;the feet's bed&quot;) as well as typical dialogs you might have (for instance, when buying furniture, &quot;Pardon me, it comes workman's hands.&quot;)<br />A little of this goes a long way, though;  it's not for extended reading, but it's quite suitable for abbreviated sessions (and is better than Dave Barry for the bathroom because it's shorter and continuity doesn't matter a whit) or passing around at a party.<br />But it's a wonderful monument to misguided effort, and we enjoy it a lot.  I've never seen anyone look at it without laughing.	2002-10-24
US	52216136	R30VDHM0J0IJRM	1858285119	991821587	The Rough Guide to Scottish Highlands & Islands (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Proved its usefulness in the field, summer 2002	.<BR>If we had relied solely on our standby Scotland Blue Guide this August, we would have had a very difficult time.  IN retrospect, we could have dispensed with the Blue Guide, and soloed with the Rough Guide.  Rough Guide's Highland volume provided us with a basic reality check early on:  we would not be able to see as much as we wanted, and would have to make trade offs.  Rough Guide made those trade offs far easier.  In each geographically based section, they provided a list of the area's key points to hit.  (Blue Guide has a hierarchy also, but it's not nearly so easy to tap into.)  And while some of Rough Guide's advice on accommodations and restaurants may go out of date, it was nice to have that information (Blue Guide chooses not to cover these aspects).<br />We knew little or nothing about the Highlands a few weeks ago...  Rough Guide helped us have a very good time.	2002-09-01
US	52216136	R21I58A9C81JT1	0140239375	346778627	The Discovery of Heaven	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Novel of ideas well done, but little character	.<BR>Mulisch's design for this book is grand; not quite as grand as the ideas that fall within its scope, but since these ideas are in the realm of \\"what caused the universe?\\" that's OK. <br />What we have is a plot where demi-gods/angels are disgusted with the scientific/rational progress of humanity, and work to separate their mystery from us.  To do that, a sequence of genetic pairings and unlikely events have been contrived, to allow for the arrival of the Very Special Character. We, as readers, watch the pairings and events. Along the way, we have a number of very clever treatments of the Big Idea, both in the internal musings of characters, and discussions between them. The Big Idea is discussed in theology, history, physics, astronomy, architecture, art... It all gets a fairly thorough hashing through.<br />The problem I have with this book, however, is not that the events feel contrived (I have fun suspending my belief every Christmas, watching \\"It's A Wonderful Life\\"), nor is it that discussion gets 'heady' some times... But in the end, I felt I knew more about the characters' thoughts than I knew about the characters themselves. I didn't feel as if I read that much about how characters behaved towards each other, not enough to get a sense of who the characters were. We get some characterizations, but the Very Special Character remains shallow, with no childhood friends or enemies;  we never see him in school or developing with any broader world outside the building in which he grows up.  The adults around him never talk about anything besides the Big Issues.  Certainly, Mulisch did a great job of presenting their musings, and their most serious thoughts, but there's a lot of incidental life which fell under his radar screeen (perhaps beneath his scope?), and I didn't feel as if these characters were people. To contrast, think of any of the \\"Baltimore\\" films from Barry Levinson, and how the incidental, non-plot dialogues make us feel like we know his characters; or Pynchon's \\"Mason & Dixon\\", where characters indulge themselves to search out Cape Town for katjap. Certainly, there are some incidental details here and there in Mulisch's book, but not enough to really round out these characters. For Mulisch, the idea is the thing; for me, that's not enough.	2002-06-04
US	52216136	R2VE0ARCC1WYCR	1588275515	744056669	Anecdotes of the Late Samuel Johnson	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Reading Boswell on Johnson is not enough.	.<br />Very glad to see an inexpensive edition of Hester Thrale Piozzi's Anecdotes in print.  While Boswell's &quot;Life of Johnson&quot; is certainly an engaging read, Boswell's and Piozzi's experieices don't overlap that much, so Piozzi captures a different side of Johnson.  Hester Thrale and her husband Henry rescued Johnson from a period of depression by getting him out of London proper and into their family life, and Johnson thrived.  Boswell didn't see that much of this side, and their accounts are complementary (though hints of the rivalry often come through).  There are also some great lines in here, some of which are my favorites:  &quot; Life is a pill which none of us can bear to swallow without gilding;&quot; &quot;The law is the last result of human wisdom acting upon human experience for the benefit of the public;&quot; &quot;we must either outlive our friends you know, or our friends must outlive us;  and I see no man that would hesitate about the choice.&quot;  Well worth your time and money!	2002-05-19
US	52216136	R3F945LQ7MD3ML	1567921302	825572604	A Johnson Sampler (Nonpareil Book)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Thoughts and expression; not just the quick quips.	.<BR>I am so glad that this book is finally back in print.  For many people, their exposure to Samuel Johnson is limited to the short witticisms, or the one line quotations in Bartlett's.  There have been noteworthy efforts to go beyond this (and Stephen Daenckert's &quot;The Quotable Johnson&quot; is a good step in that direction, though of somewhat limited scope), but for me Curwen's &quot;Johnson Sampler&quot; is one of the best.  (I'm partial to my web site, samueljohnson.com, but that's another story...)<br />Here's what Curwen does that is special.  First, he doesn't hesitate to quote an entire paragraph or more when appropriate.  In doing that, you're open to a specific train of thought;  if the criterion were brevity, you'd never have seen Johnson's thinking.  Second, Curwen arranges these into a dozen or so thematically-based chapters of 15-30 pages.  This collation allows you to compare Johnson's thinking about specific subjects over time and in different lights.<br />The chapters are the major themes one finds when one spends a lot of time reading Johnson:  reading &amp; writing, teaching &amp; learning, man as a social animal, etc.  All in all, I think this is a handy volume to have.	2002-05-07
US	52216136	R1Z0273CRNUKB3	0745318460	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy: An Investigative Reporter Exposes the Truth About Globalization, Corporate Cons, and High Finance Fraudsters	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Scales fell from my eyes.	.<BR>Greg Palast has written a book that weaves together his journalism investigations into a variety of government/corporate issues. He's hard-hitting and relentless when on the trail, judging by what he's collected in this book.<br />I am very imprerssed with what he's uncovered in these pages, and I've come away wondering why we didn't read more of it here in the US media. He offers an explanation - - that the profit/cost-cutting motives of media corporations can hinder someone devoting much time to a single story, but these stories are so shocking, one has to question the efforts of our media.<br />The format is a little frustrating, however, which is why I've only given it 4 stars. Each story is told in a succession of column reprints, and they overlap in their content, so there are times where you have a sense of deja vu. Also, as a result, the book comes off not just about the stories, but also how Palast covered them and peeled away the layers of the onion. So at times it sounds a bit self-serving.<br />However, there is a value to Palast choosing this method. Because we see -how- Palast covered it step by step, the news is more credible and less 'from Mars.' It would be easier to read a single summary of all he learned, but less believable.<br />Oh, and it's NOT just about Florida and the 2000 Presidential election.  Palast covers a number of other topics, among them:  problems with the IMF/World Bank and their stipulations to countries, many of which are outrageous;  corporate America;  presidential access for the wealthy;  and the UK's Prime Minister Blair and lobbyists.	2002-04-13
US	52216136	R1UFO5261KBZSU	0385502737	753033210	The Good, the Bad & the Difference: How to Tell the Right From Wrong in Everyday Situations	Books	5	19	24	N	Y	Cohen brings a &quot;town square&quot; approach to ethics	(First, the full disclosure:  I am in the acknowledgments for this book, because the Samuel Johnson quotations throughout this book were drawn from my Johnson web site.  But we hardly know each other.)<br />Although this book collects many of the columns Cohen has written for the New York Times and in syndication (as &quot;The Ethicist&quot; and &quot;Everyday Ethics,&quot; respectively), this book is far more than just the original columns.  Added here is more overview and dialog (which a brief newspaper column would never accommodate).  Some of the back and forth is in the original Q&amp;A format of the column, but it's been augmented by postscripts and perspectives from others in the fields related to the original questions.  Thus, while Cohen's answers are basically prescriptions and brief explorations, the subsequent discussions from Cohen and the others round the issues out.  So, in a sense, it becomes a town-square-type discussion you won't see in some other books.<br />The really interesting part is that, by engaging others, Cohen opens it up to more discussion and thought from -you.-  Cohen doesn't always read like the final word, and you may find that this involving book provokes discussions in your own home.  (This past weekend, a question surrounding how much to include on a resume led to a good 20 minute discussion between friends.)  Any time a book gets you to think, and then actually leaves its original medium on the page to become part of a broader discussion, is pretty impressive, if you ask me.  So many other books of this ilk come off as absolute pontifications, that they seem to do all the thinking for you, and for me that's not enough.	2002-04-03
US	52216136	R1JUCH0KFXRLEB	0198206763	901991712	Edmund Burke, Volume I: 1730-1784	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Balanced and thorough, biography as it should be	Of the various styles of biographies I've read, I think I prefer what Lock has achieved here.  It's definitely not the kind of page-turner which Robert Caro delivers, nor is it heavily weighed down with details such as De La Grange has given us with Gustav Mahler.  Instead, Lock gives us intelligently written background surrounding the issues and people as they arise;  judicious use of Burke's letters (and letters to him) as well as his writings; and details that help bring the era to life.  He also brings the themes together, which means the telling is not a simple chronology.  Lock gives us all sides of Burke, too:  not just the politician and the family man, but the brother and the farmer.  What I also like about this book is that Lock does not hesitate to criticize Burke when his behavior is less than ethical or when Burke's arguments are disingenuous.  It's a critical examination, and Lock doesn't dumb it down.  (I can't wait for volume 2, although my checkbook can.)	2002-03-19
US	52216136	R23DKWKQTVIZUG	0793593263	414430958	The John Sebastian Songbook: Three Decades of Songs Compiled by John Sebastian	Books	2	21	21	N	N	Best available, but a missed opportunity	.<BR>No real complaints about the songs that are represented in this book - - it covers the major hits of the Lovin' Spoonful as well as his most significant songs from his solo years.  But there is less music on the page than anyone would want.  <br />1.  Each song provides the minimum bars that cover the vocals - - no introductions.  <BR>2.  While a strum pattern is provided at the front of each song, the only staff for each song is the vocal.  Guitar chord diagrams are there, but that is your only clue to the chord voicings.  To put it in concrete terms, the music is just not explicit enough.<br />Now, I recognize that limited demand (or the simplicity of the music) has lead to streamlining in the publication.  But prior editions of Sebastian's songbooks were more explicit.  For instance, they wrote out the 'boom-chukka-boom-chukka-boom-chukka-boom-chukka' pattern for 'Nashville Cats.'  They spelled out the &quot;d'doom-pop, d'doom-pop&quot; for &quot;Daydream.&quot;  More seriously, they provided the chords for the intro of &quot;Do You Believe In Magic?&quot;  They gave you the notes for the intro to &quot;Did You Ever Have To Make Up Your Mind?&quot;  (I could list others.)  All of these songs are limited to two pages of vocal lines and guitar tabs, no intros.<br />I have only had the book for one day, but I have also seen a  discrepancy between the chord symbols and the chord diagrams.  On &quot;Face of Appalachia&quot; a diagram suggests the chord is a C w/ a D bass, while the symbol says G/D.  I wouldn't ordinarily pick this bone, but when you don't have any other staves besides the vocal line, a listener is left to their ears to clarify.  (Or guess.)<br />It makes me sad:  Sebastian has written some beautiful songs, and these transcriptions just don't do them justice.  But they will get you started, and you don't have any other choices.	2002-03-12
US	52216136	R270QK4KKHML0Q	014043531X	467344666	Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Nicely done, challenges your imagination	The premise of this book is an exploration of a two dimenional world of people of various shapes - - more sides, and sides of equal length imply greater status - - but the shapes are not easily discerned (in a 2d world, you cant float to 'see' a square, because floating means travel in a 3rd dimension).  Consequently, the order of the status quo can be difficult to maintain.  By extrapolation, these limitations as we imagine them suggest limitations for us.  And it's in the suggestions that that I find this book has its particular value.  In Flatland, society finds a way to rank people.  It's not easy but they do.  And whether or not we think that ranking is valid is irrelevant - - it's THEIR ranking.  What about ours?  Gotta love it!	2002-01-31
US	52216136	R2V5RLDKGNQYV4	0140045295	451478495	Sometimes a Great Notion	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great multiple narratives in a tale of family independence	This is a great narrative about a family in Oregon came to become harhly independent, and how that pits them against each other and their neighbors in the midst of a labor strike in the lumber industry.  The opening scene, of the wife taking the union chief through the family album, to explain all that he didn't understand in trying to get the Stamper clan to succumb to the union's needs quickly unravels into narrations provided by the wife, the two half-brothers, the father, as well as the generations before on the westward-bound trek.<br />Kesey brings in all the varieties of conflict we learned about in high school:  man against man, man against nature, and man against self, in a rich variety of ways.  The rivalries between the half-brothers sincere and also misunderstood at the same time, plus the ever-present element of tension between the family and the town;  the threat of the river is constant; the neuroses of the family members over their memories of the past...<br />This is a hugely satisfying read, and one of the few books I would give to anyone without hesitation.	2001-11-10
US	52216136	R1HYPNAO93R8BU	0193151596	707948102	Gustav Mahler, Vol. 2: Vienna: The Years of Challenge, 1897-1904	Books	3	19	28	N	N	More for reference than reading or understanding.	.<BR>This is not biography in its best form.  <br />De La Grange has done us a service by compiling a very detailed but largely chronological history of the events of Mahler's life.  You'll find a largely blow-by-blow description of his life:  compositional struggles;  arguments with cast members, managers, and officials; correspondence with friends and colleagues;  listings of cast members in the opera performances he conducted;  reviews of his performances by the various publications;  health problems, etc.  The detail is extremely valuable.<br />However, De La Grange falls short because he rarely steps back from the detail in order to find the larger themes in Mahler's life, and he leaves that effort to the reader.  This is asking too much:  this is a projected four volume biography, and it will probably be well over 3,500 pages before it's done.<br />I imagine it will take a later biographer to come along and sift through all that De La Grange has delivered in order to write a more informative biography.<br />I have an additional issue with an editorial decision that's been made here.  The first volume was published in the 1970's, by another publisher.  Oxford has not re-published it, but will publish a second edition of the first volume when the fourth volume is published.  They have styarted with the 2nd volume rather than the 1st, out of deference to those who might still have the 1st volume.  Fair enough.  But the footnotes that refer to content in the 1st volume only refer to chapters, not specific pages, and are thus incomplete.  Perhaps the reasoning behind this is because the original 1st volume will be superceded by the 2nd edition 1st volume, and they don't want to be specific to something they imagine will be obsolete.  However, at the current rate it could well be 5-10 years before that 2nd edition 1st volume is out.  Will Oxford then ask readers to buy a 2nd edition 2nd volume that has page numbers in the footnotes?  (The whole idea sounds like verylittle deference to those who might have the original 1st volume.)	2001-10-10
US	52216136	R3JN2ELAGO1R6T	0810116855	888501776	Life with a Star (Jewish Lives)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The transformation of the day2day into a meaning.	Weil takes his character Josef Rubicek through budding romance, poverty on the outskirts, danger, demeaning treatment, and the daily effort to survive, in Prague during the Holocaust.  Rubicek is slow to understand what is happening around him, but eventually realizes the significance of the regulations that get announced daily, the restrictions that are put on his world, and the anguish of those he encounters. It's a very moving book throughout, even when Rubicek is lost in reveries over a romantic liaison which has been ended by the authorities.	2001-09-18
US	52216136	R2N5O26QBHRO55	0671620991	24530937	Solve Your Child's Sleep Problems	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Great book, tough row to hoe.	Ferber has done us all a service with this book, clearly explaining the fundamentals of sleep patterns and body rhythms, as well as how classical conditioning can impede the development of proper sleep habits.  I've found that its information was helpful during our daughter's infancy, and even recently (at age 8) with respect to nighttime fears.<br />However, the program Ferber recommends for some children is not one that everyone can easily embrace.  He basically prescribes putting the child down to bed fully awake (no rocking/singing/nursing to sleep), and letting the baby cry for ever longer periods of time until the child realizes that crying will not help him/her get attention.  I believe in this approach, and think it's a good one.  However, your resolve has to be firm;  you will be listening to the child cry.  If both parents are not in complete agreement on this approach, and are not fully committed, then pursuing it could lead to additional frustrations and disagreements.<br />I feel that aspect is the only point missing from Ferber's otherwise excellent book;  he has not alerted parents to the difficulty sufficiently.  Aside from that, I wholeheartedly recommend this book - - like I said, it even helped us in the past couple weeks.<br />Give it to a friend, too!	2001-09-18
US	52216136	R1E8B0AJ61UL79	1565926536	719579285	Database Nation: The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	A challenge to your complacency.	Garfinkel cover a wide variety of territory here, and you may not feel that all areas are an issue for you. The territory includes significant breaches, credit reports, health records &amp; insurance forms, as well as direct marketing lists and practices. Garfinkel stresses that the issues are not just privacy-related, but also data integrity - - bad enough that others have access to the truth about your history, but mistakes in the data quickly get replicated throughout the business world. <br />You may not have a problem, for instance, with insurance companies asking you to allow them to share information, if you feel it increases the efficiency of the market. You may not have a problem with targeted marketing, which is built on customer profiles. However, after reading this book you'll have a better sense of the issues.<br />One anecdote was very effective, I thought, in challenging complacency on these issues. I have heard a number of people say their privacy won't be violated because their lives are too boring. Garfinkel tells a story that demonstrates how people who have too little to do will glom on information just because the information is there, whether or not it has practical value. He has a story about an office web camera focusing on the coffee pot; the camera is there so those coming downstairs to get coffee can manage their expectations and will know in advance whether or not they will have to make a fresh pot. Yet this picture of this innocent coffee pot gets heavy web traffic every day, from people who have nothing better to do than look at a coffee pot. So, being boring is not sufficient protection against the idly curious; less so against those with malicious intent.	2001-09-18
US	52216136	R3EJIE6ZM5VA3U	0449904628	407565024	Dave Barry Slept Here: A Sort of History of the United States	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Very cute fluff.	Dave Barry has applied his wit to a simplified American history, and done it nicely.  Students around the world will be gratified to know that they no longer have to memorize dates, because Barry has settled it so that everything happened on October 8th, even the 4th of July.  It's funny, and you'll laugh and have a good time.  It is not nearly so clever, however, as &quot;1066 and All That.&quot;	2001-09-18
US	52216136	R5IZF4Y3X2XX	0786707739	50158188	According to Queeney	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The darker side of 18th C Life W/ Johnson	If you were a close reader of Boswell's &quot;Life of Johnson&quot; &amp; Hester Thrale Piozzi's &quot;Anecdotes of the Late Samuel Johnson&quot;, or the later generations of Johnson biography, your imagination might have led you to conclude that the family life which Johnson experienced in the Thrale household was not, er, Leave It To Beaver. Husband Henry died too early, and was a philanderer. Hester gave birth to too many children who died young. (I don't know if child mortality was above average for their time, but it was sad enough as it was.) And the Thrale brewery was in financial difficulties, due to some mad ideas of Henry's. Into this household came a very depressed Samuel Johnson.<br />Ms Bainbridge has chosen this for the setting for her latest historical novel. One might question the choice: so many people treasure Johnson the gregarious talker, that seeing him described in a time of decay, and with the arguments and rivalries of his London household... well, let's just say it may be a realistic picture, but it's not a pretty one for those plunking down $200 for Johnson Toby mugs at eBay.<br />But Bainbridge has done this very well. Johnson is certainly in the book, and plays a strong role, but the truly interesting story is the arguments between Hester and daughter Queeney, accompanied by the dying days of Henry. Bainbridge should be applauded for what she's done. Most people only know Hester through what Boswell has written (and at that, mostly a claim that she is inaccurate), and that's very unfair. Bainbridge has given Hester additional dimensions, and displayed the sadness of her life.<br />&quot;Queeney&quot;, as she is, is an interesting character, but she is mostly a device, a way of framing Hester's story. It's really not about Queeney so much as her perceptions of all that happened, and her perceptions are balanced by an omniscent narrator.<br />I'm rather pleased with this - - Bainbridge has taken Hester's anecdotes and diaries, and given usa side of both Hester &amp; Johnson we wouldn't have otherwise have imagined.	2001-09-18
US	52216136	R22NZ2QQYJGJKO	0374115613	256824500	Boswell's Presumptuous Task: The Making of the Life of Dr. Johnson	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The human story behind an amazing achievement in literature	James Boswell's &quot;Life of Samuel Johnson&quot; is widely hailed as the first great biography (you probably knew that already...) The work is a huge advancement over prior efforts at biography, because Boswell spent considerable time with Johnson and in the biography described, in great detail, conversations between Johnson, Boswell, and others (you probably knew that already, too...) Adam Sisman has distilled the available information on Boswell (drawing on his notes, journals, letters, manuscripts of the life) and the considerable body of literary criticism regarding Boswell &amp; Johnson, to distill a very readable, mostly chronological account of what Boswell went through as he tried to write Johnson's Life. Sisman's focus is on the Boswell-Johnson parts, with little extraneous discussions of other aspects of Boswell. Thus, we get a little bit of Boswell growing up, but only so as to see Boswell's need for a father figure who could love him warmly; we get a brief discussion of Boswell's days with Johnson; we get the popular reactions to Boswell's explicit re-telling of their Highland jaunt, and the furor over the detailed way in which he related conversations; we get the distractions (family, alcohol, law, efforts towards a government post, and prostitutes) which competed for his attentions as he pretended to work on the life. I was very impressed with how Sisman used repetition to drive home themes that might have been lost in his chronological approach to the story, but we come away with not only a good understanding of Boswell's failings, but also how Sisman felt about Boswell. Sisman has done more than just tell the events, he has also provided us with a point of view. For instance, Sisman talks of one period where, he writes that Boswell was inflicted with &quot;yet another&quot; case of venereal disease. Sisman not only points out the poor behavior with this phrase, but drives home that enough is enough. In many other instances, Sisman points out how Boswell just doesn't behave as a sensible person, pursuing one goal while shooting himself in the foot. Repeatedly. Another impressive aspect of what Sisman has accomplished is how he has taken a middle road when it comes to the stuff of literary criticism (how accurate is Boswell? how much is biography vs art?). There is plenty of this to read in other books, but Sisman has been kind to the reader, letting the reader connect the dots. He frequently discusses how Boswell and his editor Malone would work to build the tale out of Boswell's notes - - apparently Malone was very talented in ancient manuscripts and filling in the gaps where necessary; yet Sisman balances this by relating how so few contemporaries complained about the telling of the events. And also on the balance, Sisman discusses how Boswell's art gave a different significance to the events. Let's be clear, I don't like Boswell, never have. Not sure I ever will. But Adam Sisman has given the LOJ a context by providing a book-length treatment of Boswell's life at the time. And Sisman has done it so well, that although I still don't like Boswell, Sisman has made him more real for me, and much less of a cartoon. Bravo, Adam Sisman!	2001-08-27
US	52216136	R2KO0ZDI6GS2CB	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	4	19	28	N	N	Needlessly vitriolic, but very good.	An accomplished and thorough prosecutor who describes himself as a moderate, Bugliosi is well-suited for the task of discussing the Bush v Gore Supreme Court case.  His arguments are on target and precise, and he brings in good supporting points.  For instance, he provides important background information that is not discussed so well in Alan Dershowitz' book &quot;Supreme Injustice&quot;:  his detailed discussion of how Justice Rhenquist quite probably perjured himself at the expense of another Justice years ago, in his pursuit to join the court and later become Chief Justice, is very telling.  In similar fashion he discusses all the problems he has with the SCOTUS opinions in Bush v. Gore.  He also provides a timeline and summary of the case, which allows it to be more of a reference book for the future than Dershowitz' book.<br />Unfortunately, his choice of words is needlessly vitriolic and is likely to cause early rejection by skeptical readers.  Perhaps it's his prosecutorial background here, the kind of go-for-the-throat approach one might use to sway some juries (I don't really know).  But I regret his path:  I think he introduces his conclusions too soon, and it would be better to build to them slowly.  As a result, I think this book is largely for those who are already in disagreement with the Court.	2001-07-16
US	52216136	R1U0HW7PP75PJR	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	4	30	45	N	N	Seems to leave no stone unturned	As a layman, it seems to me that Dershowitz and his assistants have left no stone unturned in describing why the Supreme Court's decision to even *accept* Bush v. Gore made no sense, as well as the ultimate decision reached by the majority.  Dershowitz et al point to Constitutional law, prior case, and prior decisions by these very justices, as well as their opportunity for personal gain.  Comparisons are made to cases where the death penalty is involved - - theoretically a loss of life is pretty important, yet cases were not accepted, or decided inconsistently from this one.  The reasoning seems very solid to me, and I'm glad I'm reading it.  The tone, perhaps, is too angryor strident, though, to convert anyone who agreed with the Supreme Court decision.  The book makes me want to invite five robed justices over for a BBQ and a little chat.	2001-06-23
US	52216136	R2B6MQILCSFVBZ	0793518326	977191911	The Beatles: Complete Scores (Transcribed Score)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Only a good start towards playing great songs.	The music covered in this book is wonderful, of course, but if you have a good ear you'll find many instances where you won't believe what you see on the page.  A fairly simple example is &quot;No Reply.&quot;  The song is in a minor key, and if you have a trained ear, you know the chords are minor chords - - but the music is written here with all major chords.  In addition, on the recording you'll hear sevenths which the sheet music doesn't mention.<br />The format could also be easier - - the songs are ordered alphabetically, but if you don't use the table of contents to find a song it will be difficult:  the top margins don't have any key words to indicate the songs on the page.<br />But if you have a good ear, and are adequately suspicious of what you see on the page, the book will be a time saver.  And for that, it's worth the money.	2001-03-05
US	52216136	R2UC48SNR5BQTQ	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	5	8	14	N	Y	Useful day to day.  Period.	I've had this book for about a year, but have held back from reviewing it until I could see it in action in our work place.  (In all honesty, I could have posted these same opinions six months ago;  it was effective that long ago, but reviewing this was not one of my top priorities.)  In my work place (a large large corporation whose website has scads of pages), this book has been a major resource for colleagues trying to support the user experience. <br />Nielsen makes his points clearly and supports them with germane examples.  His tone is sober and persuasive, and while he often gives direction in absolute terms (allowing little room for judgment), he never sounds like Chicken Little.  This increases his arguments' credibility, which is of course important if you need to cite an outside source.<br />The day to day usefulness?  Well, where I work this book has buttressed discussions around page download times, organization, page real estate, intranets...  I don't know of any other web book which could have filled this role.  Granted, other books carry similar messages, but their authors are not quoted daily, and they are less likely to be recognized by those you work with.  The fact that there is a mouse pad (intended as a joke) that asks you to ask yourself &quot;What Would Jakob Do?&quot; is a testament to the persuasiveness of his arguments.  They are persuasive for a reason.  BUY THIS BOOK.	2001-01-22
US	52216136	R1USAYOS6P7O2T	0688127371	99273161	Fish & Shellfish: The Cook's Indispensable Companion	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	Continually pleasing, instructful, and AMAZING.	This wonderful cookbook has yet to disappoint.  It tells you what to look for when purchasing, what fish can be substituted in recipes; it has clear descriptions of various cooking methods, and pulls in a wide variety of recipes from all around the world.  You'll be pleased with its detail on such basics as steaming lobsters and mussels, as well as some stunning off-the-beaten path recipes like a Brazilian shrimp stew.  We have made several of the dishes in this book, and have found them simple enough for a family Sunday dinner or elegant enough for a Saturday dinner party.  Many recipes are also quick enough for a weeknight.  A favorite in our household, and worth giving to your friends.	2001-01-09
US	52216136	RPLWU3V0R6QVS	0300084897	827272971	A Life of James Boswell	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Honestly, I can't finish this, but not enthralled so far.	I think it's healthy for a biographer to love his subject, because a fine biography takes years of effort.  But there are many points where I feel as if Martin's love for his subject -- assuming he loves Boswell -- obstructs a properly critical perspective.  As someone who loves Johnson's works, I've tried really hard to be open to this biography, but I can't go on.  Perhaps others who love Boswell as much as Martin does will have less difficulty than I do.  But I cannot.  If you DO love Boswell, then take my opinions with a grain of salt.<br />I have read about 20% of this (I am trying to be honest with you here, so don't ding me...)  But some of Martin's descriptions of Boswell are SO effusive, I can't go on.  If you read Bate's biography of Johnson, you never doubted his love for Johnson, but you probably felt that Bate was being even-handed.  But Martin doesn't strike me this way.  Discussing Boswell's &quot;London Journal,&quot; Martin writes, &quot;the world has come to see it as a literary masterpiece.&quot;  Hello?  Sure, we all loved to read about the peccadilloes, and enjoyed it, but a 'literary masterpiece'?  Like &quot;Hamlet&quot;?  &quot;Absalom, Absalom&quot;? &quot;Ulysses&quot;?  &quot;The Vanity of Human Wishes&quot;?  I am very curious about the world Martin refers to here.  The effusiveness continues a couple pages later, when Martin expresses thanks (that's OK) that Boswell didn't suppress himself in the journals, but the tone - - &quot;We must thank the literary muses who watched over him that he did not succeed against his better literary judgement...&quot;<br />Leading to this stage in London, there are many many pages where Martin works to forgive a tendency in Boswell which I would call flightiness, but Martin attributes to Boswell's artistic tendency and difficulties in conforming to his surroundings.  Part of me wants to respond in a way I suspect Johnson would have:  get serious.  Martin also never seems to weigh in on Boswell's affairswith married women - - should we read Martin's silence as his condoning?<br />Please forgive me here if I post this review without having read further.  But if I can't finish it - - and I have finished a number of 'difficult' books, and some that are poorly written, you disregard this at your own risk.	2000-12-04
US	52216136	RDJLN1LJXL6XK	0521630991	80743	The Cambridge Biographical Encyclopedia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Serves its purpose:  reasonable introductions	This biographical encyclopedia sacrifices depth for breadth, and on most occasions that's just fine.  It provides the basic outlines of why people are notable, their years of birth and death, and cross references them with other relevant figures.  For me, that's an important mission, and ample for 90% of the people who are listed here.  It is true that some figures receive more detailed treatment in other encyclopedias, but I'm guessing that for 95% of this book's reader (or more) the outlines are sufficient.	2000-11-22
US	52216136	R3S36E60SD37V7	0521651824	556650830	Samuel Johnson and the Culture of Property	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Who 'owns' Johnson?  Or Boswell's Life of Johnson?	The title of this book doesn't do justice to Hart's analysis -- Hart has examined literary ownership, and pride in that ownership, from a variety of angles that relate to Samuel Johnson.  (In email, when I asked Hart about the title, he as much said it was the publisher's idea.  But Hart's concept is intricate, and not easily captured, so Cambridge can be forgiven.)<br />Hart examines the process of appropriating Johnson as property.  For Boswell, this means separating Johnson's life from Johnson's writings.  Once Boswell's &quot;Life of Johnson&quot; becomes a monument, it means the efforts of others to carve out a relevant position - - from the 18th C Croker edition of Boswell which interpolated all sorts of material to 'round out' Boswell's gaps; a later, more 'purist' edition by Fitzgerald; followed by the famous George Birkbeck Hill edition where the quantity of footnotes rivalled the quantity of Boswell.  And once the Hill edition became sacred, it was up to Powell to keep it sacred in a later edition, by adding considerably, but ONLY in appendixes so as to not detract from the Hill text.  So, in each round, property was carved out.<br />Hart also examines Boswell's parading of Johnson throguh Scotland, and how Boswell basked not just in Johnson's reflected glory, but basked also as the impresario who brought the English monument to Scotland.  Other examinations of property include copyright and forgery, through discussions of law and Ossian.<br />Hart has a deft hand here, and turns quite a number of brilliant tricks.  He makes clever connections of Boswell as Hamlet, and readings of Gibbon's words that have been lost in recent, popular editions.  He discusses the British cultural significance of &quot;Samuel Johnson,&quot; and why British prisoners of war in Germany (in WW II) were sent Boswell's &quot;Life&quot; rather than the actual writings by Johnson.  All in all, this book rewards the attentive reader.  <br />The price, however, (at around $60 currently) leaves something to be desired.  I suppose there is something to a need to have Cambridge compensated for publishing an item that doesn't have broad appeal, but I don't see how a price like this will make its appeal broader.	2000-11-22
US	52216136	R3RKP5813165MP	0970335504	650082412	The Neal Pollack Anthology of American Literature	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Lacerates self-important, pompous journalism.	Will the &quot;thought piece&quot; that pollutes our magazines and newspapers ever be the same after this book?  <br />Probably.  <br />Unfortunately.  <br />But that's not due to Pollack's efforts:  he has adopted a persona and style here which is outrageous and hilarious, and lampoons so many of the tedious articles we've read in the tony magazines.  He has puffed up his free-lance narrator in marvelous fashion, with the most hilariously adulatory jacket I've ever read, and a self-conscious prose that is worth sharing with all your friends.  One very small example will suffice:  on a dock, eating his breakfast banana, the free-lance journalist writes, &quot;my knees trembled with the knowledge that this could be my last food until lunch.&quot;<br />No, Pollack will not change the world with this sublime volume.  Not yet.  Would that he could!	2000-10-09
US	52216136	R2R16ZG6GCD44Z	0192836188	850805515	A Journal of the Plague Year (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A stunning blend of fact and imagination.	Defoe has pulled off something brilliant here.  Although he was only 5  years old in 1665 (the year of the title), in 1720 he set down a narrative  full of rich details blending fact and imagination.  The thoroughness of  his descriptions and the constant realism come close to convincing you that  these are first-hand observations:  but these are *not* first hand  observations;  his narrator is a fiction, recalling events he saw as an  adult.  <br />The persuasiveness of Defoe's fiction comes from his  specificity, and little comments suggesting the narrator has an additional  life outside the Journal.  He mentions not only the dead (and the  increasing losses), but the quacks taking advantage of the gullible, the  quarantining of infected houses, the marks on the doors, the efforts to  escape from quarantined houses, the efforts of the mayor's offfice to limit  the spread of infection, and the public pits where the bodies were thrown.  And so on into the facets of everyday life.  Through it all, his portrayal  of the narrator also has a personal richness, a consistent first-person  perspective;  the conceit is reinforced by insertions such as &quot;what I  wrote of my private meditations I reserve for private use, and desire it  may not be made public on any account whatever.&quot;  The narrator is a  product of Defoe's imagination, of course, and similarly, any private  meditations such a narrator would have.  But Defoe has cleverly made the  narrator real.	2000-09-09
US	52216136	RW8IY80AK196N	0192840428	593273486	Samuel Johnson: The Major Works (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Get THIS anthology, not the Penguin.	.<br />It's a bit of a misnomer to call this anthology \\"The Major Works,\\" because the principle guiding the original selection (under a different title) was to provide a diverse sampling of what he'd written -- and included items which would never be considered \\"major works\\" (such as a Latin school exercise and letters). They are worth reading, but not \\"major works.\\" That having been said, as an *anthology* of Johnson's writings, this is the one to get.<br />.<br />Oxford's anthology of Samuel Johnson's writings is superior to Penguin's  because it is more comprehensive, and displays more of his variety, as well  as more of what he is known for.  In comparison to the Penguin anthology,  this collection includes all of Johnson's short fiction  \\"Rasselas\\" (an excellent book -- read my review of it in the  Penguin edition of Rasselas):  Penguin will ask you to buy a separate copy  of Rasselas on top of their anthology.  In addition, Oxford's anthology  offers extracts of \\"Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\\"  (Penguin has a separate volume of that, although there it is complete and  coupled with Boswell's companion piece).<br />.<br />The Oxford anthology offers 40 periodic essays (Ramblers, Adventurers, & Idlers), a form for which he  is well known;  plus his prefaces to Shakespeare and the Dictionary;  the  major poems (chief among them \\"London\\" and \\"The Vanity of  Human Wishes\\");  a sermon;  an extract of a Parliamentarian debate;  his Life of Boerhaave;  his review of Soame Jenyn's \\"A Free Inquiry  into the Nature and Origin of Evil,\\"  his political pamphlet \\"The  Patriot,\\" an extract from a law lecture, extracts from \\"The Lives  of The Poets\\", some letters...  At over 800 pages, this is very comprehensive.<br />.<br />The late Donald Greene provided an excellent introduction  and set of notes.<br />.<br />Note, however, that this is essentially the same  anthology Oxford has had in print for years (my first copy is 15 years old,  and this is the third cover under which it's been published).  The  copyright indicates there have been some revisions to this 2000 edition,  but they are not apparent.  Very great wine in a brand new bottle.<br />.<br />I still wish, however, that the content were re-thought with the new title. Including letters and odd bits was fine under old titles, but it seems to me that there are \\"major works\\" which are missing, at the expense of stray items. Too few of the biographies from \\"The Lives of the Poets\\" are complete, and \\"Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\\" deserves more space than its extract receives under a title \\"The Major Works.\\" Perhaps an additional sermon or two is called for. These are quibbles: the content is fine, it's the title that's off.'s been published).  The  copyright indicates there have been some revisions to this 2000 edition,  but they are not apparent.  Very great wine in a brand new bottle.<BR>.<BR>I still wish, however, that the content were re-thought with the new title. Including letters and odd bits was fine under old titles, but it seems to me that there are \\"major works\\" which are missing, at the expense of stray items. Too few of the biographies from \\"The Lives of the Poets\\" are complete, and \\"Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\\" deserves more space than its extract receives under a title \\"The Major Works.\\" Perhaps an additional sermon or two is called for. These are quibbles: the content is fine, it's the title that's off.	2000-09-08
US	52216136	R3D3IRF59QZSM3	0140431160	461046278	The Life of Samuel Johnson (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	72	86	N	N	In retrospect, it depends on what you want out of this.	Almost two years ago, I gave this five stars.  On reading much more about Boswell and his procedures, I have to qualify my earlier review.  If you  want a book about Johnson that tells how one man saw him, then yes, it  still merits five stars.  If you want a full perspective of Johnson - - as  the word biography would imply, I'd downgrade it to three stars.  So on  balance, four.<br />There are of course many positives, or I wouldn't have  given it 5 stars two years ago.  Boswell had a strong talent for recording  Johnson's conversations, and they are wonderful.  Some of them are down  right hilarious!  Boswell was also a bit of a dramatist, setting up  situations such as Johnson's meeting with Wilkes, placing bets over whether  he would challenge Johnson on his habit of hiding orange peels.  And  Boswell could tell a story very dramatically - - it's his dramatic skills  and memory which have been the basis on which his champions have defended  him.<br />However, as a 'biography' this leaves much to be desired.  Not just  the issue of scope, with some 80% of the pages being on 20 years of  Johnson's life.  Boswell just wasn't a biographer, his story is too  personal, he inadequately integrates important opinions, and he suppresses  important information that's inconsistent with his rather simple view of  Johnson.  As Richard Schwartz has excellently pointed out, Boswell has  presented us with an unshaped series of details, where data do not converge  to a whole, and remain undigested.<br />Inaccuracies:  Boswell tells us early  on that he sometimes scurried across London to verify a date, but he  apparently wouldn't consult a perpetual calendar;  there are a number of  occasions where his dates don't align with the day of week, yet his  certainty in dating events make it all sound so true.  And there is the  famous blooper of his putting Johnson at Oxford for three years, rather  than one.  The inaccuracies would not be such an issue were it not for the  fact thatBoswell positions himself as being definitive, and condemns the  efforts of John Hawkins and Hester Thrale as being inaccurate.  Both of  them saw aspects of Johnson whihc Boswell never had the depth to see and  understand.<br />Repositioning:  Boswell the story teller shaped events...   There is an important event where Johnson meets the King in the King's  library.  Boswell makes it sound as if the King was completely focused on  Johnson, and no one else was there - - as if it was a private audience (yet  it certainly wasn't).  To read this book, you would think that Boswell was  one of the most important people in Johnson's life;  while Boswell  certainly mattered to Johnson, there are very few descriptions of Johnson's  life without Boswell, as if Johnson were more dependent on Boswell than the  reverse.  But the total number of days they were together was a very small  fraction of Johnson's life.<br />Suppression of details:  Boswell is so intent  on describing Johnson's devotion to his departed wife, that he never tells  us that Johnson had hoped to remarry, or that later in life he made  advances to a memebr of his household.  Boswell also won't relay lifelong  friend Edmund Hector's concern that at one point Johnson was so depressed  that Hector feared it might shorten his life.  These details don't fit  Boswell's simple view of Johnson - - and when someone like Anna Seward  would send him anecdotes with a disturbing tone, Boswell wrote it off to  &quot;prejudice.&quot;  We also know now that Hawkins, who knew Johnson  long before Boswell, wrote a bio of Johnson that has been unfairly  eclipsed, largely because of Boswell's treatment and Boswell's unquestioned  authority.<br />Even for the years that Boswell -did- know Johnson, his record  is far from complete.  Johnson recovered from one major period of  depression by being immersed in family life with the Thrales, yet  Boswell  never spent much time at their household, and so never really saw that  'family' side of Johnson.<br />Should you avoid this like the plague?  No, not  at all.  But the full unabridged edition represents quite a commitment, and  you might be better off reading the abridged version, and spending the time  saved by reading Bate's biogrpahy, or even Johnson's own writings.<br />(In  writing this review, I've been very influenced by various books &amp;  articles by Donald Greene &amp; Richard Schwartz;  I've also tried to be  sensitive to the defenses of such Boswell defenders as Frederick Pottle.)	2000-08-18
US	52216136	R33TUXRWE52GET	0198127669	507902393	Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland (Oxford English Texts): With an Introduction and Notes by J. D. Fleeman	Books	4	45	48	N	N	Johnson observes the passing of an age in Scotland	Boswell persuaded Johnson, almost age 64, to visit the highlands of  Scotland with him in August, 1773.  Both Boswell and Johnson wrote small  books about it.  Johnson's view, both in his letters to Hester Thrale and  in this book, was as a social scientist cum historian, taking a clinical  examination of the changes that were occurring in Scotland after the Union.  Where Boswell's volume (sometimes paired with Johnson's) tends to focus on  dialogs with Johnson, Johnson discusses the decaying of the clan structure,  emigration, assimilation into the Union...  Johnson is very careful as he  describes what he sees, carefully measuring distances and relating his  observations to historical context.<br />This review may appear with other  editions, but the Oxford edition, edited by Fleeman, is a very thorough and  detailed edition for the specialist.  For the specialist, it's worth the  relatively high price.  Fleeman provides detailed notes, and appendices on  the the various early editions, cancelled sheets, clans structures, etc.  If you are a serious reader of Johnson, as I am, this is the edition to  have.<br />If you are -not- a serious reader, then you would do well to buy  the penguin paperback, which combines Johnson's and Boswell's volumes.  The  two books are fascinating to read in tandem, and it's revealing about  Boswell that Johnson doesn't even mention conversations which meant so much  to Boswell.  In addition, the notes in the Penguin edition (by Peter Levi)  are also very helpful.<br />The -third- part of the story, however --  Johnson's letters to Hester Thrale while J &amp; B were traveling -- are  not included in any current edition that I know of.  I suspect we will have  to wait for an electronic version in order to be able to compare all three  resources at once.	2000-08-14
US	52216136	R3KTKDF951ZQUV	0806942592	151604066	Great Book Of Domino Games	Books	5	30	30	N	N	What fun!  What an eye-opener!  Definitely buy!	This is a wonderful book that really introduced us to a lot of great  evenings in our house.  It has a wide variety of games for double six sets  and double nine sets, and any number of players.  The games we've played  have been enjoyable for the adults as well as for the children, and many of  the games have even helped our daughter's math skills - - a game such as  muggins, where you try to make the pips on the open ends add to multiples  of 5.  There are old stand by's here, as well as games that have been newly  invented.  At a price like this, for all the fun we've had,  well, it's  tough to find a better, more enjoyable deal.	2000-08-11
US	52216136	RIOYHNTGAP6PA	0198122691	159819076	A Bibliography of the Works of Samuel Johnson, 1731-1759 : Treating His Published Works from the Beginnings to 1984	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An incredible scholarly effort, very valuable to some.	J. D. Fleeman has left us a hefty 2-volume set of incredible value to some people, but perhaps not to many.  It's an extremely comprehensive listing  of various editions of Johnson's works, both as sets and isolated volumes.   The date range is from original editions when Johnson lived (18th C), up to  recent times.  Some of what is here is surprising - - such listings of  Johnson's Dictionary in foreign languages, which initially caused me  surprise (but were understandable with more thought).<br />I have used it on  occasion in placing bids on eBay (it has helped me understand editions such  as a 1970's facsimile reprint of the 1st edition of Johnson's Dictionary),  as well as when buying 19th C editions of his books over the Internet, and  helped take some of the guesswork out of what I was purchasing.  It's told  me more about some of the editions I already own.  It has also helped me  anser questions from visitors to my Johnson website.<br />I imagine that this  set is very valuable to the specialist, but I imagine that even the  specialists would prefer to borrow it from their local library than to buy  it.  While this is a monumental achievement, and deserves all five of the  stars I've given it, at $460 for the 2 volumes together, I think most  people's uses for this would be limited.	2000-08-11
US	52216136	R2VMW2M5UQFNW3	0393311961	939488815	Blue Guide Western Germany (Second Edition)  (Blue Guides)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Told us more than our local friends knew	On our recent trip to Cologne, we found this book was an invaluable companion.  If you're not familiar with the Blue Guide series of travel books, they do not cover hotels and restaurants and evening entertainment,  but they do cover details about history, architecture, museums, cathedrals,  etc., and provide a plan of the major cities.  Cities and towns are  organized by routes, so if you are driving from one city to the next they  are indispensable.<br />In Germany, we loved reading the details about the  Dom, and several surrounding less famous churches.  The specifics regarding  the details in the various museums, the highlights of what you'll see, etc,  were very helpful in helping us budget our time.<br />This edition is a little  our of date, however, and museum hours have changed in some instances, so  call ahead.	2000-07-17
US	52216136	R23OF514F4RMLU	0471323543	420016781	Mail and Internet Surveys: The Tailored Design Method	Books	5	46	50	N	Y	So much to say, even to those who think they know	I have close to 20 years of experience in market research; yet with the move that many are making to conducting their research over the Internet, I knew I needed to get a lot of learning quickly, in order to better  understand the trade-offs being made between cost savings and research  quality.  Dillman's book fills that need.  Building on an earlier edition,  which focused on the issues surrounding interviewing by mail, Dillman  confronts issues surrounding lack of randomness, need for clarity in a  self-administered-survey world, and issues of internet coverage, in drawing  conclusions.  Also, he has a very helpful discussion on the issues  surrounding combining data collected through different methodologies at  once.  Dillman also discusses the need to recruit within the context of a  social exchange;  we are, after all, collecting information with the  respondent's approval, and our generalizations are stronger when we have a  good sampling plan and can maximize co-operation.<br />Highly recommended!	2000-07-17
US	52216136	R1Q19I34YWN9MB	0130878278	291877340	Customer-Effective Web Sites	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A &quot;desert island&quot; ecommerce book, but not the whole story.	I kind of like this book, and I think you should buy it, because it offers  some good strategic thinking about finding opportunities, calling in the  right parties to a project, and developing a site.  The author's  recognition of the valuable role customers can play as part of the  development team  isn't often seen in web books (I saw it in Jeff Rubin's  &quot;Handbook of Usability Testing&quot;, but I haven't seen it  elsewhere).  Her recognition of the value that good marketing research can  play is also commendable -- good, quantitative market research is an area  that some other books will tell you to disregard, in favor of repeated user  testing.  But without a solid business proposition, a lot of effort could  be spent on a too-small opportunity.<br />That said, I would also want to take  other ecommerce books with me to my desert island.  While Dalgleish gives  attention to the importance of the user, I don't think the user gets  *enough* attention.  And the comments on the importance of user input and  appeasing the user are diffused through the book, never achieving a  critical mass, such as one gets in Alan Cooper's &quot;The Inmates Are  Running the Asylum.&quot;  In my view, this  is a missed opportunity.   While it is good that Dalgleish makes comments such as &quot;customers  don't understand the way your Web site works as well as you do,&quot; it  would be better to remind the site owner that the users failure to grasp  the Web site is not due to any fault of the user.  More evangelism on  user-centered design would be very helpful here.  And to round that out, I  would also want Cooper's &quot;Inmates&quot; and the latest Jakob Nielsen  book (&quot;Designing Web Usability&quot;) on my desert island.  As an  additional item for my island, I would also want to bring Deborah Mayhew's  &quot;The Usability Engineering Lifecycle,&quot; as a strong reminder that  user perspectives need to be gathered very early on in the process.  (I  don't believe Dalgleish discusses user task analysis explicitly, perhaps  leaving that discussion to the experts she wants us to put on the  development team.)<br />To reiterate, I do kind of like this book, and I think  you should buy it.  But don't expect to get buy on this book alone.	2000-07-08
US	52216136	R23GQYSKP9D31C	1573227749	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Fine on its own, but not what some wanted.	There are about 90+ reviews to this book so far, and if you choose, you can read them all.  As best I could tell, those who didn't like &quot;The Tesseract&quot; tend to be disappointed because it is not like Garland's  first novel, &quot;The Beach.&quot;  But if you judge this on its own  merits -- which I did, not having read The Beach -- I think you will be  pleased.<br />If you read the reviews, you'll get the impression that this is  a crime novel, too.  I think that would be a mistake...  Others may focus  on characters (a mistake, too).<br />I believe this novel's star is its  structure.  The story threads that are here (there are basically three of  them) are all fine, but they are laid out so as to support Garland's effort  at an intricate structure.  The novel starts off somewhat linear, but then  retraces itself from another character's view...  And with each retelling,  it gets less linear, and the non-linearity gets more complex.  Now, the  interesting thing for me is that as Garland build in ever greater  complexity from the weaving of the story lines, the characterizations do  not suffer.  The story could have been more linear, and the story would  have been just as fine - - that is, the characters would made as much  sense, and the story would have made as much sense.  But Garland has made a  clear choice in his telling, and I'm all for it.<br />*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   *  *  *<br />OK, beyond the structure, what do we have?  As several other  reviews point out, it's basically three character lines which converge.   One involves a smuggler holed up in a hotel for a meeting, who  misinterprets a series of events, and the same sequence of events from  others' eyes -- leading to an intense gun battle.  The second story  involves a family whose lives will intersect with the escaping smuggler,  and the events that led to their point in the story.  The third involves  two street urchins and their pursuit of the gun battle (and events leading  to their chase).  Each narrative is gracefully provided with details to  make the thread seem rich with emotion and independence.  As a result, no  one thread dominates, and characterizations of this as a &quot;crime  novel&quot; pay too much attention to the initial thread surrounding the  smuggler.<br />I truly enjoyed reading this novel - - it's a great display of  artistry and skill.	2000-06-30
US	52216136	R22PJ6O0NL0UZY	0140430334	569029127	Selected Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	40	41	N	N	The Oxford Anthology is decidedly better.	Well, if I've only given this four stars, and not five, it's not due to any failure of Samuel Johnson's.  Everything in this book is fine.  But the anthology published by Oxford (edited by Donald Greene) is decidedly  better.<br />The Oxford Anthology has twice as many of his essays, the  Preface to Shakespeare is -complete-, not &quot;From...&quot;, and the  complete preface to the Dictionary;  it also has his short fiction Rasselas  (complete), as well as a sermon or two and some early examples of his  biographies; the Vision of Theodore, Hermit of Tenerife.<br />Honestly, I  can't complain about ANY anthology of Johnson;  and this will do you very  well.  But the Oxford Anthology will do you so much better.	2000-03-14
US	52216136	R2KJXW549RV48I	0192839136	207972867	The History of Rasselas: Prince of Abissinia (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	47	50	N	N	A &quot;Coming of Age&quot; Morality Tale	Johnson brings together a wide variety of his favorite themes in this brief book, as he follows a small band of travelers as they interact with the world around them.<br />&quot;Rasselas&quot; of the title is a prince who  has led a sheltered life in the Happy Valley.  Over time he becomes  discontented with always being contented, and decides to escape his boredom  by leaving.  He is led by his guide Imlac, a court counselor and poet;   accompanying them is Rasselas's sister and her maid.<br />Rasselas's goal is  to make a &quot;choice of life,&quot; something he has great difficulty  doing once outside the confines of the Happy Valley.  Repeatedly, the  quartet encounters arguments and counterarguments for one way of life or  another.  Ultimately, they realize that it's not what they choose to do in  this life that matters, as long as it doesn't impede on their after-life.   That is the major conclusion they reach, in a final chapter which Johnson  calls &quot;The conclusion, in which nothing is concluded.&quot;<br />The book  and its writing is fairly simple, and could be read by anyone in high  school.  Unlike a lot of Johnson's essays, the syntax is not tangled, and  it is easy to get through.  However, while the writing is fairly simple  (Hemingway some times comes to my mind!), the themes are big.  And a young  reader must be patient:  what sounds like a final opinion on one page  frequently gets an &quot;on the other hand&quot; on the next.<br />This is  important, because some of the lines which characters speak are easily  taken out of context, and misintepreted.  A reader who is not careful may  find a line which seems to resonate, and draw the wrong conclusion.  Here  are two examples:  at one point, Imlac (Rasselas's guide) says to Rasselas,  &quot;Human life is everywhere a condition in which there is much to be  endured and little to be enjoyed.&quot;  Pretty pessimistic!  But in its  proper context, Imlac has only cautioned Rasselas against envying the  Europeans.  In another instance, &quot;The Artist&quot; (no, not the one  with the glyph!) tells Rasselas, &quot;Nothing will ever be attempted, if  all possible objections must be first oversome.&quot;  How *wonderful* for  the office bulletin board!  But then (on the other hand) The Artist puts on  a pair of man-made wings and takes a belly flop into a lake.<br />This book is  chock full of aphorisims like these two, and that is part of its appeal.   But they are deceptive in isolation, and should be considered as part of  the book as a whole.<br />As a whole book, it is wonderful.  Its scope is  wide, because of the variety of experiences and because of the to-ing and  fro-ing of the dialog.  It's a great way to start with Johnson, because it  has so many of his large themes, distilled into a little tale which really  can fit in your coat pocket.	2000-03-07
US	52216136	R1XL3YTYE2RKRI	0521557658	567099899	A Dictionary of the English Language on CD-ROM	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A mammoth achievement, in a convenient format	No, Samuel Johnson did not write the first English Dictionary.  Let's dispense with that up front.  However, he did write an incredibly high quality one, the first high quality English Dictionary actually, and he did it practically singlehandedly.  (For the details of the effort, please see  &quot;The Making of Johnson's Dictionary,&quot; by Reddick, also available  here at Amazon.)<br />Johnson wrote his Dictionary at a time when people read  Dictionaries, not just referred to them.  Knowing that, Johnson pursued his  goal of putting a stake in the ground as to the meaning of words while  developing and promoting a point of view;  he was very careful about the  quotations he used to illustrate his words, and the choices he made have  been the subject of numerous books.<br />Johnson knew, in writing a  Dictionary, that any attempt to cement the language was due to failure, and  he said as much in his famous Preface.  However, he felt obliged to make an  effort (heck, he'd already received some advance money, and had to make  good!), and over the course of years produced a volume that reigned supreme  until the advent of the Oxford English Dictionary.<br />(You may already be  aware of amusing definitions found within, such as oats, pensioner, etc.,  but it would be a shame to let the amusement distract you from the  achievement that this represents.)<br />McDermott has included both the 1st  and 4th editions on this CD-ROM, thus providing the two major editions  Johnson produced (other editions are either skeletons, sans quotations, or  very similar to these here), and its presence on CD-ROM makes it mcuh  handier than pulling two heavy volumes off the shelf (which would cost you  thousands of dollars anyway).  I only have two regrets, neither of which  should stop you from buying this.  One, the CD-ROM does not include  Johnson's Preface (it is easily available in paperback Johnson anthologies,  but the absence seems pointless).  Two, unless I haven't figured the  interface out, it's a bit clunky:  words are not searchable, one must click  sections open.<br />That being said, I am still very glad I have my copy, and  I bought a second for my alma mater.interface out, it's a bit clunky:  words are not searchable, one must click  sections open.<br />That being said, I am still very glad I have my copy, and  I bought a second for my alma mater.	2000-01-28
US	52216136	R2GDAT4CUJIU1Z	0300011571	207261206	The Works of Samuel Johnson, Vols 3-5: The Rambler (The Yale Edition of the Works of Samuel Johnson)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An incredible set of wide-ranging essays.	Samuel Johnson wrote in many genres, and the essay is one for which he is well-known.  Of the three series of his essays, the Rambler is usaully hailed as being his best.  This is the only complete edition in  print.<br />Johnson was a great critic, a moralist, and a sharp observer of  human behavior.  The Rambler essays cover all three aspects of his  opinions.<br />In literary criticism, we have discussions of pastoral poetry,  of Milton's blank verse (long before his biography of Milton in &quot;The  Lives of the Poets&quot;), and a stunning essay on the superiority of  biography as a literary form.<br />We have his moralist perspective, and his  human observations, combined in essays on the foolishness of telling  secrets, procrastination, self-consciousness, anger, regret, perseverance,  etc.<br />Admittedly, Johnson's syntax can be difficult, and occasionally he  will send you to your dictionary.  But your efforts will be rewarded,  because Johnson's views are written from the perspective of someone who is  all too familiar with his own flaws, and knows the difference between the  ideals he proposes and our/his own performance in attempting to achieve  those goals.	1999-12-12
US	52216136	R3CB9GK894FDJ7	0820312045	311192182	The Politics of Samuel Johnson	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Johnson's political views, examined in detail	.<BR>Donald Greene's readings of Johnson's political behavior, and the pieces he wrote (including not just the pamphlets of the 1770's, but also the Parliamentary debates and early tracts) clarifies our understanding. Boswell just wasn't as thorough on these matters, nor was W. Jackson Bate. This book, simply speaking, is invaluable.	1999-09-15
US	52216136	R199TKG9TA2CP0	1887178767	152919429	Samuel Johnson	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Bate describes a very human Samuel Johnson.	What a predicament -- to be James Boswell, and have first hand acquaintance with Samuel Johnson, and to write one of the most famous biographies the world has ever known.  What an opportunity -- to be Walter  Jackson Bate, and be removed from Johnson by some 200 years, approach him  with greater objectivity, and write one of the best literary biographies of  the century.  Where Boswell was blinded by Johnson's brilliance, Bate has  seen Johnson as a human being, complete with flaws, frustrated dreams, and  depressions.  Out of this context, the works of Johnson the writer take on  new meaning, and made me appreciate Johnson's perspective all the more.    Boswell's record of dinner conversations can only take one so far.   Eventually you have to wonder, in the words of Jack Lynch, &quot;Who was  this Johnson guy?&quot;  You cannot get a fuller portrait than the one Bate  gives us.	1999-07-20
US	52216136	R2HOFSTNG7RZ4N	0898704154	373523398	The Quotable Johnson: A Topical Compilation of His Wit and Moral Wisdom	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A focused collection of Johnson quotations.	.<br />Danckert has developed a nice, portable collection of Johnson quotes, drawing on a variety of his writings, including some sadly neglected ones (the Sermons). The collection provides a very good picture of Johnson's thoughts as a moral instructor, and this is one of the best selection of Johnson's quotes in print. The thoughts here are considerably fuller than what you'll see in a volume like Bartlett's, which tends to go for the quick witticisms.  For that alone, it's worth buying. But, I wish it were more: because of the focus, there is a lot of Johnson we don't get. We don't see enough of the political arguments or the literary criticism, we don't get the chestnuts that have often been handed down, but are still new to the newcomer. For instance, \\"Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel\\" is not to be found, nor any of his famous comments on Scotland. In my view, this book is incomplete. Even among \\"incomplete\\" Johnson collections, I feel there are better ones to be had (Henry Darcy Curwen's \\"A Johnson Sampler\\" [Harvard, 1963] has just been re-issued). (You could also look on the Internet.)	1999-03-20
US	52216136	R12I4LGWIPFA2W	0192815377	569572839	Life of Johnson: Unabridged (The World's Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	James Boswell presents Johnson in &quot;Cinema Verite&quot;	James Boswell met Johnson when he (Boswell) was 23 and Johnson was 63.  As a result, the emphasis of Boswell's biography is on Johnson's later years, but oh, what a record Boswell has left us.  Boswell provoked Johnson to  comment on a wide variety of topics, and recorded Johnson's doings with his  circle of friends and colleagues.  Boswell was a pleasant companion for  Johnson, who usually accepted Boswell's constant probes (and even  accompanied Boswell on a tour of the Highlands in 1773). Through it all,  Boswell took notes, and jotted down everything Johnson said, recording many  of Johnson's most famous comments.  As a result, Boswell's biography of  this great man of letters was a landmark biography, different from all  biographies which came before, and still a point of comparison for  biographies today. If you can get past Boswell's rather (in my opinion)  obsequious tone, you will enjoy the ride very much. This Oxford World's  Classics edition, edited by JD Fleeman, has a wonderful set of notes not  found in other editions.  It is a very affordable and thorough edition.	1998-11-29
US	52216136	R2OQQ13R8U4CVM	0781270898	316144727	Lives of the English Poets	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	*The* standard edition of Johnson's poetic biographies.	Samuel Johnson finished an illustrious literary career with a series of biographies of the major English poets up until his time.  The series was initiated by bookpublishers, who were interested in preserving their  copyrights by publishing new editions of each poet's works, with Johnson's  prefaces.  Eventually, the prefaces themselves were collected and printed  separately from the poems.<br />Johnson's effort was an attempt at  establishing a canon for his day, and he hoped forever.  Nowadays, we do  not read all of these poets with the same enthusiasm that Johnson did, but  his analyses of Milton, Pope, Dryden et al are frequently read to this day.  His criticism is outstanding, and the attention which he brings to each  poet will make you think twice before disregarding poets we have now  forgotten.<br />This specific edition is a reprint of the 1905 Oxford  edition, edited by George Birkbeck Hill.  Hill's editorial work on  Boswell's Life Of Johnson  is the edition typically cited in later works  (any footnote citing a six volume Boswell is referring to Hill's effort)  and his Johnson Miscellanies is a favorite collection of contemporaneous  recollections of Johnson.  He brings similar value to this edition of  &quot;The Lives Of The Poets.&quot;  At least until such time as the Yale  Edition of the Works of Samuel Johnson publishes The Lives Of The Poets,  this will *remain* the standard edition.	1998-11-22
US	52216136	R318ZWKVR2SXOK	0521556252	31119816	The Cambridge Companion to Samuel Johnson (Cambridge Companions to Literature)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A very fine introduction to the works and themes of Johnson.	The challenge of segregating Johnson's works into their themes and forms must have been daunting, but Greg Clingham and the several writers who contributed to this edition have done a marvelous job of providing an  introduction to Johnson and his works.  Chapters examine his poetry, his  essays, his Dictionary, his attitudes towards religion, and women...  This  book will be appreciated by beginning and intermediate Johnsonians, and  should be read.	1998-11-05
US	52216136	R3OQNUNNY431LE	0674787773	638980606	Samuel Johnson: The Life of an Author	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Lipking focuses on Johnson's writing rather than the life.	Lipking has written a &quot;writer's life,&quot; examining Johnson not from the viewpoint of celebrity, but as a history of his writing, and &quot;career development&quot; as an author.  Lipking's thesis is that the  transformations Johnson underwent in his career went a long way in shaping  what we think of authors, and in that interest spends the bulk of his time  examining Johnson's written words.  While one may initially think this  approach is redundant with Kernan's (&quot;Samuel Johnson and the Impact of  Print&quot;), in fact Lipking is far less concerned with the publishing  industry and more concerned with Johnson's writings themselves. A more  direct comparison might be made to DeMaria's &quot;Samuel Johnson,&quot;  but even there the comparison is weak.  Like Lipking, DeMaria analyzes  Johnson's writings, but Lipking is less concerned about context, and  concentrates far more on the writings.	1998-10-29
US	52216136	R3K6NLDPQW8K6W	0684813726	82788515	Death of Outrage: Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals	Books	3	1	1	N	N	On target, but could have been much shorter.	Mr. Bennett delves into various philosophical, legal, and moral issues  surrounding the Lewinsky scandal, and deals with each in what sounds like a  very fair tone.  His thoughts need to be considered in the public debate,  whether or not you agree with them. Unfortunately, Bennett's tone suggests  that he feels Clinton is relatively unique as Presidents go - - for  instance, we are not reminded of Pres. Bush's pardoning of Cap Weinberger,  but Bennett does remind us of Walsh when Bennett wants to put Judge Starr  in a better light. Sadly, this could have been much shorter (perhaps an  article in the Atlantic at most), and should not be a $20 book. I recommend  you try to borrow it.  If you must buy it, then do, and lend it to many.	1998-08-29
US	52216136	R2HANSSAU50DHJ	0374208107	580270655	Mendelssohn is on the Roof	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very moving portrait of Prague during WWII	This book opens with a black humor scene:  how to remove the statue of Mendelssohn from the Prague concert hall during the Nazi occupation?  From there, it shifts to short portraits of the gestapo, guards, ghetto residents, children, etc., all living in Pragu and trying to succeed/survive.  It has been a long time since I have read a book so moving as this, and I highly recommend it	1997-04-29
