US	52215367	R1QBLUCPKT1UBQ	0803229593	413746298	Venereal Disease and the Lewis and Clark Expedition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Human Reality of History	Dr. Lowry is a consistently fascinating author.  Branching out from his breakthrough research on the Civil War (Stories the Soldiers Wouldn't Tell and other classics), Lowry examined the medical challenges faced by Lewis and Clark's Corps of Discovery in their journey to plot and open the great \\"unknown\\" west.  Yet, above the many startling facts and insights Lowry offers in this book, a great realization emerges--globalization is not a new phenomenon, and globalization has always had a dark side.  Native Americans, varied and complex, had one unifying experience:  The devastation they suffered from the arrival of European diseases, not least venereal infections.  Setting aside the debate as to the geographic origins of syphilis, it appears incontestable that the spirochetes were delivered to the Indians of the Great Plains and the Pacific northwest by French, Spanish, Russian, English and American trappers, explorers, wanderers...often indirectly, through other tribes.  We all have heard the tales of smallpox and its morbidity, but, until Dr. Lowry blazed this new trail, few of us grasped the extent to which VD ravaged and undermined Native American culture.  Further, the Corps of Discovery itself suffered serious debilities, thanks to such infections--in a historical turnabout, American explorers were infected by Indians, rather than the other way around (although some members of the Corps doubtless carried such ailments with them when they embarked).  Lowry tells a taut, lucid, compelling and peculiarly inspiring story.  On top of all the other adversity faced by Lewis and Clark, this, too.  Without sensationalism or lurid nonsense, Lowry deepens and enriches our appreciation of the very human men who made history--and of the nameless Indians with whom they interacted, for better and worse.  Lowry also writes splendidly of the state of early 19th-century medicine, a subject for which his own background eminently qualifies him.  All in all, this book may be small in size, but it's huge in its implications and understanding.  A very valuable read, consistently interesting, and very highly recommended.	2005-04-22
US	52215367	R1T1M92PCNJYKY	1574884077	655378460	Alexander: Invincible King of Macedonia (Military Profiles)	Books	5	61	63	N	N	A Great Look at Alexander	This concise, vivid retelling of Alexander's life is simply without equal.  As both an accomplished historian and a military man (and, for that matter, a Greek-American), Tsouras is uniquely qualified to write on the subject; as a result, he's produced an analytical military biography to rank alongside the work of J.F.C. Fuller.  Yet, for all the insight, there isn't a dry page in this book.  In less than a hundred pages, the author catches the color and fire of a lost world, reminding us why Alexander remains a mythical presence in remote parts where American soldiers are fighting today.  One of those sudden geniuses whose appearance changes the world, Alexander has long fascinated a wide range of intellects (beginning with his teacher, Aristotle), and it would seem that nothing new could be added to the library of works that exist on the subject.  What Tsouras adds to the Alexandrine story is clarity.  Writing for a series that might be called &quot;brief military lives&quot; forced authorial selectivity on the work.  The result is not only the most lucid biography available of Alexander the Great, but one of the clearest, most readable biographies of any of the figures of antiquity.  The writers of the classical age, from playwrights down to Plutarch, understood the art of capturing the total character in the gesture or the sculpted sentence.  Tsouras has produced a highly readable biography that needs not one additional word, but couldn't spare one he included.  It's a fine read, more relevant than one might at first think.  And, if nothing else, with a big-budget Hollywood &quot;sword-and-sandal&quot; bio-pic of Alexander on the way, it's worth the while of any intelligent reader/viewer to learn about the man himself before settling down with the popcorn.  Finally, I have to add that I've been a fan of Tsouras's broad body of work for years.  I make no pretense of being anything less than a great admirer of his books--and only wish I could persuade still more readers to give him a try.  His biography of Alexander is a great place to start.	2004-05-23
US	52215367	R1HJOUGM4ME425	0679427716	601293687	The Art of Burning Bridges: A Life of John O'Hara	Books	1	28	35	N	Y	Dreadful, slovenly, inaccurate	I delayed writing this review because I don't like trashing anyone's work.  But this book is so infuriatingly bad that I finally felt compelled to blow off steam.  O'Hara deserves better.  The reader certainly deserves far better.  And Knopf, a one-great publisher in sad decline, should have either done extensive editing on this horribly self-indulgent mess or simply not published it.  As an O'Hara fan (who recognizes his flaws as a writer and, certainly, as a man) and a born-in-&quot;Gibbsville&quot; insider, I assure readers that the author did not do the most basic research on O'Hara's home town.  On the contrary, Wolff appears to have fabricated a number of quotes he claims to have collected in Pottsville/Gibbsville.  But the voices don't sound like the voices I know, in tone or content, and the quotes suspiciously support the author's utterly inaccurate thesis that O'Hara's never been accepted &quot;back home.&quot;  Well, in downtown Pottsville, there's a handsome statue of O'Hara.  Every year, there's a &quot;John O'Hara Weekend,&quot; with performances, readings and seminars.  O'Hara still appears so often in local newspapers and magazines that you'd think he was still living and writing.  I grew up reading his work--and never heard any of the silly, parochial--and, of course, anonymous--criticism Wolff claims to have encountered immediately upon arrival during his apparently brief visit to Pottsville, the inspiration for so much of O'Hara's greatest fiction.  And Wolff even gets basic facts wrong, from ethnic composition to the location of hotel bars.  Later in the book, as well, he continues to indulge his habit of quoting anonymous sources who perfectly support his eccentric, self-adoring themes.  And the prose itself is a mix of trash bio that makes Kitty Kelly read like Boswell and gonzo-tone scream-of-my-precious-consciousness slop that should have been submitted to the author's psychiatrist, not to a publisher.  Poor O'Hara--his own worst enemy duringhis life, now afflicted with biographers who are his worst enemies after death.  O'Hara was a great, if flawed, author, currently underestimated.  Indeed, he merits a serious critical biography that does more than simply repeat the traditional wisdom that his late, sprawling novels had little merit; on the contrary, despite their flaws, novels such as A Rage To Live and From The Terrace offer incomparable social portraits of America during the first half of the 20th century--and his first novel, Appointment In Samarra, is flawless, a middle-class (though not middle-brow) Gatsby.  I recommend reading his own work, rather than this appallingly bad pretense at biography.  Finally, I apologize to all, even to the author, for writing such a negative review...I would rather praise a book.  But this biography is so disgracefully bad that I felt obliged to warn other readers off.  Any of the earlier O'Hara bios would be a much better choice for those interested in O'Hara's troubled, troubling but remarkably productive life.	2003-12-01
US	52215367	R3RLCUHTX6QJ5X	0971566127	851056787	Peacekeeping Intelligence: Emerging Concepts for the Future	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Remarkably timely and valuable	Given the challenges faced by the U.S. armed forces and our government in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Balkans (still) and, possibly soon, in Africa, this book is as timely in its subject matter as it is sensible and useful.  The editors (de Jong, Platje and America's inimitable Robert Steele) have assembled subject matter experts from almost a dozen countries with peacekeeping experience, and they've done a fine job of keeping the entries clear, readable and focused.  Having worked in intelligence for over two decades myself, I can attest that the deep human challenges of intelligence operations during peacekeeping and peacemaking operations remain insufficiently met by our own or other intelligence bureaucracies.  It's not a matter of failure, but of (too often) mediocrity and inadequacy in the clinch.  Intelligence systems that are still haunted by the legacies of Cold War hardware and, worse, Cold War thinking still have not adapted adequately to our grave new world. We're learning, but perhaps not quickly enough. Steele, especially, has campaigned boldly in the cause of using open-source material to supplement classified data--and, in some cases, to supplant it--and we may expect powerful results wherever his advice is taken to heart.  Overall, this is a valuable, useful, thoughtful book one can strongly recommend both for professionals in the field and interested citizens.  Well done!	2003-07-16
US	52215367	R3GULVYGNVPUIY	0891418059	469729427	Road to Baghdad: Behind Enemy Lines: The Adventures of an American Soldier in the Gulf War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Inspiring, timely and true	Truth really can be stranger than fiction--and better reading, as well.  Colonel Stanton's very impressive, highly readable memoir of his extraordinary adventures prior to and during the first Gulf War is a remarkable book--both for its ability to capture the inventive nature and casual courage of our finest military officers and for its ability to tell a thrilling personal story in a way that is neither bragging (too often a fault with first-person accounts) or pretentious.  Stanton has the gift of telling a story straight and letting events speak for themselves.  His experiences when stranded in Kuwait City during the opening phase of Iraq's invasion--when he kept an open line to U.S. authorities for days and reported directly from the Iraqi headquarters in his hotel--might have made a fine story in themselves, while revealing much about the Iraqi military's hidden weaknesses.  His follow-on adventures as a prisoner-of-not-quite-war, absolutely true and corroborated, are better than the stuff of classic adventure novels.  And he made it back to friendly lines in time to fight Desert Storm.  This is a splendid military tale, well-told, of adventures that rival the great old military narratives from the Middle East, whether of Gordon Pasha, Lawrence or Wingate.  And it's enormous fun to read, while making it very clear how we were able to defeat the Iraqis so handily.  As this review is written, Colonel Stanton, whom I am privileged to have met as a consequence of my own military service, has served on the ground in our second Iraq war and is now in Baghdad, working on the reconstruction of Iraq.  He's a soldier's soldier--and a superb storyteller.  This book could not be more timely.  The next time you feel the impulse to pick up a fictional thriller, skip it and read Stanton's book.  It's more exciting--and it's true.  Destined to become a modern military classic!	2003-05-30
US	52215367	R3212TEIUY5RW9	185367530X	883086592	Cold War Hot: Alternate Decisions of the Cold War	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The Great "What-ifs?" Well Done!	I make it a point to read every book military historian and intelligence officer Peter Tsouras writes or edits, both his straightforward and well-written histories and his series of books examining alternative historical scenarios.  Now, the genre of \\"alternative history\\" is chock full of very bad books written by fantasists with little grounding in historical circumstances or understanding of human complexity, but Tsouras's books are so rich and thoughtful that they should enjoy a special category all to themselves.  In Cold War Hot, Tsouras has assembled a team of subject-matter experts (historians, soldiers, intelligence officers) to examine what might have gone wrong--or right--at ten key points in the Cold War.  Accomplished authors, from Paddy Griffith and David Isby to Tsouras himself, use sound historical frameworks to ask what might have happened had blood been drawn in Berlin in 1948, or if the United States had waged a \\"serious\\" war against North Vietnam, if the Soviets had won in Afghanistan (a particularly pertinent topic), or if an ill-fated Red Army invasion of Western Europe had, indeed, occurred in the late stages of the Cold War.  Each entry stands alone and every chapter is well-written, expertly argued--and a great deal of fun.  This is one of those rare books that is a marvelous treat to read, while also providing uncanny intellectual stimulation.  At a time in our nation's development when original, creative, \\"out-of-the-box\\" (yeah, I hate that cliche, too) thinking is at a premium, Cold War Hot is a much timelier book than its subject matter might make it appear.  Very highly recommended!	2003-05-08
US	52215367	RY5860UDKH4YG	0684844079	912407424	Soul of the Sword: An Illustrated History of Weaponry and Warfare from Prehistory to the Present	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent writing, rewarding reading!	This highly readable, impeccably researched, well-balanced book is a prime example of what an informed, imaginative author can do with a well-worn subject.  Do we really need another illustrated history of weaponry?  I would have said no--until I encountered Robert O'Connell's superb book (with well-done illustrations by John Batchelor).  O'Connell is something of a renaissance man, a respected defense analyst, a historian, a critically praised novelist...and perhaps that's the key to this book's humaneness, despite the subject.  O'Connell never forgets that even the most unusual or most effective weapons are wielded by human beings, against human beings.  This isn't simply a book about the machinery of war.  It is about devices created by human beings for ferocious human purposes.  Laced with anecdotes as entertaining as they are illuminating, this book has equal value for old-hand military historians and interested novices.  A fine gift, too, for the &quot;family warrior,&quot; military veteran or just that splenetic armchair general who needs to be placated at Christmas (so the rest of us can get on with our celebrations).  This is in no way intended as a condescending remark--on the contrary, it is a mark of the author's great skill and talent that he has produced such a handsome book, and one as interesting to a four-star general as to a general reader.  Extremely well done, and highly recommended.  Also, because of its lucid style, this book would be suitable for a wide range of age groups, from bright teenagers to cranky old professors.  First-rate and flawless.	2002-11-01
US	52215367	R1MUHNI7ZAKZKW	0891417664	59961113	The Path to Victory: America's Army and the Revolution in Human Affairs	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A Crusade for Common Sense	Donald Vandergriff is one of those rare men who live their beliefs.  Now, he has written a fine, clear-thinking, heartfelt book detailing the deep flaws in the Army's (and our military's) personnel system.  But the book is much broader than that.  Although he does not use quite these terms, the text constitutes a demand for a sensible post-modern personnel system that rewards the core military virtues, in place of our current, long-outdated, poorly-performing industrial-age system, a legacy of both Henry Ford's assembly line mentality, in which all parts, even the human ones, are interchangeable, and a bizarre, inchoate conviction within the Army that, really, it's still 1944 and the draft will supply the needed talent to replace that which is squandered.  Even now, in 2002, there is a bizarre belief among the Army's hierarchy that every officer (and soldier) is easily replaceable, if not perfectly interchangeable.  Well, tell that to corporate America, or the scientific community, or to the arts community.  America has achieved its paramount position because we recognize and reward the unique talents of the individual--but our military resists excellence whenever it can (what passes for excellence is a polished conformity to superficial forms).  Our broken-down, morally-bankrupt personnel system may be well-suited for the ten-million-man military with which we ended WWII, but it is a travesty when it comes to developing the right Army for the 21st century.  Critics may respond that the military is not about individual excellence, but about teamwork--but teamwork based upon excellence is far more impressive than group-think and timid acquiescence based upon lowest-common-denominator professional values.  There is not inherent tension between building a team and rewarding talent honestly employed; on the contrary, men and women crave leaders who earn their respect through performance, rather than through currying favor (or simply being born a general's son, the surest path there is to a general's stars).  At the very least, we should recognize that a post-modern military does have some different demands placed upon it--a greater requirement for individual initiative and battlefield autonomy--than did our earlier armies of massed infantry divisions.  We still need courage and clarity, but the recognition and exploitation of the unique worth of the individual officer may be our greatest potential combat multiplier.<BR>     Of course, it is easy to be too pessimistic.  We still have the finest Army--and military--in the world.  Not all dissent is suppressed, fine ideas, such as Major Vandergriff's, still emerge, despite institutional resistance (more a matter of defensiveness and mental sloth than of maliciousness), and not every officer promoted is a shallow careerist (indeed, in some military specialties the trends are encouraging).  In the end, it is not that we are doing so badly, but that we could do far better.  For all our might and virtues, our personnel system remains less than the sum of its often remarkable parts.  Major Vandergriff has laid out a worthy road map for building the Army of the future, instead of clinging to the Army of the past. We may not wish to drive down every lane he recommends, but he certainly has signposted the main highway with accuracy and clarity.<BR>     In my own military career, I slowly came to the realization that, if I could control the personnel system, I could change any organization, but that if I controlled everything but the personnel system, all meaningful change could still by stymied by the bureaucracy (and our military is, above all, a vast bureaucracy).  Donald Vandergriff understands this profoundly.  This is a worthy, even heroic book by an officer genuinely dedicated to selfless service.  We Americans should be proud that such men remain committed to serving our country in uniform.<BR>    I strongly recommend this book to military men and women, but also to policy-makers andto the business community, for which it has especially relevant lessons in these days of Worldcom, Enron and Put-on.<BR>     This is the work of an officer with whom any soldier would be honored to serve.	2002-07-16
US	52215367	R3U173NFR96YWB	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	52	57	N	N	Intelligently provocative and acutely timely	This is Eliot Cohen's most intriguing and accomplished work to date.  As one who has disagreed with Professor Cohen almost as often as I have agreed with him in the past, I must acknowledge the immediate (and likely enduring) value of this very well-done study of the relationships between heads of state and the military men working for them.  While this book will not end the debate over &quot;Who's on first?&quot;, it certainly deepens it.  And it's simply good reading.  I'm still not convinced that civilian leaders always know best--especially given their often-willful ignorance of the military experience--but I certainly believe that the civilians must always be firmly in charge, and Cohen makes that case indisputably along the way.  It would have been interesting to bookend these studies with a look at the relationship between Bismarck and the elder Moltke, who enjoyed perhaps the most suspicion-laden symbiotic relationship in history--and whose grand successes illustrate Cohen's thesis with something near perfection--and the relationship, so very different, between President Clinton and his generals, all of whom were hobbled by fear, though of very different things.  But this is Professor Cohen's book, not mine.  I recommend this book highly--especially to military officers, not all of whom will be pleased by it.  Intellectually engaging in the best sense.	2002-06-04
US	52215367	RMWG3QRPWWGYB	0345443713	324125440	Kingdom's Swords (Starfist, Book 7)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Delight from Sherman and Cragg!!!	I've enjoyed every book in this series.  Just marvelous fun.  Starfist 7 not only continues the adventures of heroes we've come to know and care deeply about, but it further deepens the characters, which is very hard to do after so many books.  And, as always, the authors' knowledge of fighting men--in any time and place--is vividly on display.  No armchair fantasist could portray combat, present or future, as well as these two deeply experienced men have done.  Very, very good reading.  And far more resonance than most science fiction works--really, this has become a classic series.  Take a break from the grind and read this delightful book.	2002-05-29
US	52215367	R3NQVZ2Z24BL7R	0811717631	403753378	No Gun Ri: A Military History of the Korean War Incident	Books	5	29	39	N	N	Superb research, excellent writing, fine book	This book deserves an enormous amount of attention and a wide readership.  Based upon impeccable, tough-minded research, the findings are well presented in a readable style--this is an intellectual page-turner.  To the benefit of the American people, Bateman, a widely-respected soldier-scholar, undertook to get at the truth about the widely reported \\"massacre\\" of civilians by elements of the U.S. 7th Cavalry during one of the most confused periods of the Korean War.  What Bateman discovered was a network of shameless, self-serving lies, told first by a fake veteran then amplified by ambitious journalists who preferred a great story to the more mundane--and complex--truth.  Now, I am not a journalist-basher (I'm married to one and I write for various newspapers and magazines myself), and I've been impressed by the quality of most serious journalists who cover defense issues--but the media's failure to castigate the dishonest journalists who won a Pulitizer Prize for their wildly-inaccurate reporting is a blot on the profession.  And, in the end, Bateman's version of events may be less sensational, but it is far more humanly compelling.  The real story--or stories--have to do with the terrible confusions of war, with the fragmentation of memory, and with the basic challenges of soldiering--as well as with false identities, vanity and disgraceful self-promotion, fifty years later, by men who weren't there, but who decided, from their lofty perch in the press, that they knew better than those who had served.  The tale also tells a great deal about the lingering willingness among elements--only elements--of the press to believe instantly the worst accusations against our military coupled with a reluctance to investigate those who level those charges.  For the journalists, had they been real pros, the real story would have been \\"the man who wasn't there,\\" the great impostor who had, for years, fooled even military veterans.  But it was easier to hammer the G.I.s who had served our country to the best of their abilities.  With this fine book, Bateman has rendered a valuable public service.  One hopes it will receive the review and public attention it so richly deserves.	2002-04-30
US	52215367	R1NYFYMRZ8A7MF	0971566119	657501265	The New Craft of Intelligence: Personal, Public, & Political--Citizen's Action Handbook for Fighting Terrorism, Genocide, Disease, Toxic Bombs, & Corruption	Books	5	49	60	N	N	Superb, original, useful thinking!	I have watched the author's work over the past decade and consistently have been impressed by the originality of his vision and his determination to speak the truth, no matter the cost.  As a long-time intelligence professional, I recognize the complexity of the system and the difficulty of making even incremental improvements, yet, by his energy and talent Robert David Steele is one of the few who have made an unmistakable difference.  The dismaying events of September 11, 2001, confirmed much of what Steele had written and said, and undercut the arguments of his remaining critics (bureaucrats will always defend their turf).  Now, in this latest book, Steele expands upon his unique, incisive and practical vision of what needs to be done to give the American people the quality of strategic intelligence they deserve.  No individual will ever get it all right and there are certainly some things in this book with which I disagree--but that's healthy.  An honest debate is far more valuable than the arrogance of those who classify our failures and failings.  And even disagreeing with Steele is as stimulating as having an open-ended charge account in a high-class bordello on a Saturday night in the middle of a Civil War.  Fascinating man, fascinating book.  Very highly recommended.  And the forward by Senator Pat Roberts, who has himself been fighting the good fight for years, puts the problem of intelligence precisely into context.  In fairness, I must note that I supplied a supporting quote to the author for this book--but I believe so completely in the importance of his work that I will always go the extra step to bring additional attention to his theses and arguments.  Well done!	2002-04-27
US	52215367	RRE615DFJ2TCJ	0465007201	758212963	The Savage Wars Of Peace: Small Wars And The Rise Of American Power	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Extraordinary book, timely and well-done!	Amid the welter of exploitation books starting to appear on terrorism and &quot;America's New War,&quot; this splendidly-researched and handsomely-written overview of America's &quot;little wars,&quot; some well-known, others obscure, stands out for its genuine value to any reader who wants to understand our long tradition of fighting what the author calls &quot;The Savage Wars of Peace.&quot;  The military missions we are called upon to execute now are not anomalies, but very much in the tradition of what our military has done frequently since the early days of the republic--and what it has frequently done well.  This books reads like a labor of love for the author--the research is impressive and must have taken a number of years--but, best of all, it reads well.  While the contents are scrupulous of fact in the best academic sense, this is no academic book in the dry, turgid, ivory-tower meaning.  This is meaty, visceral writing, and the author tells fascinating stories very well.  This &quot;old Army&quot; and Marine Corps tradition has long been an interest of mine, so I can attest that the book's facts and narrative lines are right on target.  I'll leave it for other readers to address the book's political themes and conclusions--suffice to say that this is great, informative reading that follows our military from early fights against pirates, to expeditions into China, to the tough little fights in living memory.  Highly recommended for soldiers, leaders of all kinds, interested citizens--and for academics who retain a streak of humility.	2002-04-16
US	52215367	R3IJ9O8JBRB8IU	0679732969	982700253	Military Misfortunes: The Anatomy of Failure in War	Books	1	35	102	N	N	Campus nonsense, no dirty boots	If you're an armchair general who never served in the military and who believes that professors know more about war than soldiers, this is the book for you.  If you love dreary writing, buy two copies.  If tendentious history is your thing, buy three.  This is campus arrogance with little sense of the complexity, confusion and danger of battle.  But if you're just aching to believe that generals are all dummies, and that anybody with a doctorate in international relations could run our wars better than the men and women who sweat, bleed and die for our country, this is the perfect book for you.  Good trees died for this.	2002-04-06
US	52215367	R26ZV3KM1H404Z	0765300931	660717941	Moon of Bitter Cold	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Magnificent historical fiction!	This is a superb novel measured by any standard.  With remarkable balance and insight, Chiaventone tells both the Indian and white-man's side of a fascinating, little-known episode in American history--and he tells them equally well.  On one hand, the author certainly avoids the old film cliches--but he also escapes the modern nonsense of the Dances With Wolves apologists. His American Indians don't need--or want--pity; these are brave, brilliant warriors from a richly-depicted culture.  Yet, he gets the frontier cavalry exactly right, too--his heroes (and villains) are never cardboard cut-outs, but fully-rounded, intensely-human characters.  The authenticity is impeccable.  I simply loved this book--as I loved Chiaventone's first novel on the Little Big Horn.  Handsomely and convincingly written, Moon of Bitter Cold brings you the bitter cold of the Western prairies, indeed, and the sounds of a weary march, of sudden battle, and echoes of so much that has been lost since the days of Red Cloud.  Wonderful reading, very highly recommended.	2002-04-06
US	52215367	R12V3AHRSWOY3L	0811701395	843724693	Army Life in Virginia: The Civil War Letters of George G. Benedict	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent all around!	One of the most useful and interesting publishing phenomena of the past decade has been the appearance of a number of collections of Civil War diaries and letters written not by famous names but by the line officers and common soldiers who actually fought the war--and who suffered the diseases, quibbles and boredom of camp life in the often-long intervals between battles.  I found this particular book especially insightful on both the details of military life and the ambience of the war years.  The letters themselves are marvelous--even in their mundane concerns.  This truly is a slice of &quot;real life&quot; that a standard history text can't offer (the book reminds me of the wonderful collections of courts-martial, reports and papers assembled by Dr. Thomas Lowry, who is consistently one of our most interesting Civil War historians).  Credited as the book's &quot;editor,&quot; Eric Ward has actually done far more than simply getting the narrative into shape for publication (a tough enough job by itself).  Ward has set the book off superbly, and his interlocutions to place Benedict's jottings in context are masterful in their accuracy, succinctness and insight.  For those seriously interested in Civil War studies, or simply for a reader anxious to enter that bygone world for the first time, this book is an excellent choice.  Very well done!	2002-03-23
US	52215367	RQELUPIUEUNXL	0375505636	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	5	36	43	N	N	Brilliant, thoughtful, useful	As a writer on international affairs and violent conflict, Robert Kaplan has one serious problem:  He actually knows what he's talking about.  For Americans who have not traveled widely in the wretched portions of the earth, or who have not served in the military, but who have absorbed the library-researched nonsense published by our academics, Kaplan can seem brutal and even off-putting.  But, as one who has seen many of the same countries and conflicts that Kaplan has seen, I can attest that he is absolutely on the mark.  In this, his most introspective book, in which his broad experience of the world permits Kaplan to read the classics of strategy and statecraft with an unusual depth, he offers a marvelous synthesis of the ancient world and the 21st century, driving home how many problems between states and peoples endure, no matter how many theorists wish them away. The prose is clean and handsome, the logic impeccable, and the relevance uncanny.  This would have been a worthwhile read at any time, but after 9-11-01, it's value has soared even higher.  Kaplan has seen, experienced, read and thought, and that puts him miles ahead of the campus crowd, who may have read and thought, but who have no idea of the stunning effects of violence on societies, of the smiles on the killers' faces, or of the smell of blood that has accompanied humankind throughout our history.  This book is brave and out of step, and worth any hundred self-important volumes from university presses.  It is also the most acute commentary on military thought available today.  Engaging and admirable, I recommend it to all serious-minded Americans.	2002-01-05
US	52215367	R3O2VRJJ0QCW5E	0060186380	795309718	Call Each River Jordan: A Novel of Historical Suspense	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magnificent!	This beautifully-written novel is almost magical in its ability to make the past live again.  The first-person account of the ferocious battle of Shiloh is simply the best description of combat I've ever read, while a later cavalry skirmish superbly captures the feel of fighting on horseback (if you've ever ridden, you'll recognize the feel), and a final, dark-of-the-night climax gets at the brutality of war, at any time or place, better than splashy CNN coverage or even the best non-fiction works.  There are two more areas where Parry truly excels:  The flawless recreation of the voices--the accents, rhythms and prejudices of the past--and the creation of living characters.  The narrator, Abel Jones, who has appeared in Parry's two previous novels, deepens and deepens, revealing ever more about himself, while the supporting characters range from the Falstaffian (or Dickensian, to be more accurate) Barnaby B. Barnaby, a killer with a soft heart and a soft belly, to a unique, subtle take on some Southern cliches.  In Parry's novels, no character is ever as simple as he or she seems at first--we meet people who live convincingly on the page. Overall, this series is the most &quot;adult&quot; I've ever read--not in terms of explicitness or vulgarity, but in terms of emotional depth and realism.  If Parry can sustain this quality of writing and storytelling in his future works, we just may have a fictional re-telling of the Civil War to rival Shelby Foote's non-fiction.  And, by the way, this book is enormous fun to read. I would give it more than five stars, if I could.	2001-11-29
US	52215367	R1OXB9FM3EDX51	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	1	52	65	N	N	Self-important book, over-rated author	It must be getting close to Thanksgiving, because this book is really a turkey.  At least once a year, the New York literary community gets together (are they drunk?  Stoned?  Stupid?) and unites behind a book that justifies their prejudices.  In this case, it's the cherished academic and literary view that all American families are dysfunctional.  Well, we probably don't need another dysfunctional family literary work (King Lear pretty much said it), but, if we have to have one, it should at least be well-written and convincing.  This book's over-heated prose and reliance on cliches of characters just make it an eye-roller.  Actually, I suspect this novel is emblematic of a much greater problem with the campus-to-Manhattan literary axis:  These young writers simply don't have any experience of the greater world.  They continue to write pretentious little books about how squalid &quot;average&quot; American lives are, although they know little of those average Americans (who were pretty impressive on September 11th) and far less about life in general.  Hanging out in the faculty lounge or at love-you-loathe-you New York parties does not make for good, robust, imaginative, convincing writing.  This is self-important drivel.	2001-10-29
US	52215367	R3SE3CQSH6XES5	081171537X	643997718	Swamp Doctor: The Diary of a Union Surgeon in the Virginia and North Carolina Marshes	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Superb look at Civil War reality	This is my candidate for Civil War book of the year.  Dr. Lowry, perhaps the most accomplished researcher in the field, has published a series of books on the period, all of which are worthwhile, but this time he's done something a bit different.  Publishing, for the first time, the Civil War diary of a regimental surgeon, Lowry has shown admirable restraint in adding only the introductory and bridge material (as well as the best footnotes I've ever seen) necessary for all readers to follow the flow of events in the context of the greater war.  Surgeon William M. Smith, having lost his first diary during the initial fighting on the Peninsula, began another in time to capture the frustrations and confusion of the first great struggle for Richmond; thereafter, his regiment was posted to the Carolinas, an under-studied, but fascinating theater of war.  The diary's value lies in its straightforward readability, as well as in its frankness.  Dr. Smith worries over the loyalty of a fiancee left behind in New York, and wrestles with his religious beliefs; he observes rarely-reported battles and skirmishes, such as the inconclusive operations on the Virginia-Carolina line in 1862, then the subsequent forays from New Bern.  In between, the reader gets the best account I've seen of the routines of camp life, of daily behavior in occupied territory, of how officers amused themselves (reading Les Miserables, for one thing), and even what room and board cost in the low country.  The political nonsense that penetrated even the lowest levels of both armies is there, along with a rich variety of personalities, from selfless patriots to drunks and whoremongers.  Throughout, I felt as if I were seeing the real Civil War at last, not some historian's vision through a high-powered telescope.  As trite as it is to say this, I could not put it down.  This well-written, understated book offers an incomparable window into the times, and I, for one, am grateful to Dr. Lowry for making thisdiary available to the rest of us.  Very highly recommended!	2001-07-20
US	52215367	R3U6WTZKTBBSC5	0891417419	515634894	Somalia on Five Dollars a Day	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Fascinating look at post-modern conflict	This is simply one of the finest books I have ever encountered on the challenges facing today's military.  While this is a remarkably-entertaining personal account of our military's sincere efforts--and misadventures--in Somalia, which may be read purely as an enthralling story, the real value lies in its parable-like quality.  Instead of lackluster theories from academics who never wore combat boots, Stanton, an Army officer with a distinguished record, tells what it's like to face down a howling mob--and how theory comes apart very quickly when lives are at stake.  This is a superb companion piece to &quot;Black Hawk Down,&quot; which captured the battle of Mogadishu.  Stanton's book gets at the everyday challenges the military faced in an environment few understood.  The book is also written with a dry sense of humor outsiders may miss--it reminds me of the best British military memoirs (but without the smugness).  Stanton has simply done a terrific job of describing thankless missions and honoring the soldiers with whom he has served--while telling a great story about the dusty, sweaty, what-do-I-do-now? side of soldiering.  It may be trite to say this, but I wish all soldiers, and all citizens, could read this book.  A great read by a great soldier!  Bravo!!!	2001-07-17
US	52215367	RH414JLFYXIJR	0738838411	895026274	Coals of Fire	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Lovely reading, skillful writing	It's a shame that this book has not appeared under the imprint of a major publishing house, since it has genuine merit, but the most important thing is that it's available here.  The authors, both with distinguished writing credits, have exercised a great deal of self-control and produced a swift-paced, always-interesting tale that, in addition to revealing crimes old and new, conveys a handsome sense of place--central Pennsylvania not far from John O'Hara country--and contains absolutely superb ethnic dialog. There can be no question about one thing--the authors have the art of listening down pat.  They know how human beings sound when they speak--but they also understand how to convey that speech on the page, which is not quite the same thing.  Well-paced and neatly-structured, the book qualifies as first-rate entertainment...but there's a bit more to it, as well.  The hero of this book is a gifted craftsman--and the authors are gifted craftsmen, as well.  I look forward to future novels by these two veterans.	2001-06-17
US	52215367	R312H33FRJINHR	0345435923	461023098	Hangfire (Starfist, Book 6)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This series just gets better and better!	Wow!  Most series frankly begin to play out after several books, but authors Cragg and Sherman seem to not only keep each other fresh, but to prod each other on to ever greater accomplishments.  This novel can be read simply as an engaging, what-comes-next, wonderfully-thrilling sci-fi adventure--but it also offers a great deal of depth and demonstrates a wide range of knowledge about mankind's foibles and human possibilities.  Likely, their status as military veterans has given Cragg and Sherman insights denied to those writers who never served, but, whatever the reason, I'm just knocked out by the freshness and quality of this novel--well into a series I hope will long endure.  Great to see familiar characters continue to develop, and to meet new ones. Horrific, convincing fighting, with some timely moral warnings stirred in. And any book that manages to combine gladiatorial combat in the distance future and a mention of John Singleton Mosby, the &quot;Gray Ghost&quot; of the American Civil War can't help but intrigue.  Not only worth reading, but worth keeping on the bookshelf to read again in the future!!!	2001-05-16
US	52215367	R24C3GBHIQX30F	037550544X	891968631	A Soldier's Duty: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Superb, tough-minded and authentic!	Tom Ricks, who just might be the nation's finest military journalist, has written a remarkably-good first novel.  Based upon the tensions within today's military and the very real challenges posed by a changing world, Ricks takes lead characters who have just the right feel as examples of today's Army officers and puts them through a kick-butt, hold-on-tight story that takes the reader from commando raids and foreign firefights to the even more vicious combat inside the Pentagon and the government.  From oblivious politicians to conniving generals, Ricks gets the Washington scene dead-on, while his details-perfect view of the military, in the field or in office suites, is one of the best I've ever encountered (as a recently-retired officer, I know that world pretty well).  So, high praise to Ricks for a tightly-written, faster-than-a-speeding-bullet and very convincing thriller.  Highly-recommended for soldiers and civilians.  And, by the way, this novel would make a great movie.	2001-05-16
US	52215367	RPDD5TGJB8G75	0316136778	880267532	Love and Longing in Bombay: Stories	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Classic storytelling and superb writing	Between 1925 and 1965, the force of Ernest Hemingway's prose ravaged two generations of American writers by seducing them into pathetic imitation of the inimitable.  In India, over the past twenty years, the success of Salman Rushdie's writing (all surface brilliance, not-so-magical-realism, and an underlying condescension toward all living things other than the author) has corrupted the style of far too many Indian writers--faced with a dynamic reality to equal any on earth, they slip into silliness, excess and metaphor.  Vikram Chandra is a remarkable, startling and very welcome exception.     Mr. Chandra is a marvelous storyteller.  This matters, because telling a good story, not cleverness and fireworks, is what fiction is about.  Writing in the handsome, clean prose that seems effortless to non-writers (while arousing jealousy in fellow writers), Chandra seduces the reader quickly and doesn't break the spell until the last page of his tales.  These novellas of life in Bombay from the Independence era to the hi-tech age have the old-fashioned ability to make the reader neglect other matters until he or she finds out what happened.  Unlike Mr. Rushdie, whose main characters never seem more than sly intellectual constructs, Mr. Chandra's characters live for us.  We CARE about their fates.  We believe that they are real.  Their wounds are, faintly at least, our own.      I recommend this to any lover of good fiction, and I look forward to future volumes from this wonderful, dauntingly-talented author.	2000-12-06
US	52215367	R3Q39FIOZX7VKM	0805010203	154264141	The Year of the French	Books	5	69	78	N	Y	Finest historical novel written in English	Anyone has a right to be suspicious of claims that appear extravagant, but, upon reflection, I genuinely believe this is the finest historical novel written in English, at least in the twentieth century (I suppose we should count &quot;Vanity Fair&quot; and &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; as historicals, but none of poor, old Walter Scott's works compete).  Its foreign language competition is limited to a handful of books, From &quot;War and Peace,&quot; &quot;The Leopard,&quot; and &quot;The Forty Days of Musa Dagh,&quot; to &quot;Am Himmel wie auf Erden,&quot; &quot;Vor dem Sturm,&quot; and &quot;I Promessi Sposi.&quot;  Thomas Flanagan is simply a brilliant writer--lucid, thoroughly-engaging, controlled and masterful.  His prose is flawless.  Except for &quot;The Leopard,&quot; I know of no historical novel that so richly and convincingly captures the ambience of a bygone world.  The weather and the feel of chilled mud, the prejudice of blood, the nuances of the social order and the confusion of military operations, the errors and casual oversights that shape lives, and the interplay of great events and individual tragedies are all so perfectly interwoven and gracefully presented that the reader forgets this is only a novel and enters another reality.  Of course, all this will sound like hyperbole to those who have not yet read this book--but once you have read it, you will find it haunts you for a long time.  I've given several copies to cherished friends, as I also have done with Penelope Fitzgerald's &quot;The Blue Flower&quot; (which might have been a competitor for &quot;best historical,&quot; were it not such a transcendent book that it won't be characterized by any genre).  This is a wonderful book--please read it and help keep it in print.	2000-12-03
US	52215367	RILDZ8JSWNUOL	0375502726	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	Superb Reporting, Magnificent Book!	Having read, enjoyed and profited from every one of Kaplan's books, I've recommended many and given several to valued friends. Kaplan has emerged as the best of a fine new breed of journalists, men and women who break out of the capital city circuit to bring us an up-close view of foreign realities.  Often, those realities have conflicted with the comfortable diplomatic &quot;wisdom,&quot; and Kaplan is unpopular with those who prefer an easy fantasy of mankind to the insistent, often-tragic reality.  For my money, Kaplan is a national treasure, a clear-eyed, sure-voiced man of courage who takes risks to bring back an urgent vision of a world &quot;globalizing&quot; at a very uneven rate.  And &quot;Eastward to Tartary&quot; is the finest of his many fine books.  My only hesitation is in calling him a journalist, since he's so much more than that--he's a genuine strategic thinker whose vision consistently has proven more accurate than the work of any Washington think-tank drone or campus &quot;expert,&quot; most of whom are as fearful of the people they wish to analyze as they are of the water from their hotel tap.  Kaplan has an explorer's soul and a veteran soldier's eye for the lie of the ground.  I have been to seven of the countries Kaplan discusses in this book, and I can attest that his eye is unerring.  He has a gift for clear, literate prose that captures in a phrase what another writer could not get in a page.  And he talks to everyone, not just to ambassadors and government mouthpieces.  A man of boundless curiosity and as restless as Huckleberry Finn, his portraits of states and peoples from Eastern Europe to the Caucasus and down into the region long known as the Levant are timely and useful.  What you read on these pages is exactly what is there in Georgia, or Turkey, or Lebanon.  This book really is a remarkable achievement, for which my praise is insufficient.  So, let me simply say this is a valuable, fascinating work that would reward readers on Capitol Hill, on Wall Street, or in Bisbee, Arizona: a wonderful, wonder-filled book!	2000-11-15
US	52215367	R1D9YNQ987NT9F	0345435915	60912901	Technokill (Starfist, Book 5)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great adventure, daring effort!	My hat's off to co-authors Dan Cragg and David Sherman for not taking the easy path.  This series has been building an ever-greater following, and the thing most authors would have done would have been to stay in the groove and keep re-writing the same book over and over again.  With volume V, Cragg and Sherman have certainly kept the basic themes and characters, but they've also taken chances by pushing the envelope and reaching (successfully, in my book) for ever-greater creativity.  I found the picture of the alien world the most intriguing I've read in many years--it took me back to my youth and the great age of sci-fi, with writers like Heinlein, Asimov and Company.  Other reviewers have gone over the basics of the plot, so I'll keep this short and not re-hash it.  But this book revitalized my interest in the series--because there's more to life and conflict than just raw combat, even in a troubled, war-torn future--and because it is, in this reader's view, a marvelous work of the imagination.  I hope the series continues for many more volumes, and I suspect the audience will continue to grow.  In the meantime, I just passed this volume to my brother, who also remembers the golden age of fictional speculation.  Very well done!	2000-10-29
US	52215367	R1B50EHIUB9EN9	0811715973	342406130	Tarnished Eagles	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Impeccable research, fascinating stories	Far too many writers addressing the Civil War are guilty of childish romanticism.  While that tremendous conflict certainly had its noble heroes and ample demonstrations of courage and self-sacrifice, any war--or human crisis of any sort--has its cowards and fools, its liars, thieves and rogues.  This fine, factual book serves as a much-needed (and highly readable) balance to pulp fiction and pulp history heroics.  It tells the stories of some of the officers who went wrong, either from deficiency of character or circumstance.  In doing so, it enriches our understanding and visceral sense of the Civil War in ways that the next dozen adulatory biographies of mediocre generals will not.  While I am a long-time fan of co-author William C. Davis, Dr. Lowry deserves special praise for his continuing literary efforts to describe the dramas and tragedies around, between and, sometimes, in the great battles.  As a former soldier who served a full career, I can guarantee any reader that this book shows soldiers as more than a few of them really are--not gallantly charging the enemy, but energetically looking after themselves.  While this book concentrates on some of the darker aspects of the war, those aspects are exactly the ones that are lacking in too much of what passes as history or historical literature.  I would also recommend any of Lowry's or Davis's other superb Civil War books.	2000-10-01
US	52215367	RPXW0AA034TUL	0380976439	596006403	Shadows of Glory	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely splendid!	I have a single complaint about this novel, so I'll get that out of the  way first: the character Jimmy Molloy, although well-drawn and amusing, is  too much the stock Irishman in comparison with the originality of the other  characters.  Abel Jones, the narrator, is a brilliant, enchanting  voice--much richer and more resonant than any other such  &quot;storyteller&quot; in contemporary fiction--and, in this book, Nellie  Kildare, the strange, mystical heroine, is hypnotic, tragic and  unforgettable.  The account of a stage performance of her psychic powers  ends on a stunning note, and I literally dreamed about her the night after  I finished reading this book.  From soldiers and housemaids to immigrant  tailors to Secretary of State William Seward, Parry demonstrates an uncanny  gift of voice and characterization.  Which brings me to my basic point:  While this novel and its predecessor work fine as mysteries or suspense  novels, or as historicals, they are much &quot;bigger&quot; than that.   This is superb writing of a quality that transcends genre, and the prose is  pure music. The descriptions of snow-swept moors and war-swept lives are so  vivid they seem piercing--you really feel the icy winds and the fear--and  many of the &quot;minor&quot; scenes are simply unforgetable, from an  account of fishing up a drowned girl from under broken ice to a description  of a Union doctor gone astray on the battlefield of Fort Donelson that  echoes the opening of &quot;The Charterhouse of Parma.&quot;  The feeling  of time and place is as convincing as anything I have ever read.  Simply a  splendid joy of a book, recommended for all readers who want more than pop  junk, and I can't wait for the next book in the series!	2000-09-05
US	52215367	RWSOKINBVMRK	0393308804	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Captivating and beautiful	This book was recommended to me in 1970, and I finally read it in 2000.  Perhaps it was best to wait, since I'm not sure an eighteen-year-old could  fully appreciate the novel's piercing beauty and emotional resonance.  It's  certainly one of the great historical novels, given its lush, unsettling  evocation of the early 19th century in the West Indies, constrasting the  physical splendor with the human squalor, but it's also one of the best  &quot;studies&quot; of repressed sexuality I've ever read.  It's a brief,  but stunning tale (much more than just a pre-quel to &quot;Jane Eyre) that  manages to touch on everything from the consequences of slavery, to the  crushing force of social conventions and even the effects of climate upon  character.  But all this begins to sound far too clinical--at bottom, this  is a gorgeous read about a fatefully troubled young woman and the human  constellation that destroyed her.  Vastly better than the over-charged,  over-hyped, emotionally-shallow novels that have been foisted upon us  lately as works of genius, this novel is truly luminous and captivating.  The only note of caution I must add is that this is a book for those who  love good writing, not for those who require the emotions on the page to be  as simple as those on a TV talk show.	2000-08-21
US	52215367	R19QZPNGDCOSV1	039304923X	245419187	Karl Marx: A Life	Books	4	44	63	N	N	Excellent view of a human Marx, but partisan.	This is a highly-readable account of the life of a genuinely unpleasant and selfish man who changed the world.  I have read several biographies of Marx, as well as wading through Das Kapital in the original, but none has  done such a fine job of bringing the man himself to life.  Wheen's research  is excellent, and his prose, though sometimes just a bit too colloquial, is  refreshingly cant free and smooth.  I would gladly have given this  entertaining (isn't it remarkable that a book about Marx can be called  &quot;entertaining?&quot;) book five stars, but the author has one flaw  that ultimately becomes laughable.  After repeatedly reporting what a  noxious beast and vicious betrayer of friends and human trust Marx was his  entire adult life, Wheen invariably hastens to excuse Marx and assure us  that he was actually a lovely, pleasant, hearty, generous prankster of a  fellow.  The author has been seduced by his subject, and Marx, who did much  wrong, can do no wrong for Wheen.  All others are disparaged with relish  (poor old Bakunin gets even worse than he deserves, and every other  Socialist, anarchist, would-be Communist--even Engels--must be tramped down  so Marx the noble soul can be elevated).  Well, too much complaint.  This  is a good and useful book, taken with a few dozen grains of salt.  And  Francis Wheen did bring the selfish old self-centered huckster to life,  while providing a sort of Marx For Dummies explanation of what the man  wrote.  Paradoxically, this book works best for someone who has already  been through a good bit of Marx, and who also enjoys some familiarity of  with the work and lives of his contemporaries--that way the text adds to  one's knowledge while allowing for a bit of discrimination when Wheen  starts gushing about Marx's underlying goodness.  Reading carefully, one  gets a fine picture of the man; reading without wit or context, the  portrait of Marx becomes whoppingly distorted.	2000-05-12
US	52215367	R14JIGK8X61ISV	0891417141	741539973	On Time, On Target: The World War II Memoir of a Paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Superb, honest look at World War II combat	Author John McKenzie, veteran of the 82nd Airborne's enlisted ranks from Normandy through the Battle of the Bulge and on across the Elbe River, has written a marvelous, highly-readable and scrupulously honest account of his  personal experiences of war.  An artillery forward observer, he literally  had the best possible views of engagement after engagement, and his range  of experiences ran from a glider assault through capture by and escape from  SS panzer troops, to cracking the Siegfried Line.  Among the many  contributions made by this classic account of history's greatest war, are  the soldier's details, from the embarrassing nature of field latrines, to  ration comparisons, to the painful lack of winter uniforms and equipment as  the 82nd dug its heels into the snow and ice to halt the German offensive  in the Ardennes.  As a career soldier myself (though of far lesser  experience than John McKenzie), I valued this book for its truth.  As a  reader, I found it a delight that passed by swiftly and ended too soon.   Strongly recommended for soldiers, civilians and students of history's  harsh realities.	2000-05-11
US	52215367	R3QSIFIGGVJXVZ	0891417141	741539973	On Time, On Target: The World War II Memoir of a Paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Superb, honest memoirs of a WWII paratrooper	Above all, this fine battlefield memoir is distinguished by clarity and  honesty.  John McKenzie's tale takes him from university student through  wartime military training, the invasion of Normandy, Operation Market  Garden, the Battle of the Bulge--and on into the cold peace and  confrontations with our Russian &quot;allies.&quot;  McKenzie never strives  for effect or spares himself.  He describes his reactions to combat  unsparingly and has a special knack for capturing the mundane aspects of a  military campaign.  He seems a man of great fairness and sound judgement,  which makes his enlisted-man's view of the greatest battles of the allied  campaign in the west especially valuable.  Whether describing ad hoc  paratrooper training in England or missions as a field artillery observer  behind enemy lines, the brutality and fanaticism of SS officers or the  human bonds that turn individual soldiers into a real unit, McKenzie has  done a fine job.  This is an excellent, highly-readable addition to the  literature on World War II from a thoughtful, quietly-heroic man who  embodies the traditions of the American citizen-soldier.  Very highly  recommended!	2000-05-06
US	52215367	R37HOOR9SOYJFL	0916159280	753581137	On Intelligence : Spies and Secrecy in an Open World	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Provocative look at the future of intelligence	This book should appeal to a variety of readers, from intelligence professionals, to strategists, to legislators and decision-makers, and, finally, to interested lay readers.  Steele consistently has been well  ahead of the pack in his appreciation of everything from open-source  research to the implications of technology.  While it is fashionable to  belittle &quot;inside the Beltway&quot; experience, in this case the  author's understanding of government, allied with his past military  experience, makes his work practical and immediately applicable, rather  than one more pipe dream from a campus ivory tower.  Steele's thinking is  always provocative and his work thrills with its insights and ideas.  While  such a book may not be as easy as a fictional thriller read on the metro,  the author manages to make very complex concepts digestible to all.  In the  end, the quality of thought makes this far more exciting than any Clancy  novel--at least for me as a former intelligence officer with extensive  field experience.  A solid, rewarding book from a very alert mind.	2000-04-28
US	52215367	R3FCDM6VMQH5EQ	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Most perfect English-language novel since &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot;	This novel is so beautiful and fresh-water clear that words fail me.  It creates a world with a remarkably small number of brush strokes...when readers find it slight or simple, they are telling us more about themselves  than about this book.  As I grow older, perhaps I will use this book as a  test, giving a copy to new acquaintances (I've already given away several)  to draw a reaction.  For me, anyone who dismisses this book as dull or  minor could not be worth an acquaintance in the years remaining to me.   Critics have debased adjectives, and much of our language.  Let me say only  that this is a truly ravishing book.  A masterpiece!	2000-04-09
US	52215367	R3MINTKDDB4TR4	0374166757	541097540	Greene on Capri: A Memoir	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Splendid portrait of a great and troubled writer	This brief, finely-written memoir does a remarkable job of  capturing--without false sound and fury--the later years of one of our  century's best writers of English.  Greene will ever be underestimated a  little because he wrote so cleanly and clearly, without the pyrotechnics of  prose that win the shriveled little hearts of campus critics.  Greene is  thrown into a handsome, twilit relief by the changing seasons of Capri,  and, all in all, the book was a delight.  It shames one, however, as a  member of the baby-boom generation, to realize how much we have lost in our  trend-ravaged educations.  The book begins with a woman completing a line  of poetry for a stranger in a cafe, and is full of conversational  references that simply would not occur today--who memorizes poetry, or even  reads it seriously?  The only reason I did not give this book five stars is  the insufferably snotty postures struck by the author herself.  While I  would have loved to know Greene, I suspect I would have run screaming from  the pretensions of the woman who has managed to give us this otherwise fine  book.  Not a substitute for Norman Sherry's masterful life of Greene, but a  delicious dessert read afterward.	2000-04-08
US	52215367	R38OU8TS3NHK9E	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Only very good writers can write this &quot;simply&quot;	This is a lovely book.  If there is little action on the surface, there is a great deal in the hearts and heads and souls of the book's characters.  The recreation of a mid-seventeenth-century Dutch serving maid's mentality  is extraordinarily well done, and the seemingly-simple prose is the sort  that only very accomplished writers can manage.  Compared to a  sadly-overhyped work like &quot;The Dress Lodger,&quot; this is a small  masterpiece.  For those readers who have complained that the book is dull  or slow, I would offer that books this fine (like the mirrors in Vermeer's  paintings) cast revealing reflections...some responses tell more about the  superficial reading habits of our contemporaries than they do about the  books (read, for example, the reader reviews of the best English-language  novel of the last quarter century, &quot;The Blue Flower,&quot; by Penelope  Fitzgerald--some readers seemed disappointed that it didn't offer Tom  Clancy-style action).  For those who still know how to read, and who love a  truly well-done novel, this is worth the price.	2000-04-08
US	52215367	R19XR3Q6M4MSVV	0871137534	441036137	The Dress Lodger	Books	3	12	16	N	Y	Promising writer in search of mature editor	The author has talent, as a researcher and, I think, as a writer, but she desperately needs an editor who can help her sculpt her work.  The strongest aspect of this novel is the research--although even here some  amusing errors slip through (on the situation of Riga, military units and  practice, and so on).  Yet, we get the fruits of her research unfiltered,  just piled on, while a more developed writer would select the pair of  telling details that bring a scene to life, rather than listing the twenty  that turned up.  Good writing requires selectivity; the author laundry  lists.  Part of the reason, in addition to her clear infatuation with the  past, is that the plot is thin as rice paper.  The details pad the book to  an acceptable length.  And the characterizations, which are supposed to  startle us, are hackneyed bores: the idealistic-but-disappointed young  doctor; the spunky, preyed-upon young prostitute; the doctor's spunky,  praying-onward fiancee; the benevolent, crusty-old-doctor uncle; the  heartless landlord; the suffering outcast with a deformity.  Had the author  only glanced around her the last time she lunched out, she might have found  far more interesting characters.  It's dreadful enough to encounter another  &quot;delightful and heroic&quot; prostitute in a book or film, but the  beloved baby bit went out early in the last century.  As for doctors and  prostitutes, read &quot;Of Human Bondage.&quot; If cholera entrances you,  read Jean Giono's brilliant, macabre &quot;Horseman On The Roof.&quot;      If all this criticism seems harsh, note that I did give the book three  stars.  It is still better than much of the dross on the shelves these  days, and the author does have talent.  But she desperately needs an editor  with a drawer full of red pens and a whip.  Overall, it is appalling how  low the state of editing has been driven by today's it's-only-a-business  publishing world and the paucity of literate university graduates  interested inbecoming editors.  The author needs development, not  indulgence.  If, one day, she can translate her visceral feel for the past  into trim, disciplined fiction with living characters, she just might have  a classic in her future.	2000-04-07
US	52215367	RD5O0QYLZ9P3G	0375502742	898516987	The Romantics: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Fascinating portrayal of cultures in conflict	This is an extremely promising first novel.  While some of the prose is a bit purple and wanted a discriminating editor, this book rates five stars because it is so much better and richer than the other over-hyped books  hurled at us these days.  Mr. Mishra has taken the old (think E.M. Forster)  East Meets West scenario and overlaid it beautifully and successfully with  a New East Meets Old East Scenario.  As one who loves literature and works  on the problems between and within cultures around the world, I found Mr.  Mishra insightful, honest and, finally, poetic--which is rather a rare  combination.  This book is for the thoughtful, and the thought-filled.  I  have given copies to several friends.  Lastly, I very much hope that this  is but a beginning for Mr. Mishra, and that his future work, while shedding  the excesses of prose that fail in their beauty because they have reached  too hard toward it, will develop upon the handsome foundation established  here.  An exceptional book in these poorly-written times.	2000-04-07
US	52215367	R14S2FEGMY6ZNA	0312862962	110253438	God's Children	Books	5	21	27	N	N	The Return of an Excellent Writer!	Any new book by Harold Coyle is cause to interrupt other reading.  Of the many who have written fiction around military themes over the past decade or so, Coyle has been perhaps the most interesting in his choice of themes,  variety of characters, and willingness to take risks.  The latter point  brings me to one of the reviews below, which rated this book low because it  didn't duplicate exactly an earlier book of Coyle's.  But that's what makes  Coyle so fascinating--he doesn't just turn out carbon copies of his  previous work--he's always growing, learning, and surprising us.  This  particular novel is wonderfully steeped in place; the military behavior and  psychology is very well done; and it's just a fine read.  What fans of  Harry Coyle are seeing from book to book is the maturing of a  writer--although he began at a high level with his first novel, and I do  not mean this as a criticism.  But consider this: with so many writers, you  might as well just re-read the books you already own, because the next one  will be the more of the same.  Coyle satisfies core interests--but he is  willing to push the envelope. From future war to splendid historical  fiction, Harold Coyle has given us gift after gift.  &quot;God's  Children&quot; is one of his best.  Strongly recommended.	2000-02-17
US	52215367	R2FLVNPC5R0XQ4	0380976420	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Exciting, accurate...and beautifully written!	I enjoyed this novel immensely.  With a background in history, I tend to be picky about details.  I did not find one error in the historical setting of this book, which indicates a great deal of research.  I suspect the  author may be a moonlighting historian himself.  The atmosphere is just  terrific--you can smell and feel Civil War Washington--and the plot kept me  guessing until the very end.  But the best parts of the book were the  characters--even the secondary figures seem vivid and convincing--and the  quality of the writing.  Although the book is easy to read, the language is  poetic.  I'm not an expert on accents, but they rang true to me, as well.   Great dialog.  The historical figures live and breathe, but Abel Jones, the  narrator, is the real treasure of the book.  A great personality, quirky,  cantankerous, and quietly admirable.  In summary, this book is first-rate  from page one to the end, and well worth picking up, whether or not you  normally read mysteries or historical fiction.  I noticed it because of the  review in the Washington Post and was not disappointed.  I await the next  book in the series.  A fine reading experience!	2000-01-18
US	52215367	R32HTLXE613OGZ	0891416773	778387947	Traitors Among Us: Inside the Spy Catcher's World	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Fine account of heroes in the shadows!	This well-written eyewitness account of our military's counterintelligence operations during the Cold War will stand as a classic.  Stuart Herrington was there and, as a former Intelligence officer myself, I can attest that  no one had greater respect or credibility in the counterintelligence world.   The only fault I find with this terrific book is that Herrington  understates his own indispensible--and often heroic--role in these actions.   While his humility is becoming, it limits the reader's knowledge of his  incalculable contributions.  But that is by the way--this book tells a  dramatic story that long needed to be told, and it tells it splendidly.   While I have written fiction about this shadowy world, no fictional tale  can equal the remarkable reality of what a handful of men did for our  country behind the curtains of the world stage.  As a fellow officer, I  admire Herrington; as a fellow author, I envy his skills and achievement.   I strongly--STRONGLY--recommend this fine book to all Americans interested  in how the Cold War was really waged.  Excellent!	1999-12-22
US	52215367	RY6Z5OZJA1TX0	1853672653	321958226	Gettysburg: An Alternate History	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Well-researched, well-written, well-worthwhile!	For those interested in the Civil War, in the military past overall, or in thought-provoking propositions, author Tsouras's lively pursuit of the what-ifs of Gettysburg makes stimulating and worthwhile reading.  I have  read a number of the author's wide-ranging books on military affairs, and  believe this is the best one with which to begin.  It is knowledgeable--and  fun.  The book never feels forced--there is always a sense that Tsouras is  in absolute command of the material.  The result is a dead-accurate  recreation, followed by a fascinating variation on the different course  history might have taken, and all smoothly presented.  Well done!  I  recommend this work strongly.	1999-12-22
US	52215367	R2487MF6PJYMB6	0965121313	906483839	Triumph of Disorder: Islamic Fundamentalism, the New Face of War	Books	5	41	55	N	N	Provocative look at the future of conflict	While many fine and thoughtful books have been written on the violent aspects of fundamentalist belief in the Islamic world, I found this the most provocative and challenging.  Mr. Norval has done a first-rate job of  thinking this problem through and marshalling his arguments.  Even if the  reader does not agree with some of his conclusions, the author always  forces the reader to think afresh.  Avoiding simplistic portrayals of the  Islamic &quot;threat,&quot; the author nonetheless captures the degree to  which cultural separatism and fear of change inspires a disproportionate  amount of international terrorism in the Islamic world--a mark of cultural  inability to compete.  For those seeking a deeper understanding of a very  complex, but urgent problem, this book is well worth the price.  Strongly  recommended for those interested in terrorism, international affairs and  cultural studies, from lay readers to military officers and diplomats.	1999-12-14
US	52215367	RBFLSYNO79EJ9	0300065809	487753810	Tyndale's New Testament	Books	5	84	86	N	Y	A book of multiple glories	It is impossible to capture the wealth and worth of this translation of the New Testament in a few sentences.  For Christians, or for those interested in religious studies, Tyndale's inspired work has a clarity and  purity unmatched even by the King James Bible--to which I previously looked  for my personal readings, and which is three-quarters Tyndale (the other  quarter not necessarily an improvement).  In my career, on the other hand,  I make my living from language and have gone again and again to the  cadences and powerful forms of the Authorized Version--now I will go  directly to Tyndale, and regret only that it took me half my life to read  his rendering.  His language shaped our own, down to the present day, just  as his passion for the Word shaped our religious practice.  There is no  finer source for the study of English as we write it and revere it. This  is, at the risk of too secular a characterization, the ultimate writer's  handbook.  Tyndale was martyred for his belief--for his words--and this  reprint, with updated spelling, makes his most important work widely  available again.  Even for those for whom religion has no place in their  lives, this is a work of surpassing literary beauty.  It is a book of  multiple glories.  As a minimum, it is the most beautiful book of poetry in  the English language.	1999-12-08
US	52215367	R3AKJCKEVUBRSN	0965121313	906483839	Triumph of Disorder: Islamic Fundamentalism, the New Face of War	Books	5	64	79	N	N	Fascinating look at a troubled world	I have been reading Morgan Norval's work for years, and find itconsistently stimulating and pertinent.  Writing with the expertise of one who has actually been there, he always offers a penetrating look at conflict.  Triumph of Disorder, his latest book, looks specifically at the discontents of the Islamic world and the threats arising therefrom.  It is a superb job.  Mr. Norval does not shrink from expressing strong views, and those accustomed to cautious academic writing may be startled.  But even those who disagree with the ideas--and they are genuine ideas--presented in this book will find himself or herself spurred to think afresh and more deeply about a growing problem for which there is no end in sight.  On the fundamental issues of motivation, violence and the logical illogic of human behavior, the author is unbeatable.  Strongly recommended for the reader willing to take an intellectual step beyond the campus library and into the harsh realities of the world as it is.  As a former soldier who has seen first-hand some of the challenges this book defines so ably, I found Triumph of Disorder, worth the price, worth the time, and worth sharing with friends.	1999-11-29
US	52215367	R3PHCK3LJYAA6U	0826318851	777226591	A Road We Do Not Know: A Novel of Custer at the Little Bighorn	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A superb and admirable recreation of history	Superb!  Foolishly, I neglected to read this fine book when it was first published--assuming no one could have anything fresh to say about Custer and his mythologized battle.  But genius always surprises us--and there is  a spark of genius in Colonel Chiaventone's ability to communicate the feel  of combat--its complexity, speed, randomness and sheer brutality.  As a  fellow writer, I can only envy the job this author has done.  His research,  including that on the &quot;other side&quot; was remarkable--yet his use of  detail is always effective and never degenerates into laundry-listing.  His  sense of psychology and character is consistently sound, and his prose is  sturdy and appropriate.  As a former cavalry officer himself, Chiaventone  understands the dynamics of men at war--in fact, he even understands the  dynamics of horses, as anyone who has ever ridden seriously will recognize.   This book has received deserved critical acclaim--but it also deserves a  much wider audience than has discovered it to date.  &quot;A Road we do not  Know&quot; bears comparison with the few truly great American historical  novels, such as &quot;The History of Rome Hanks&quot; and &quot;The Killer  Angels.&quot;  We, as readers, may only hope that this author's future  publishers will vigorously promote his future novels and bring them to a  broad audience that will, as I did, find them as remarkable as they are  readable. As a former soldier myself, I admire this work.  As a novelist, I  envy it.  As a reader, I want more.  --Ralph Peters	1999-03-14
