US	52224595	RRZ6ROZ9F4ND7	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Constant Suspence, Excitment and Shock	Of all the old guard Cold War novelists, John Le Carre has made the transition to the new world order a good thing for his writing.  Le Carre brings globalization in all its might and terror, with all its good and evil to life in this novel.  Rather than being weakened by the fall of Communism, Le Carre has been changed for the better.  Ludlum and Clancy are left behind when compared with the likes of The Constant Gardener.<br />The setting is Africa, specifically Kenya and at times civil war torn Sudan- though the main character, Justin, becomes something of a globe trotter in his quest for justice.  After his wife is murdered while working to bring a conspiracy to light Justin emerges from his Foreign Office apathy and sets forth to bring her killers and their agenda into the light.  It is espionage writing at its best.  All the characters are believable and well rounded; some you will come to love and others hate.<br />John Le Carre's distinct style is also well suited to this novel, and as the story progresses you will be drawn further and further in.  It is a story of good versus evil, of ordinary people rising to the challenge and standing for all that is good and true.  I also suspect that the story is based in more fact than fiction- the cycle of third world poverty and exploitation, for one, is something that plagues us to this day.  The Constant Gardener is not to be missed.	2001-01-01
US	52224595	RHGMMWKIT17Q9	0805059768	665867607	Patrick O'Brian :  A Life Revealed	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Patrick O'Brian: A Life Revealed	Author of the novels that bring the golden age of sail to life, Patrick O'Brian remained for all of his devotees a mystery wrapped in an enigma.  This book by Dean King does much to roll back that veil of obfuscation, however, as it is the first biography on O'Brian it may be too early to fully judge its merits.  Taken as a whole, I think King did an admirable job of finding out the Man behind the Mast.  O'Brian's family history, as well as his own history, is detailed and documented.<br />When I first came to read the celebrated Aubrey-Maturin Series I had no appreciation of the struggle that was involved in bringing the books across the Atlantic to the new world.  King's biography will make the Aubrey-Maturin aficiando much more appreciative of the publishers who took a risk on the &quot;Irish&quot; novelist living in France.  It is no coincidence that this is also a biography of the series itself- a collection of novels that have taken on a life of their own in more ways than one.<br />As any reader will come to appreciate, O'Brian was an intensely private man and I believe that Dean King's book maintains both revelation and reverence for the great man.	2000-12-26
US	52224595	R2KXNDZCU91KUM	0375408819	992222068	The Dark Valley: A Panorama of the 1930s	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Through the Valley of the Shadow of Death	Finally!  A book on the 30's that is not dry and academic reading!<br />Piers Brendon has written an excellent account of the 1930's in this book.  The focus is on the major international powers of Britain, France, America, Japan, Germany and Russia; how these countries dealt with the cataclysmic Depression and how their actions became the prelude to the greatest war history has managed to survive.  Structurally, Brendon has painted each segment of this decade in a country by country format- giving rise to some events being presented in multiple perspectives.  For instance, Germany's Anschluss (the consumption of Austria) is seen through the eyes of every power at least once in the book.  I believe that this is a good way of presenting history because it gives historical events greater significance and depth.  The one criticism that should be offered is that it can make the chronology of events confusing.  Major happenings are do not get confused, however, the minutia of French politics does.  I had trouble remembering which government was in power and when.  Brendon should have included a timeline at the beginning of the book in order to keep these details straight for those of us who do not possess the supreme command of regional history of the previously mentioned countries that he does.  One read-through cover to cover is probably the best way to approach it the first time, and for reference later individual groups of chapters on specific countries will be like gems.<br />The content of The Dark Valley is very pertinent.  As he states in the introduction, the book is not merely intended for historical study, it is &quot;a case study of the global perils lurking at the heart of a major recession.  It offers a wealth of past experience on which to base future judgement.  And it suggests questions which still demand answers.&quot;  This, for me, is what history is ideally intended for.  On one hand there are the Democracies (Parliamentary or Federal), on the other there are the Dictatorships, some of which were democracies that failed, becoming Fascist, Militaristic, or Communist.  Brendon does show how the policies and structure of these governments reacted to the Depression.  The collapse of the Weimar Republic into Nazism and America's most extensive peacetime federal mobilization in the form of The New Deal are both presented in clarity- and all mediums between are as well.  My favorite chapters dealt with Japan and Russia, for these are usually the most lightly covered topics in this portion of world history.  It would have been nice if China took a larger role in this book- but that may have widened the scope just a bit too much.<br />Some subjects of history that are covered can be fairly controversial- such as Emperor Hirohito's role in Japanese imperialism and aspects of Winston Churchill's final historical standing.  Brendon seems to be something of a post-revisionist at times and occasionally a revisionist in whole.  For instance, his stance on Hirohito is that the emperor was largely a ceremonial leader trapped in tradition and nearly completely under the sway of a military run amuck.  And while I do not profess to be anything nearing an expert on Japan, this seems to run against the typical presentation of history that neglects or disagrees with Brendon's viewpoint.  Churchill, conversely, seems to indicate post-revisionism.  He states the revisionist view that is overly critical of Winston's 'adventurism' and how it is at times over exaggerated.  Whatever stance you do take as a reader, Brendon documented extensively and his ideas and opinions deserve to be discussed.<br />There is no heavy handed moralizing in this book, and more importantly no apathetic reporting of events.  Brendon walks the fine line between neutrality and judgmentalism well, and in the end any 'questions which still demand answers' are remain for the reader to decide.  However, it seems that this is a no brainer (obviously the ideal answerto economic hardship and depression, however culture-centric it sounds, is the way of the Western Democracies).<br />One last piece of advice: when reading this book, have a dictionary close at hand- some of the words are pretty far out.  Adumbrate, catafalque, protean, hagiography, incunabula and inculcation are some of the wildest of the exotic words.  Don't worry though, it isn't overbearing- it will only increase your vocabulary.  Brendon does love the verb 'adumbrate' (to foreshadow); it is kind of strange really. . .<br />In conclusion, this book is a very good one- I found it both insightful and a good read.  If you want an international perspective on the 1930s, I guarantee you that this book will give you just that.  My only hope is that Brendon continues through the forties and gives us another good, comprehensive view of a very turbulent period.r to economic hardship and depression, however culture-centric it sounds, is the way of the Western Democracies).<br />One last piece of advice: when reading this book, have a dictionary close at hand- some of the words are pretty far out.  Adumbrate, catafalque, protean, hagiography, incunabula and inculcation are some of the wildest of the exotic words.  Don't worry though, it isn't overbearing- it will only increase your vocabulary.  Brendon does love the verb 'adumbrate' (to foreshadow); it is kind of strange really. . .<br />In conclusion, this book is a very good one- I found it both insightful and a good read.  If you want an international perspective on the 1930s, I guarantee you that this book will give you just that.  My only hope is that Brendon continues through the forties and gives us another good, comprehensive view of a very turbulent period.	2000-12-21
US	52224595	RHJXLM3DZRI1W	0140096507	169053954	The Price of Admiralty: The Evolution of Naval Warfare from Trafalgar to Midway	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great Accessible History	John Keegan's Price of Admiralty includes all that a volume of subject history should contain.  There are short biographies of the major players, anecdotes that lighten as well as enlighten otherwise dry history, good overviews of the naval periods under inspection, descriptions of the major battles, facts and figures to back up his thesis, and perhaps most crucial a nearly seamless transition from period to period.  Keegan examines naval warfare from the Napoleonic Wars through both the Atlantic and Pacific campaigns of the Second World War.  I personally enjoyed the earlier quarter of the book pertaining to the Age of Sail- the great victories of the Battle of the Nile and Trafalgar.  This is a great book if you are interested in expanding your understanding of the development of naval strategies or merely any one of the periods covered: Age of Sail and Napoleonic Wars, Transition to Steam &amp; Ironclads, Age of Battleships and WWI, and both the Atlantic and Pacific Campaigns of WWII.  Keegan is always a good read in history and this book is no exception.	2000-12-14
US	52224595	R3BCI3NO9PKQG6	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting, but ultimately disapointing	Carr's new novel centers itself on the near future, when technology has run rampant, the environment is all but destroyed, countries wage Machiavellian Wars (more than usual) and truth is quickly becoming relative.  When writing this novel Carr must have been reading Robert Kaplan's &quot;The Coming Anarchy&quot;.  So much doomsday themed material must have at least one foot in Kaplan camp of the future.  It is a fun book to read, and fairly quick.  I enjoyed the somber atmosphere and with the exception of the wild techno-wizardry this may very well be the future that we are headed into.  The characters are eccentric but likable.  The narrator's final revalation about his insidious activies is a high point that Carr fails to capitalize on.  My biggest problem is that the ending is not very good.  It seems like Carr just got bored and ended the story laughing at us all.  After his previous novels and from such a seemingly gifted writer this comes as a surprise.	2000-12-05
US	52224595	R2ERWW4Y1CVOI3	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Deception for you Dollar	This is the first of Ludlum's novels that I have read and I am impressed.  The book keeps a quick pace and is action packed.  Nicholas Bryson, an ex-directorate agent, unravels a complex and world altering plot to destroy privacy in a way that makes Orson Wells seem optimistic.  As to the true nature of the directorate, it is a phantom-like organization whose loyalties are unknown to nearly all.  The plot twists are so profuse that after a while it is nearly predictable- but there is always one more around the corner.  If you are looking for an adventure novel, you can't go wrong with Prometheus.	2000-12-05
US	52224595	RZTUOG8QJ4IY6	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable, but not Substantial	Clancy's newest book is going to be a long read; if you take the plunge be  prepared.<br />THE GOOD:  The latest Jack Ryan thriller is an exciting read,  Clancy delivers the usual techno-espionage, world war, and threat of  nuclear annihilation along with the complexity of plot and character that  we have all come to expect.  Plus it is always nice to read another  adventure with Jack Ryan outsmarting the Communists- even if they aren't  Russian anymore.<br />THE BAD: I can remember reading his books when they were  much closer to reality- before the world leaders had personalized names and  agendas that differed from the news headlines of the day.  It seems each  new book Clancy writes takes us another step away from the real world.  This is something that bothered me about _Bear and Dragon_: you know that  it will Never happen.  In this sense _Clear and Present Danger_ is more  relevant to modern America than another Jack Ryan story.  Thinking that his  stories 'just might' happen was always the biggest draw for Clancy.	2000-09-06
US	52224595	R1580PLJA1G8U6	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Set sail for the High Seas	Having returned to Master and Commander for a third or fourth read, I am  still amazed and grateful for Patrick O'Brian's skill.  This novel is the  opening chapter in the greatest naval story of all time.  Once you have  completed the third or fourth book, it really sinks in and you are  hooked.<br />Master and Commander one of the better Aubrey/Maturin novels,  which is saying a great deal.  Patrick O'Brian makes good use of a  distinctive writing style and deft humor to breath life into his principle  characters, Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.  When I initially started  these books in early high school I read them for the gunsmoke of battle and  the incredible acounts of seaborne action; however, now it is the  characters and their relationships that bring me back.  There are no boring  personalities in this book.  No dialogue that is mechanical.  It all  sparkles with life not to be found in the average bestseller, and the story  itself speaks of more than a mere naval adventure.<br />When read as an  individual book, Master and Commander is the best action-drama there is,  whether on the ocean or off.  It brings the Napoleonic Wars to a stature  well deserved.  O'Brian is a master at throwing all that existence has to  offer at his characters, good and bad, then seeing what happens in the  aftermath.  You will never read anything like it.  When read as a series,  the Aubrey-Maturin novels become a grand epic that reflects on the nature  of human life: the adventure, passion and heartbreak that we all are a part  of.<br />A classic for all time.	2000-08-28
US	52224595	R2YH658V4SVHR7	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	7	9	N	N	In Search of Precision Timepieces	In the Age of Sail, the position of a ship had to be determined by a set of coordinates that corresponded with a grid of lines covering the planet.  These lines, latitude and longitude, are still present on reproductions of  the earths surface today- on just about any map you can find.  Latitude can  be determined by the stars in the sky, and their respective angles above  the horizon.  With latitude, the relative north or south position of a ship  could be determined.  Longitude was a much more difficult animal to capture  and an important one, being the east and west position of a ship.  Dead  reckoning would work to a point, but with the trade of Europe riding the  ocean an exact position was required to avoid expensive (in lives and  material) wrecks at sea.  Dava Sobel has written an account of John  Harrison's quest to crack the riddle of longitude and claim the twenty  thousand pound reward for doing so.  While the astronomers were looking to  the sky for an answer, Harrison believed he could find it within the  mechanical gears of a watch.<br />This is a great book, a fast read and one  that will be remembered.  Concise and filled with knowledge that is both  fascinating and taken for granted, Sobel has brought much needed light to a  neglected corner of history.	2000-08-02
US	52224595	R56OPI6RRTU1	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Colonial/Imperial History Alive and Well in &quot;Crucible&quot;	In this book on colonial and imperial history, 1754-1766, Fred Anderson sweeps the Seven Years War out of the periphery of our historical memory and revitalizes it through new insights with this comprehensive tale.  Namely, that this conflict led to changes in the structures of the British  and French Empires which in turn led to the American War of Independence.  He shows how the British policy was changed in its attitude toward the  colonies throughout the war and how the colonists themselves were changed  in the aftermath of the war by those policies as they were  implemented.<br />With these goals stated he leaps into some of the most  engaging history that I have read.  Anderson has captured the epic feel of  that era by bringing the main actors to life, and not limiting the history  to a series of military campaigns.  There are economic, diplomatic and  cultural considerations that Anderson takes time to address.  All actors on  the stage of this conflict are portrayed to the exclusion of none.  The  aftermath of the war is included, ending with the colonial tax acts that  are often portrayed as the cause of an 'inevitable' American revolution.  Crucible offers a valuable reassessment of their place in history, making  them the product of the Seven Years War and not a prelude to  revolution.<br />Anderson's writing style is well suited to both the part time  historian and a student majoring in history (undoubtedly professors as  well).  I would not be surprised if it became a common text in classes  covering colonial or imperial history.  This is a big, thick and juicy  piece of history that will keep you up during the night reading.  Enjoy it,  for the Crucible is a rare find!	2000-06-08
US	52224595	R3SNRS80Z6OLC2	0375503366	282741307	The Requiem Shark: A Novel	Books	3	24	24	N	N	Pirates Cruise the High Seas	I started reading Griffin's novel under the shadow of Patrick O'Brian, which probably isn't quite fair, but I did anyway- it would be hard not to.  Amazingly, this book stands on its own.  While there are no Jack Aubrey or  Stephen Maturin characters, Griffin manages to create his own memorable  cast that do not even try and replace our swashbuckling favorites.  William  Williams, Captain Roberts and Innocent are all worth remembering.  If it  were not for the 60 year time difference (Aubrey not yet born), it would be  easy to imagine the HMS Surprise chasing these pirates across the atlantic.  They are really that well written.<br />The story itself is not overtly  complicated: the basic pirate story with a few twists, and well written.  Williams, the ship's fiddler and makeshift crew member, is the novel's main  protagonist and view piont.  He is pressed into service aboard Captain  Roberts' ship from one of His Majesty's Ships.  I have been used to the  British Navy triumphant in literature and this served to give some flesh to  an unnoticed historical period, when the high seas were not so lawful.  With Williams slowly becoming more and more involved in the pirate's lives,  they have a series of adventures in search of the galleon treasure ship  Julliete.  There is some good adventure; however, the dark nature of the  violence in this novel can be disturbing.  I do not believe that this is a  weak point, for Griffin does it tastefully and it works with the story /  characters.  Just beware and don't give the book to a Middle Schooler for  their birthday (yet, wait a few years).<br />Apparently Captain Roberts was a  real pirate, and according to Griffin perhaps the most successful of all  time, capturing over 400 ships in under four years.  Knowing that makes the  book much better.  The simplicity of the plot makes more sense if Griffin  was following the example of historical texts.<br />Everything considered, I  think this is a very good book.  I really enjoyed reading it once, but  unlike O'Brian's masterpieces I will probably not read it again.  I will  look forward to future novels by this new author.  Once you are finished  reading this, and if you enjoyed it, I highly recommend the novel  _Master_and_Commander_.oyed reading it once, but  unlike O'Brian's masterpieces I will probably not read it again.  I will  look forward to future novels by this new author.  Once you are finished  reading this, and if you enjoyed it, I highly recommend the novel  _Master_and_Commander_.	2000-06-05
US	52224595	R2EB55ZM38KES3	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Suspense and Tragedy Written with Elegance	The story of forensic anthropologist Anil Tissera is one that Ondaatje drapes in mystery.  As can be expected from any who have read his previous works, the description and flashbacks are both vivid and prolificly  written.  This novel was more accessable than its famous predecessor, The  English Patient: there are fewer secret lives and betrayals, but more  importantly, nearly all the characters are on the same linear path.<br />Anil  Tissera (Sri Lankan born) is a woman who has been educated in England and  the United States in the field of forensic anthropology.  She has become  immersed in the application of her schooling to the arena of Civil Rights  violations.  So when a position is needed in the country of Sri Lanka, she  enters a world recovering from and on the brink of insurrection, guerrilla  warfare and government sponsored killings.  This is where the majority of  the novel takes place.  The focus of her investigation is on a skeleton  nicknamed 'Sailor'.  Sailor has been hidden among other more ancient  remains in a restricted park area that government officials would have  access to.  Anil is treading on thin ice once she begins to discover the  dark secrets surrounding Sailor.  However, some of this compelling story is  weighed down by lengthy character exploration and remembrances of the past.  Suspicion about Sarath, her gov't appointed partner, and his brother  Gamini kept my interest well occupied.<br />Ondaatje succeeds in keeping even  the slowest part of the novel well written (and hence acceptable).  His  technique is an approach that seems to emphasize giving all of his  character's a past complete with secrets, pain and pleasure.  This is good  in the long run, but at times one wants a return to the main story.  Ondaatje's humor is first-rate and most will catch themselves laughing more  than once.  The atmosphere he creates is very enthralling.  Anyone  interested in drama, mystery, civil rights or international affairs will  enjoy this book, making its base very wide in my opinion.  I could not help  but compare Anil to Dana Scully from the X-Files, which seemed silly at  first glance until I realized (and truly appreciated) that what Ondaatje  has written about in Sri Lanka, though fiction, is based on truth.  This  realization made the novel more frightening much better.book, making its base very wide in my opinion.  I could not help  but compare Anil to Dana Scully from the X-Files, which seemed silly at  first glance until I realized (and truly appreciated) that what Ondaatje  has written about in Sri Lanka, though fiction, is based on truth.  This  realization made the novel more frightening much better.	2000-05-23
US	52224595	R2NS77CTKXQOX6	0446602590	904347155	War and Anti-War: Making Sense of Today's Global Chaos	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The Third Wave	The Toffler's have written a very engaging book about the coming age of war in what they call the 'third wave'- or a post industrial society.  Information, according to the Tofflers, will become the vital component of  future conflicts in the way that territory and resources were in the second  wave.  The details and the theory that they construct are very interesting.  The causes of this are a new form of wealth creation that is also  information intensive (read Silicon valley and the computer industry/cell  phones/ or services in general).  I recommend reading this book before,  with or after Robert Kaplan's vision of the future in &quot;The Coming  Anarchy&quot;.  One aspect of the book that is rather surprising is that  they managed to write an entire book on this subject without mentioning  Microsoft or the Internet!  Then I checked the publication date (1993), and  was amazed by the fact that only 7 years ago these entities might not have  merited such consideration.  This alone helps confirm the Toffler's  theories on an quickly changing world, and one in which information is  becoming the hot commodity.<br />The waves are also amazingly close to an  anthropolgical method of classification- domestic scale society (tribes  bands and chiefdoms), political scale society (nation states) and  commerical scale society (the emerging global system).  I wonder how much  interchange of ideas has gone on over the years between the Tofflers and  the author of my text book!  Very interesting.<br />I worry that their  division of the planet into first, second and third wave societies may be a  way of anesthetizing the fact that wealth and power are becoming more and  more polarized.  But this is the reality of our time, and whether or not it  is pleasing, books such as this are attempting to make sense out of the  present and the future.  I will most likely consult this book again in the  future when writing papers, or talking with friends about the future of  conflict for some time to come.r some time to come.	2000-05-16
US	52224595	RTOXHUU05924G	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Peacemakers vs. The Warlord	This is an excellent piece of modern American history.  Black Hawk Down is also a wake up call to any policy makers who have taken the Gulf War as proof positive that Military intervention will always work in the new  century.<br />Mark Bowden manages to give the reader a good impression of the  overall situation in Somalia in addition to the electrifying events of that  ill fated mission in October.  This is a very good aspect of the book,  because it is here that the general reader and future policy maker will  gain the most insight.  Technological superiority does not insure an easy  military success.  Gunships and night vision goggles do not equal  victory.<br />As the battle rages through the streets of Somalia, you will  find yourself having to take some time off, in order to catch your breath.  Bowden's writing is as telling as Spielburg's directing in Saving Private  Ryan.  Not only is there an honest and smooth account of combat, but the  humor that manifests itself in these terrible situations is also brought  out with ease.<br />I did find myself fliping to the index when a name came  back that I recognized but could not remember exactly- that is one of the  few shortfalls Bowden's tale posesses: an amazing quantity of characters.  They are hard to keep track of.  I needed to remind myself that I was  reading history, and not an adventure novel.  It shamed me to think that I  could read like that, but you might find yourself falling into the same  trap that Bowden's prose led me.  All in all, I am glad that Bowden has  give us the story the way he has, with as few as possible ommitted details  and in a way that is so easy to access.	2000-05-16
US	52224595	R29TNIXUU1AFLJ	0312203535	412053610	Plague Wars: The Terrifying Reality of Biological Warfare	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Plague Wars	Tom Mangold and Jeff Goldberg have written a great book.  From the fields of WW2 till the UNSCOM inspectors in Iraq, the curtains have been lifted on the horrific topic of biological weapons and their development.  This book belongs on the same shelf as Laurie Garrett's &quot;The Coming  Plague&quot;; only this is even more frightening.  Where &quot;The Coming  Plague&quot; details the natural occurance of viral outbreaks and bacterial  infections- and the individuals involved with their containment,  &quot;Plague Wars&quot; delves into humanity's dark attempts to harness  these powers and apply them not to heal, but to kill.  You need not be an  expert in biology to understand this, and Mangold and Goldberg have a  highly accessable writing style.  The chapters vary from a journalistic  perspective to factual story telling that uses the participant's own words  whenever possible.  The major topics of include the Cold War until the BWC  of 1972, then the Soviet Union's disregard of that document, South Africa,  Iraq and finally the future of BW.  All of these areas are well researched  and fascinating.  The masterminds behind the programs of South Africa and  the USSR will become names that you will not forget.  These are some very  bad people.<br />One weak point is the reliance on &quot;Confidential  Interviews&quot; as a source in the footnotes.  This is explained in the  begining as protecting sources that might otherwise be endangered.  Still,  it is frustrating.<br />It is claimed by experts, quoted in this book, that a  major biological attack on a large US city should be expected within 10 to  15 years.  Considering the lack of preparation that is apparent in most  cities, this is a very scary thought.  For as you will learn, once a  biological attack has been unleashed it is already too late.<br />Reading this  book has left me believing that what we need is to create a highly  proficient BW team that can, if possible, stop an attack before it begins-  going on the offensive rather than defensive.<br />&quot;Plague Wars&quot; is  an excellent work.g on the offensive rather than defensive.<br />&quot;Plague Wars&quot; is  an excellent work.	2000-05-01
US	52224595	RX5QLSPZHBKLG	0375501533	983778165	Cassidy's Run: The Secret Spy War Over Nerve Gas	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Cassidy's Run	Nerve Gass kills by inhibiting the production of Cholinestrase, which keeps the nervous system at a regular and moderate pace.  Without cholinestrase, the nervous system goes into hyperspeed, causing a system  wide failure the body's ability to breath, pump blood, and in short to  live.  David Wise has written of a 20+ year effort to misslead the Soviet  Union through the use of a remarkable double agent, Joseph Cassidy.  This  is a book that is frightening- there is inconclusive evidence that  information leaked by this agent may have spured the Soviet's CW industry  to create the most powerfull nerve agent known to man- a deadly binary in  the tradition of VX.<br />All in all a great read that will bring a neglected  aspect of history to light while memoralizing those heros who fought in the  shadows of the greatest intelligence war to date.	2000-04-23
US	52224595	R2MEFLZQPFXWUW	0674777700	69410647	The Roman Empire: Second Edition	Books	3	32	42	N	N	Good history, but there is better	Wells manages to write a fairly thorough history of the Roman Empire, however he excludes the era of the Roman Republic and that is my favorite period of Roman history (the Punic Wars ect...).  I highly recommend  &quot;The Will of Zeus&quot; and its sequel &quot;The Mask of Jove&quot;.  Although longer, these books are much more in-depth: by Stringfellow Barr.  They detail the rise and decline of Greek culture and the Roman  civilization.  However, Wells' book is quality and if you are only  interested in the Empire and it is a good read.	2000-04-21
US	52224595	RGMY3BA00JRSA	0375503544	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Storms on the Horizon	Robert Kaplan's dark vision of the future is a very engaging one.  Kaplan does a good job of portraying how and why he believes chaos and instability will become a rule rather than the exception.  The book itself is titled  for the first essay by the same name, and consists of several other pieces  on similar topics.  This surpirsed me as I expected a more uniform book on  that topic.  However, it was not a dissapointment.  Each chapter explores a  thought provoking topic.  &quot;Special Intelligence&quot; was one of my  favorites- it detailed the future coordination of the Intelligence agencies  and military Special Forces.<br />Before reading The Coming Anarchy I was a  firm believer in the universal applicability of democracy the world over.  Now I am not so sure.  Kaplan makes a good case of his hypothesis that  democracy is a culmination of social, economic and historical achievments  that some areas of the Earth have not achieved.  He conceeds that democracy  is the long term goal, however, sometimes a stable authoritarian regime  that will enhance the quality of life while advancing these prerequisites  is preferable to an election that leads to ethnic cleansing.  Kaplan fails  to consider the effect that international trade policy has on these  societies, in one of the books shortcomings.  Taken in this light the  trends of the emerging international order are described in a creative and  revealing fashion but the causes of these changes are neglected.  He does  breifly touch on environmental degredation and comes close- but not quite.  It is economic motivation that causes the environment to be destroyed in  many cases.<br />This is a very good book, but it is composed of previously  published articles with one addition at the end.  These are great essays,  but Kaplan falls short by not expanding them or at least giving us more new  material than old.  If I had known this before hand, I might have checked  out his writing at the library in &quot;The Atlantic Monthly&quot;, where  the first essay and the book's namesake appeared.tic Monthly&quot;, where  the first essay and the book's namesake appeared.	2000-04-15
US	52224595	R39U78GANY2XA0	039700432X	848099238	Mask of Jove	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Epic Rome	Although this book is out of print, and a little difficult to obtain, I still highly recomend it.  Every chapter eases into Roman history in a way that brings a beginner up to speed and new insights into America itself.  Barr includes extensive footnotes and uses direct quotes from the great  Roman historians, playwrights and philosophers whenever possible.  The  transition from Republican rule to the Empire is clearly described- again,  in a way that offers insight in to modern America.  Through good emperors  and bad, remembering senators corrupt and enlightened, a picture of Rome's  historical flaw becomes apparant not in the form of government that it  possesed at any given point in time, but the values of their culture and  how they changed.  If you are interested in Roman history, get this book.	2000-04-14
US	52224595	RO0T9H61J6LBV	068483233X	190676249	Deliver Us from Evil: Peacekeepers, Warlords and a World of Endless Conflict	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Warlords and Peacekeepers in an Epic Battle	This book more than adequately explores the utility of international intervention from the mid sixties to the near present.  Shawcross makes a point of the difference between our desire to end ethnic war and starvation  and our willingness to risk the lives of our own military.  This dillema is  at the heart of most peacekeeping missions.  I was amazed to learn that the  numbers of troops promised rarely ever show up on time- if ever!  Equipment  is also often lacking.  The collective attention span of our society is  also part of the problem.  Simply taking a crisis and making it a 15 minute  phenomenon to be quickly forgoten when the press gets old will not create a  long term solution.  More commitment on the behalf of our politicians, and  ourselves will be required in the future.<br />Perhaps most frightening is a  thesis that slowly emerges which would indicate that sometimes a happy  ending is not possible, that evil will occasionaly triumph despite our best  efforts and that in some situations our best efforts will only serve to  prolong a conflict.<br />These and more are some of the issues that Shawcross  covers by taking the reader to multiple real world situations that most of  us have heard something (but not enough) about.  The chapters on Africa's  wars were very revealing of the extent that our views can be shaded by the  light that the media casts on them.  While I knew that there were and are  conflicts there, I had no idea of their extent and ruthlessness; almost to  an extreme that makes the Balkans seem mild.<br />One criticism of this book  is that I have been able to keep a distance from the events that it  describes.  Some books have the ability to hit you in the stomach with  meaning and this falls just short.  However, when taken in combination with  other recent books on modern history, Shawcross has made an invaluable  contribution.  &quot;My War Gone By I Miss It So&quot; is a book would make  an excellent companion to this one, as would &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot;  and &quot;The Coming Anarchy&quot;.<br />After reading &quot;Deliver us from  Evil&quot;, my respect has been increased for those individuals in the UN  who give their careers and lives up to a higher ideal of peace.  Kofi Annan  is now a name that means much more to me.  He is a man who deserves all of  our thanks.<br />The lesson that this book has to offer can be summed up by  Edmund Burke, who is quoted at the beginning:<br />&quot;The only thing  necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.&quot;&quot;Black Hawk Down&quot;  and &quot;The Coming Anarchy&quot;.<br />After reading &quot;Deliver us from  Evil&quot;, my respect has been increased for those individuals in the UN  who give their careers and lives up to a higher ideal of peace.  Kofi Annan  is now a name that means much more to me.  He is a man who deserves all of  our thanks.<br />The lesson that this book has to offer can be summed up by  Edmund Burke, who is quoted at the beginning:<br />&quot;The only thing  necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.&quot;	2000-04-12
US	52224595	RJCX7WVW4KH3Y	0393038580	3632665	Men-of-War: Life in Nelson's Navy	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Good Crutch for us Landlubbers	I cannot claim to any nautical experience, however, I do claim to be one of Patrick O'Brian's all time fans.  This book has helped me understand what the ____ some of the late 18th and early 19th century nautical terms  and concepts mean.  So, to keep this concise, if you love Patrick O'Brian's  seafaring novels (start with Master and Commander if you are uninitiated to  this amazing series), but are not a sailer yourself- then this is the book  for you.  It is fairly short, but interesting.  You will be briefed on life  in the navy, parts of the ships, names and functions of sails, combat, and  many other topics that can confuse.<br />I also know that this book would  serve as an excellent source for a H.S. to college level paper/presentation  on life in Nelson's navy.  The length and writting style make it highly  readable. Also recomended are Dean King's lexicons on Patrick O'Brian's  books (&quot;A Sea of Words&quot;).  They include several sections on the  history of the era, and are very interesting, as well as including an  extensive dictionary of terms, old words, places and events.<br />If you  already know a great deal about Nelson's Navy, then this might be a little  too basic.	2000-03-31
US	52224595	R9ZTIRWHR2F88	0316955108	612064026	The Caine Mutiny: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing	This is one nice piece of literature.  It is fun to read, and exciting, for starters- plus there is depth as well.  Wouk is one of the best novelists that this century has seen- all of his stories are good and  especially this one.  Queeg, Keith and Keefer are great characters.  There  is tension as you turn the pages that grates like finger nails on a  chalkboard, only you cannot stop reading as in the best of nightmares.  I  Don't want to give too much away, but once this peaks, the Court-Marital  follows through and does not disappoint.  There is a reason why Wouk won  the Pulitzer for his work on this one!	2000-03-27
US	52224595	R3T5N5YLLU8YN1	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	52	59	N	N	Good Comprehensive History	Keegan does a fine job of illustrating the conflict of WW1 with strokes that are wide enough to give 'the big picture' clarity while also delving into several campaigns and stories that will give the reader some intimate  knowledge of the subject.  His book was used as a text in a college level  history course, which is where I read it, and helped a great deal.<br />The  accounts of lesser know theaters of conflict are certainly some of the  book's high points.  My favorite section was a the German, Paul Lettow von  Vorbeck, who was in charge of the German forces in German East Africa.  Keegan describes how Vorbeck waged a guerrilla war against English forces  for the duration of the war.  It is great reading.  There are other  chapters equally insightfull.<br />Overall, the Keegan rarely becomes traped  in the minutia of detail, though at times the various armies, regiments,  battalions, and dates can become a bit thick.  This is a book that needs  about one or two days inbetween chapters for thought fermentation.  You  need to let it all sink in before moving on, otherwise the details slip  away.<br />I highly recomend this book to anyone who knows little about WW1  and wishes to learn more- or, like myself, someone who thought that they  knew most of what there was to know (and was wrong).<br />Professors  everywhere: get books like this one for classes, they are better than  texts, cheaper, and more enjoyable to read!  Plus, we students will learn  more in return.	2000-03-27
US	52224595	R2QVF6XGVK09J6	0792275284	183454692	National Geographic Atlas Of The World 7th Edition	Books	5	55	88	N	N	High Quality Maps	After some years, this edition of the NGS's Atlas is still a solid entry.  In addition to the usual extensive political maps, this edition also contains some very nice extra selections which include: Moon and Solar system maps, Galaxy maps, lessons on tectonics, and a history of maps.  Also very useful to a student of economics, demographics, energy resources and other statistical topics is a section that shows these subjects across the globe in a very easy to understand format (color coded with some pictograms).  On the topic of the much advertised satellite maps of each continent that National Geographic boasts in this edition: although interesting, I was hoping for more of the satellite maps- for instance, maps of cities and ports.  Now that the traditional atlas has to compete with the amazing \\"Google Earth\\" and other map programs online and off, National Geographic will have to provide us with much more in this regard to justify the price we pay.<br /><br />This Atlas is great to use if reading about far off places where names are not familiar.  The index and paging system provides an easy to use reference system, so you can find where you're looking for by name, or by geographic region.  Just as useful if reading about Zagreb, Croatia in Spokane, Washington as it would be to read about Spokane in Zagreb.  For actual travel and navigation, you'll still need to go to AAA or the gas station and get a real driving road map however.  I would put this atlas on the shelf of any student in history, international affairs, politics or military affairs.	2000-03-27
US	52224595	R5RIQSAMQE9YE	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	A Classic	Robinson achieves a pitch perfect balance of real science and fiction in Red Mars.  The story of the 100 colonists is gripping.  From John Boone, the legend, Coyote, the mysterious stowaway and the computer-like Sax  Russell, there are characters in this read that you will not forget.  The  Drama is first class and keeps you coming back for more in the following  two books.  The revolution that occurs is really well written.  After  reading this book you will not look into the nighttime sky the same ever  again.  Red Mars may very well be a novel that is prophetic in its  depiction of the future.  I also highly recomend some music to accompany  the reading- for some good sugestions read the next review!  Enjoy!	2000-03-24
US	52224595	R2GHX8M7FRWNJ2	0449203794	799767252	Space	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Out of this World	Space is a tale that takes one from the battlefields of World War II to the Moon.  Not many other books can make that claim, probably fewer still can do it with the finess that Michener can.  As a sugar coated lesson in  the history of rocketry I doubt that there is a better substitute.  The  final trip to the Moon as told by Michener is one of the most exciting  sequences that I have ever read and well worth the wait.  It is a little  hard to get used to the imaginary state of Freemont- perhaps the story and  characters involved were (to a point) renamed in order to protect the  privacy of the real people they represented.  Or maybe that is just what  Michener wants us to think.<br />The con artist Professor who becomes a born  again Christian is just hillarious.  I really enjoyed the humor that he  brings to the story.  The reflection on America is a little embarrassing,  but it is still funny.<br />The Space is a book that I was sorry to see end,  with all of Michener's other loong novels I would have easily tolerated an  extra hundered pages or so in this one.	2000-03-24
US	52224595	R325UO4H4Z22Q8	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Carr's Mysteries are Top Notch	Caleb Carr is one of my new favorite authors.  The Alienist as a mystery is thrilling.  The techniques that his characters use are fasinating- especially the revolutionary methods. . . such as Fingerprinting!  The way  Carr describes the dark side of New York is absolutely bone chilling.  The  steam rising from the street and the terrible noises on the edge of  perception.  Kreizler is a dectective that captivates like none since  Sherlock Holmes; his companions are equally fasinating.  Lets hope that  Carr keeps writting!<br />This is a must read for any mystery fans, history  buffs, or someone interested in an all around exciting book to read.	2000-03-24
US	52224595	R1NGDK405SC8JC	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Couldn't Put it Down	This novel is a nicely written piece of work.  Carr's use of naration is flawless.  The flavor of The Angel of Darkness is something that anyone will want to savor.  Again, as in The Alienist, Carr establishes a  historical world that lives and breathes.  Turn of the centruy New York is  a place that both fasinates and frightens; in this novel one can visit and  experience the fullness of both.  Not only is this a mystery, or a  historical thriller- Carr manages to make this a legal battle that John  Grisham would not be able to come close to.  Clarrence Darrow makes a well  rounded appearance, which is only topped by Teddy R. later on.  Carr knows  how to tell a story like few other writers can.	2000-03-24
US	52224595	RTOAOWV07RGZ2	0140250913	753226033	The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Need a Phobia?  Read this Book!	There is nothing quite so scary as the truth, and this book brings home that fact like no other.  The recent history of epidemiology is presented in a comprehensive and fluid account in The Coming Plauge.  I read it for the effect these diseases have on international relations- seems like a  stretch, but really it is not -and came away fully satisfied.  With this in  mind the chapters on Africa are very interesting.  The strain on those  countries' social infrastructure is becoming a crisis- as a recent Security  Council meeting of the UN confirms.  The HIV &amp; AIDS scares are  recounted with a correlation to the plauges of medieval Europe in a way  that reminds us how counter productive panic can be.  The chapters on HIV  &amp; AIDS should be read by all.  Garrett also makes this a quasi-thriller  with her chapters on the disease 'cowboys' and their adventures hunting  down the exotic and sexy viruses of Hanta and Ebola.  For someone who is  normally afraid of biology and the sciences, I was able to understand and  learn a lot in the course of reading this book- so don't be scared off by  any lack of professional expertise, this book is for anyone with interest  in disease hunting!	2000-03-24
US	52224595	RATBIPFHYWP0E	0446520659	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Great Game for Fast Paced Reading!	The Lions Game is a fast paced and fun book to read!  Demille has a sense of humor that shines through from start to finish without detracting from the action.  Khalil makes a nemisis that one loves to hate.  His cunning  and plans serve as a wake up call for any real counter terror agencies.  The story is fairly straight forward and is a great book for fun.  Don't  think this novel will make it to many 'reread' piles, but it is still worth  the time it takes to finish the first time around.  Some of the jokes in  this book are classic.  I want to tell one, but that would be spoiling too  much.  You'll have to read it for yourself.	2000-03-23
US	52224595	R10RTRI2IBKVOV	0871137690	162983117	My War Gone By, I Miss It So	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Twentieth Century Heart of Darkness	This book brings the distant and antiseptic war in the Balkans home with an emotional impact that I will not forget.  The horrible events portrayed by Lloyd occured for me when I was still in High School reading an  occasional newspaper article on them and was still able to keep the  conflict abstract.  For those who wish to come a step closer to  understanding what is often nothing more than a sound bite on the evening  news, this book is of crucial importance.  Lloyd manages to capture the  heart of darkness as it manifested itself in the twentieth century- and  unfortunately will most likely continue to do so in the twentyfirst.  At  times the map included is not sufficient to follow Lloyd as he traverses  Bosnia and Croatia, however, this is a minor inconvenience that does not  detract from the greater message.  As mentioned before, the lack of his  photography is puzzeling.<br />This book should be required reading in all  modern European history courses.<br />On a note that has extra significance  to the immediate present, considering the recently renewed assault on the  Chechnyans by the Russian Military, Lloyd's chapter on Grozny is  particularly interesting.  It is hard to imagine the city being destroyed a  second time after reading this account of the first devastating war in the  mid-1990's; however, the carnage and death that have occured are happening  again in Chechnya right now.  These wars are not abstractions and Lloyd's  book is an excellent device to remove any illusions of distance that the  morning paper or evening news may have created.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	RQ9UQLP95T032	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of my Very Favorite Novels	For Whom the Bell Tolls is a story that will be with you forever after you have finished the last riveting page.  All other books will be judged by standards set by Hemmmingway in this one.  The Tragic story of Robert  Jordan and his love Maria is more amazing than any other I have read, seen  or heard.  El Sordo's final stand reads the way the greatest symphony is  heard.  Tension and crescendo that builds and builds until you become one  with the characters and their struggle.  I have never read a book that ends  like this one, and chances are a first time reader has not either.  Get  this book.  Read it.  This IS writting.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	R4Q8B2JKHRRHP	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Adventure Magic and Monsters- Who Could Ask for More?	Amazing stories.  Anyone who likes adventure and drama should read these novels.  Tolkien brings me back to my childhood in a way that no other author can.  Perhaps it is because that is when I first read him- but I do  no believe that is it.  There is magic in his story of Middle Earth and the  adventures that take place there.  Aside from establishing a genere,  Tolkien has created a masterpiece of literature that has been and is  continuing to enchant readers.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	R17CGG75LKUQ82	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Timeline- Couldn't put it down	If you have read Crichton before, then you should need no further encouragment to read this novel- it is excellent.  Timeline takes Crichton out of his post Jurassic Park slump with flying colors!  The mix of Science  and Imagination are just about perfect.  As a Historian myself, it is nice  to see this profession the subject of a Crichton adventure at last.  The  Physics of time travel are also new (at least to me) and very wild.  His  bibliography is quite extensive, and assuming that there is some truth to  the concepts then our world is indeed a more confusing place than I  originally thought.  Something about multiple universes is just disturbing-  I don't think I can be tricked into believing it as easily as I was with  the cloning of Dinosaurs.  Still- action and adventure in a fast paced  read?  This novel has it all.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	R3VP34KZVBK7MU	0553110144	649003513	Empires of Sand	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good, but no Dumas	This novel is highly entertaining and enthralling.  For adventures through the nineteenth century Sahara and France, one cannot go wrong with Empires of Sand.  The characters are either highly likable or absolutely  dispicable, which could be either a high point or a low point- depending on  the reader's tastes.  I had hoped for more dynamic characters.  The only  real change that occures- in Paul -is highly predictable.  The Religious  figures in the book are thoroughly thrashed in a one sided and ruthless  manner.  Ball obviously does not have very much respect for these religions  (Islam and Catholocism alike, ironiclly- so at least he is evenhanded).  This caused me to read the rest of the novel with guarded enthusiasm-  because the absolute badness that these characters flaunt, is well,...  offending.  Stick with the Count of Monte Cristo by Dumas or Les Mis by  Hugo if you have not read them already.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	RIS9LGRTXA804	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	International Affairs	Kissinger writes of the history of international politics from the Peace of Westphallia until the modern era with obvious familiarity and ease.  The chapters can be read individually or as a continuing history.  This book  proved worthwhile not only by giving me greater insight into politics among  nations, but also some very well appreciated background on subject matter  covered in my Modern Europe 306 history course.  The philosophies of  Idealism and Realism shine through, and Kissenger always a realist,  presents his case well.  One aspect missing from this otherwise nearly  complete volume is a more telling account of his involvment in the context  of the greater scheme of things: Arms talks, Indonesia and Chile to name a  few.  Taken as a whole I recomend this to any student of history,  international affairs, and especially to the individual who would like a  greater understanding of how things international work.	2000-03-22
US	52224595	R3I0IYRDSWUZFH	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A book in full; perhaps too full	The story seems complex when considering all the various characters, however, in relation to events it is quite simple.  For 700+ pages I am not satisified with an average book.  Wolfe does have an interesting story, but  he takes far too long to tell it.  Epictetus is used as a source for much  of the character development and events, which is probably the strongest  point the novel has.  The ending comes when he realizes (and that Epictetus  is nearly out of advice) this and tries to tie it all up in record time.  If you get that far, you will just be glad that it time to move on.	1999-12-24
