US	52226496	R3013GC3FA5MTV	087135277X	921284427	Wolverine	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Layers added to the Wolverine Character	When he first appeared in an Incredible Hulk comic book issue and then later as part of the mutant super team, the X-Men, Wolverine's character was portrayed as the berserker animal with the killer rage. He was the guy you would not want dating your daughter. Few decades later to this modern day and age, Logan's history is the richest and most complex out of all the characters in comics, including greats such as the Batman or even Spider-man. Due to being shrouded in mystery and allegedly to be more than 100 years old, Wolverine's character is beyond the scope of trying to cramp many layers of origins and histories in a short time. His experiences and life are stuff of legend and is a fertile soil for many creators to delve into. <br /> <br />All this is to thanks to two creators that are well known to both the comic book industry and mainstrem entertainment. Chris Claremont is the definitive writer of the X-men and though he had a short departure in the 90s from the characters he helped cultivate, his comeback has been much wanting and less than stellar to the works that he helped write in the old, including this story that helped make Wolverine who he is now and forever. His take on the character made him more complex and alluring to the readers, both young and those who were growing up and wanted to more out of him. In this story where we learn Wolverin's strong Japanese roots help shed light to that and pave the way to future stories of the same caliber. <br /> <br />Frank Miller has recently been hailed in the mainstream media as the creator and co-director of the Sin City movie. He was widely appraised before that on most of his works in comics, including Batman, Daredevil and Wolverine. He is the ultimate method creator of comic books when it comes in both writing style and in your face, gritty drawing. He makes the character alive with his strokes in this book. <br /> <br />Combining both artists to the most controversial comic book character was done just right and the work is one of the best and the greatest that will leave fans wanting for more. Only time will tell whether these two greats will ever come together in the future. All we can do is hope and see.	2005-05-08
US	52226496	R3GJGKQ7AL1Z2O	0785108548	661059130	U.S. War Machine TPB	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Meaningless	My first comic books that I ever read included Spectacular Spider-Man and Iron Man. During those times, Tony Stark, the original and one and only Iron Man was fighting for his life from a deadly virus that was ravaging his body's nervous system. When he died, James Rhodes took over and became Iron Man. Months later, Iron Man was facing a much more challenging foe that required him to create what is now known as the War Machine. In the comics, the suit of armor was a measure of what the Punisher might want to get for his own arsenal. Gone were the days of the taser gun and laser beams and inc ame the bullets and bazookas and the rockets. The War Machine was fun while it lasted, but I'm thankful that those days were finally over. I don't know why Chuck Austen decided to resurrect the suit back and bring it as a one man army in this book. <br /> <br />In the story, Rhodey leaves Stark after a fallthrough due to him using the armor to excessively that lives were lost. Stark fires him and Rhodey finds himself teaming up with Nick Fury, the shady head honcho of the government sanctioned SHIELD. Fury wants to save a few folks from the bad guys and after stealing Starls War Maching designs buids a small army of yahoos led by none other than Rhodey to kick major butt and kill everyone wh stands in their way. <br /> <br />The story is very much in your face and very easy to discern with minimum use of any intellect needed to understand it. The art is fair and I have no idea why Marvel decided to go with a B&W approach rather than color. In any case, the book is readable though very forgettable and completely does not make justice to the old Iron Man stories of days gone by. While the comic book made Rhodey a good friend and an equal to Stark, this book makes him a crony and a shadow of his old self.	2004-10-24
US	52226496	RO59AEBUR1QWV	0721658326	456053345	Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Good Book to Learn General Dermatology	I will go ahead and be completely candid and truthful with my review on this book. This I know will go very unfavorable with everyone out there and the universal notion that this is the greatest book to ever come out on Dermatology. I'll be the leper of that group.    The book, which covers the major aspects of most if not every dermatological disease is very thorough in scope though extremely and poorly organized. This is the downfall of this book which for completion purposes just scans over the major point in an extremely wide part of medicine, Dermatology. You have the book mention something in passing and then for no reason in a later section would go back to what it covered with more details. I have no idea why that happens a lot in this book. I admit there are excellent chapters out there, but their poor organization and lack of reasonable trend just puts the book off. The book may have the right wording and the ease in language, but simply fails to put things together in a coherent way. Another major problem is that the book's pictures are B&W. In a time where color images are ubiquituous, this is not acceptable.  A lot of people I know have mentioned these negative features, though they still like the book because it's the only book out there that they can carry around and still look through between clinics or grand rounds.    I believe that for residents out there, that books like Ftizpatrick, the critically-acclaimed Bolognia and the bible Rook should be required reading for all residents to build the basis of sound, strong and a lasting base for their Dermatology education. Andrew's could be used for a fast quick reference, but not the one that should be counted on making life and death decisions in dermatological care. Andrew's is good, but not that great and certainly not even closest to being the best.	2004-09-28
US	52226496	R26SMEMEUMPMHY	156389906X	446368500	Batman: Child of Dreams	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Batman the Manga	Kia Asamiya is perhaps one of the best Japanese illustrators out there. His legend is revered in his home country. With the great interest of manga in the American culture, it was only a matter of time before hot shot name would undertake the works of a classic character. Taking up Batman, however, was going to be a challenge.<br />The Bat is an extremely dark character that revels in the night. Though the Japanese don't have a problem with dark themes in the likes of Vampire Hunter D or even Akira, seeing crisp, clear art depict that darkness was going to be a challenge. Asamiya, howver, succeeds in creating and weaving an intricate, though maybe superficial at times, story that pits the Bat with a crazed fan(atic). The story moves from Gotham all the way to Japan and showcases most of Batman's rogue gallery. Though, unlike the great detaila nd plot of the Long Holloween, the characters are not really into the plot of the story and don't play a major role to advance the story. The most lost potential happens when the Joker meets up Batman to help him find the major villain of the story. That scene just fizzles and does not peak much interest.<br />Like most manga, the story is very laid down with no major surprises. Unlike Ameican written or themed comic concepts, manga does not challenge the reader. A great read and a nice story, though not a major contributor to the great Bat mythos.	2004-06-20
US	52226496	R1K86EMBP6F7T8	0785112316	4342992	Punisher: Born	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Heart of Darkness	The war brings the worst in people. War is the failure of civilization. It is the fall of humanity's and the great inadequacy of the human mind. It is a regression to the basic simplicity of animals. It is the loss of the divine power in each and every one of us.<br />In Garth Ennis's rendition and retelling of what might have been the driving force of the Punisher. War is the main driving force that makes the character who he is and not a certain aspect of his life. The Punisher is born when his family is gunned down by the mob, but the character was truly born when he was in Vietnam, living through the horrors of death and survival. Ennis is able to bring that into mind that the death of Frank Castle's family simply triggers what he has always been, a hellbent, murdering soldier. An aftereffct of the war. A survivor.<br />The story is very well done and actually makes the character more believable. If your family were gunned down, would you just exact revenge or go on a rampage against each and every killer in the world? You would definitely have your revenge and call it quits, but if you've been at war and tasted death and killed. Only then, would you want to generalize and start killing all the murderers and drug traffickers.<br />Garth Ennis has grabbed the essence of the character and knows what makes him tick. He makes him more believable. And in the story, he does just that.	2004-04-10
US	52226496	RV0HE6NCRAM0J	0785108785	685956280	Fury MAX (Fury #1-6)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	FURY-ious	Ever since he blew us all away with his ground breaking work on Preacher, Garth Ennis has taken to the words British humor to an all new level. His wor on the Punisher comes to no difference, though you could feel that he was not letting loose, his great imagination constrained. Along comes FURY and things just go over the top.<br />Ennis has long been associated with his partner in crime Steve Dilon. The two take dark humor to different levels. Without his partner on this book, Ennis tries his best to tone the gruesomeness so that Darrick Robertson can catch up. And he does so fabulously. The story is simple. The world has changed and everything has become more beaurocratic and down-toned. Unlinke the old days where everything just went bump in the night and the shadows were alive with Commies out hunting for blood. Fury is the hero of yesteryear which time has finally caught up with. He inadvertently creates a war in a small island country that soon takes him into the middle of the action, just where he likes it. The ending, however is not something he was expecting for.<br />Ennis manages to create and eclectic supporting cast. From the madly distorted F#$k Face to a bickering crazy nephew of Fury's that no other author has brought notice to. The story is a wild fire and moves like one. Robertson answers Ennis's calling and brings out an amazing different visage to the world of Gart Ennis. These two can work togetherwithout any problems, though you do miss Dillon at times.<br />Ennis is gearing to write a MAX Punisher title now and you know how that's going to work. Robertson is off doing Wolverine. Fury brings those two powerhorse creative together for a wonderful read all the way.	2004-01-11
US	52226496	R2GIG5FQVVE3KE	0785110690	797194760	1: Rawhide Kid: Slap Leather (Marvel Heroes)	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Skew to the Left	With the recent emergence of Western comics coming out in the market, a great deal of time and talk has come out of this. Ay first it started with Apache Skies and Blazing Glory. Now, The Rawhide Kid. And to make matters even more complicated, the hero is gay.<br />When reading Apache Skies and Blazing Glory that were beatifully written and illustrated, the Rawhide Kid showed no indication that he was gay whatsoever. He was rough, rugged, had a stubble and long hair. His sexual orientation, like any Western comic book simply did not matter. This one, however, different. The way the character puts on his clothes and to the way he styles and grooms himself is simply not the same as the previous two books, which makes you think who is the real Rawhide. Even though it doesn't matter whethe the character was gay or not, his demeanour, which has some tinge of queer eye is simply not 1800s USA. \\"Puh-leeaze\\" and \\"Oh brotherrrr\\" are not the type of talk of that era. Though Zimmerman clearly tries to bring out the Kid's gay mannerism, his way of talking is incredulous, which takes away the book's charm.<br />Severin's art is outstanding, but also does not make justice to the story and the character's newfound gayness. The art is rough, in your face and purely and entirely Western. This does not go great when you want to portray the softer side of a character. The work, however, is commendable given the fact that the artist is in his 80s.<br />The book and story has garnered great publicity and made hiadlines in popular magazines when Mavel decided to make the Rawhide gay. While that did not matter, the presentation and incarnation of him in this book could have been better made. Worth the read though and recommended.	2004-01-10
US	52226496	R2213HQR9BVFKS	1401201261	790237242	Batman: The Ring, The Arrow and The Bat (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Misleading Rehash	The first thing that a person notices when seeing the book is that it has Batman's name written on the cover when in fact he does not appear until later in the book.<br />The book is a collection of two stories, both appearing in previous issues of Green Lantern and Legends of the Dark Knight in comic book form. The first has Greena Arrow teaming up with Green Lantern and the second one has the Green Arrow teaming up with the legendary Dark Knight, Batman. The stories have nothing to do with one another, so it would seem strange that a book has the mantle of the Bat on it, when in fact, the main character through both of them is Green Arrow. This is the main misleading theme in this and one can wonder why would DC do such a thing, excepy knowing full well that a book with Green Arrow is not going to sell as much than having the Bat on the cover and in the book.<br />How about the stories? Both feature the Green Arrow, an extremely arrogant and obnoxious character that is extremely self conceited, you sometimes root for the villain to beat the heck out of him. He resembles Marvel's character Hawkeye in terms of having those same character flaws, but in the latter, you understand where he comes from and you can never go wrong with Hawkeye as he is considered the spirit of the Avengers where Captain America is the hear.<br />In the first story, he teams up with the original Green Lantern, Hal Jordan and the story is a mundane one where they have to save a nation from utter destruction from the clutches of a tyrant general.<br />The second one has him team up with Batman and the story still has the same tyrant in it, but now he's living in asylum in another rogue nation. Both stories are truly not worth the read and are very poor compared to the rich texture of how Batman has evolved through the years and what he is right now.<br />In all, the book is not worth reading as other great works that feature the Dark Knight. Batman simply is too dark and foreboding to work with Green Arrow.	2003-12-22
US	52226496	R1I8UTGY0DZKN8	1401200370	332694294	Batman: Absolution	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Unexpected	One would think that a great author like Jean Marc Dematteis would write a reasonable Batman story. It was a surprise that the end result was not something to be proud of. Dematteis has been a long standing author of Spider-Man and in his prime wrote the thought provoking storylines that slowly careened more to the psychological. You would think that this work right for a character like Batman. Surprisingly, it doesn't.<br />The story picks up with a hellbent, vengeful Batman searching for the bomber of a Wayne Enterprises building that killed many people. It takes Batman 10 years to get to the killer, but of course, you know he ends up there. One surprise is that Batman throughout his years never showcased a vengeful feel to his personality that would fuel his rage for such long a time. The story here falls to being more incredulous in that sense.<br />The other part is that when he does finally reach up to his prey, he is so relentless that he does not believe in redemption and he is intent on making the bomber pay for what she did, though throughout her life that person has completely changed and has become a nun healping thousands in an impoverished land.<br />Simply, said, this is not Batman. You wonder what Dematteis had in mind while scribing this down, but it's a pity that his theme and the Batman character didn't work. I believe that if given the chance, another story by him would give us a better tale. I don't know if that's going to happen in the near future though.	2003-12-22
US	52226496	R18DA17QT7P2OS	0785111638	619934385	The Art of Marvel, Vol. 1	Books	5	4	4	N	N	EXCELLENT	Marvel Comics always had the upper hand when it came to both the depth of their characters and the art that made those words come life. This book is a celebration of that art and how it transpires through these modern times.<br />most of the Marvel's heores are showcased and you get to look at previous covers, past renditions and modern art of your favorite characters, from Spider-Man to the Hulk and even the X-Men (their chapter has a couple of pages exclusively for Wolverine).<br />All in all and excellent book with a wide variety of hot artists, from Alex Ross to Tim Sale to even Joe Quesada. This is a must have for all comics fans out there who still have that tingle in their eye, each time they see a cover with Spidey swinging on it.	2003-11-24
US	52226496	R1MDYN9IVQCSNU	1401200346	907708716	Batman/Deathblow: After the Fire (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Smell of Leather in Every Page	Brian Azzarello is out to redeem himself. After writing Cage and failing to bring out the best of that character, he comes in and takes on the Big Bad Bat. The result is perhaps one of the best well written and well drawn stories to come out from the Batman mythos for some time now. His Batman is dark, I'll give him that. Not just that, Azzarello doesn't shy using the Bat's alter ego, Bruce Wayne, in the main story too. While most writers can't help but bring up that Wayne is a facade to the Batman, Azzarello makes him play a pivotal role throughout the story. In fact, by the final chapter, there is no Batman in sight and all you contend with is having Bruce Wayne taking over the lime light.<br />One thing I loved about this book is the realism. Batman being afraid that if he ticks off the CIA, the Agency will be on him in full force and expose his true self. This goes beyond to root down the character in the &quot;real&quot; world. He didn't go, &quot;Well let them, I'll show them who's boss!&quot; His reply was much more collected and calculated. This is the Batman that we just love and I hope that this is the character that we get to see soon in the upcoming movie, not the Joel Shumacher character of the last two Batman movies.<br />The art? Nothing I can say can do the art justice. Nothing! Lee Bermejo captures Batman in so much good detail, you can honestly smell the leather off his Batsuit. The cape is not cartoony or Spawn long as artists just love doing. It is just right and it works to keep the premise of the story rooted down to reality. His Batman, although not commercial like Jim Lee's recent rendition, is this looming figure. Bermejo doesn't play much with the shadows, but still gives the character that dark feel to him. The art is very awe-inspiring.<br />With a story that shifts from flashback to present times, Azzarello creates a Batman that will stand the test of time as one of the ultimate renditions of modern times. He's got his work cut out for him, though, since he's going to be penning the regular series with the now classic HUSH storyline over.	2003-10-12
US	52226496	R1GZ4ZTU96EG1W	156389937X	203765822	JLA/JSA: Virtue and Vice (Justice League (DC Comics))	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Too many Characters to Truly Follow	The problem when you have two big gun teams is that you just lose track of the whole story. I admit, it's nice seeing Batman souping it up with the likes of Wildcat and Superman digging a ditch with Sentinel, but the whole plot and the pace of the story just seems to be lost through the cracks.<br />The story I admit has a nice premise to it. What else do you expect from the guy who wrote the Blade films and is set to script the next Batman movie. The only problem here is that it's just too difficult to manage all the characters and give them right or reason to work on as a group. The JLA is enough to contend with, but to actually have the JSA into the fray is just a gimmick to try and sell more books. Some of the characters that ppear during the beginning of the book, like the Martian Manhunter are just unaccounted for by the end of the book. Where did they go? Maybe Aruba, because they certainly don't mention a peep of him.<br />Carlos Pacheco is the bomb! He manages to get the artwork right and portrays all the characters differently with an individual fervor. I can only think of Mighty George Perez who can manage that feat (which he is doing in Avengers/JLA, which has better writing by Kurt Busiek).<br />In all, you really don't care about the threat, which you know is going to be two villans from both the teams' camp that also decided to team up. Do they work? Maybe next time, it would be better to see a skimmed version of both the teams rather than have them cramped up together. Better yet, why not just one character from each team, coming together with small cameo appearances of others.<br />Fun read, though bland by the end.	2003-10-12
US	52226496	R80JFPZQ0WLHP	0785111042	978432764	1: Captain Marvel: Nothing to Lose	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Out of this World... and out of touch with reality	When Peter David began writing this story, the word was out that there would be a competition on what character is going to stay for the long haul. You see Captain Marvel's sales were sliding down near the pit of cancellation when Marvel in all its wisdom decided to test the readers' love and loyalty to the character. There would be three Captain Marvel books, having completely differenct charcaters in them with different premises. That would continue for some months and the better series written by the author would continue. The book by Peter David was the one that showcased the original series and characters. That of Captain Marvel, the son of Mar-Vell, and also that of Rick Jones, sidekick supreme.<br />What you get is a whacky ride that is uninspired fromthe beginning to the end. It would seem that David was out to explain a certain philosophy he had in his head about what would happen to a person when they get the powers and knowledge of a god. Basically, you'd go crazy and that's why we mere mortals are only that, humans. The first series that David spat out was excellent. You had equal time that covered both Captain Marvel or Genis and that of Rick Jones. Now Jones is made to be that helpless little background buzz after a night of binge drinking on Friday night.<br />The art is Outstanding. Chriscross is amazing with his pencils and knows that he has got to save this book from the annihilation of the plot that it was leaning towards. The book had such high potential and was very much grounded. Now it was all about this certain philosophy that David lives where he seems to be lashing out at the powers that be in Marvel. First he was booted out of the HULK after an unforgettable run. Now, I think Captain Marvel is out the door and Peter David just has nothing to lose. In the end, I think he does get the last laugh!	2003-09-27
US	52226496	REI5IBQ13M5B5	0785113010	463171428	Cage	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Not the CAGE of Old	Luke Cage is a comic book character that has a big influence in a lot of different mediums. To name just one of them, actor Nicolas Cage (whose real neame is Nicolas Coppola) changed his last name to Cage after the comic book here. That example just goes a long way to show that the character has been a power in a menagerie of things. <br />Cage as he is now, however, is never like that when he was first introduced all those years back. While he was that colorful character with his yellow shirt and going by the moniker of Power Man, he comes on as a man who's just a thug for hire. Not the Hero for Hire that he was first known to be. Now he's more of a 50 Cent, than a Luke Cage. A hero that was known for his dignity, strength and integrity.<br />The story introduces us to this \\"new\\" Cage as he accepts work to avenge the death of a woman's kid. He does so very reluctantly even though the woman gives him all the money that she has and which she saved to get her Child to college. Not only does he rap at her that the money is too little. He accepts it without looking back! Now I can understand a man has to live and pay the bills. I just won't accept that the guy should be called a hero for doing just a measly act like that.<br />I don't know where does Marvel draw the line of making its characters \\"real\\". But writer Brian Azzarello just screws up more as the comic book continues. The story is incoherent and not very smooth in terms of transition from one part to another. While the art was simply short of magnificent, the story just lagged with how Cage tries to bring all things to work his way and get all the cash while he's at it. Azzarello just continues to kill the story with each passing caption. The character in his new rendition has cameo appearances in both Daredevil and Alias, both of which written by Brian Bendis, but none shows the weasel, P.I.M.P. character that Azzarello tries to make him be. <br />The story is very stereotypical in showing African Americans as people in the hood out to get some. Cage was never about that. Cagem, the Falcon the Black Panther were Black comic book characters that people looked up to. Cage, it seems, has fallen from grace. I wonder whether Nic Cage will think of changing his name soon.	2003-09-27
US	52226496	R3J8E8GBLEM6FA	0785110623	949818402	Spider-Man: Blue	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Emotional without the Emotions	I, for one, cannot understand what is going on with Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale. After being a part of some of the best stories to ever be written and illustrated, their work has become stale with no magic to them. It seems that this is mainly seen when they came to work for Marvel projects. It's not caused by the fact that the characters are not colorful or interesting, it's more along the lines of what premises of these characters life Loeb wants to delve upon. This started with Daredevil: Yellow and continues with Spider-Man: Blue.<br />The story begins with a Peter Parker talking to a handheld recorder and recalling the past, mainly his life with Gwen Stacy. Though this story is a sure tear-jerker, but it has been played over and over by many books out there and I have to admit, some were even better than this latest offering. I cannot think of what this latest addition provides for the Spider-Man mythos. We know that Peter loved Gwen. OK, now what? Nothing. I truly wanted to feel more with this book. I wanted it to touch me and make me think of how bad it can be to lose a person you love, but Loeb doesn't deal with that much. All he and Sale are interested in is showcasing as much of Spidey's rogue's gallery as possible. Something that might have worked successfully in Batman's books, but not here and not with the focus he had in mind.<br />I have to admit though, Sale's art is really great. I think he captured the essence of characters really well. He draws a beautiful Gwen and an attractive Mary Jane, but you still cannot beat the magic of John Romita. I'm impressed that he doesn't have that ghastly long faces that he had with his Batman characters. Sale worked his magic to its best and carried the story further.<br />When the book was coming, Loeb swore that the Blue was the premise and not a color theme that Marvel was working on when DD: Yellow came out. With the same team working on the upcoming Hulk: Gray, it makes you think who was speaking the truth here.	2003-09-07
US	52226496	R2HDURRARDICV0	0874933188	881986829	Bls for Healthcare Providers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	For Anyone and Everyone	The Basic Life Support course should be made a requirement for everyone and anyone, the healthcare provider to the layman. Simple techniques that are taught and learnt can save lives. This is not the reponibility of the individual to make this happen, but also institutions.<br />As a doctor I had to sit for my BLS course to join my required residency training program. The one day course teaches simple steps for safe and effective chain of survival that can help save a life of an injured person. From calling for help, to correct CPR and finally to the use of automated external defibrillators. This was the required reading material published by the American Heart Associtaion to help in understanding the basic principles of BLS.<br />The book is easily written, mainly to help lay people understand its true meaning. As a doctor, I admit that I found some chapters boring, since the book goes on to explain simple terminology, but it is understandable the reason this was set forth, that not only doctors are priviliged to save lives, but everyone. The diagrams and drawings are top notch. Even without practicing the techniques a person can know what to do by actually looking at the drawings and knowing what to do. There are tables that demonstrate the important facts and red flags of certain diseases so that people can distinguish between a hear attack or a stroke for example. Everything is covered, the correct BLS steps for adults in distress to children of different age groups. Perhaps the most interesting would have to be the methods for preventing harm, especially in children. Topics on pregnancy, allergic reactions and the important legal issues of CPR are also handles very beautifully in this text.<br />This is a thorough book. The questions at the end of each chapter convey the essence of the MCQs in the BLS course. These are BEST answer questions, unlike the outdated, obsolete, but still used TRUE/FALSE questions of the European ALS. A concise that should be in the library of every parent, intelligent person and, yes even those who call themselves, doctors.	2003-06-01
US	52226496	RLMYPRIT5HAH3	1563898586	702953874	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 1	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not as Daring as One Might Think	Any reader might think that by having 5 Victorian age characters together in a league, similar to that of the Avengers or JLA, will be the best thing that anyone has ever thought of. While idea has premise, it's really not a cut loose cannon one might think or want it to be. Alan Quatermain, Mina Murray (previously Harker), Dr Jekyll (an of course Mr Hyde), the Invisible Man and Captain Nemo, fight a battle against the greatest villain of that age.<br />The thing that makes this works is the story telling. Moore is able to project the intellectual, holier than thou feel of the 19th century an have it work in an action sequence. The whole story reads like a bunch of people fighting the good fight and still coming back home in time for the afternoon tea. It's a very gentleman, lady like approach to the story with everyone being so overly nice to one another. To the point of boredom. One might think how did the British ever rule more than half the world with that kind of attitude. Moore brings in the extraordinary approach to things and has all the characters fighting in flying machines, laser touting and against... uhmmm... the Chinese. Ah yes! Need I say more?<br />O'Neill's art is mediocre at best. While Moore tries really hard to capture the essence of the 19th century, O'neill's art is just trying to deconstruct it. It's shabby and not really conveying the time with which the story takes place.<br />All in all the story is not that bad. It has potential, but Moore may try to explore that in upcoming volumes. His stories are great, but the major problem that he falls against is that the artists chosen for him with his projects just can't make his mind's world into the real world. If comics were invented during those times, they would look exactly like this...	2003-05-31
US	52226496	R2YQBOGX7V9KJK	1563894289	871196333	Preacher VOL 05: Dixie Fried	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fried but not Stirred	After the last chapter of the Preacher series, this one comes back to where Jesse, Tulip and Cass were left off in Chapter 3. Ennis is taking his time bringing back the premise of the characters after their trip to Paris. His style is laid back, down to earth and not as shocking as his previous work.<br />The story starts off with Cass and Jesse in NYC getting ready to meet Tulip. After a rundown of the things that happened to them previously in Paris, Tulip shows that she's never to be underestimated under any circumstance. For that part, I think that would have been the most memorable thing in the whole book The gang head to New Orleans, when they come upon a hellbent Arseface that wants to kill them all. Good thing he decides otherwise and actually joins the group to become a sensational singer. This goes to show you that not only is Ennis is sick, he is the pure essence of evil when it comes in creating pitiful characters that you just love to make fun of. Another thing that makes this guy pure unadulterated king of BAD (sorry Michael Jackson), is the fact that he creates a love triangle between Tulip, Cass and Jesse. I, for one, want to see what the heck will happen in that department.<br />Dillon is back. Can't say he's back with a vengeance since his style really is adamant in not changing at all. His work is a sight for sore eyes to tell you the truth, since he was AWOL during the last chapter. He carries the book as usually gracefully.<br />Not a bad book, but not a good one either. I don't know if it's lack of creative idea or direction, but Ennis and Dillon should pick themselves up pretty quickly if they want to keep their readers interested in their characters. Preacher was original when it first came out. Let's just hope that the characters and story remain that way till the end of the series.	2003-05-31
US	52226496	R25YH6MV308BGB	0785111573	5494191	Hulk/Wolverine: 6 Hours (Hulk Legends, Vol. 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	SMASH and Snikt	You bring two characters with such a colorful history and pit them together, you get a good, solid work of comic book art and story. The first time Wolverine appeared was in a Hulk comic some 35 years ago. Though the characters have met one another from time to time recently, nothing can make things click if you don't have a good writer and artist.<br />Bruce Jones is the regular author on the monthly Hulk comic. He has transformed old Jade Jaws from a superhero into a dark, gritty and very human character. Hulk doesn't fight many costumed villains. He fights the rage in himself and the monster that can break loose at any given minute. Having a literary background in fiction prose, Jones feels right at home in creating horrific real, dilemma for his characters. You feel the Bruce Banner is really the same character played by Bill Bixby in the old HULK TV series. The lone man trying to hide from his pursuers. The main difference is that Jones doesn't want Banner to find a cure for his HULK transformation. He makes relish it and like it in sordid way. Very much like the upcoming summer blockbuster.<br />Adding Wolverine in the mix, is just like adding fireworks. Logan is a loose cannon. He's highly combustible and ready to blow up on anyone. One thing works for him, he really really makes it happen with the HULK.<br />The story brings the characters together in a realistic way and pits them against each other, then together and then against each other and then together again. You know how it is when you have two powerful characters, the adrenaline just starts rushing. Both Banner and Logan try to help a little kid that is on the verge of dying from a snake poison. Throw in the mix, a couple of drig dealers, a whacko called the Shredder, a sexy plane pilot and you have a jolly good time.<br />No one really cuts loose in this comic. The major treat, however, is seeing a reprint of the first appearance of Wolverine in HULK 181. That's what the makes the whole comic worthreading. Reference to 6 hours is also a smart way of coonecting the present graphic novel to the old reprint. In the end, HULK will always SMASH puny, hairy human with claws.	2003-05-24
US	52226496	R36EQ0KRP372C6	156389405X	69617634	Preacher VOL 04: Ancient History	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Really Ancient History	It's flashback time. So to make this even happening, let's keep our regular mad writer and bring three different artists to make this story work out. Guess what? They do make it work out!<br />Garth Ennis takes us back in flashback sequence one four major characters of his Preacher series to make us see, what makes them tick. Saint of Killers, TC and Jody and last but not least the well named, Arseface.<br />The story of the Saint of Killers is perhaps in this three part trade paperback in the ever popular Preacher series. You never would have guessed that a cold hearted killer was really human. Heck you might never even guess what this guy's true function in this life is really all about, until you read this for yourself. Anything I say can be considered a spoiler. The art works well. I can't see Steve Dillon's work working well here so it was great having Steve Pugh filling in. His art is grittier and darker and makes this character just a teensy weensy meaner than anything you've ever seen.<br />Arseface comes in next. This guy is just plain old out of this world. You would never even believe he was human before, but it turns out that he really was. This is the most human of the stories depicting the origin of the character and what makes him who he really is rght now. The way Ennis makes him talk and ctually have the translation for you is unbelievably insane.<br />TC and Jody's story is fun. These guys are whacko. They have always been whacko ever since they were first introduced. So unlike the other stories, this one would be the goriest of them in terms of things done to people that you never thought can be done. TC's fetish for making out with creatures really is turned up a notch here.<br />Despite the inconsistence of the art, the 4the volume of the Preacher series stands as an important part. The telling of the origin of these characters makes them more accessible to the reader. It was good for Ennis to talk about these characters. Dillon or no Dillon, Ennis continues to fight the good fight.	2003-05-24
US	52226496	R3OJ4LTUIS5PCU	0785110585	306696289	The Hood Volume 1: Blood From Stones TPB (v. 1)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	How to be a Bad Guy in 10 Days?	Marvel's the Hood is a new character showcased under the MAX line of comics. This line is set for itsmature content, be it violence, explicit language and sex. In the Hood's case, however, being the bad guy. There are a number of books that come out from time to time that only have a bad guy as the major character. Those books, however, don't consider the character bad, but at fault. Of course, you risk people lashing out at you, having your character lie and steal in comics, a medium wrongfully thought of as impressionable to young kids much more than MTV or cable televisions for instance.<br />Brian Vaughn and Kyle Hotz introduce a character that steals and kills not because of anything else, but his for his own survival. They made a character who has a pregnant girlfriend, but still managed to have sex with his mistress from time to time. This carried the theme EXCELLENT all the way until the very end, when the character finds salvation or something or the other and wants to redeem himself. After reading Preacher books back to back before this one, I was seriously hoping that Marvel can top that series with something original, unfortunately this book is not the thing.<br />Vaughn's work is believeable, but you can see that he's being told not to lash out too much. As if his creativity is caged or something. I was never a fan of Hotz, but I have to admit his work here is astounding. I don't want him drawing naked women thogh. You have to stop the pain somewhere along the line and that's that.<br />Perhaps Marvel should let the creators have more fun. I mean look what happened when DC gave Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon unlimited restrictions in their books. I'm optimistic this will happen. Let's hope the wild imagination of Brian Vaughn is ready when that time comes.	2003-04-29
US	52226496	R1EF2RJDCLCEVB	1563893274	360924016	Preacher, Vol. 3: Proud Americans	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Different from the Previous Work	The third installment of this collected series about a Preacher mixed up with the divine, his hit(wo)man girlfriend, Tulip and their vampire friend, Cassidy is not as good as the previous two chapters.<br />The story divided into three parts. The first part is a flashback story about Custer's dad. A well told poignant story that finally speaks out wha the heck of a relationship it was with John Wayne.<br />The second has Custer following the path of his kidnapped friend Cassidy who was taken hostage in the last book. From all the stories, this one is the best told, though not as strong as the previous chapters in the previous books. Some light is shed on what is the being that is sharing Custer's body and why the beings in Heaven and Hell are just scared to confront him.<br />The last story is an origin retelling of the vampire, Cassidy. More questions stem out of this story than those attempted to be answered.<br />I have to admit the books was not as good as the previous installments. Ennis has toned down the content and the humor of the storyline. Dillon, however, just seems to move on like a locomotive, complteley and utterly unstoppable. The work here is comparable to the work Ennis has worked on the Punisher. The problem with this book is that you can't not read it. Some important aspects of the characters are showcased.<br />A wonderful read, just don't expect to much. The guys were taking a break and so should you.	2003-04-25
US	52226496	R1P1IVRMMTN1P6	1563893126	969819683	Preacher VOL 02: Until the End of the World	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Cooler than the First!!!	The second istallment of the Preacher 9 part series collected by DC comics continues to be the most ambitious and most drastic version of all. Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon, are just having so much fun with this that they decided not to heed with anything anyone is saying. If there is any rating fro these comics like there is for movies, then this one would definitely be an R rated book. The jokes are over the top, the nudity and sex is everywhere, and the theme of divinity is just thrown out the window.<br />The story is divided into two parts. The first delves with Rev. Jesse Custer's past. You get to meet one of his family members, though by the end of it, you may wish you haven't. The second part is just two screwy to try to describe. What's good about is that the vampire Cassidy is back after some disappearance. The story is wild. If I say more, I'll be ruining the story, though I doubt something so complex can be ruined with a couple of words.<br />The book is highly recommended for everyone who loves comics that are over the top with a mature content and makes you think about what if some of the things being said holds some truth in the real world. All in all, Ennis shines with his writing skills. Anything I read now is just not as good as Preacher. I think it has raised the bar on what I expect from my books now. Even his recent Punisher books, just fails to grasp the magic of the Custer, Tulip, and Cass.<br />Smart, sexy and in your face. That's what this installment of Preacher is all about.	2003-04-25
US	52226496	RAS3NQ5OZ9AC6	0805063196	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Outstandingly True	Nothing captures what it's like to be a doctor like the way Atul Gawande's Complications does. As a doctor in his internship year, ready to start off his residency soon, I also though that the medical field follows a certain path. You show interest in medicine, then you get into medical school, and then you follow your dream specialty and be the doctor that you want to be. Not true!<br />During my short tenure of true practice in different hispitals and fields, I have yet to bridge the gap between what it's like to be a medical student and what it's like to be a junior doctor. When we were students we were taught how to follow things in a scientific manner and carruy out what it's thought to be the right medicine. What you experience during your graduate years is something else. There are real patients that you take care of, with real problems and who want real answers. You don't just deal with diseases as you were used to, but with human beings. You meet different mentalities, different backgrounds and most importantly different human problems. Notthing could get you to know what doctors experience in everyday life and how they deal with things that they do. Atul Gawande, however, sheds some light one some of the different aspects of what it's like to be a doctor. He dissects the myth that doctors know everything and seem omniscient. He makes the doctor be what he always was, a human being. With all his fallibilities and imperfections.<br />Gawande divides the book into three parts, with different essays showcasing the different major topics. As a surgeon, he has the hardest task of breaking the ice on the most enduring, self absorbed specialty. Surgeons may give out the feel that they are god, but they're by far very different that what they are according to this book. I bought the book for my chairman during my tenure in surgery as part of my internship year. He came up to me the next day after reading several chapters, saying that if he were a writer, he woul bewriting about exactly the same things as what Gawande is writing.<br />Gawande's style of prose is easy to read and thought provoking. His simple English is a pleasure for everyone, the doctor and the layman. His few uses of medical terms is followed by an explanation of what they mean. Thus, the book is a pleasureful read from beginning to end. His chapters are not dragging and he follows them at the end with a bibliography of the scientific papers he quoted in his essay. Most of these essays were previously published in The New Yorker and Slate magazine, but they still are anice to read in this collected edition.<br />Complications is a nice piece of prose that closes the gap between doctors and their humanity. Now I feel more comfortable when I'm in the ward and there are things that I may not know and patients I can't deal with easily. This justification of being only human is not taught to us, but has always been a part of what we are.	2003-04-11
US	52226496	R34ZXG96C85J41	0785110763	659975850	Ultimate Daredevil & Elektra Volume 1 TPB	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Two parts of a Whole	Daredevil has been a great Marvel character ever since he came onto the scene some nearly 40 years now. When compared to the big-hitters like Spider-Man, the Hulk ot the X-Men, his character and prowess are the most human. His physical skills and abilities stem from being perfected out of years of a discipline and practice. The Ultimate line seems ready to dismantle the original idea of the character and introduce him to new readers. This worked successfully with Spider-Man and X-Men. With DD, the results are similar and different as well.<br />The story written by writing superstar Greg Rucka is based on DD's early days when he's still in college studying law. Rucka takes you on the journey of how Matt Murdock gets to meet Elektra. In this case, it's Elektra who expresses the general interest in Matt and falls head over heels for him. As a matter of fact, most of the foray of the stor is embedded on Elektra. Her actions guide the stpry's direction, Matt just plays the supporting role. This does not necessarily mean the story is poor, but somewhat incomplete and lacking with some potholes. For instance, what's the major driving force that makes Elektra who and what she is. Studying under a sensei at the age of 5 just doesn't make you the best martial artist in town, if you don't have a drive to be somewhere. Ruck fails to grasp that fact. The original Elektra went through years of loss and conditioning before she became the character she was. The Ultimate version just took her two issues to become bitter and vengeful. You think that martial arts would teach inner calm, but not in this case.<br />Matt being DD is completely ignored. Why, what and how he does his thing is not for the reader to know. What is also missing is the way he gets to see in his special way. This was a favorite in the newly released movie and the original DD series. You just want to know more of the characters and what drives them. You don;t want to read a story about good and bad without knowing why these characters choose to do what they do.<br />The best thing about this story is summed in the art form and the fact it is an extremely human story. Matt and Foggy's relationship in college to the sweet passion shared by Matt and Elektra. Those are beautiul to see, espcially when drawn by Salvador Larroca of X-Men fame. His Elektra is sexy and she has the right curves for her age. Her actions with her roomies are what you would expect of an 18 year older.<br />Though Ultimate DD is great, his Marvel Knights counterpart is far much superior. The original character has matured to what he is. Ultimate DD is good fun, but nothing would sway or replace the original from being the true Man Without Fear.	2003-04-11
US	52226496	R1HBUS1BSM62I5	0785108408	824175224	Daredevil: Yellow	Books	3	3	12	N	N	The Dream Team is Back... with an Unexpected Offering	Of all comic book heroes, Daredevil is the most tragic. In order for him to have gotten his powers, he had to let go of one of his senses, vision. Would any person sacrifice that gift and hav his remaining other senses heightened? That may not be the case in many circumstances! Reading a book that highlights hi early days as a hero only makes the reader sympathize more with him and truly understand what it is that makes him tick.<br />The dream team od Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale have collaborated in many previous successful projects, including legendary characters like Superman and Batman. His work on the latter was legendary in terms of excellent characterization and suspense. Something that truly captured the essence of the Dark Knight. DD is not a dark character. He may work well at night. The movie that has just been released may show him as such, but in reality he is as witty and wisecracking as they come. A sort of urban legend somewhat darker Spider-Man.<br />This book, however, does not capture the essence of the tragic character who was created by Stan Lee and Gene Colan or the one who was reintroduced by Frank Miller. The story is that of present day Matt Murdock and how he is living with the loss of his greatest love, Karen Page, who was killed handsomely by Kevin Smith in the ongoing series. Matt looks back at how he became DD from his early days with his father to the days he meets Karen. Though the premise is theoretically rich in emotion, Jeph Loeb just fails to make us feel what the character is going through and how he might be feeling with this loss. His love, though great, is albeit superficial. This is not the Loeb who captured the passion of Clark Kent and Lana Lang in Superman For All Seasons. His story just sneers to a retelling of DD's origin and how he came to meet Karen. Not as personal as one might expect from Loeb.<br />The art by Tim Sale is also somewhat lacking. The magic of him drawing Batman is out of this world. No one can capture the mystery and the darkness he commands when he does that, but drawing a lively character like DD, especially in his early yellow garb is not following the same style as Batman. All in all, his art is not really that bad, but not that great either. Sort of like he was rushed in to complete these pages.<br />This is the first time I'm not really that pleased with what the dream team has to offer. Perhaps their next project, Spider-Man: Blue would be better, though I don't know how they'll handle another colorful character like Spidey. Daredevil: Yellow doesn't do much to make the character stand out. The story is not ground-breaking and is essentially of the mundane. Perhaps Kevin Smith should step in once again to write the character in another shattering story arc. Until that comes, however...	2003-04-11
US	52226496	R2IDCNXG1A74VY	0785110860	391017223	Apache Skies TPB	Books	4	3	3	N	N	To Die For...	Leonardo Manco is one of th best unknown artists the world of comics has to offer. I followed his early work in Hellstorm when it was in still rough on th edges, but over the years he has evolved into an artist that is worth delving deep into his magic. His work on Blaze of Glory was excellent. His pencils, sharp and crisp, truly capturing the essence of the wild wild west. In the sequel, he shifts gear and goes for the painted approach rather than the pencils and he just keeps getting better and better.<br />Apache Skies takes off at a time later than its first part, Blaze of Glory. While, the first had an all out cast of heroes, the showcase here is mainly on one, the Raw-Hide Kid. Following the death of his partner, the Apache Kid, Raw-Hide seeks retribution on his friend's killers. Little does he know that Apache Kid's widow is alson on the hunt of those same men. Only when the two head on for a collision course, does the story pick up. Vengeance, anger and the fight for freedom are the driving forces of this chapter of Marvel's Wild West saga. John Ostrander creates a believable human story, but does not appreciate the buddin interaction betwen his two main characters. Delving deeper in this would have created a whole array of how even more exciting the road could have been.<br />Manco saves the day with incredible art. One thing that can be said that could be held against him is the fact that the colors are kind of on the darker side. You would need a good light to appreciate the details of the painted captions. Manco scores big with this one. Ostrander should leave more leeway for the new up and cominf writers to take over the helm of writing another piece of Western history. In the third part of this trilogy starring the Raw-Hide Kid, the creative team goes through a complete overhaul. It's sad not having Manco take over the art chores, but then again, like any excellent talent, he doesn't wish to be stereotyped as a Marvel Western artist.<br />All in all, this book captures the darker times of the Wild West. It's more than fair enough to say that it is  treat not for just comic readers, but anyone who appreciates a good Western story.	2003-03-30
US	52226496	RPSNF0H1LL81T	0785109315	914650332	Howard The Duck	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Witty? You Don't Need to Look VeryFar!!!	Howard the Duck to me was a movie. A very bad, dumb, never should have been made movie. Howard the Duck in real life is a comic book produced by Marvel Comics that first appeared in the 1970s. A comic so successful, it burn out into cancellation. And it took people some 30 years to bring back the foul mouthed mallard back into the foray in he MAX line of adult comics produced these days by Marvel.<br />Gerber, the creator of Howard, is an angry, very frustrated writer who wants to bash anyone in his way. And he does get his chance to in this comic. Who's in his way, you might ask? Well everyone and his mother. Gerber smashes boy bands, Donald the Duck, The Witchbalde, Garth Ennis's and Steve Dillon's Preacher and even religion itself to name but a few. What you get is a myriad adventure to adventure starring Howard the Duck and his human girlfriend, Beverly.<br />Phile Winslade is an artist of the worst comic joining Daredevil and Spider-Man. His art was bad there, but where he fails there, he makes up for here. His art is atounding and Howard never looked better and cooler. He manages to make his art very realistic and simple. No big muscled, perfect anatomy super heroes, but he does get to draw naked women. His art works well with the realistic, yet out of the world plot and script by Gerber. Both bring out a story that is as excellent as it is outrageous.<br />In all, it's a wonderful book to have if you didn't have the individual comic of the miniseries. The MAX lise is great and I wonder who gets to be showcased next. I just hope Howard comes back for an encore.	2003-03-14
US	52226496	R3PBBEXA6QOK2C	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Connolly Delivers his Second Big Bang	In his second offering, after his critically acclaimed book Every Dead Thing, John Connolly delivers a mature, tightly packed novel that takes is part horror as much as it is thriller. Authors usually follow two trends if their book is successful. Either continue with the same formula and the same characters, hoping that readers still crave more or find a different ground and take it from there. Connolly takes on the first approach and continues on from his first book with his main character Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker in the spotlight. This time however, it's a bit different. All characters are much more mature than their previous outing and at the same time the story premises is a bit less personal.<br />Parker has the feel of the underdog. Your typical man who the world has given him more than enough of its hardships and woes. In the first novel, his wife and daughter are killed, setting the grom tone of the character. There are times that he takes on the helm and truly shines through. The first narration, Connolloy chooses works best in this type of writing. You want to see the world in Parker's eyes and you grow to trust his judgement at times.<br />The other characters are also there with a little more on the gay couple Angel and Louis. People who stereotype gay people as being all lovey dovey and gently will be in for a real surprise. Angel is your run of the mill tough guy with all the rough edges to add. Louis is classy, stylish and has the killer cool around him. To top the controversy of their sexual orientation, the couple is also white and black. Connolly gives us more depth on their relationship with Parker.<br />The story, though, is different than the first. The first one had more supernatural visitations of ghosts and what have you appearing to Parker in dreams. This one has only a few. The supernatural foray is lacking much when compared to the first. His sixth sense intuition seems to have been lost to dreams of his dead wife and child beckoning him tohelp other dead ghosts. Sort of like an avenging angel. This works well in the beginning, but you still ponder on that the supernatural horror background to the main detective thriller is what made Connolly's Every Dead Thing such a great read. Perhaps, his third book will pick up with that haunting atmosphere. This doesn't mean this is a bad read. On the contrary, Connolly is amazing when it comes to graceful descriptive prose. He also commadeers excellent geographical background of the US and New England in specific, even though he's from Ireland, which actually makes you think of the good amount of research he puts into his novels.<br />All in all, New England will never be the same. John Connolly is moving into Stephen King's stomping grounds. Where will Charlie Parker go next? Good thing Connolly has the third book already out!!!	2003-03-11
US	52226496	R31ZN46BT4O7OZ	0785109064	40567720	Blaze Of Glory: The Last Ride of the Western Heroes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Shoot 'em Up!!!	I have to admit, I'ma  sucker for Westerns. These days, not a lot of good movies or books come out about them, other than cliched stuff we got a long time ago. Now I don't remember any of these character of the days gone by, but I do know that this collection is marvellous. I was recommended Apache Skies by a comic bookstore owner during my stay in Toronto, but I couldn't read a sequel without reading the original. Boy, what fun it was to read through this, I might say.<br />The story, I'm afraid to say, is cliched. But then all Westerns are. This one is different, however in terms of how these characters of the past were brought together by a common goal. To help people in need even when their life was at stake. The cast is eclectic and everyone seems to be called Kid this or this Kid. If kids could actually shoot like that in the old days, good thing we're in the 21st century. Ostrander provides a no hassle, origin free story of the characters and takes them off one by one by the end of this 96 page collection. He does so ith style and with respect to these legends.<br />Leonardo Manco was born to draw this. His grim style and shadowy outlines make this story come to life in ways, no artist could. He's really good when compared to his early days on Hellstorm. You don't want him to draw spandex. This guy is a method artist and he'll give you reality in its grimmest. With each project, his hand seems to get more and more at ease with making the reader used to his style at a first glance.<br />Great book with a nice and very sad ending. For a reader who has hardly known these characters, it's very hard to say goodbye in such a short notice. Then again, do people actually die in comics? Better check out the sequel to see where the story was heading when the sun was setting on our heroes at the end.	2003-03-01
US	52226496	RWUYHCJAA9UFZ	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truly Much Better than Going to the Movies	I had to quote Kevin Smith on the back cover when describing this book. It was one heckuva good read that seems to capture you from the first page to the last. Garth Ennis works his magic on one ofhis earliest works to create character that are so out of this world, it's real. Steve Dillon provides the visual afterworks for a story that is well laid out and planned from day 1. These guys were having fun with this book and they just didn't care who they were offending while doing just that.<br />The story begins like any good story. In a bar. Here everyone starts telling how things came to be. Ennis portrays this aspect beautifully, creating a marginal line between the insane and what is to be of reality. The Preacher, the main character, gets his main share of the pie. The others still remain a mystery to the reader which only makes you want to read more and more about their backgrounds. Ennis seems to be telling his readers: \\"Look, I'll get to this, just hold on a sec and enjoy the ride.\\" And boy is the book a rollercoaster.<br />The Preacher's spirit is a product of an angel from heaven who mated with a demon from hell and whose spirit sought a mortal soul, to find the true meaning of life??? Heck, you maybe surprised at first, but that is the smartest way any author has tackled the prospect of what life is all about and how creatures relate to God. Ennis wants to know the answer and wants you all to know that answer, but he'll make it out so that everyone can enjoy his or her time with this. This is not just a piece of fiction, but a piece of theology. It may provoke a lot of debate. I was offended at first and still am, but you have to give credit where it's due. Ennis, brilliant evil British genius that he is, uncovers all the horrors of the heavens. I had thought his work on Punisher was smart and sassy, but his work on Preacher just blows that away completely. Here we have smartness, ingenuity and let put some sexy in it too. Did I forget to say funny? Even his depiction of some horrors, like a boy who has his face blown and lived to see the next day has the funniest way of talking and speech. Is that funny? Yes, but you WILL feel guilty for laughing to such real horror.<br />Dillon's work is gruesome!!! Very graphic depiction of violence. Is it a bother? Hell NO!!! This just provides the scheme of things. It plays out like a good horror movie. Lots of gore, lots of blood and lots of faces getting blown up and brains spilling. Steve is not here to lush you with bleed art on every page like comics these days. He'll stick to his regular rectancles and squares, but he'll make your eyes glued to them the whole time. His work is like a 35mm Scorcese movie, not an MTV video clip. Only downside with his art, however, is that the faces just look too damn alike. They look that everyone is somehow related to the other in some sense.<br />Great work by this fabulous duo. DC Comics fails to tell Warner Bros about this gem of a book. It would make a good movie if ever was made. You don't even have to change the script to fit in with the screen, because reading this collection is waaaaay better than going to the movies.	2003-03-01
US	52226496	R2B8G1ZW294E79	078510805X	240785955	X-Men: Children of the Atom #1	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Story that Made Them Be	It all began with a dream of peaceful coexistence between humans and mutants. Forty years from now, the dream is still living on strong in the hands of comics creators and quite recently movie studios. The X-Men franchise is the most popular of all comic mythos and collectively has take on the like of the big guns like Superman and Batman. It all began with a simpe idea, that people wherever they are can live and coexist with others of a minority. Be it race, social status and age. Going back to how the dream began makes the person only fathom of how the X-Men have gone through their drastic changes to become the force in comics they are now.<br />Joe Casey weaves a good story at first on how he introduces his early mutants that made up Prof X's first batch of students, Cyclops, Jean Grey, Beast, Iceman and Angel. Kids with the only difference from others is that they're different. Everyone who has ever been through the teen years feels that difference and you don't require the X-gene to know it.  The story begins with the shadow of Columbine still looming over certain plot scenes. By the end, however, it seems that the story was rushed and the originality of the first three issues is lost on training, bickering and a dominating personality readers are not used to in Prof X's character. He's more of a school master than a father figure that he is these days. Even his restaurant confrontation with Magneto is anything but benign. He actually threatens to wedge a knife in the guy's brain. Are we talking about the same old, kind man of the early series. Not really. Casey, just fails to capture the essence of Xavier's dream.<br />The art also goes through this twist. Steve \\"the Dude\\" Rude is known to emulate greats such as Jack Kirby in his retro style art, but when the other fill in artists take over, it becomes another X-Men story and not the flashback to what is already being chunked out in the monthly series.<br />The book is good and you learn how these X-Men came to be. The best scenes include those with Magneto in them. That guy is great wherever he appears and no matter how many times Marvel tries to kill him, you have to admit, he's the best X-villain out there. It's a wonderful read for the first few issues, but then the story and art becomes eclectic and too out of track. Casey is a good writer, but needs to work more on his story contination. Rude is a bonafide genius. 'Nuff said!!!	2003-03-01
US	52226496	R2VDV0DSAY2NU1	0785110100	966399738	Deadline	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Great Piece of Reality!!	Marvel Comics have been producing perhaps the best written and graphically illustrated publications in years. Their Marvel Knights imprint began this recent trend and ot has been going on through the Marvel MAX line of mature comics.<br />Deadline falls into the part where it is both a good story and a nice mystery. I have to admit, that I was very hesitant to start reading a book not about your conventional superheroes, but that of a normal reporter and nagging mystery.<br />Rosemann is new in terms of writing. He's been through your mill of editting, but his first outing as a writer just stuns. I believe he's a good writer for reality based fiction rather than about people who stick to walls or those that fly. He introduces the characters and then builds up the mystery before making things reach the boiling point in the climax and to finally resolve matters coherently, short, but in an understandable stance. His work will be best if he continues in that fashion. There are some rough edges, as expected, but nothing that would take away the fervor of the storyline. I would like seeing him write Spider-Man's Tangled Web for a couple of issues. He can create wonders in that cesspool.<br />The art, on the other hand, is more than just a bit rough. I was not grossly appealed to Guy Davis's art, but he seemes to handle himself well. His faces are a bit distorted, kind of like when how a person would see the world without his glasses. Davis needs to develop more body anatomy for his characters and much more detail. One caption in which we see Spidey falling off a building is just plain old crude.<br />Greg Horn's covers are anything entirely. This guy's painted art just blows you away. He is simply the exact opposite of Davis in terms of crispness and general appeal. Horn has the 3-D touch in his art. Something very admirable.<br />The story is great, plain and simple. That could be just the greatest thing about Deadline. I guess my only beef would have to be with the inner art, but that's why you see 4 stars instead of 5. Now can we have Greg Horn do more than just covers?	2003-02-25
US	52226496	R1WAHQWCAQL70X	0071347240	19919384	The IMG's Guide to Mastering the USMLE and Residency	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Covers it all...	No one is better to talk about International Medical Graduates, than an IMG himself. That's what the author of this book Keshav Chander does. He takes us a on a step by step path towards a successful process to gain a US medical residency. Everything gets covered here under the highlight od simple, easy to read English that makes all teh complicated stuff, much, much easier.<br />The book starts of with the simple, run of the mill introduction to every aspect of the medical education process in the US, covering all the USMLE Steps 1, 2 and 3. Chander also explains the mandatory CSA and the walk-in-the-park TOEFL. I admit, you can get better books that explains these exams, but the author provides with a good overview and does not delve deep into details. After that, the book starts getting interesting with the Residency process. Everything major is covered here. From the application through ERAS, to the interview, to the match with NRMP and finally the application process. He even goes at it by explaining how life is in the US and what are the necessary steps to get a social security number, a house and even commuting from the hospital to home. A lot of important, but sometimes overlooked details are mentioned here that make an important part of the application process and the setting in to a different and at times intimidating environment.<br />This book is every IMG's dream come true, with easy to understand language and clear headlines. Highly recommended for those planning to go into the gruesome task of applying to the US.	2003-02-22
US	52226496	R3FZCJDU9878NY	1883620279	437081498	Iserson's Getting into a Residency: A Guide for Medical Students	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The Guide of all Guides	Let me start by first saying that if you don't have this blue book, you're missing on an important piece of the pie of getting into a residency in the US. This book has it all and it starts from the very beginning.<br />The first part helps students pick out their specialty. An extensive text explaining each and every specialty with its pros, cons and fellowships are written in minute details. From how many people are accepted per year to how much money these guys make in the end. It even goes to what personality may fit a specific specialty and not the othe. The book is the most widely used text for students who have still yet to find their calling in a medical specialty. After reading the chapter, you will definitely know where you want to go and you will actually have your reasons for making such a decision.<br />The second part takes you on an overview of all th exams that a person has to complete and what they actually mean when a person does them. A section on the IMG exams of CSA and TOEFL are also highlghted.<br />The third part talked about the application process. Everything is covered. From what you have to wear for your interview, how you get there, and how you even pack your suitcase is shown in diagrams and illustrations. Iserson goes into the details of the interview extensively and actually gives out a detailed array of what are the major areas of questioning applicants maybe asked in their interview. As a person who has gone through this gruelling process recently, a lot of what has been written gets actually asked.<br />IMGs are covered in some chapters of the book and there is one whole chapter that talks exclusively about them. Though, the chapters are good, there are better texts that have been written for IMGs. This book, however, can be used to cover everything else in that matter.<br />Though it's an extensive read, it's really worth it and since the book is moving on to its sixth edition (last edition, 5th, was in 2000), it means further demand is making this book as popular as ever and still the number one reference to a great number of medical students.	2003-02-22
US	52226496	RMQ8UJ7OCK3B5	0785107916	504791017	Captain Marvel: First Contact	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not the HULK	Peter David had a tremedous run on the HULK. he has written the character longer than anyone else and has covered very important aspects of the Green Goliath's exploits. When David was sacked as writer due to creative differences between Marvel and himself, he decided to take on a differenct character from the HULK pages, Rick Jones, who apart from Robin or Bucky, is the oldest side kick in the funny books.<br />David's approach to Captain Marvel, the son of the original Mar-VELL, an who is now fused to Rick Jones, is still found wanting. Though the book reads like a charm, there are certain aspects of both characters that David make seem to be very silly, not what is expected to the caliber of his high days writing the HULK. David dabs more to the silliness aspect of things where Jones and the captain both act like 8 year olds sometimes. Then there's the schizophrenic aspect of the characters when they're fused. It would have been much better if both main characters do not always seem to pop in one another's life through mirror reflections. A great amount of potential would have been garnered if David kept their psyches apart. David gets the last laugh in the end by having the HULK guest star in one of the issues and portrays him as the mindless beast the editors have always wanted him to be. All in all, however, the writing is not too shabby. Peter David delivers the goods here, though he would have to up the ante if he would like to see the character persevere through the long run.<br />On another note, the art by Chriscross is fabulous. Very crisp and fresh. Sort of like a fusion between Terry Dodson and Pascaul Ferry. The art never fails to impress. At one time, Ron Lim takes over the helm of the art and when he does that, you just wish he would stay on this title forever.<br />The book doesn't dab much in the history of why these two characters are fused together. That's another story for another book, which is a downside. It's a great read and the time spentdoing that is a time well spent. I know for sure, because I enjoyed how the time passed quickly while reading it on the plane.	2003-02-14
US	52226496	R1LFY4RQNQTYJ1	0911910107	623970690	The Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy, 17th Edition (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	86	88	N	N	The Bible of Medicine	Dubbed the Bible of Medicine, the Merck manual is a book condensed enough to cover all the major aspects of of medicine in a text written that even though is targeted towards health care practitioners, can also be used by that layman. Written first at the end of the 19th century, the manual covers nearly most of everything in the medical field. From why epilepsy occurs to that dreadful itchy rash, the topics are concise, up to the point and easy to understand. Even though a home edition exists, the black book can be used by educated people to know anything they would like to know, with the exception of surgery.<br />The book is divided into an alphabetical scheme, where all the topics are featured in that order. However that can be confusing as such since the subtopics are not arranged that way. Case in point, if you wanted to search for Candidiasis of the skin, you should not search under C, but S for skin disorders and then follow things through. This can be confusing at first, but then again, this is not an encyclopedia or dictionary of medical terms. The great thing about the book is the way everything is covered in the basic schema of background, signs and symptoms and then therapy. This helps people understand the topic in the right sense and actually makes it stick to your mind for a long time. The book is also good enough to mention the doses of the drugs used to treat an ailment.<br />No medical clinician should be out there practicing without the Merck Manual on his desk. This is a quick reference that is essential in the day of evidence based medicine and where the patient is educated enough to be a part of his or her treatment plan and not just the silent recepient. The book can be found in the hard copy format and is available for the PALM, which makes it the best reference carried in a doctor's pocket.<br />Very Highly Recommended!!!	2003-02-14
US	52226496	RSZOX99SF7J0X	014044243X	847931222	Selected Short Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Simply Guy	Guy de Maupassant is one of those few authors you just love to hate. Maybe it has to do with the fact that he's French, but that's another thing entirely. He's known for his fabulous short stories that can take you from feelings of sadness to joy to downright disgust. His collections of short stories incorporated here see to do exactly that.<br />Maupassant is one of those authors whose stories take some time to warm up before running smoothly about. Like an old engine, you will feel some cranks here and there, but after some time, everything seems to move smoothly along. His short stories are astounding. He's known for his thought provoking outlook on the french and european culture of his time. You can at times relate to his surroundings with the wars, famine, and greed that surrounds them, an environment that resembles very much modern times. Maupassant's best work has got to be the novella Le Horla, which is not included here. His other short stories just run short from comparing to that one, but that doesn't mean they're bad nonetheless. His writing style is different than other French authors, like Dumas, who favored patriotism above all else and looked at riches before dealing with the peasants. Maupassant look at the latter and how they relate to the former. That realistic approach just shows you that in any age or life we're living in, the rich will always have it for the poor, that life is not fair and if you don't stand up for your right, things not might, but will never go your way.<br />In his short collection, you capture a glimpse of a literary genius, whose light faded before his time. You feel the anguish of his troubled times, and can't help but wondering that even after centuries, history still keeps repeating itself.	2002-10-19
US	52226496	RV9BOMX71AI22	1563898705	331222438	Dark Knight Strikes Again, The - VOL 01 (Batman)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Not the Dark Knight Returns... Simply Different	The major problem that faces any sequel is the fact that people just can't wait to compare it to the original. You see the main reason sequels are even amde of is that the original first part was so popular and did really good that you just want to capture the glory of it and continue on making the big bucks. That's why, sequels never ake it to the top as they should be. They get hammered by people who watch or read it that the creators just feel that they've lost their time even doing what they wanted to do in the first place. That notion, however, is not applicape to trilogies in which the first part, the story is not concluded but is carried on to two more other parts. Which category is DK2? Alas, it is a sequel. For that, most readers that I know and are showcased here in Amazon just seem to abhor it.<br />When I first started reading this part, I had not read the Dark Knight Returns for more than 3 years now. I hardly remembered what it was about, except for the fact that it was dark, gritty and Batman kicks Superman's butt in the end and then dies. That's the only thing I took with me from the original. I didn't remember the art and how the story flowed. I just didn't want to. I wanted to look at DK2 as a book all on its own, not just part 2 of perhaps the greatest graphic novel ever written.<br />The writing is solid. Frank Miller works his magic with Batman is he should. Batman doesn't even appear in the first part of this trilogy sequel untl the end where he kicks the butt of the same boy scout he did in Returns. Miller makes you feel the darkness that not just encompasses Gotham, but the whole world as we know it. In a sense if you read V for Vendetta, Batman could be Miller's Vas opposed to the one written by Alan Moore a long time ago. The setting is mainly the same, but here we see more incredulous characters such as the Flash, the Atom and even a crazed out Green Lantern. Miller knows how to create the atmosphere and he does with style. Now how does that compare with his other work? I really don't think that's important if he's doing an excellent job here.<br />With regard to the art, I have to admit, it is different. More sketchy and very ill-defined, but perhaps that has been intentional ince we're dealing with a future that is not your everyday here comes the sun let's enjoy ourselves kind of way. People associate technology, lights, and cool gadgets with the future. This is a Batman book, not Star Wars. You're not getting any of this. All you're getting is some down to earth mean. I have to admit that Miller has a knack for drawing butts. His female characters all have voluptuous bodies and full lips. The news is even reported in the nude. But then, that could be why the future is a dark place to be in, depends on how you look at it though.<br />All in all, this is a very tight book. I enjoyed reading the first part of a trilogy that is a sequel. It's Batman and Frank Miller, you just can't see those two on the shelf and not feel a little curious.	2002-08-26
US	52226496	RQU9NYV2C9MTS	0785108661	918692176	Origin	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Fizzles...	Wolverine is perhaps the most intriguing character of the Marvel universe. That mystery is mainly because of the character's background. Whe he first appeared in a Hulk comic in the 70s, snippets of his history has been peppered along comic books such as the X-Men, Alpha Flight and his own comic.<BR>Fans loved the shroud Marvel maintained over Wolverine. Heck no one even knew his real name, except for just Loagan. You had to love that. Waiting to ever see whether what they thought about the character was true or not.<br />When Joe Quesada and Bill Jemas took over Marvel, the comic company's stocks soared high. Sales went over the roof and Marve was number one back again after a filing for chapter 11 in 1997. With all that under them, the duo thought they could do anything, even playing around with the most formidable Marvel character. The idea struck em as absurd. I did not want to have anything to do with this. I lied not knowing Wolvie's history. That made him who he is and the fact that you never know what to expect with him.<br />With time, I thought I'd try what Paul Jenkins was cooking and the art by Andy Kubert was to die for. Jenkins excells in bringing out the best in characterization. He did wonders with the Inhumans, Peter Parker:Spider-Man and the Hulk. Bringing back the magic was his in his own right. Given that Origins starts with a beautiful narration that is set in the end of the 19th century in the plains of Canada. Jenkins takes on a journey that is more like something of a Jane Austen novel. He knows what he's writing about and brings out the best in all the characters that he delves in. He carries on the magic mainly for the first 3 parts of this 6 part miniseries. It's only after that Jenkins narration falls short and the story's pace seems rushed. That mainly affects the ending of the story where you just don't know what and where things are heading. That's where the novel fizzles. Jenkins completely falls short and that is rather disturbing, given the stature of the character he's dealing with.<br />On another note, Andy Kubert's art holds true from the beginning till about the same time Jenkins' writing begins to falter. Though that maybe true, the art is still astounding from beginning to end. When the story first starts his art is mainly on canvas form, by the end, it's more like that of conventional comics. All in all, Kubert rules!!! At times, he even watches Jenkins' back.<br />Did Marvel make true to their word by showcasing Wolverine's origin? Not really. All they managed to do was to create a marketing tornado that even papers like USA Today had written about. Marvel sales continue to skyrocket. The whole comic industry itself seems to riding on their backs! This book and the beautiful casing is worth every penny spent.	2002-08-25
US	52226496	R2LOXU57WM5579	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Literature in Graphic Nover Form	Comic books have always lagged behind when it came to be taken seriously by the literary medium. People just thought that comics were set to target preadolscent boys. That notion,of course, is wrong. Most people who buy their comics from specialty bookshops are in their mid 20s. You can even see some 30 something guys and those hardcore readers who saw it from the beginning in their 40s. During the 80s creators like Alan Moore and Frank Miller sought to change all that by writing masterpieces that were thought-provoking as much as they were entertaining. It is during that time, that works like the Dark Knight Returns set the pace and Moore's independent work such as From Hell and DC's Watchmen and V for Vendetta came forward. The serious cynical look of the world was forever changed by these two authors and it didn't help that they were British to boot.<br />V for Vendetta written woderfully by Moore and captured in all its glory by the dark art of David Lloyd is an example of such breakthrough work that pit graphic novels and comics into the mainstream. The piece was disturbing enoght for people everywhere and those in the media to realiaze that comics are not just where the hero turns gree or flies while bending steel with his bare hands. The main premise of the novel depicts a war ravaged Europe where freedom is lost and the individual is lost in a jungle of tatlitarian power. Moore creates believable characters and the way they all entertwine with each other just adds up to the flavor of the book. V is the protagonist. He's no one and yet he's everyone. He's the voice of the people whether the people want a voice or not. He's not here to persuade anyone, just show them what years of totalitarian conditioning could do to a person.<br />Through it all, you are swept away by Moore's intellectual dialogue and his political view which leans more to that of anarchy. In the end, the format of this literary piece doesn't impede on the story's progress, but enhances it.Moore and Lloyd create something that will sure make you want to think about teh world you are living now and how that life might change with a press of a button.	2002-06-28
US	52226496	R1939O18RJYB0P	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	4	1	1	N	N	King is King	Stephen King has definitely moved from mainstream horror he was famously known for. This trend must have started off with Bag of Bones and ever since then, King has been delving deeper into the literary aspect of writing. It may seem incredulous to think of him as the modern day Charles Dickens, but I won't be surprised to see his work being studied in a century or so from now. <br />In his novel, which is more of an anthology of 5 stories (the first two of novella length) span the time period of nearly 40 years. All the major characters in each story have a mention in the next, but one thing remains constant, the Vietnam War. <br />The first novella, \\"Long Men in Yellow Coats\\" has got to be the best of all the five stories. Same novella in which the movie \\"Hearts in Atlantis\\" was based on. In it, King depicts the ramblings of aten year olds perfectly. The only person able to do such a thing in modern times would have to be director Steven Spielberg. The story has a lot of drama between the characters and it's just peppered with a mist of mystery that is vintage King. His descriptions of the sipernatural character and their cars are downright eery. You couls swear that you can see what he tells you in your mind's eye. The display of the right amount of ingredients truly shows that the author is a master of such story telling. Perhaps the highlight of the novella happens when you read how The main character Ted Brautigan is related to King's sci-fi series, the Dark Tower. Excellent display. Excellent approach. Suredly to send shivers down people's spine.<br />The other remaining 4 stories revolve around the same charcaters as the first, but takes into the theme of how each other's lives have been altered by the Vietnam War. Even in the last story set in 1999, the theme is just as strong as ever. Though the connection is intact, the integrity of teh story is just not there anymore. With an excellent beginning, King's writing and the way the novel is going just seems to frizzle.<br />All in all a good book with a good beginning and dealing with an adult theme at the same time. Not as great as some of his other works, Bag of Bones being my own personal fave, but at least you get introduced to a major character in upcoming Dark Tower stories.	2002-06-24
US	52226496	R3GP6KBW2GQUAZ	1560534621	285897686	USMLE Step 2 Mock Exam, 1e	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Gets it Right	I'm an IMG whose grades really matter to him when it comes to applying for a residency program in the US. I just did my Step 2 Exam hoping that I was prepared for it. MY way for doing just that is to answer as many MCQs as you can, read the answer discussions and write notes on anything that you may deem interesting. In my preparation for the exam there weretwo sources of questions that I used. Kapla's online QBank and Brochert's Mock Exam. Both of which helped me achieve a score that I'm happy with. Brochert's questions, although at times not displayin the clinical vignette format of the exam as that in Kaplan's the areas that it covers appear EXACTLY as they do in the exam. While doing the exam, I was equally surprised and content that I went through Brochert to be prepared.<br />The best thing about the way the Qs and their discussions are structured is the fact that you actually can imagine the author telling what is right and wrong and how to prepare to be better. There are some books out there that make you feel down when you don't know an answer to a Q, but Brochert eases your mind when it comes to difficult Qs. The author was a student before and knows how sensitive we can get when it comes to such matters.<br />All in all, an excellent. I cannot recommend it enough. in fact the publishers should state behind the book that you should prepare using this book and you will pass or your money back!!!	2002-06-24
US	52226496	R2Z1ASXGHGQHH3	0679781293	222744857	Flood	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tough as Nails	...The novel introduces us to the toughest, take-no-[stuff]-I-dare-you-to-take-a-swing-at-me-if-you-value-your-life detectives, Burke (no first name, just that)!!! Set in what would seem to be a pre-Giuliani New York City, Vachss's narrative strikes you harder than a locomotive. The story deals a lot in the shady business of sex, prostitution, pedophilia and good old revenge. If you read the book twice, you may even get a scent of a love story in there too. The main female character, in which the book is named after, Flood, wants revenge on her friend's and her daughter's killer. She wants Burke to catch the bad guy, so that she could kill him herself. We know the killer. We know the ending. We know what's going to happen. Then what is it that makes this book such a pleasurable read? For one, it's the style of the writing. Narrated from Burke's point of view, you just can't stop feeling amazed by this man and the way he thinks. He's tough, but not into guns and killing. He's loud, but not into the screaming and shouting aspect of it. He's paranoid, but not in the freaky sense of the word. And he has the most ecelectic group of friends (and a dog) that are as mixed as a Macintosh Quality street candy box. Reading how Burke goes on with his everyday life is pure unadulterated entertainment at its best. You just can't be amazed enough at his antics and his witty narration.<br />Vachss cuts back on the English language, making his book accessible to many readers. The theme, however, is very real and very much mature. Looking back to his experiences with kids, Vachss knows how to punch the right buttons and pull the neecssary strings to make the reader feel his cause.<br />This is an excellent, in-your-face book that's high on the entertainment factor, but with a moral. Burke is one tough hombre, and with Vachss keeping his origins still a mystery, his character is unforgettable. I'm definitely going to have to read another Vachss novel (Burke all the way, baby). The style and characters have got on to me and will get on with anyone who is swept away by this gem of a book.	2002-03-30
US	52226496	R9TUTM0N7LZB6	038550084X	597623183	Fraud	Books	2	2	10	N	N	What the???	I spent last summer in NYC for an elective in Dermatology. Though I have been in the city before, its feel did not really catch on and I was left wanting. With this visit, I had wanted my stay to count. I thought that this would be accomplished if I let my senses completely engage where it is that I am. I wanted to smell NY, feel it, taste it, hear it, see it and because I loved reading, I thought why not try and read it. Virgin Megastore, Times Sq. is the place where I decided to do just that. I saw David Rakoff's Fraud on display and thought \\"Oh riiiiight!!!\\"<br />I made mistakes in my life, but buying this book has got to be one of the biggest ones I have ever done. Just hang me or spit on me whenever you see me. yes I am that serious on how mistaken I was when I bought this book.<br />The book is a compilation of essays written by the author that were published in a number of articles or were broadcast on the air in some show. Now the ones meant for the written world were average. Through them, you could understand what Rakoff wanted to say. You could even say that he is kinda funny in his sordid, pessimistic personality. I admit, I had moments of laughter, not a serious guffaw as such but more of a cute giggle. He is funny. I think the person who cleans the toilet in the place I study in funnier, but I don't see him selling millions in the writing world.<br />The pieces that were meant for broadcast are truly and unbelievably horrible. Rakoff is completely in coherent and his thoughts just seem to jump from one part to another. This, for me, was unappreciated. I think if I wanted to read what a guy actually said, i'd open a history book or something. even there, some of the speeches are modified to make them read cooler.<br />Fraud is extremely average. You certainly get tired of it as you move along, though it is the final essays that strike you as the most memorable. Would I ask a person to buy it, I guess it all has to do with that person's ability to completey waste his time or whether the've got deep pockets to actually afford a hardcover edition of this literary flea of a book.<br />New York this wasn't...	2002-02-16
US	52226496	R1O6H34GHNHF5C	1891946080	606223000	A Face Without a Heart: A Modern-Day Version of Oscar Wilde's the Picture of Dorian Gray	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good, but not Touching Literary Excellence of the Original	When I was a student in the 11th grade a long time back (I'm a final year medical student now, so you do the math), it was part of our curriculum to read the noevl, \\"The Importance of Being Earnest\\" by Oscar Wilde. Now, though the story was nice at the time, what it really served to do was introduce me to one of the most important authors at the time. Wilde did not live in his time. His glamor and life was so diverse and flamboyant that he was exiled to France during his final days. Thus, it does not come to a surprise to me that his work would be retold with a much modern fervor to it. It works better in this era and time of materialistic, self-conceitedness.<br />I have never read the original book, though I have seen it in our school's library a number of times. That cover of a young man looking at his old misshappen portrait. A Face Without a Heart comes so close to the basic plot of the original that even the main character's name \\"Gary Adrion\\" is an anagram of the original's \\"Dorian Gray\\".<br />So what does not give in this retelling?<br />The pace is extremely slow and quite encompassing. There are times that you might want to get a chapter over with so quickly that you feel like you want to skim the page and be on with it. Reed knew this and tried to tell the story from a different character's perspective each chapter. That went well in the beginning, but in the end, you simply feel that the style of writing and flow of thought is the similar. I admit having been confused as to who was it telling the story now. Another thing worth commenting is the sex and drugs usage here. A number of readers have mentioned that it was too much. On the contrary, I think it was used too little. It does not rightfully reflect Reed's prowess when it comes to both of this. You can feel that he was restrained to cut loose when you compare this with his earlier work.<br />All in all, Reed succeeds in bringing out the main theme of the original classic by Wilde. What he fails to do was to actually shick the readers as Wilde did in his days. That, of course, is by no fault of his own. Rick Reed has great potential and a strong shock factor in him just like his peer, Ray Garton. Here's hoping that these authors become more mainstream with their own work in the future. There's never enough good writers in this age of commercialism, in a world that has become truly just a face without a heart.	2002-02-11
US	52226496	R2NGUYX6A691YS	0785107924	422452850	Daredevil/Spider-Man (Marvels Finest)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Disappointing	Two characters that work really well in comicdom is without a doubt Batman and Superman. Supes provides the strength, but it is Batman who makes it up with the brains. Their relationship is not mutual, but complimentary of one another. This, however, is not true for Daredevil and Spider-Man. Both characters are set in the same city, NY. Both hold real jobs when out of costume. And both are like what anyone of us, who has a best friend can relate to. They're real and they work very very well together. From the little gestures to the all time witty repartee between the two. They are so different from Batman and Superman, that the only thing they have in common with the others is the fact that each one knows the other's secret.<br />So what went wrong here? Paul Jenkins weaves a very poorly constructed story that involves the two best team-ups in all comicdom. This is not expected at all from a master such as Jenkins. One, who actually writes, Spidey each month and has written such unforgettable works as the critically acclaimed Inhumans and Origins. Perhaps one of the reasons why he falls short is the fact that he uses the mystic and the magic to bring these characters together to share a common threat. That may work fine with someone like Dr. Strange, just not DD and Spidey. A more street-wise threat would have been a much better choice to go forth into.<br />The art doesn't help either. Though it maybe right for bringing out the theme,plot and direction of the story, it just doesn't suit the characters. Spidey and DD should be drawn as humanly as possible, but with a touch of acrobatics. Phil Winslade makes you believe that Spidey is a rubber band. While that may work for a guy with spider powers, it's incredulous when it comes a simple acrobat such as DD.<br />I had such high expectations with this title and never thought twice when I saw that it was under the Marvel Knights imprint. I guess I just expected too much. Hope that the next team-up between the two doesthem justice and holds true to the witticism to seeing two good friends hopping around in costume. The three stars only come because you can never feel all that bad when you see DD (1 star) and Spidey (1 star) doing their thing, no matter how bad the story and art (1 star) are.	2002-01-31
US	52226496	R17C3APO570M2L	1563897385	471540719	Batman: Dark Victory (Batman (DC Comics Hardcover))	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another Winner	Jeph Loeb and Time Sale have collaborated a number of times and with each time, their offering is better than the one before it. What is it about them that strikes gold? Is it Loeb's words or Sale's art? How about putting both extraordinary talents together to create this magic that no one can just deny.<br />Dark Victory follows teh same tone as that used in the Long Halloween. Loeb weaves his magic by taking us a step further from the plot line of the previous book. Victory is part 2, but can truly stand on its own. People would be happier if they would have known the character before and that occurrs mainly in the first book, the Long Halloween. The two books can really work together, but I have to admit, I liked the first one better. It was more or less like saying which better, the first Godfather or the second, in which both cases you just can't deny the two materpieces.<br />Dark Victory is at its namesake very very dark and truly pits the Batman deep down to his roots. The book would have made Frank Miller proud. The mystery, on the other hand, is not that much of a great mystery as in the first book. You could easily figure out who was pulling the strings all along, but where Loeb fails in that department, his words are carried off by Sale's tremendous art, which seems to get better with each passing project those two make together. For a book this size, you would expect Loeb to put in some more beef to it and have Batman more, menacing and more detective like than he's used to. The introduction of Robin is a nice touch. Though one thing is for sure, the essence of the Batman character is that of a dark mysterious loner.<br />All in all, this book is a treat. It's more of a gem. You can't say that you're wasting time going on ahead with the full read. Loeb should seriously think of penning the next Batman movie, if there ever would be one (I hear Miller is gutting that one out). Those two have Daredevil:Yellow soon to be out from Marvel Comics. They're excellent when it comes to dark characters like Bats, I wonder how they would fare with a much lighter tone with Daredevil. If it fits the same style as Superman for all Seasons, I don't think anyone should think twice about getting it.	2002-01-17
US	52226496	R2RETL83KHXAA4	0785100334	700265300	Wolverine: Weapon X	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Horrific	Perhaps none of the other X-Men is as interesting as Wolverine. Though each of the X-members may have alluring backgrounds, Wolverine has the most human one. In this TPB, Barry Windsor Smith takes us on a roller coaster into the mind of the most misunderstood X-Man. Part of whose general appeal is the mystery that enshrouds him.<br />A comic is is dubbed successful if it makes an impact not just in the comic circle, but to the general public. Weapon X does just that. The reader is transported to the time and place in which Wolverine's skeleton is being laced with the most indesctrible metal, adamantium. The horror that goes to make this happen is beyond comprehension. Wolverine is chose because of his incredible healing factor and the fact that he will very much survive this excruciating assault and punishment. The heartless feel of the scientists responsible for this horror of manipulation culminates when after the procedure they start distributing drinks and actually cheer for their success. That scene alone is the most disturbing of all in the TPB. So disturbing, in fact, that it was chosen to depict some of Wolverine's origin in the X-Men smash-movie.<br />Any story capable of producing such an influx of emotion and loathing is worth a try. This is the story that shapes the making of a man that forever is haunted by memories of abuse and manipulation. I cannot think of anyone but Barry Windsor Smith to best tell this horrific tale.	2001-12-18
US	52226496	R1N8Y2AK3YNQTP	0785107843	889326543	Black Widow	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sexy...	I always looked at the Black Widow as one of the sexiest comic heroes out there. There's a hiddent mystery in her that just seems to mesmerize. That long red hair, that skin-tight, S&amp;M leather costume of hers and that amazing perfect figure. The name, Black Widow, truly gives her justice. You fall in love with her and she kills you with every look.<br />In this book, written by the team of Devin Grayson and Greg Rucka (on loan from the Batman books, it would seem), weave an intricate web of story, where epsionage and betrayals are key and we're taken back to the days of the cold war. Natasha Romanoff is pitted against someone who might be her better who claims to be the Black Widow herself. We have a fiery cat fight between two beauties. I don't think anyone would mind that this lasts for eternity.<br />The character is true to her origins, being very cold and inanimate at times of great danger, but you just can't let go of the way she looks or the way her body moves. The person to thank for this would be JG Jones. Jones's Widow is sexy, anything else is just not an adjective to describe the character. Hampton's work, on the other hand, though appealing doesn't do the Widow justice when it comes to beauty. There's no detail that you get to see in Jones's rendition, especially the folds of leather on skin.<br />If this team is out to make another Black Widow story, then it's going to be a definitive winner. Girls can go head over heels for James Bond, we, guys, have the Black Widow to satiate out appetite.	2001-12-18
US	52226496	R9HTFAW3FVHDF	0785100490	217782362	Marvels	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Work of Art	Marvel comics made history when it introduced art whiz, Alex Ross, to the general comic book public. In a 4 part miniseries, collected handsomely in this TPB, Kurt Busiek and Alex Ross take us on a history run of Marvel's most famous heroes, as we learn of their beginnings and take a ride down memory lane through the eyes of a photojournalist, a normal human.<br />Marvels is a success in two different aspects. The first being the extensive history, writer Kurt Busiek, takes on to bring all the right details in Marvel's events and actually make them fit. Be it sheer will or just luck, but he masterfully weaves a pattern that brings justice to Marvel's long abode that the company truly works on continuity and that a small even happening to one of the heroes will eventually affect another some other time. The art is something else. Alex Ross is amazing. Though he's not as crisp as he is in his later works like Kingdom Come, his work on Marvels takes on an evolutionary step in the visual rendition of comic books. The comic medium becomes not just restricted to pencil art, but full fledged painted art. Through it all, you can get a feel that his work gets better with each chapter. Chapter 3 and 4 being the most visually appealing.<br />Marvels is truly a gem of a work. It was a huge commercial success and racked some numerous awards too. It was interesting to look at the Marvel Universe through the eyes of your average joe. The same concept of the third party spawned the idea of the highly successful Spiderman's Tangled Web. This can only mean the comics are not just interested in stories about their favorite heroes, but also the people in which these heroes can affect their life. It is only through that do people can fully relate to and think that guy could very well be me. Marvels paved the way with a top notch story and over the top art.	2001-12-18
US	52226496	R27QVX28IPTPZ1	0375412972	483457123	Yeats Is Dead! A Mystery by 15 Irish Writers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Idea with a "PFFT" for an Ending	I was recommended this book by amazon.com. I just can't recall why, but I had it put on my wish list when my brother decided to give it to me for a birthday gift last summer. After going through a long horrendous, yet exciting read of another Irishman John Connolly's \\"Every Dead Thing\\", I welcomed the change to the light hearted when my fiance thought it would be cool to go ahead with a story as witty as this one. Witty is one thing, but there were some parts that was truly laugh out loud.(...)<br />Yeats is Dead is a story without being a story itself. Written loosley by 15 Irish authors just out there to have some good old fashioned fun. Theyd o an excellent job with the idea and all, but fall extrememly short when it comes to ending the whole story. Under each author, the characters just seem to be suffering from some sort of schizophrenia with their feeling jumping from one point to another. It's just unbelievable to conceive, unbeliveable to believe, but truly enjoyable to go through it along through the end.<br />The book is an excellent read at just any setting. The beauty of it being not truly knowing how the tory is going to twist and turn so that you come out with the final chapter. I think Frank McCourt just didn't know what to do with it and hastily ended it. All in all, this is a funny book that deserves all the attention. You just love reading an Irishman's (or woman) tale. When they're drunk and in the tell tale mode they're funny and when they're sober, you still can't take anything they say seriously. And that's exactly how it is with this very one book.	2001-12-14
US	52226496	R2XDQN2KM7R1OU	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Stunning Debut	Debut novels really do it for me. I love discovering new authors and I feel even more grand once that author proves he's worth the money, time and hope that I had in him. John Connolly provides us with a whallop of a first book that transverses horror, thriller and your everyday mystery. What I'm really surprised about is that this book is not being talked about as a movie project. It's certainly worth the production.<br />My taste in books was very narrow and mostly delved into the horror genre. A friend of mine had talked me into reading the book, River God, which I was not really interested in (I've read it and I take whatever I thought of it at first back). When searching for that particular book I stumbled on a cover that caught my eye instantly. The book has just been shipped to the bookstore and it was put in a column with all its other copies. A special discount price was included on it which kind of encouraged me to check it out, but I have to admit, it was the cover that stole my heart. In the bookstore, I opened to the first chapter and read it. I couldn't stop. If it wasn't for my friend's nagging that it was late and we had to move out, I would not have let &quot;Every Dead Thing&quot; out of my hand. I bought it instead.<br />The 500+ page, Shamus Award winner is huge and carries you on a journey from the mean streets of New York, where Connolly succeeds in making you smell the acrid gasoline-infested air of the city to the dank, damp swaps of New Orleans. Connolly writes like he's a native of these places though he's from Ireland, which goes to show you the amount of research he had put in this piece of work. Though the size might look intimidating to the reader, the book reads fast and light in the first person narration as Connolly introduces us to Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker. You see the world completey in his eyes and the amount of grief and loss the character has lived through become your own as the story moves along. The characters that youare introduced to as the story flows feel real and you know that they can very well exist in this world of worlds. The two striking of those are Bird's sidekicks Angel and Louis. You just feel that Bird's safe when he's around them. After finishing the whole book, I just can't imagine the story being without those two yahoos. Connolly's writing style is never boring and does not drag. He's very descriptive when it comes to describing the murders and the bodies. Even I had nightmares, which I never do when reading other horror books. With the book's close to the end, you just hate to let go. I admit the ending is very very surprising. A downside of the book has to be the engrossing subplots that just pop up from everywhere. I understand that Connolly was acquainting the reader with Bird and he really does a good job at this and even is able to connect everything together in the end, albeit by a very thin line.<br />John Connolly was able to create a gruesome tale of terror, mystery and love lost in this epic of a tale that has spawned three other chapters (the second only is currently in circulation in the US). Connolly establishes Charlie Parker as a detective that will be a part of the fiction mystery hall of fame, along with Patterson's Cross and Vacchs's Burke. That's no easy feat for a new Irish kid on the block writing his debut novel.	2001-12-03
US	52226496	R3IEH3KWFBH92J	0808519085	346025288	Cycle Of The Werewolf (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Illustrations that do the Story Justice	One has to hand it to Stephen King. He can do it all. From writing novels of epic proportions such as the Stand to narrating his own work in the fantastic &quot;LT's Theory of Pets&quot;. How about short stories you say? Not surprisingly, he's very much at home in that form of prose too. He's written three short story anthologies, two collections of novella anthologies and a novel made up of different stories, but seem to form one bigger unit.<br />The thing that makes this stand-alone short story special is the fact that you've got illustrations that enhance the story's pace. Bernie Wrightson succeeds in bringing up King's visual words into a reality readers can feast their eyes upon. Written in the early 80s, Cycle of the Werewolf is a straightforward story with no surprises hidden in between the woodwork. King wants to scare you using the supernatural character of the werewolf, but he just wouldn't bother taking you on the origin of the character and what the wolf is trying to achieve through all this. The story moves on a monthly basis, each chapter moving from one to another. In each, you have the werewolf kill someone from the small town that the story takes place in. Like a number of his books, King displays his ease in using a teen boy as the antagonist to the main character of the wolf. Though the killings are gruesome and King really lets loose with his descriptions, one might mistake the book as a children's story with the illustrations generously peppered here and there.<br />King could have made the story deeper and delved into the psyche of the werewolf a bit more, rather than just have him be that mindless killer that's out there doing what he does because of some primal instinct. Never in a King novel has there been such a character that's as purposeless as this one, but you can't hold that against King. He had something in mind and he put in words for his readers. One thing we should give him credit for, though, is the fact that he truly can scare us even in a measly 120 pages, which one third of them are illustrations.<br />There are far many better werewolf stories out there than this one, but none of them were written by Stephen King and that by itself is reason enough to buy the book. If it's horror then Stephen is the &quot;K&quot;ing in any form it is presented.	2001-11-22
US	52226496	R1K5P0P4A5AC6J	0843947810	114711315	Santa Steps Out	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Loses its Vibe	I have to admit, the notion of reading about Santa having an affair with the Tooth Fairy awoke something in me. Something perverted to say the least. I was thinking that I would come upon this book like no other and truly enjoy it. Who wouldn't enjoy reading about a fat old guy romping around with a wild beauty like the Tooth Fairy (just her name is sensual enough to get arise out of anyone)? I loved the first chapters of the book, when the jolly old elf meets the fairy and starts doing the nasty. Devereaux excels in creating this voluptuous, majestic image of his Tooth Fairy character that you would just want to have your arms around and never let go of this topless wonder. And those panties of hers are always a given plus. OOOOOHHH, baby!!!<br />The story starts out fine with the breakdown of how things fall out with Santa going through his midlife crisis and infidelity. Along the line, though, Devereaux just lets up with his sex. In every 4 or 5 pages, we have someone or the other doing it. The Easter Bunny, the elves, Mrs. Claus, The Tooth Fairy and Santa himself. What was forming to be quite a good read just fell in through the seams when things got to that level. Even the act grew more and more mundane. It was not love, though the characters swore it was, it was just jumping on someone poking here and there and putting things here and there. Sex, I believe, was taken for granted in the long run. Devereaux just made it look not as much an act of love, but more of an animalistic desire.<br />The story was going nowhere. Devereaux just lingered on with more sexual exploits by introducing another woman character that Santa would have sex with and lo and behold would engage into threesome acts with him and his wife. The story doesn't pick up until the jealous Tooth Fairy decides to exact her revenge on all. Devereaux was either lost when he wrote the story or just couldn't make out what he was trying to get at. Case in point would be how he decides to tell the background of his characters. All of which, have some Greek mythology put right down into it. I never read of any explicit sexual exploits of the gods and goddesses in the Odyssey or the Iliad. I guess Devereaux decided that it would be cool to have deities like those go ballistic on everyone's butt like they do here. That, no matter how creative it might be, was utterly not amusing on my part. Did he break the straw? Yes he did! How dare he go on bringing out that Superman wants nothing more than to show his super manhood to Lois Lane? Being a comic book collector and a Superman fan, that truly appalled me, especially knowing that Supes is married to Lane and the love he shares with his wife has never been anything but a warm, sincere affection.<br />For Devereaux it has to be his way and his way is the sex way. Men have nothing better to do in this lifetime, but engage in it. Knowing that, I wonder what makes us so different than the other animals on this planet. I fail to see the difference between his Santa and a kangaroo during mating. Just that the kangaroo has a mating season while Santa is the all-out, all-world sex machine.<br />Apart from an excellent beginning and a true orgasmic climax, Santa Steps Out is a book that certainly leaves no mark on you and does not influence you whatsoever. Heck, reading Playboy would get a rise out of you than checking the elf go out on a breeding frenzy.<br />Read at your own risk and your own sexhood for that matter.	2001-10-01
US	52226496	RJDKY1LGV466C	1563895285	625882755	Superman for All Seasons	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Magnificent	When Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale come together, they create magic. Both creators have callaborated time and time again and every time they do so, the work becomes legendary in the comic book hallowed mythos. Though most of their work has been with the Batman character, this Superman story shines like nothing else.<br />The poignant story showcases Supes in the four seasons of the year,with each one season narrated by one of the many supporting characters. The differing perespective is not only seen with the style of writing, but also the lettering, the coloring and the art. Superman's origin has always been very well established and has been revisited many many times. With this work, however, Loeb revisits Supes and makes us look at his upbringing through the years and how he established the values that makes him the man he is today. For the first time, we look at Supes during his teen years and feel the angst when his powers slowly start to come through. We fall in love when he does the same, and feel our heart break when his heart is broken. Loeb can be funny and he deals with that side of the character truthfully. It was after this rendition of Supes that Loeb was finally given the helm of the monthly Superman comic.<br />When it comes to art, Tim Sale is the man you would want to feast your eyes on his work. His basic pencils and inks flourish even more when you look into how the way he draws human emotion. His work can be sexy, especially noticed with the introduction of one hot Lois Lane. No wonder Superman falls in love with her and eventually gets married to the woman. She really is a presence.<br />Through it all, Superman for All Seasons is one heckuva good read. The hardcover format give it an even richer, more hansome feel to it. Loeb and Sale are the dream team. Working so well together that comic publishers just can't get enough of them. Which is a good thing, really. It leaves us readers feel great, truly enjoying the story and all its contents.	2001-09-09
US	52226496	R16W8DH1HLCXTI	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	179	197	N	N	Fabulous and Inspirational	This novel officially ends the 4-book reading that I had set forth to get my teeth into this summer. I must say, that it truly stands out from anything I had read before it, be it this summer or anytime for that matter. Ken Kesey weaves a tale that is smart, witty, sometimes insane and ultimately tragic. Though the setting is mainly in a mental asylum somewhere in Oregon, this story has a universal appeal to it that can be felt by anyone, anwhere in this world.<br />R.P. McMurphy is a sane man that, due to a brush with the law, opts for being committed in a mental asylum rather than be incarcerated with hard labor. Upon his entry in the secluded world of the asylum, he strips all the barriers formed and starts laying his own rules, in his own way. This leads to problems with the head honcho of the place. A big, gruesome, and menacingly evil Nurse Ratched, dubbed Big Nurse for her huge frame and even huger bosom. The rollercoaster, that patient McMurphy takes the inmates through, finally leads them to realize the ultimate goal. That man, no matter the situation, can always hold his destiny in his hands. This knowledge, achieved in the end, does not come without a price.<br />Set in the late 60s, early 70s, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a gem of modern literary works that came out at the time. It brought out a wonderfully-made movie, starring Jack Nicholson as McMurphy. The role defined him as an actor to be reckoned with. Though the mavie is seen through the eyes of McMurphy, the novel's perspective looks at things through the eyes of a big half white, half Native American inmate, that acts deaf and dumb in front of the asylum's staff. The narrative, because it is through the eyes of a mental patient, can at times be truly insane. That's where the fun really lies. Kesey works his magic in making us feel the insanity and despair of the patients. He can be funny, in a laugh out loud kind of fashion. He can also be tragic, when you realize what the inmates go through each passing day. The novel is a definitive treatment of the age old abode of individual versus establishment.<br />This is a very human story, with a lot of suffering and exploration of man's insecurities. It has become a classic that some schools have even recommended as part of their curriculum. Through all the ups and downs of the story, I was, forever inspired and ultimately liberated in mind to finally realize that you can take away a man's life, but never his freedom. The book receives my highest recommendation.	2001-09-09
US	52226496	RYAOKBUQP75CV	1563896311	864852568	JLA: Earth 2 (JLA (DC Comics Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Truly the Strogest Superhero Team in Comics	What can one want more than seeing Superman, Batman, the Flash, Green Lantern and Wonder Woman in one team yet one comic book written by the same man that reintroduced the group in the late 90s. The JLA have come a long way since they first came together to protect the Earth from the everlooming battles with maniacal megalomaniacs of this world. Though the team has a lot of strong characters, the interest stems from how these different people from different backgrounds interact. Superman could kick everyone's butt and still remain standing. Batman could out think anyone out there and still take on Kasparov for a game of chess without breaking a sweat. Wonder Woman? Well, the Princess always leaves us caught into her lasso of truth, and yes I'm talking about her rope not her beauty, though that could make anyone spit out the truth any time anywhere.<br />Grant Morrison writes the story where the JLA meet their mirror images in a battle of wit and muscle. Mirror images in all the sense of the word that they are the most evil their world ever came up with. Earth 2 is run by theses bozos and people live in fear. They are so intuitevely hopeless that when the JLA comes to their rescue, they can't seem to accept the change. The story line is not really that breaking, but not ground shattering as well. Grant made the ultimate mistake by pointing out that in Earth 2 evil always wins, while in our Earth, good is always the winner. I guess the Grant lives in a fairy tale of his own making, which is very unlike his other stories where pessimistic realism is his trend of style. That point was just too incredulous to believe or even accept.<br />The art by Frank Quitely is fabulous. I never heard of him until he started drawing the X-Men earlier this year. In that book, he made the female characters look old and I never developed a liking for his work. In this book, however, seeing Wonder Woman is always a treat. He really is able to translate Grant's ideas into pictures, makinghis panels flow effortlessly, which is such a visual treat for the reader.<br />All in all, both creators put in a great job to produce a good, if not an excellent piece of literary fiction. The story is short but the essence is captured in every word and art. Though the JLA can boast that they have the strongest line up in all comic books, the moniker of the mightiest superhero team belongs to a certain team that make it a business to &quot;avenge&quot; the wrongs done unto others.	2001-08-24
US	52226496	R1FL6BP6Z1ZU2S	1563895765	165558052	Batman: War on Crime	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Work of Art	The amazing craftsmanship of art truly does transcend words. a piece of art can speak volumes and in many different languages all together. The little subtle details truly makes the difference between that kind of art and that which is in truth can be rightfully called a masterpiece. Batman: war on Crime, albeit not a literary wonder, is a gem of a work of art.<br />Alex Ross popped into the comic world with MARVELS. A project so ambitious that it catapulted Ross into comic book stardom and helped bring in the world of realistic painted art and that of comic book storytelling. Ross became a very crucial and influential player in the comic book scene, where comic book fans would purchase a whole comic just to look at a cover he had painted without caring who really is drawing or writing the comic itself. His approach to characters was one of a kind and his take on certain heroes truly helped define them into the mainstream.<br />With this work, Ross teams up Paul Dini, the producer of the critically acclaimed animated Batman show. Though the story and plot is not thought-provoking and searing as one might want it to be, the art compensates for that. Here you look at Batman, with the most human of all attributes. He never looked more human, even in his movies. The physique is drawn just right with no bulging muscles ready to tear apart from the skin. The detail works into such that you can actually feel what the cape's material is even, which is more of a polyester, nylon look rather than the rubber associated with the movies. Ross excels in bringing out the right facial expressions with the right kind of actions. Any reader would feel he or she is reading through a photography book of a man wearing a Halloween costume of a large Bat, patrolling the streets of Gotham.<br />All in all, the book truly reads like a graphic novel. No dialogue bubbles to ruin the artwork which is a plus. Dini tries hard making the reader notice his story and what he's trying to say by it,but in the end, it is Ross who manages to pull things together and creates magic with painting brush.	2001-08-23
US	52226496	R1HIIEES6DHI2S	1563893924	490484861	Superman: Wedding & Beyond	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Wedding	Forget about Superman for awhile. This is a story about two people, Lois and Clark. Ever since they met each other they were at each other's throat. In this case, it was Lois more than the mild mannered Clark that did all the throat grabbing shenanigans. The lady was tough as nails on Clark and took him on a spin with her sharp tongue and strong personality. Clark, on the other hand, was the quiet, more stable of the two. His time as Superman made his alter ego more reasonable and clear minded than Lois. Underneath it all, however, one can realize that both of these characters were in love with one another in a young-hearted kind of way. Lois fell in love with Superman at first, but it was more of an infatuation. She grew to understand Clark and slowly felt true feelings towards him. It was only until Clark decided to tell her he was the Man of Steel did true showing of her love and emotions surface.<br />Some people blame the TV series, Lois and Clark, for the marriage that soon came to be. This, of course, is not entirely true. Though the series brought the two character closer to one another, they have always been in love ever since their early days together. The series simply made the transition easier for a classic iconic figure like Superman. It was more publicity for the comic rather than anything else and it did help bringing them together easier and more acceptable to the readers, young and old. Spider-Man was married before Superman ever did, but readers will always remember him as the single guy who can't find a date. They would not let that concept go. This made the creators rethink about his marital status and put an end to it earlier this year. People could not imagine him as a married guy. Superman had a series that made Lois's and Clark's coming together smoother. You ask anyone out there, they would know that Superman is married. He has always been married to Lois they would say.<br />This TPB was brought together by the comic industry's top talents. Great writers, including David Michelinie who helped Spidey tie the knot long time ago, were on the helm with some great artwork to boot. Superman's marriage brings on the coming together of two popular characters of modern American culture. Has the marriage worked through out all these years? One can only say that it has grown stronger each day. Readers love the concept and the antics that the two happy couple go through in their marriage. Their relationship is that of love, respect and being there for your partner at times of need. Apart from the super-powers, those things are exactly the right ingredients for any happy marriage out there to truly work.	2001-08-05
US	52226496	R22EFGQC37K96L	0871358034	953004988	Ghost Rider: Resurrected TPB (Marvel Comics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Classic Rendition	The Ghost Rider was a character that appeared in 70s comics, in which a man, Johnny Blaze, sells his soul to the devil in order to save the love of his life only to find that he has been manipulated all along. That in itself, causes him to renege against his makers and seek vengeance for what they have done. The series was colorful, albeit gloomy. The Ghost Rider himself was not a mysterious figure as it was first intended, but more of a circus show act.<br />Jump to the 90s. With the old Ghost Rider retired as Blaze has successfully gitten rid of the curse of the devil, a new skull figure similar in looks to his predecessor, but completely enshrouded in mystery. Writer Howard Mackie set to make comic book history with his rendition of the classic character and what a rendition it is. This new Rider, shares only the skull of the old one. Everything else about him is just not yet clear. Leather jacket, command controlled chain, and a bike from hell that anyone out there just dreams of owning one day, this character meant business and he meant it. This Rider was born from innocent murder in Cypress Hill cemetery. No more Johnny Blaze. Dan Ketch was the person in control, or was he?<br />This TPB collects the first 7 issues of the classic tale of tragedy and triumph, of winning through losing. Mackie helped mkae this new version of the classic character very dark, gritty and completely enshrouded in mystery, which is very unlike the flamboyant earlier character. Artists Javeir Saltares and Mark Texeira bring out an astounding work in making this concept work. It is not crisp as the comics popular at the tim, but very shady with a higher concentration in a general haze rather than fine lines. The coloring is mostly dark matching the art, with the only thing ablazing is the fiery skull of the Rider himself. The setting of the action is mostly at night and occurring in the darkest borough of the darkest city in the world, Brooklyn, NY. These 7 issues bring out the concept of the new Ghost Rider, and does not delve much into his origin. Not only are the readers at a loss, but also the character himself. In just that short time, Mackie helps create a formidable rogues gallery for the Rider.<br />During that period, Marvel was really into creating horror based comics that first started with Ghost Rider and continued on with other revamped characters old and new. This line grew too big for its own good as complex stories started taking over, the original Ghost Rider tagging along and an origin tale that was just too much to handle for the readers. The presence of the old Ghost Rider was not looked upon favorably by the new readers. The older readers of the original series began comparing the characters and lost interest in the new one. The fresh feel of the book lost to all that was happening at the time. The horror line waned and ironically completely disappeared when the Blade, a supporting character for the Rider, movie came out.<br />A movie starring Nicolas Cage as the original Ghost Rider is being planned and a new miniseries have just come out with the return of the original character, Johnny Blaze. Though the series is promising, to me the real Rider, the one I grew up with, has always been Dan Ketch and these first 7 issues presented in the TPB defined him as one of the most fascinating out takes on one of Marvel's most mysterious characters to date.of the new Ghost Rider, and does not delve much into his origin. Not only are the readers at a loss, but also the character himself. In just that short time, Mackie helps create a formidable rogues gallery for the Rider.<br />During that period, Marvel was really into creating horror based comics that first started with Ghost Rider and continued on with other revamped characters old and new. This line grew too big for its own good as complex stories started taking over, the original Ghost Rider tagging along and an origin tale that was just too much to handle for the readers. The presence of the old Ghost Rider was not looked upon favorably by the new readers. The older readers of the original series began comparing the characters and lost interest in the new one. The fresh feel of the book lost to all that was happening at the time. The horror line waned and ironically completely disappeared when the Blade, a supporting character for the Rider, movie came out.<br />A movie starring Nicolas Cage as the original Ghost Rider is being planned and a new miniseries have just come out with the return of the original character, Johnny Blaze. Though the series is promising, to me the real Rider, the one I grew up with, has always been Dan Ketch and these first 7 issues presented in the TPB defined him as one of the most fascinating out takes on one of Marvel's most mysterious characters to date.	2001-08-05
US	52226496	R1AO15YGBYRFXR	1563892731	199922557	Batman: Haunted Knight	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Beautifully Dark	Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale are a match made in heaven. Any story that they write is bound to be critically acclaimed before it's even published. They create magic. The create entertainment. Batman: Haunted Knight is the series of stories that put their names on the map. While Loeb would later go on to write very well written Superman, Cable and Fantastic Four stories, it is only when he is united with Sale that his creativity and genius moves up a notch.<br />This book is a collection of three Halloween Specials stories. All three are set in the early days of Batman, where I would believe Loeb finds himself at ease in. Each story holds its own, but deals with a dark side of the Batman, or one might say how the dark side deals with Batman. The three stories are very self insightful where the Dark Knight finds himself contemplating to what has made him the person he is today. How his past shaped his present and what it all means for his past. The most touching of all stories are the ones that deals with his childhood and sights of his parents before their untimely tragedy that helped make the character, the most morose, guilt-stricken characters in all comicdom. You learn that's the only thing that truly makes the character tick. The great love he shared with his parents turned into the great hate he feels towards the criminal underworld. That's what Batman is all about.<br />Loeb and Sale are truly downright amazing in their depiction of the character. Sale has still to find himself with the character and that can be noticed in some of the awkward art that appears in some pages. His take would masterfully transcend in his next masterwork Batman: The Long Halloween. Loeb and Sale would also go on ahead to make Batman: Dark Victory for DC and the highly acclaimed Daredevil: Yellow for Marvel.<br />People have caught on that the duo are excellent when solo, but are dynamite when together. With them onto something, there will always be a bang in the horizon. If their magic catches on, they could be the ones reviving the now defunct Batman movie franchise.	2001-08-01
US	52226496	R3BXEQ26IOD2RT	0785107886	919584254	Ultimate X-Men Vol. 1: The Tomorrow People	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Explosive...	The Ultimate line of comics was produced to introduce new readers to classic characters. First there was Ultimate Spidey, and now Ultimate X-Men. You have to admit, though, the the latter is much much more exciting than the former. Spidey has all the teen angst and they truly do succeed in making him a teen. The X-Men sure are younger than the real deal, but their actions are not all that teeny. There actually was a scene where Wolvie was in bed with Jean. What can a person say? These guy are young, reckless and much much more sassy than the originals. They're the X-Men! What did you expect?<br />With the release of the X-Men movie and the difference between the origin of those characters to the real Marvel Universe heroes, X-fans are very accepting when it comes to change and that's exactly what Ultimate X-Men was all about. The premise is this world, although somewhat a darker image of it. It really works. It works so good that you can actually might gulp and think that these guys are as good as the real deal.<br />The story is told by Mark Millar, a writer extraordinaire, that really knows how to deal with the X-Men as a group. They're more of a paramilitary unit than a group of teens as you might think they are. The same treatment is later introduced to the mainstream comics and that works even better with them because of the age difference and the much realistic approach to it. The art is mindblowing. The Kuberts are BOTH amazing. Though I'm a big Andy fan, but Adam truly does shine out with this one from his days as the Hulk's artist. The brothers' art leaves you wanting more.<br />The Tomorrow People is the X-Men for the new millenium. The action and story not only works for new readers, but us old geezers as well.	2001-07-30
US	52226496	RQZHEUH7Q23UT	078510786X	100183737	Ultimate Spider-Man Vol. 1: Power and Responsibility	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Spidey Swings into the new Millenium with Style	It's very hard to play around with a great character's history and get away with it. Hmmmm... How about giving the character the same teen years that he first started with some 40 years ago and 7 issues to retell the origin that was told in just one classic all that time back. Does that work? It sure does! Ultimate Spider-Man introduces you to a Spidey that is just a teen and brings back that teen angst that he was famous for during his starting years. While those old issues worked during the 60s, these ones truly make you have the feel of the 21st century. The hairdos, the internet ruled life and the clothes they wear. They make you feel that these events are happening right here and now in a Queens neighborhood.<br />The story telling is top-notch. The classic Spidey history is not touched. This TPB is just an introduction of a character that has endured so much, but clearly does not replace the history. If it did just that, Bendis's and Jemas's heads would be on a platter a long time ago. Seriously though, the book is really well told. Let's also not forget the art. The art is top notch. Mark Bagley returns to the character that has made him famous in the 90s. His take on the character though is different than when he drew the Amazing Spider-Man. This Spidey is much thinner and sleeker. He not only acts like a 15 year older, but also looks like one, which is a great and believable thing.<br />Now what do I really think about the Ultimate Spidey? Hmmmm... I like the concept of introducing Spidey to the young folks out there and truly making him hip. Make him more accessible. I also like the fact that the character was not introduced as the real deal and all 40 years of continuity was wiped away. That's about it, I guess. I have to admit, I love the real Peter Parker. The original Spidey. I love the way he matured. The way he acts now, his flaws and the man he has become. I grew up with him and that means a lot. You just can't take that away. He's just the real Spidey and that's the bottom line.<br />Ultimate Spidey is a nice concept. It's great in making new readers know who and what Spidey is and what he stands for. Through it all, the Ultimate line of comics is just a stepping stone in which new readers would later graduate to read the real deal.	2001-07-30
US	52226496	R30EVT6HA8Q5UO	0785107169	337731281	Spider-Man: The Death of Gwen Stacy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Touching and Tearful	How can you review perhaps one of the biggest feats in comic history. The most tragic event that shattered the belief of a hero and drew a new status quo unlike any other known in that character's history. With a title clearly telling you what will happen in the story and what events will transpire. What is it that you can say to recommend this book to anyone who has the plot written on the title?<br />What you might ask??? PLENTY...<br />. How Gwen Stacy fell to her death forever shattering the world of Peter Parker, Spider-Man. The five chaptered story can be divided in two parts. The first three chapters, written by Spidey co-creator, Stan Lee, paved the ground for the upcoming epic events and battle. In that part Lee ditches the long-established comics code (which is just what Marvel has done now), in order to bring out a great story about the effects of drugs and what people thought of them at the time. His take on that problem showed how comics could also be utilized for the benefit of the public, just like any other media form, which is a pioneering step in such a direction. Later themes dealt in other comics would come about AIDS and abortion.<br />The Green Goblin, Spidey's greatest foe, and the one he'll be facing in next summer's movie, knows Spidey's secret identity. With every move he taunts the webslinger and clearly provoked him on every move. Terrorizing him and his family. The deranged Goblin is not swayed until he confronts the addiction of his only son, Harry. Throughout, Peter is in dismay over the disappearance of his first love, Gwen, which has skipped town after the death of her police captain father, blaming Spidey as the cause of it all. The first part ends ith Gwen's coming back into Peter's arms and all is well.<br />Wrong...<br />Peter gets sent away on a NEWS mission for the newspaper he works in, this time, him leaving the love of his life behind. That hiatus is not expressed in the TPB and the reader is brought back to NY as Peter arrives. Nothing has changed. Harry is still a drug addict, finally diagnosed with full blown schizophrenia. Norman Osborn, Harry's father and the Green Goblin, is hellbent on seeking revenge on Spidey. He does that with the only way he thinks possible, by kidnapping the love of his life. That's when the story is set through and breaks out as being one of the greatest ever told. You know,s he'll die in the end, but the pages succeed in showing you how much she meant to Peter. The memories that flood in as images and words in his mind create such a collage of some of the beautifully written lines ever found in comics. This was a story of substance. A story from the heart. A story seldom portrayed in today's comics.<br />You feel Peter's pain and you truly feel the tragedy that befalls him. The ending of the story takes on the form of how Peter appreciates MJ, hwo later becomes his wife. It was during that moment of death and sorrow, that a stronger love was born. The epilogue in the end, drawn by legendary artist John Romita Sr., brings the past to the present, in a wonderful story that  sums things and finds closure. The TPB as a whole may not necessary make you cry, but you will definitely feel the heart ache and anguish of, perhaps, one of the most enduring comic charcaters of all time. Peter Parker: Spider-Man.	2001-07-29
US	52226496	R3C590F9D9WDAR	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best Summer Read	As they say, the third one's the charm. This is my third book of the summer and clearly the best I have ever read in a long time. Nick Hornby weaves a classic tale of introspection on matters of the heart and the relationships we uphold. Is this a guy book, one might ask? No it's not! Guys can read it and find solace on how their actions are interpreted. Women can read it to truly understand why guys act the way they do. We're really big babies in the long end and no matter how old we get, we need that little bit of pampering from our women. We need that loving touch. We need to lie in their laps and have them play with our hair and tell us everything's fine. We just want to be held and never let go off. We need to be loved and accepted for who we are. And if they have the time and patience, accept us for what we are.<br />The first person narration works best with a book of this forte. This allows you to get inside the mind of the main character and truly see how he views the world around him and his various interpretations of his failed relationships. Hornby lets you be Rob throughout your read. There are times you get to be the character so well, that you can expect how he'd react to a certain situation. The character of Rob, the down to earth, vinyl records shopkeeper is your everyday shmoe. He's the person you see staring at you when you're brushing your teeth early in the morning. He's you... with all your flaws, all your qwirks, and all your ups and downs. No matter if you're a high profile lawyer, doctor or the guy who gets to paint the White House. All men have been made from the same cauldron.<br />Hornby takes you on a contemplative ride down the experience of the relationships between men and women. How they view each other. How they act when they're around each other. How they cannot live without each other. Or is it really how men cannot live without women??? And throughout the whole journey, you can't stop but think that that's you. You're Rob and your girl is Laura .... You can't help, but look at the human side of things and truly appreciate a very well woven story about love lost only to rise again from between the ashes. There are many metaphors and explanations thet you just can't help but think that they're true to how your life has or could become. It would seem that Hornby could have been a person who has watched anyone of us and based that story loosely on that. The style is very consistent and you can't but have a smile on your face throughout your read. There are moments that you just can't help but laugh out loud and if you're with people in the subway doing just that, it's off to the loonhouse you go. It has all the classic wry, self-sarcasm feel that British authors have been known for since the days of Shakespeare.<br />For an engaged man, or any man who's ever been involved, the book will have a different taste to it. Something extra. It will make you look back at your own life and think things that you just never thought were of import. You'd come out with exactly the same feeling Hornby injects into Rob as the book goes on, you learn to appreciate your partner and not take them for granted. You learn that no matter how you act up, they can always see something in you that no one in the world ever sees. The real you. And what can you do about it? There's nothing you can do actually, except fall in love over and over again.	2001-07-25
US	52226496	R3BSDOYN2MKDNF	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Like a Drug	The book starts out like a rush frenzy just as if a person is shooting up. You're taken into a world that can never be described in words. Hunter S. Thompson weaves a classic of his time, where drugs, booze and sex are everyday norms. With the the first narrator style, the story sucks you in a realm you only thought lived on-screen.<br />To start things off. This story is like a drug. It's bizarrely incoherent, but makes sense. It's short. It hits you right on the spot. It sends you in bouts of laughter that you cannot grasp the reason for. And let's not forget the fact that you can't get enough of it when you finish it. You wanna do it again. A reread is assured, just to grasp the hidden meanings behind some of the text mentioned. Set in the 1970s with all its war and Nixon-related angst, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, takes you through a journey of the underground drug-based life of gonzo journalist, Raoul Dukes and his Samoan attorney, who goes on nameless throughout the story, and advises Dukes on things that just can't be advisable.<br />Most of the story takes place in Vegas and though with its notorious background, the city is displayed as not as welcoming as one might think when it comes to matters of substance. 20 years for marijuana possession. Life for dealing. Goes to show you how harsh the city can be and how our two heroes have to keep the pace evading the police, though ironically they are surrounded by them in a Dangerous Drug Convention they are members of. The pace is quick and the content, smart. Thompson succeeds in building an atmosphere where if you're not a druggie, you don't belong in this &quot;real&quot; world. Through it all, you have to appreciate the difference between that and a junkie. No junkies allowed in the book and our heroes abhor them. You a junkie? You have LA to contend with, let's not see you in Vegas, bub. You're a dead man if you even stand on the street just acting curious.<br />Is this the American Dream? Moving from oneplace to another, scaring the townsfolk, living in a bizarre psychedelic life where reality is twisted that it's scary? Where you can get away with everything with the right words and the right contacts? Thompson takes the concept of the Dream and cruelly dissects it for what it is. Layer by layer, step by step. The reality that comes out from everything hidden after reading this story is the truth. The Dream does exist, but is it what we all thought it is and expected?<br />As your attorney, I advise you to read this book to truly figure out what this review is all about.	2001-07-21
US	52226496	RPL5BZIB0CYIC	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	6	7	N	N	DISTURBING	What can be said about this book that hasn't been said in the last 800+ reviews of it. Nothing much, so I'll delve more into how this book can be translated into your everyday life ramblings.<br />My summer read this year was going to be an old KING novel, but when I saw this book in the bookstore and having already watched the movie I just had to learn more. I just could not believe the experience of it all. The book starts with introducing to a young, considerably handsome young man who is so richly involved with materialistic things of life that the true meaning of the whole concept just eludes him. From the start, you slowly get to learn how Patrick Bateman lives his life. When you experience his first psychopathic temperament, you soon realize that you're sinking into disarray. With each chapter, you feel the depersonalization of the character into more of a devoid animal, completely not in touch with the world around him. His life is meaningless. His existence is negligeble. And even though, he tries grabbing the attention of others by mumbling his own brutal thoughts, his actions are meager. He's truly a psychopathic killer decorated with a Harvard education, a loft in the Upper West side where Tom Cruise resides and designer clothing. The whole rabid superficial decoration that engulfs him is nothing and the only closeness to his humanity is through acts of killing and mutilation. This is a man that lives in his own hell and reading his everyday chronicles, makes you feel that you're living with him too. Staring at his every horrendous act. You learn to loathe him and his character. You even wish his demise which never comes.<br />People like that do exist. Not just in the 80s, but they are still carried on to this time here and now. Yuppies who drive BMWs and think they have a cool number plate, who shop in Banana Republic on Fifth Avenue for a divorced sex-crazed aunt, who work out to stay buffed for no reason but to satisfy their libido, who wear AX T-shirts and Chopard watches given to them by a wealthy old coot, who inherit their family business because they can't a secure a job of their own due to insecurities, and who only look at others behind a glass mirror thinking that by emulating them through a better way actually makes them a better person. These people live just like Patrick Bateman. A void in their personas and souls. Are they really who they are? Are they real? Is this life, the life they are destined to lead?<br />The answer to that question, though not defined in this book, can easily be assumed by reading it and understanding the concept. Begind the gore, blood and sex, Ellis, brings out a tale of how human life has truly become. How man once flourished intellectually is just sunk down to idiosyncrasities of what people wear, what they drive, what kind of water they drink and where are they getting that tan of theirs.<br />Human life has become cheap, where even homicidal thrills can't even put a luster in your eyes. This is the world we live in. And if we continue along that same path, man, suredly, is dead.	2001-07-17
US	52226496	R3VYJM9O7KD5MF	0785107770	305171942	Peter Parker Spider-Man Vol. 1: A Day in the Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Peter Parker: The Man Behind the Mask...	What makes Spider-Man a fascinating character is not his great powers, but the man behind the mask, Peter Parker. Spidey has enjoyed tremendous success ever since his conception nearly 40 years ago. Throughout all this time, the most unique thing about him was not the colorful suit he wears while swinging, but the simple average, all-so human Peter Parker. Stan Lee, his creator, knew that a long time ago and what better way to bring this character to life but through mastery of one of the hottest British writers of all time, Paul Jenkins.<br />Jenkins became a household name with his unbelievable work on the INHUMANS, but it is here in his take on Spidey that he truly does shine. His characterization is par none, he takes you on a trip into the Spider-Man saga and fills in points of history, with original art of that time, but never truly changes anything for the old reader. He makes things come to life with his words. The take on going back and forth in the past sure does display his powers as a writer. This is a man that was set to write any hero and make him out to be more human than the people you see walking the street everyday while going to work.<br />The whole story delves completely on Peter Parker and how his life as Spider-Man has come to be in the recent years. This is a man who has been through much and still persevered to tell the tale. He is your average guy who you might bump into while playing softball in the park or the guy next to you in the movie theater. He is a living, breathing human being and not a comic book character. At times, a person might think that he's probably too human with all his flaws and gestures. The TPB starts off with how the Chameleon, one of Spidey's first foes views him. This trip goes without saying is an in-depth look at Spidey and Peter Parker that has never been explored before. This culminates in Chapter 3 where Spidey is defined as the true character he really is. The following 4 chapters take you on a ride of how Spidey came to be through the eyes of Peter Parker. Flashbacks on his life as a child help create the man he is now and the hero he then later becomes. Jenkins takes you all the way, with a day in the life. The witty humor and the pretenses don't leave you laughing out loud, but keep giving you that smile that you carry on throughout the story. Anyone could be Spider-Man given the right circumstances, but it is only Peter Parker that makes the character who he really is. You feel the loneliness that he feels and the sadness that he carries each day with him. The loss of his loved ones, his uncle and his wife. You just learn that no matter, to be who you are, you have to learn how to laugh. In the end, that's what helps us being ourselves. That's what makes us appreciate our life for what it is. This is a smart piece of fiction, superbly written by Jenkins and drawn by the industry's top artists.<br />Spider-Man is a comic character, but Peter Parker is a real man in all sense of the word.	2001-07-09
US	52226496	R1BWKVKLJIW90K	0871356163	101178102	Spider-Man Vs. Venom	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Here comes VENOM...	Before I came to NY for the summer, I gave my fiance a number of graphic novels and TPBs that she could read. Sort of like introduce her to the concept of comics in general, before she gets shocked with the 10000 comic collection I own. The first character she loved was Spider-Man's biggest villain of them all. She loved his character, his attitude and that tongue of his (she thought Ghost Rider's flaming skull was cute, so go figure). It was only because of that, that I decided to check on Venom and his adventures. I have been a comic reader and collector for the past 10 years now and I wanted to first hand experience Spidey's attitude to the big man with the black costume. No one displayed that better than this book indeed.<br />This book is written by one of the most prolific writer of the Spidey mythos at the time, David Michelinie. His stories were strong, and really helped create and establish Venom as one of the major foes Spidey had to fend off against. The story spans different aspects of Venom and gives a brief, welcoming introduction of the character. His wit and sense of humor are just mildly explored here. Most of that would come later with the resurgence of his trying to protect the innocents attitude. When it comes to story-wise, this book was there. It was not powerful or thought provoking as the later relesed VENOM Returns, but is something worth delving into to truly understand the character and his relationship with Spider-Man.<br />The art is something else all together. Todd McFarlane just takes you on an adventure ride of a lifetime. The way he draws Spidey's physique during all his twists and turns is amazing. At that time, before the discovery of Mark Bagley or the return of John Romita Jr. to the foray, McFarlane was THE definitive Spidey artist, followed closely by Erik Larsen (who does an excellent job with VENOM Returns). McFarlane is able to bend Spidey and make him the most athletic person on the planet. His prowess, though, falls shortwhen it comes to drawing people's faces. He does make them look good at times, but other, just too wrinkly, a bit inhuman you might say.<br />What I loved mostly about Spidey was his relationship with his wife, Mary Jane. As a newly engaged person, I can truly relate to how Peter Parker reacts to his wife's ups and downs. They are very compatible and reading them through makes you just feel good inside. With this, David Michelinie, makes Peter and MJ's relationship feel so real. This is the exact same magic that was set forth first when Spidey was first introduced in comicdom some 38 years ago. That's why people love the wallcrawler. They can relate to him and whatever happens to him can happen to anyone of us. Uhhmmm, apart from having a crazed guy wearing a black costume running after you wanting to eat your brains that is.<br />In the end, the book is classic Spidey. Very true to his mythos. The ending of the story is very abrupt and leaves you feeling the void, but you just can overlook it by picking up VENOM Returns right after it for some closure. Venom is done right. You can see and feel his slow transformation into madness. He starts off with straight teeth, then as the story progresses, they become longer and sharper. Fans of his famous tongue, though, should wait up, because his own is still tucked in nicely and not out wriggling in the open yet.<br />All in all, I know this would be an excellent gift to the one I love, knowing I couldn't forget her while I was away all this time.	2001-07-09
US	52226496	RJ5FPK05OVWYU	0785107835	223439464	The Punisher Vol. 1: Welcome Back, Frank	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Frank's Back and He's Coming to Getcha	...I have been an old Punisher, but I admit, not a big time fan. I knew his origins, his MO and what made the character tick. I had heard that he died and was then brought back to life when the Marvel Knights imprint first started. His comeback, however, was not just right. Angels? Divine guns coming out of his hands? I'd buy the guns from the hands bit, but actually having them be divine? This was not the character that made his first appearance in Amazing Spider-Man 129 in February 1974. Though he still possessed the basic trait of the original, this Frank Castle lacked the attitude and drive of who he really was.<br />It didn't take long for him to grab his bearings though. Helmed by the creative team of Garth Ennis (who really is a cleverly insane British fellow) and Steve Dillon (a solemn artist that has a calm way to his art), the Punisher came back in a very strong sense of the manner. The great TPB collects, the hard to find, amazingly best-selling mini series that takes the Punisher back to his roots and truly establishes him to the status that he has achieved throughout the years in the Marvel Universe.<br />The TPB is a quick read of a grim story, that pits the Punisher against the Gnucci family headed by Ma Gnucci herself. The most appealing of the charcater of old was his weaponry. Chuck Dixon excelled in the use of real weapons and surveillance methods to knot things down. Garth is something else altogether. He just loves creating ways where Frank gets his way through the bad guys. These ways are so creatively horrid and unthinkable that they just leave you in awe and a little bit scared that a real person, in the form of Garth Ennis, that can think of such things is actually living among us. You actually admire Ennis's genius in that department. It was also commendable the way he tells us about the story and that the meaning of it is simply to entertain. Anyone who reads will definitely be entertained, no matter. <br />Garth takes us through a wild ride and just never lets go. It takes us through a page of the Punisher's life after his comeback from death, but doesn't indulge us too much with an origins storyline. Ennis shows us how people surrounding the Punisher react to his character. From the positive to the negative and what Frank actually does in both presenting situatiions. The last page of the TPB actually made me go \\"Whoah!!\\" It's so unexpected. It's so unbelieveable. It's just so punishable.<br />Now let's not forget the art. If the art was drawn by anyone else, I don't think the story would have been a success. I mean, house hold names like Jim Lee, Todd McFarlane, or Marc Silvestri would have ruined the story if they had drawn the comic. What this story needed was the human touch, not a posey feel to it and Dillon is the right man for the job. His art is crisp and leaves you admiring it for a number of times. He really excels in creating facial expressions. Dillon works excellently with Ennis with scenes shift from one to another.<br />Both the story and the art cannot be just left behind after one read, you're going to have come back to it again and again. A Punisher movie should be thought of by Hollywood. Two crazy yahoos like Ennis and Dillon can provide the story and storyboard to guarantee the capture the essence of the character and make for a successful flick just like the miniseries and TPB were.	2001-07-03
US	52226496	RLO69JY9YCF43	0156006898	973743273	The Wreck of the Whaleship Essex	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Inspirational	Nothing can be as inspirational as much as man's plight of survival against nature. The ability to persevere and to extend on'e spirit to the maximum truly does provide something to look forward to and to fight for. Owen Chase's short memoir on just that holds true to everything of how the human spirit is the most unrelenting of all creatures on God's green Earth. Man maybe nature's favorite son, but when it comes to hardships, he is hardly found lacking and this book clearly demonstrates that.<br />Chase draws up the facts straight. He takes the reader for a very mellow ride when compared to the horrors that he and the other 19 men of the Essex sustained. Since the book was written in the mid 19th century, that was the norm in the style of writing, especially when it was set as a non-fiction memoir. Through it all though, keen readers can clearly picture what Chase and his men have been through and the hardships that the 5 final survivals of the ship lived through. This impassivity just could not be held in when Chase started describing the severe hunger that they were facing and the acts that they had to commit in order to survive the ordeal. Not just feeding off the non-living, but actually killing for sustenance. It's when that tale is being said that the reader can feel the pain, that Chase went through, not only acting upon it, but actually writing about it as well. It's very hard to actually imagine the suffering of such men at first, but when they had to regress to their primal self, it is that horror that just leaves the survivors scarred for life.<br />Chase's recounts of what he and his crew have been to echo in the deep corners of humanity. Pointing what man would commit to survive and his ability to live through the hardships of the unknown. He also points throughout the whole ordeal, how small and weak man really is, not really in control of his life and situations as he would like to believe. That through it all, his fate is in the hands of a Higher Power. In the hands of the Almighty God.	2001-05-28
US	52226496	R38AEBQW1XOQ8W	0880486759	526334563	Dsm-IV Casebook: A Learning Companion to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Clinical Vignettes Galore	The best thing about this book is the huge number of cases of varying kinds that are showcased. The reader just does never get bored of it and the excitement, intrigue and interest in the subject itself its enhanced by a thousandfold.<br />The book moves along the lines of a number of cases given in no particular order. The reader has the ability to read the case and come up with his own dignosis and then finally comparing it with the discussion presented after. The no particular order of presentation is greatly helpful in that the reader does not know what to expect and has to think and formulate his own differential. Most of the cases are well presented and though not classic like those showcased in books, they have the spice of being real cases. In other words, these are the same features you will be seeing in your everyday practice or psychiatry clerkship. If you wanted a specific case to read about, the index in the back clearly highlights where to find it in more than one different classification.<br />The biggest letdown of this book is that it fails to point out patient management. It is understandable that this is more of a case presentation book, but knowing how to tailor therapy for each individulaized patients is a great plus. This, however, is not implemented greatly in this book. The authors would mention the use of antidepressants or neuroleptics, but not mention exactly which type or kind of those does the patient respond to. Brief therapeutics and a follow-up discussion is presented most of the time, but that still fails to point out how management of the patient has progressed.<br />All in all, this book is excellent for learning in a more clinical type setting. Required reading before this book is a well established Psychiatry textbook to identify the diseases in general and after that, you're set to go. This aids the reader to independently identify the problem accordingly and to form an well established differential and final diagnosis. All in all, I strongly recommend this book as an adjunct to a Psychiatry textbook, if not the DSM-IV per se.	2001-05-13
US	52226496	RYRCBI5Y43J9	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Strong Follow-up to Bag of Bones	There are a great number of ways people read. Some love short anthology books, other are more keen to go through novels and eat them whole. Still some readers are more of on a genre basis, reading just horror, romance or what have you.<br />I love reading. Perhaps one of the great past times that I never tire of is just sitting down and going for a really good read. To move from places you can only imagine and try to be in. To actually live in the setting the author draws on with his words. When it comes to reading I would go forth by reading a novel or two after each other and them taking a break by reading some short story anthology. Kind of a way top draw a breather.<br />My last Stephen King book was Bag of Bones and that story grabbed by the neck and kept me completely enthralled by every aspect of it. The whole thing. I stood and wondered how a man like King could actually scribe such a masterpiece. He was more cast as a stereotypical horror writer, but what Bag of Bones had was something that not authors can emulate or draw from. That work was so much different from all his previous work that a person could have been fooled that the author was not really King himself. That book was big and long and after reading it, I thought that I needed time off from big novels and, though he's my fave author, from King himself.<br />Through it all, I was thinking, ok, Stephen, you did it once, but can you really do it again?? It was only after more than a year from my last King book that I finally knew the answer.<br />The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon is a short book by all standards. A fast reader could gulp it up in one setting and an average one could go with it for around a week. The book follows the same trend as Bag of Bones, with King relying more on his literary prowess more than his ability to scare powers. But does that mean, he doesn't have that in him. Oh no no! He just has it more in check and it's really in it. The whole idea of a girl being lost in the woods for God knows how long alone, and the reader experiencing what she has to go through is a feat all by itself. The notion of having a nine year old, alone, scared s just too incredulous to really fathom. Only King could have tackled such a thing and he does it superlatively. King's descriptive abilities are so strong that you will feel that you're with Trisha, wherever she goes, feeling whatever she does and seeing what she is seeing. Her dreams become reality and even her delirious hallucinations make the fear crawl inside you.<br />This book is a winner. I won't go into what I think King was going for in the story, but I guarantee that you will be touched by it. By the determination of that plucky 9 year old girl who looks older than her age.or God knows how long alone, and the reader experiencing what she has to go through is a feat all by itself. The notion of having a nine year old, alone, scared s just too incredulous to really fathom. Only King could have tackled such a thing and he does it superlatively. King's descriptive abilities are so strong that you will feel that you're with Trisha, wherever she goes, feeling whatever she does and seeing what she is seeing. Her dreams become reality and even her delirious hallucinations make the fear crawl inside you.<br />This book is a winner. I won't go into what I think King was going for in the story, but I guarantee that you will be touched by it. By the determination of that plucky 9 year old girl who looks older than her age.	2001-05-07
US	52226496	RHRL39CTHU2SZ	0425170004	349470065	The Ultimate Spider-Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spidey Swings into Action	One of the best things about the Spider-Man character that he succeeds in different media. Prose writing and novelization is just one of those. Comics, video games and an upcoming movie coming out the summer of 2002, make Spidey, the character of  the most accessible of all the different comic characters.<br />What this book holds is a number of well written, different style, short stories that put the spotlight on Spidey and his numerous foes. Some stories, don't even have well established foes, but still hold the magic of Spidey, and at times even better without them. The different writers showcased in this anthology do best to grasp the essence of the character. The alternating Peter Parker and Spider-Man form produces a very well conceieved idea tht has forever appealed to millions of readers and fans all over the world.<br />The major setback in this anthology is that Spidey is a very visual character, and the fans have gotten used to seeing him swing and jump and fight his way. The emaphsis is on the word &quot;see&quot;. Some fans would not accept the charcater in such a setting andthus forth might consider the book not their cup of tea. Another aspect of things to be seen, is that readers of prose, not comics will think that a Spidey book is childish and not what it's supposed to be. Those people deal more with charcaterization and delving of the characters' emotions and so forth. This dos not imply that the book lacks that, Spidey has always been about character and how real and of this world he really is. An excellent example of such an achievement is the excellent final story of the collection &quot;Five Minutes&quot; by Peter David. That story captures the magic of the Peter Parker, the man behind the mask. Anyone who has a loved one waiting for them and yearning to be with them at all times, will relate to that story.<br />Though I have told people that I was reading this book when I was, but I cold not actually hold it with me and walk around the university campus with it. I guess no matter how OK you might be reading a book on Spidey, people would still think that you're a kid or a geek to actually do such a thing. Should you care?? I think not. On the contrary, up till now thisis the best anthology book that have read this year, but I can't go more to say that it's the best.<br />Spider-Man is a winner and he always gets on top. No matter.	2001-04-28
US	52226496	R8WPT0C59YESL	1569472041	259609033	Adrian Mole: The Cappuccino Years	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Comedy at its Very Best	The major difference between British and American comedey is that the former is wry, full of self-loathing and very witty. This book takes you on a journey in the life of life's biggest losers. Someone, you know can't very will exist in this world, but also know that he may very well be your next door neighbor, your cousin or heck maybe you, yourself.<br />Adrian Mole is every person's nightmare. A person you really want to pity, but can't very well waste your emotions on. He goes on with his life, with no motivation and no control but still manages to survive by the skin of his teeth. What is even more incredulous is the fact that he just keeps moving along as if nothing completely happened and there's nothing seriously wrong with things. It's his complete lack of insight that the reader can find quite funny indeed. He lives mainly on dreams of what he wished for himself, the way he thought life should be and the fact that life is completely giving him the backhand on his every endeavour. A lot of the mistakes he moves through seem never to leave a mark on him. He just never learns and continues to live in his fantasy life. This could be completely absurd, but through it all, it is THE most funniest thing anyone can set eyes and is rightfully enjoyful.<br />With regard to the story telling. the book is in diary form and the reader gets to see life in the eyes of Adrian. The narration is simple, witty and at times thought provoking. You see how Adrian sees his life and how life actually sees him. The reader gets to experience different major events and how they affect Adrian's outlook on things. The election of Tony Blair as PM, the Diana tragedy and the funniest of them all, the Clinton scandal. Adrian is very vocal (it's his diary, you know) when it comes to these things and his opinions on them are really worth the whole read.<br />The author, Sue Townsend, seems very capable of handling the life of a guy. At times, when Adrian's losing streak seems to be churning like a choo choo train ahead, a person might actually think, whether this is how women see men's lives. But is that sexism? I guess only a person who reads the book from cover to cover and truly finds the point of it all can answer that very question. Or maybe you're Sue Townsend and know the answer to that.<br />This is quite a good book, with a number of laugh out loud comedey situations (I'm not a person who laughs when reading a book, but this one seemed to manage to get some out of me). It's well-written with good prose. The language has been edited, yet you never lose the essence of the story and its concept. The book is also a fast read, which you just can't put down. I savor my books, taste them when I read, but when it came to this one, I just couldn't get enough of it and truly wanted to know what was going to happen.<br />The book leaves you with a very light heart and good feel in your soul. My finishing of it also coincided with the happy moment of a close relation of mine giving birth. I would like to wish the couple my sincerest congratulations and love with their newborn. What would I give them for a gift? In my happy mood, who knows? It could very well be a copy of Adrian Mole: The Cappuccino Years.<br />Let's just hope the boy doesn't turn out to be like him.	2001-04-02
US	52226496	RL42OMFGRMR2O	0671626280	161036107	Live Girls	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Enticing till the Last Drop	Perhaps not a lot of things can be said about a book on vampires. No matter how harsh and crude any writer would try and handle them, the creatures seem to majestically climb to the top no matter the circumstance. This is verily what is portrayed right here. Though Garton does not mishandle his creatures, he certainly does not take you on the mystic trip that has started with Stoker's Dracula and Rice's Lestat. There are no memorable characters and life just goes on without any repercussions as soon as you put down the book. Both Stoker's nd Rice's vampires were alluring and enticing, though there is never a physically intimate scene in any one of those. The sexula tension that builds up in those books are part of the story and form an intricate piece of the grand picture. Garton takes that misconceived notion and puts it to use with some very lurid and explicit forms. Is this a welcome? I guess it truly depends whether you like enjoying reading such stuff or not. Throughout, however, those are truly felt apart from the flow of the story and could have been dregarded completely.<br />The story is not without saying boring or anything. Garton's style is the most gripping and his use of the mundane and everyday life matters truly makes you think that anything could be possible. He seems more accustomed to going through a more cinematic approach of things. The way the scenes shift and contort from one to another truly make you feel as if you're watching a movie. While this is a stylistic wonder and can truly hold you in its grip, the reader never gets the chance to get to know the characters more or truly get into their way of thinking, which is just the reason why a lot of people prefer books over movies. The charcaterization presented can speak a lot, though without a single shift in the scene or pace.<br />This is my third Garton novel I have ever read and I'm not disappointed with it at all. It follows the exact same methodology of style as those presented in his books Seductions and Lot Lizards. The book is great, but calling it the best horror book ever really undermines other great writers that have delved into the vampire mythos.<br />Garton's vampires are out for one thing and one thing only. Your blood and no matter what, you just can't say no to those eyes that look onto through the window beckoning you to come closer.	2001-03-28
US	52226496	RWQ7854YCC3QJ	0060392983	606000879	The Rock Says...	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Book on its Own	One of the biggest mistakes a person would do is trying to compare two books written by two different authors who have led two very much different lives. Just because they share the same profession doesn't mean they're actually going to write the same stuff. Mick Foley's book is great. It's one of the sincerest, most heart-warming piece of literary advent of a wrestler there ever was, but that doesn't mean that the Rock's book should be cut short of being just that.<br />First off the length of this book is much shorter than Mick's and could very well be gobbled in much as one sitting, or in my case two since I was ill at the time and I had to take breaks for taking my cold medicine. That doesn't mean the book is too short, it just means that it sums up this man's life rather well and doesn't bleed with excess of repition and even more repitition.<br />The Rock has a different view of what life is and how he goes on with it. He grew up differently from Mick. He was born into wrestling and this rich history and provided the grand mix of his multicultural family that writing about all just has an allure that one might think kind of intimidating. This is what makes up the bulk of the book and really how it truly stands out from Mick's.<br />The only bad thing, and it doesn't necessarily mean bad in a spoken sense, is that there is a wide gap of lack of genuine humor with a spark of innocense between the Rock's and Mick's books. This, I believe, is the major downside and why a lot of people have so much gripe with this book. That, however, is compensated in pieces when the Rock gets into character and really lashes out with his usual repartee. This can get annoying at times since the rest and the majority of the books is really heartfelt and completely sincere in form, but it's very true to the Rock's character.<br />This book is a fantastic journey to the mind, the soul, and the very heart of a very dedicated person, a family man and inspiration to the millions and millions of fans out there. His life story, albeit short is very emotional, candid and rich in history. This is a book that stands on its own as an electrifying read from start to finish by a person that is rightfully called the most electrifying man in sports entertainment.	2001-03-03
US	52226496	R334E7AB0KUZ05	031226254X	629256696	Adams Fall	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Harvard will Never be the Same	I have been to Boston twice in my lifetime and during my time there, I have visited Harvard on more than a couple of occassions. The atmosphere is dark, grim and not the oh so cheerful college-style freedom you come to get acquainted with when visiting any other university in any other part of the world. I always thought that was because of the Harvard demeanour and the fact that going to one of world's most respected school kind of does that to you. This book takes that personally contrived notion, gulps it up, spits it back out and forms a whole different and darker image of the place.<br />We start off with the length, which is very right for this book in more than a different count. First being that Sean Desmond is a first time author where mistakes could be masked by making things up to the point and another is the fact that a story like this one is greatly told in a hit and run fashion. Desmond is successful enough to take us into a journey deep in the mind of the narrator, who through the novel is nameless. His thoughts, desires and fall from grace is well depicted throughout. The story moves more like a fall from grace style of writing and holds true to many biblical mythos and figures.<br />Is it scary? I have read scarier books, but this book holds a suspense factor of 9 on a 10 scale. You just want to know what might happen. The only thing that the book fails to answer is why things are happening. The book will leave you wanting more, but I won't necessary think it would make an insomniac out of you.<br />For a first time author, Desmond is good and his lacking are only apparent when it comes to naming places in the Boston area in great detail with names and such. This creates a lot of confusion with those not familiar with the place, especially knowing that these places actually exist in reality.<br />I'm planning to visit Boston this summer and I would definitely have to make time to spend in Adams House and walk in the steps that this story's charcaterwalked in. Harvard will never be the same in my eyes after reading this piece. For once, the danky old place has become a tad bit exciting.	2001-02-27
US	52226496	R1343Q18SLLI2J	0345413458	880051739	Stray Dogs	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fast! Grim! Menacing!	Those three words sum up what this book is really about. I was talking to my fiance one day and asked her what were the recent movies she had seen recently. She said U-Turn, and I remembered that movie from old previews in the past and the fact that I have not watched it yet. Though it was an Oliver Stone movie and had such an outlandish cast, I just couldn't bring myself to actually watch something that I thought would not appeal to me. And there was that eensy weensy little bit of detail that my fiance did not actually like the movie. That enough, it would seem was the main drive of me not really pushing it to actually go watch it.<br />The movie, I guess stuck in my subcounsious, because the minute I saw the book in the bookstore, it caught my attention. I read the sleeve and went on through to the first chapter and completely gulped it up. I thought tyo myself &quot;Huh? Was this book really good?&quot; And I guess it was, the style was so much different from the literary adevents that I sually go for, which gave this piece of work a real blast. Ridley excels in creating the noir scenes and passes through them with ease and clarity. He is not very much into details, which makes the book read like a movie script. All I had to do was close my eyes and truly imagine the people. Ridley fails in creating how his characters actually look like, but since the book was made into a movie, all a person would do is know which actors played what. That's a real downsider at first, since it's all much more fun to picture caracters through your own mind's eye and not have it be desensitized by having pictured actors in your head.<br />This book is great. It's not the best book I have ever read in my life, nor is it the worst. You can, if you're a fast reader and have time on your hands, finish it in less than a day. It's short, way up to the point and the all of the characters seem to stand out as their own.<br />Now though, I have not watched the movie with my fiance, I can proudly say that I have experienced its feel. One thing that should be put into mind is that both the book and the movie have different endings, so both are a treat.	2001-02-08
US	52226496	RGQPQCUGMIH7D	0440108268	374827742	The Bridge Across Forever: A Lovestory	Books	5	16	23	N	N	The Chance to Redeem Yourself	My only chance to really read a book and become engulfed in it is when I'm on a break from my everyday work. As a medical student, you spend so much time learning and and communicating with others you simply do not have the time to look back into yourself and think about those deepest intimate moments you might share with the one you love.<br />Finding the the time to read becomees a holy task that should not be wasted by frolicking into books that may not have meaning or will not become a part of you in the future. That's why I had mixed expectatations when I first started with Bach's The Bridge Across Forever. I have previously read Illusions and though it captured me in a sense, I did not feel the magic that a number of people who have read the book felt. I hoped against all odds that this book would be different. I was wrong...<br />This books reads the same as the former and though it's a bit less intimate and self-inspecting, it still deals with a numer of thoughts that people just don't know that they exist. You just never know that a person in this world would be so candid with his feelings that he would speak it out with such ease and let things flow into words. I started this book and felt it drag me down. I did not know where Bach was going, when he'll go there, how he'll get there and what is it that he will do when he finally does get there. I just wanted the book to finish. With ease, the book just flowed and I could feel the soft shift fromonme scene to another and knew that the book was just an easy read and that the end was nigh.<br />I kept on thinking about bach's failures and nonesense in this book. On how a person with such a heightened sense of sensitivity could be so blind to let go of something everyone wish they could have let alone fathom. His inundities made me quite angry at him and really wanted me to stop reading all these follies, but I persevered. I felt the book twist and the chapters move from one theme to another. New Age. Flying.Evangelism. Everything seemed to flow from one page to another until one paragraph near the end of the book summed up its meaning, its essence. It was that simple short sum of words that entrapped what the book was all about and it was only then that this book made me truly realize Bach's reason to distract us until we reach at that point. That paragraph captured my heart and made me truly think if a soulmate does truly exist and if the person I'm currently in love with and inspired by is truly mine.<br />For all my aspirations and expectations, I do hope so. And it was only at the end did I finally realize what the bridge across forever truly means.	2001-01-29
US	52226496	R36AHPL5HI3E0K	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Story of Epic Proportions	I usually have my own niche when it comes to reading books. I'm not a genre reader, but when it comes to books, I always liked making out my own opinions before I buy them. That's why I keep on sticking to the same writers and same style books. Starting new stuff is fun, but I just hate being let down in the long end. I met a friend of mine one day when he was feeling really down after a fight with his girlfriend. As a mean of cheering him up, we took off to our local bookstore. Upon seeing this book, he started getting pretty much poignant and begged that I buy this one. I never heard of Wilbur Smith from the fat lady that keeps singing, but since I was a nice guy and I didn't really want to break his heart, I did the unspeakable. I bought a book written by a guy I'm not familiar with his writing, recommended by a guy who has just broken up with his girlfriend and going for the same book she bought for him as a gift. It was just a weird situation, which the only way you could get out of was to buy the thing and get away with it. I did... And I can't say that I did a bad choice at all...<br />The book is huge and intimidating and I admit, it took a great many nights to finish. One thing is for sure, though, it grabs hold of you. It mesmerizes you with the descriptions and the ethereal setting that is Pharaoic Egypt. It takes you on a magical journey filled with joy, hardness, heartache and sadness. It leaves you laughing out loud at times, and at times, you just feel a hollowness in your stomach that you just can't understand where it's coming from. The narration is so well written that you feel as if, the lead character, Taita, is talking right in front of you with no printed or a 3000 year barrier between the two of you. Smith is really able to contort with the ideas and amalgamates them nicely into an epic that just itches to be read at one go even with the seemingly huge content. There are many twists of plots, but the pacing never slows or bores you. Smith succeedes in capturing your eyes, your mind and, most of all, your heart.<br />The book inspired me to buy the sequel, the Seventh Scroll, just to see how the story is continued through in the modern world. And that decision did not require a solemnly single friend with a broken heart recommending it for me.	2001-01-10
US	52226496	R3HD8RT3FPAXHI	0786881046	505457356	Pulp Fiction: A Quentin Tarantino Screenplay	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Dialogue Steals You Away	There are two people who write screenplays that are so normal, every day life that it just steals you away, making you as part of the words as the charcatersa themselves. Who are these guys you ask? Kevin Smith and Quentin Tarantino.<br />Pulp Fiction is the second installment of QT's first directorial debut Reservoir Dogs. Though the movies stand alone, the action and the dialogue seems as if they are part of the whole picture. QT is a genius with understanding the average man's dilemma with life and captures the mobs' life perfectly, making them sound and talk as human as possible, not just tough as they are.<br />QT's screenplay in Pulp Fiction is no different in being, smart, creative and downright laugh-out-loud funny at times. There are extra tidbits that have been editted off the movie, so reading them even enhances the effectiveness of each scene.<br />If ever there was a genius with words, Tarantino is suredly one of those few.	2001-01-10
US	52226496	RQSPHWOZX7XUN	1563894068	598962955	Superman: Transformed!	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Transformation	The biggest problem in dealing with an iconic character created more than 60 years ago is that youhave to deal with fans from all different ends of  the spectrum. We're talking about a charcater that could have been read by  Elvis, The Beatles and in these sad times the Backstreet Boys. A character  read by or known in all parts of the world, China, France or even Trinidad  and Tobago. We're talking about a legend that has endured all these 60+  years. How can you keep the character fresh to endure all the  possibilities, but still retain that charm that made the charcater who he  is. earlier in the 90s, they tried killing him and that proved shocking to  the world at large, but still added extra depth to the character. Now  they're trying something different. During the Final Night, the Sun was  being slowly consumed by an entity and through that, our solar powered hero  gradually lost his powers. When that is said and done, the sun is  rejuvenated once again, yet our hero still remains powerless. Now that  grabs you. This is the single theme that can make you read further as to  understand what will happen next. You don't have to read the Final Night to  get the picture. I haven't read it, and though I'm intrigued as to how  Superman felt with his powers ebbing, I can survive with the notion that  whith all this, he has become your regular Joe Public and move on with the  story.<br />The story twist, giving and taking certain themes as it moves  along. There are some pothole and some unanswered questions, but this is a  tradepaperback collecting issues of the comics, not a complete self  contained graphic novel. The book merely points to the transformation, but  ends right there. There is no continuacy as to how Superman deals with  things now that he has transformed. So you could say, the book is kind of  incomplete, but again when doing a TPB, you just can't fill things as easy  than when you're dealing with a graphic novel. All in all, this book has  solid artand storytelling. The editorial tasks are a bit lacking from time  to time as the reader might ask questions like &quot;What? When did that  happen?&quot; or &quot;This can't be right, I just read something different  ten pages back.&quot;<br />Ironically, the transformation was not well  received as the death of Superman. In the end Superman states that he has  changed for the new century with different powers and aspects unknown, but  the readers thought otherwise as the classic red and blue costume with the  cape is brought back for the start of the millenium. I guess you can test  people's threshold for change, but in the end, the best things in life are  the classics.	2000-08-02
US	52226496	R3AUSZYE6D07G	1563891182	227874357	World Without a Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Touching	Hot on the heels of perhaps one of the most controversial takes on the Superman charcater, DC takes us to a world where life continues without a Superman's presence. It points how the Man of Steel held against his people  and other heroes. A number of the World's Finest make their appearance.  Even Batman, who is known to be the coldest and most calculating of all  heroes makes a cameo here, which just reverbetates the power of the  storyline. A great deal is discussed about Big Blue's influence on a number  of people, but the most touching and the true driving force of all this was  how the people close to Supes's alter ego react. Lois, his parents and even  Jimmy Olsen are portrayed to view the loss and each scene with any of them  sure makes you think how these people looked up to the big man. The story  does bridge the gap between Bog Blue's death and return. Since this is a  trade paperback, collecting individula comics, DC had to do this as part of  a marketing plan to hold their audience captivated after Superman's death.  they could not bring him back full blast, which is rediculous to say the  least, so they bring out a human story that can be considered the other  side of the action motivated coin of his death.<br />A truy touching tale,  portraying the love and meaning of how life can trul feel like after the  death of a dear one.	2000-08-01
US	52226496	R3G1OIY89NT65Q	1563891492	893490657	The Return of Superman	Books	4	23	26	N	N	MASSIVE	The first thing that should be said about this book is how huge it is. It's around 500 pages og pure unadulterated comic book delight. I wa never a fan of Superman, I always thought of him as just too super for me and  simply has nothing going for him. The book makes you think otherwise.<br />It  introduces four different characters all claiming to be the Man of Steel  and picks up the mystery from there. Though the identity of Steel and  Superboy are set from the beginning, serious doubts and frustrations form  as to who or what is that cyborg Superman and the one with the visor, where  the comics trult succeeeds in making you believe they can both be the real  deal incpite of the circumstances. They look like Superman (the cyborg  looks like Terminator, but hey, who's complaining here), but the act  completely different all together from the original. The mystery does truly  delve deeper into who or what they are, where those questions are then  truly answered in an unbelievable ending. The storyline takes its time to  build up, but upon reaching the climax, you are just too awe-stricken to  say the least. The one true Superman appears in the end, much to the  delight of fans and readers and we can all say, it was finally due.<br />I  don't think DC has done any far reaching things with the character as they  did with him here. They changed his costumed in later years and turned him  into an energy entity which brought another media frenzy to a character as  much part of the American culture as any other , but truly nothing beats  what they did with his death and return. Great book...	2000-08-01
US	52226496	RN2X4S15MJGS7	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Something I thought not possible...	The Death of Superman sure surprised a lot of people, comic fans and the average joe. Who would have thought that the Man of Steel could even be beaten let alot die. The media storm that these issues built up were  something unaccounted for in the comic world for a long time. People  started thinking how could DC, the comics' publisher, kill off the first  superhero icon, an American icon similar to McDonald's and Coca Cola, but  the did and they sure did it with good storytelling and incredible art.  First people should understand that this a tradepaperback collecting the  comics in which Superman valiantly fought to fend off Doomsday from  Metroplois. The book is not a graphic novel, thus does not read like one.  Through that, the editors performed a solid effort to bring in the  storyline, which is written by a group of people and the artists, thus at  times, the story would be faster and then slow down. This is only due to  the different creative teams responsible for bringing out the book and  should not be held against them. If the comics were read individually, it  would have meant a whole lot better, but since those issues have become a  rarity, collecting them was the right choice all in all.<br />The story  introduces Doomsday, a character so bestial and primal he'll make any  horror monster run for his money and teh cruelty he portrays is somewhat  disturbing. Not much is said about the monster's origin and that could be  held as a downpoint to the story, but as mentioned since this was part of  an ongoing series, his origins are mentioned and delved in deeper later on.  The intrigue on why he wanted Metropolois and why Superman had to stop him  are all set in motion here, but are tackled later in future issues not  collected here.<br />All in all, this collection is a must have in the  Superman mythos and those interested in Big Blue. It portrays his heart and  determination to beat the odds in which he does, even though it meant his  life. It is recommended that you check out part 2 and 3 of the trilogy,  World without a Superman and The Return of Superman to truly comprehend the  big picture of things. This book alone holds true when it comes to standing  alone, but do you really want to stop there?<br />DC embarked on a great risk  with this direction, but truly put out an actionpacked, hold on to your  hats effort. They're commended for taking the big step and bringing us a  good, highly acclaimed form of entertainemt.	2000-08-01
US	52226496	R25QQXE65QVJJL	0787122564	67741254	The Exorcist	Books	5	5	7	N	N	EVIL	This has got to be the best horror (or any other for that matter), I have ever read. It's amazing, I practically finished it in less than a week. Anything I read from now on has got to be compared with this book from now  on. The book takes you through events that can happen to anyone at anytime.  You feel for the characters, the loss of faith, the evil and through it  all. It's an amazing book. I loved it tremendously. The book was  interpreted into an equally frightening film. It set the point for the  second one, and the third took off from where the book ended. This is the  right book to read in one go. Never take a breath and always, always, keep  the lights on, you just don't know what might be coming out from under the  bed and if your bed shakes, always call an Exorcist...	2000-07-20
US	52226496	R3O3IBQ9NAE9ZE	1563894696	431283596	Batman: The Long Halloween	Books	5	29	38	N	N	Incredible Story with Compelling Art	People always ask themselves the question what is it about the Dark Knight  that makes him one of the most enduring and popular characters of our time?  This wonderfully scripted trade paperback edition of the Long Halloween  points to the answer. The book delves deeply into the criminal elemant of  Gotham and bring out the best of Batman, who you see very little of when it  come to the action scenes, but a lot of in scenes depicting conversation.  The mood is very dark in this comic and reminisces the first Batman movie  by Tim Burton. Batman sticks to the shadows and you just can't help but  feel intimidated when he slowly walks out. The element of fear has always  been the Bat's strongest features and this book really shines through when  it comes to that. The coloring by Gregory Wright suits the mood so well  that yopu feel as if you're that third person looking at things from behind  a lens. Tim Sale is without a doubt one of the most promising talents out  there. His soft, smooth approach to the characters makes better than the  detailed, cartoony features that have become the norm in this day and age.  Jeph Loeb scripts one of his best stories in there and you can interact  with the characters and understant their expectations and wants. The story  is suspenseful, thrilling with action in just the right places. Loeb brings  out half of Batman's rogue gallery and portrays them right without them  overstaying their welcome through and through.<br />If you're a fan of Batman,  his first movie and the Godfather all put into one, you'll never put this  book down (I read it continuously without a break). If you're just a Batman  fan, then You'll be seeing the character written at his best.	2000-07-18
US	52226496	R1NSKMRM9SC25I	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	1998 Bram Stoker Award Winner	This book is the best. I know it has received mixed reviews from the people out there, but it really shines. There's just so much passion in the  story that it just puts you in awe throughout your reading. One of King's  best books in a long, long time. Truly deserving, it's not a surprise, it's  King's most commercially successful book of all time. Topping more than 1.6  million copies sold when still the paperback hasn't yet hit the  streets.<br />King is definitely changing his style of writing and is  exploring new realms of wonders through and through. I like the way he's  going, having defined a whole genre all by himself, he's now weaving paths  and moving through the cutting edge of what and how literature can be taken  if depth and a little twist is included. I just wonder if critics would  finally see through and notice the length of time spent on writing  this.<br />This book won a 98 Bram Stoker award. Trust me it was for naught.  It truly deserved that right.	2000-05-02
US	52226496	RSVPHPCQI143A	0929480597	32027197	Lot Lizards	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Downright Thrilling	The first time I heard of Ray Garton was through a special offer on his legendary book, Live Girls. That signed book was set for $45 and before I decided to buy it, I had just heard that the price has shot up to $145 (I hear it's even more expensive today than that).<br />I thought to myself, how  can a book, about vampires to say the most be that expensive. What exactly  was that book about to even that much critically acclaimed. All I had in  mind was that I had to get my hands on it... and fast...<br />My search for  Live Girls brought me upon this book, Lot Lizards and if it's any  indication to what Garton's style is, he is by far the most underrated  author of all time. The book not only makes you sense that you're in the  pages with the characters, it makes you smell, taste and live the lives of  each one of them. The setting changes are so subtle, yet so dramatic.  Garton moves in with his storytelling using a very cinematic approach, and  finds great success in it. He has some experiences in the field of movie  novelization and that clearly takes things through and fires up his  characterization. The book does read like a movie. In fact, if someone ever  reads it to you out loud and you just listen to the words spoken, you feel  that you are truly watching a movie with your eyes closed. Even the ending  is very much cinematic, relying on the same gimmick of &quot;what  then?&quot; and &quot;where now?&quot; Which in fact is not as bad as one  might think it is.<br />The style is astounding. Not for a minute do you feel  bored or the need to let the book down. It would seem that the book itself  is like a vampire sucking away your essence as you continue with each page.  For the very first time, in a long time, a relatively unknown author  strikes such a chord in me.<br />This book should be put back into circulation  and should receive better publicity that what it has already received. Ray  Garton takes you there and he just won't let go until he drains you clean  with the last page.<br />I guess now I know why his books are relatively  expensive. They're collector's item and they are truly worth the time and  the experience.	2000-04-27
US	52226496	R8LI72SQA7RS3	0345417119	122963202	The Crow: Shattered Lives & Broken Dreams	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Vengeance has never been truly well written as it is here...	A book comemorating death? Would one buy something as such and still be rendered a person of sanity? The answer is yes on both accounts. The book The Crow: Shattered Lives and Broken Dreams is just that. Edited by the  creator, the book takes you on numerous adventures scribed by different  writers on the mythos of the crow. Most of the stories deal with the same  contextual theme of wrongful death, sadness and a way of making things  better where things have gone wrong. The book succeeds in a number of  aspects and truly brings out the vengeful spirit that is the Crow. Though  the character was created in the early 80s, it has grown to fame by the  release of two successful movies, one in which was immortalized by the late  Brandon Lee. One might ask what is the difference between The Crow and the  Marvel comic character, the Ghost Rider, which also serves as a vengeful  spirit. While the latter seeks vengeance for things gone wrong, the former  has the special attribute that it can be anyone or even anything that can  pick the mantle of the Crow. Anyone can become his or her own special  spirit of retribution.<br />Most of the stories and poetry are well-written  though some are just too far fetched to be taken seriously, a number of  stories delve more into fantasy than your regular fiction. A number of  stories, however, capture your mind and heart from the instance you read  them. Stories that traverse the here and now. On how things should have  been, but aren't. James O'Barr's piece, &quot;Spooky, Codeine and the Dead  Man&quot; is a perfect example of such. Another story would be &quot;Moving  Toward the Light&quot; by Rick R. Reed, a though-provoking piece about pain  and hurt. The story is extremely graphical and can truly touch the reader  and make him witness first hand the descriptive pungent exploitation the  character experiences. The story makes you think and wonder, can this truly  happen in a world of today, and the answer to that painful questionis an  excruciating yes.<br />The book is a must read for not only horror fans, but  those who truly believe that there are outside forces controlling the paths  each one of us takes, a power that can right where things have gone wrong,  horribly wrong.	2000-03-26
US	52226496	RO5NDFU97IARY	1852425970	616789411	Personal Demons	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Outstanding feat of literature.	I have a number of books that I haven't read and always keep them till the time is right. There are many that you just can't take on if you had a great deal of things to do. This book fell once into this category, and I  regret it to this day.<br />I'm all for short stories. You can learn a great  deal through reading them and you just can't beat the feeling that you can  finish one every night before bed. These stories written by Fowler are more  than that. You just can't get enough of one and you have to jump into the  other. The book is not just an amazing read, but a feat altogether. This  book was recommended through a review I had written for another book. I  ignored the recommendation at first, but at a time I could not find  anything to do, I thought I would give it a try. It's a very fast read and  really entertaining. The horror touch, though there, is really set in thwe  background, and the flavor of literary fiction is the one that takes  control through the pages.<br />The last story sums up every other story and  makes sense of everything that has gone through and through. Hearts in  Atlantis by King, played on the same theme of intermixing characters, but  it was Fowler who devise that role in this book taht was published before  Hearts time, but some time.<br />In all, this is really an entertaining read  that just grasps you and won't let go. Fowler is successful in bringing all  his stories to life. It's just a shame that his books are not readily  available in bookshops and you really have to dig deep to find what this  underrated author has produced.	2000-01-06
US	52226496	R3VIV4A60K5XXS	0812523016	821153252	Dracula (Tor Classics)	Books	5	29	36	N	N	Truly Immortal	Dracula is a book like no other. I first read it when I was just a little kid and thought that this is the kind of literature taht should be read through and through. The writing style is very different and at the same  time very catching. Stoker works immaculately to bring in the first person  narrative to life in this through a journals-like style of prose. This book  has spawned the modern interest of people with vampires and inspired a  horde of movies and other books as well. The modern dsay queen of vampires  Anne Rice in whole her vampire chronicles fails to capture the magic of  that creature created by a syphilitic irishman. Stoker truly created a  legend. Many reports speculate that Stoker based his story on facts with  regard to the existence of Dracula. Vlad Tepesh or Vlad the IMpaler was the  ruler of Walachia in the middle ages and is still a legend in Romania till  this day. His ruthlessness against the Turks brought much fear in the  hearts of men. Vlad was the kind of guy who would feast in front of a  thousand people being impaled in front of him. The other part was the fact  that Stoker was said to have witnessed a psychiatric case in which a person  was demented in that he had to drink blood to relinquish himself from pains  he was feeling. A number of peoplehave pointed that vampirism is truly a  disease, a form of a disorder called porphyria in which treatment includes  the injection of fresh hemoglobin into the patient. Incidentally those  patients are sensitive to light, which is true to Stoker's version of  events. In any case, Dracula is among the best tightly packed book out  there, with the best perspective and excellent prose. Stoker truly does  succeed in taking the writer to the land of horror and simply created the  most immortal legend of all. Bram Stoker's Dracula, the movie directed by  Francis Ford Coppolla holds true to the book for those who haven't got the  time to sink their teeth into an amazing book as this.	2000-01-01
US	52226496	R2OAZFW43SFBHL	0843945508	217573810	Bite	Books	3	3	3	N	N	How was Stephen King made to comment on this book?	Well the book was very well written, but the dialogue and the first person narration simply killed the true meaning behind of things. There was very little insight on the deep feelings of others characters. We just had one  guy doing all the narrating. The other characters were mere players and you  can never know what goes on inside them or what the driving force behind  their actions are. The character, Snow White, was pitted to be this all  encompassing evil thing, but you can never understand his true motives  except through the opinion of the narrator which is not very insightful.  Then we had that narrator and the lead female character. This guy is  definitely more than obssessed. He's downright scary. I mean, we know there  are high school crushes out there, but I have never seen one as exteme as  this one.<br />This book is not a recommended read. It's ok since you can  finish it quickly and all, but to go through it all and read it. It's just  a waste. I just don't know how big names like King and Koontz wrote a one  liner for the cover? <br />This book belongs on the shelf of a King Soopers  supermarket if you ask me.	1999-12-02
US	52226496	R1GAEPR0XXOBWX	187354491X	124290013	Wink of the Mona Lisa and Other Stories from the Gulf (Memoirs of Arabia)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well told and well written...	Nothing written about the Gulf region has been better reflected than what Al-Murr has in these pages. His stories talk about a place and a time that  is truly unrique to this place and the surrounding area. A westerner would  never truly undestand the meaning of the whole cultural background and so  forth until he reads this book. Some of these stories are true, fabricated  with a bit of fiction to entice the reader. All of them can happen or have  happened. This is a great book recommended for all those that think that  this region is made up of yahoos riding camels. It isn't, as the book point  out, and that should be corrected in the minds of people from the west. It  is made up a rich society with a rich culture. The way of thinking is  different, but through it all it is true.	1999-10-23
US	52226496	R351USQFJ52KZN	0375503323	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom Up	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Very informative, touching and inspiring...	This is a very good book. You get to learn about the Amewrican way of life through a true all-American guy. I have never met or read anything by one so patriotic, whgo stioll believes in what he stands for. I followed Jesse  from his early daus in the WWF and later WCW. He then completely  disappeared until I found out he was elected governor of Minnesota. I had  to find out how that happened. I checked him out in the WWF 1999 Summerslam  and on the Leno show. He has certainly changed, but you can still feel the  colorful, strong headed man he always was and will always be. His book is  inspiring for all Americans and those who aren't to reach out for their  dreams and that whatever you do, there is always a thin line that leads  from one part of your likfe to another. I don't agree with Jesse in all his  veiwpoints, but I'm not his twin or brother to agree on everything he says.  The book is funny, lighthearted, and was surely the fastest read in my  history of reading. This book says it all.	1999-10-22
US	52226496	R95A56Q3WT4PI	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty Impressive	The book captivates you from the start and takes you to extreme twists and turns as you read through it. By the end, I thought the ending happened too quickly and had such an anti-male feel to it. I don't know. Though the book  captures you with the beauty of literary descriptions, it leaves much to be  desired on the choice of themes. That still does not deter you from reading  the other chronicles though.	1999-10-02
US	52226496	R1JJHR5AER00LL	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Excellent Book	As an Arab who is quite intersted in Norse mythology and the Vikings, this book was na amzing read. Crichton weaved the tale of fact and fiction to a threadline. This is the first time I read a book that does not criticize  Islamic methods and views, but portrays them respectfully and candidly to  the reader.<br />This book is a must read for all Crichton fans and those who  want to read a story written intelligently.	1999-09-12
US	52226496	R1WWKM2PGFBZ8Q	0385494238	654180128	Amsterdam	Books	4	1	2	N	N	What is a Booker prize???	I personally don't understand what a Booker prize is really about. All I know is that this book does not deserve winning it. I've read this and another Booker, THe ENglish Patient. A sea between the two, whether through  literary content or story-wise. Amsterdam is a good story. It's a quick  read anad that's a plus. The story could have been part of a larger fable,  but the story was too short. More of a bed time story. It's a good book.  NOt deserving of a Booker, but at this time and age, what is Booker???	1999-06-12
