US	52223511	R3091FI3UH40HI	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Get past the first 30 pages, you'll be fine.	A scan of a number of reviews, say that they found the beginning of the book to come off as very arrogant, etc. I definitely agree with this. It moves quickly enough to be interesting, but my first reaction was \\"he sure does like the sound of his voice.\\" <br />But keep reading. While he never completely gets rid of that attitude, by the time you're 50 pages in, you're hooked (likely sooner) and the last 50 pages or so of the book are simply excellent. It's interesting to read the details of how he conned others, as well as his own code of ethics. Also, I'm sure many of these gaps have been filled, yet there are just newer and higher tech ways to scam people. The story about the stewardesses travelling with him, was just astounding. Ultimately he was punished--boy was he---and paid his debt to society. The entire story is very fast paced.	2003-12-22
US	52223511	R3N9K8RE92DKYJ	0375504907	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	10	12	N	N	loved this!	I absolutely loved this book. In the US, it's difficult to get unbiased information about daily life in Iran. This book delved into the history, and showed both the daily inequities, but also the strength and determination, of its citizens, especially the women. It reminded me that there was a time when Iranian women were on equal status with men, and the historical events that changed that, from one person's perspective. It discusses day to day life, the Iran-Iraq war, and things the women would do to rebel against their situation. These women were intelligent, educated, and had a desire to learn. The author also intersperses her historical discussions, with literary criticisms. The book club members take fiction, and see things that Western readers likely wouldn't, to apply it to their own lives, and gain hope from it. <br />When I first started this book, I thought it would catapult into my &quot;top 5 ever&quot; list. I still give it 5 stars, but the one part I disliked, was the digression into the past. I would have liked to have heard more about the book club members, and their lives. The way the book is structured, the first quarter, and the last quarter of the book discuss the club, with the middle being about the author. She also moves in and out of time often, and it can be hard to figure out what time period she is discussing.<br />I hope that you will read this book. It's truly a phenomenal narrative, and one that all Western readers should read to better understand a country that's been propagandized for years.	2003-11-09
US	52223511	R2C0J4BXS4JOO5	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good FICTION	I read this book, after reading Philippa Gregory's &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot;. (Excellent, BTW). This seemed like the next obvious book to read. I did enjoy it very much, with the following comments:<br />1. It is, after all, fiction. George does a wonderful job of drawing us in to Henry's character, yet still remaining somewhat balanced, by letting us see peeks of what others thought of Henry. Hearing his FICTIONAL perspective of events, was interesting.<br />2. I emphasize fiction, only because I don't like the subtitle being called an autobiography. It is not. George does a good job setting us in the time and place, describing historical events, figures, and extrapolating what may have occurred, but it is fiction, not an autobiography.<br />3. I found the first 2/3rds of the book better than the last third. I'm not sure if this is because the events interested me more, or if I got tired of Henry's whining, or both. I did find the Anne Boleyn period to be fascinating. For another view (also historical fiction) read &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot;. <br />4. I found his relationship with Thomas More to be fascinating. I would have liked to have heard more about the men in his life, in addition to the women. I also enjoyed his relationship with Katherine Parr, his final wife. <br />In summary, George does an admirable job of getting the reader acquainted with the time period, the history, and the people around Henry VIII. I recommend this to anyone with interest in historical England.	2003-10-31
US	52223511	R3RFKOHSAY2YXS	B00005VPE0	186371226	The corpse in the waxworks	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Only avg. for Carr	I felt this book was only average for someone of John Dickson Carr's caliber. His usual \\"locked room\\" formula was not present here, and the plot was only so so. The best part about The Corpse in the Waxworks was the settings of the Wax Museum, and then the Colored Mask Society. Those were both interesting, and gave an eerie air to the story. Unfortunately, I didn't care anything about the characters or whodunnit. The conclusion rang false to me (especially of Odette) and was confusing. The last 2 pages were fascinating, without giving it away, but I was left wanting a bit more explanation.<br />It's a good read, but not up to Carr's usual high standards, in works like The Crooked Hinge, The Three Coffins, or The Problem of the Wire Cage.	2003-08-25
US	52223511	RW3RWY15N3L58	075350457X	201403104	Strange Fascination: David Bowie: The Definitive Story	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Balanced book about a complicated artist	By his nature, David Bowie isn't an easy person to write a book about. He is very complicated, closed, and truly a \\"chameleon\\", which is the label many put on him. Buckley does an admirable job. He is obviously a devout fan, but he writes this book with a very balanced view. It is neither complete idolatry, nor is it a \\"kiss and tell\\" book. Instead, it is mostly about Bowie's art (music is obviously most of that, but his other forays as well) and how he works. There are tidbits of gossip here and there, as well as an aspect of setting the record straight. His early life isn't covered very much at all, and I would have liked to have heard more about his relationship with his brother Terry. The book goes as recent as 2000. Overall a great read, but I am left with one question....am I really the only one out there who loved the \\"Glass Spider\\" album??? I thought it was great!!!	2003-07-20
US	52223511	R3T34JTB5O6BFD	0899681956	12315143	Eldorado	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A romping good adventure!	I've read about half of the Scarlet Pimpernel books, and this one is definitely my favorite thus far. I won't rehash the plot as others said it well here. Briefly, SP must save the Dauphin from the clutches of Robespierre and Chauvelin. Armand has to choose between his honor and his heart, and he chooses, forcing SP to clean up the mess, at great physical cost to himself. There was interesting character development for Armand, and I also liked the scenes with Sir Tony, who is my favorite of the peripheral characters. If you've seen the SP production with Anthony Andrew and Jane Seymour, part of the plot is taken from this book. Try it out! It's a romping good adventure, and not as lackluster or meandering as some of her other titles.	2003-07-06
US	52223511	R33Z2LFAYZPN7B	140434926X	559397212	El Dorado	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Favorite of the Pimpernel books!	I loved this book. It's definitely my favorite of the Scralet Pimpernel books that I've read so far (about half of them). This book has our usual players, Blakeney, Marguerite, Chauvelin, Armand, and Tony. It's the story how Blakeney rescues--or does he???---the Dauphin from the clutches of the Tower prison. It's also an interesting character study for Armand and Blakeney. Armand is torn between love and honor, and his choice may suprise you. The repercussions of his choice were nearly deadly, and Blakeney pays a high price for them, as does Armand. It's a great read!	2003-06-14
US	52223511	R27DLJ5SMA1DX3	1404320032	742051546	The Mystery of the Yellow Room	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Buy it if you can find it!!	I've been looking for this story for many years, as it's always listed as being one of the first in the locked room mystery genre, and one of the best. I am so happy to have found it (thank you, internet!!) as I was not disappointed.<br />Let me say upfront, that if you read Phantom of the Opera, and were disappointed in the writing style, do not shy away from The Mystery of the Yellow Room. I can hardly believe the same author wrote both stories. It's a great read, it flows well, and I could hardly put it down. The characterization and style are very similar to Conan Doyle's works. The locked room mystery kept me guessing. Ultimately all the clues were there, and the ending was \\"fair\\", even if I was suprised. I wish there were more tales about our detective, as this first book was fabulous!The ending had a very good twist to it, and is a precursor to some of Dame Agatha Christie's works. <br />In summary, a great read, a great mystery plot, and decent characterizations. This is worth finding, to see a classic in the locked room genre.	2003-03-11
US	52223511	R6ZR9XHZ48AIQ	0060933267	325559010	The Ethics of Star Trek	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Decent overview	This book takes various ethical theories, and then discusses Trek episodes which seem to support that theory. Of course, the recurring question, do the needs of the many outweight the needs of the one? is discussed, as are other ethical theories, from the ancient Greeks forward. Ultimately, the author comes up with a \\"central ethical theory\\" for each Star Trek series, based on the characters and what the majority of the stories seem to pivot around. This book is an overview, and didn't keep me wholly interested, but it's a decent read. Warning, it is about ethical theory, and not about modern issues (ie. abortion, religion, homosexuality, etc.) If this is what you are looking for, then you will be pleased, but if you're looking for a book about ethics and modern problems (which I probably was) then you may be a bit disappointed.	2003-03-11
US	52223511	R26EQ4IQCXUA5	0345452186	216439974	The Shadow Within (Babylon 5, Book 7)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great background info; end vague	This book is generally acknowledged to be the best of the B5 books, although I also like the Psi Corps trilogy very much. This book follows the story of Anna Sheridan and Morden, and their ill fated trip to Z'Ha'Dum. It's a quick read, but it's not fluff. The characters are well developed, indeed we find out pertinent details about Morden (he's a very sympathetic person, actually!) and Anna, as well as background into John Sheridan's first command. I read this in a day; I could hardly keep my hands off of it. The only thing I didn't like was the ending. All along, they were helping explain things from the TV show, and fleshing out the characters, filling in many gaps. At the very end, I found it to be lacking. I do know the ultimate fate of the people, but I couldn't figure out exactly how or what happened. I would have liked a bit more of that. I felt the best parts of the story were the interactions between Anna and Morden, and Anna and John.<br />There is a very small background that takes place on B5, and Delenn and Captain Sinclair are present, but only for less than 10 pages of the story. The story is primarily about Anna, with the \\"B\\" plotline being that of John on the Agamemnon. An excellent read...and so many of your questions will be answered!	2003-01-04
US	52223511	R254U0X2HOHFAD	0553250663	26879463	Too Many Women	Books	4	32	33	N	N	One of the best Wolfe's!	With my reading of this, I have read every Nero Wolfe novel. This is one of the best, in my opinion. Archie is sent to investigate whether a company's employee was murdered, or it was an accident. His interactions with one of the owners, a vegetarian with a taste for the exotic, are worth the price of the book alone. Archie also gets to put on his charm, and literally wine and dine plenty of women in this story, not to mention engage in his virtual warfare with Wolfe, until finally the mystery is solved. All of our favorites, from Saul to Fritz to Cramer are also present in this story. I was kept guessing until the very last page; I was suprised at how the end turned out. For me, that's the hallmark of a good mystery. The Wolfe books are all fairly formulaic, and this is a classic of that formula, but it works quite well.	2003-01-04
US	52223511	R1F92N0IQS3C1B	0805057676	491661728	Carl Sagan: A Life in the Cosmos	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good, fair read	You can add me to the list of people who was about 7 or so when I first saw Cosmos, and it was a major influence (along with 2 scientist parents of my own) to go into science (not astronomy). Carl Sagan, and the way he made science poetic, influenced me greatly.<br />I feel that an absolute must in a biography, is fairness. I neither want to read idolatry, nor a muckracking book. This book was fair in its depiction of Sagan: a brilliant scientist, who cared about the world, science, writing, and his own ego. I especially liked the sections on his work with NASA on the various Mars missions; where do we land, what experiments do we perform, and just what do the results mean, anyway? <br />There was enough information about his background and personal life to keep it interesting, but not so much that it bored me. I was unaware of his first marriage to Lynn Margulis; a famous scientist in her own right. <br />This biography moved very quickly; I always wanted to pick it back up again. Lastly, you do not need any type of science background to understand this book. It is a biography, not a science text at all.	2002-12-31
US	52223511	R1OJS3TOUWN34V	0252022963	253569151	Atomic Spaces: Living on the Manhattan Project	Books	3	3	3	N	N	At times tedious	I found some sections of this book fascinating, and others quite slow and tedious, hence the three star rating.<br />Be prepared: this is not quick reading! <br />I like how this book glorifies no one. It also talks about many \\"forgotten\\" victims of the Manhattan PRoject; those who were evicted from their property, the \\"underclass\\" workers, those who lived near Alamogordo and sufferred from nuclear fallout. I learned information about Gen. Groves and how he oversaw the project. It spoke also about the scientists, but not just about the scientists. This isn't a book about the making of the bomb; it's a book about the culture. At times it was slow---I skimmed about 100 pages at the beginning, which I very rarely do--- but there should be something for you in this book if you're interested enough in the topic to read this review! I found especially interesting the medical testing (or lack thereof), the radiation safety protoocols (or lack thereof) and the fallout (literal and sociological) of the Alamogordo test. These areas were fascinating to me. Also, while I already knew about Feynman's battle with the censors, it's fun to read again!	2002-12-01
US	52223511	R1C36IG22OK75H	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	4	0	1	N	N	About the people/history, not math!	I found this book to be fascinating. The best part about it, was it is about the history of math, more than about math itself. You don't need to understand any math at all to understand and enjoy this book. It starts out with a brief history of Fermat's equation, then goes back to the Pythagorean times. I learned more about Pythagoras reading this book, than I did in the 16 years of math I took in school! It was fascinating to hear about the times, and how math was viewed as a religion, the pythagoreans were persecuted, etc. It moves slowly up to modern times, explaining various steps to prove/disprove Fermat's last theorem. Finally, it tells the story of Andrew Wiles: his obsession, his discovery, his fall, and his ultimate triumph.<br />This was a great book. Don't let the subject matter fool you. It isn't dense at all; give it a try!	2002-09-08
US	52223511	R1AXAVGPHRHF9J	0452270642	711691613	A Dark-Adapted Eye (Plume)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good pyschological thriller	If you want a book, where it's a puzzle to find out \\"whodunnit\\", then this isn't for you.<br />Very quickly (within the first 10 pages) you know who is going to be killed by who. The rest of the novel covers the years leading up to that time. It's a fascinating character study, and a slice of life in 1940s England. The characters in the book are forever concealing their motivations, sins, and passions from society as a whole. The narrator struggles to understand her family members, and what caused the murder to take place.<br />In the end, you will also see that there is a mystery that is left hanging for the reader. Not the one that was revealed on page 10. However, there is another assumption in the book, that you find is not valid, and the solution is never laid out.<br />This book is slow, as some reviewers have mentioned. The first 50 pages or so take awhile to get moving. I advise you to stick with it, as these characters aren't as one-dimensional as they might originally seem.	2002-07-01
US	52223511	R2NDPU40HNU482	0609801864	508991278	The 9 Steps to Financial Freedom: Practical and Spiritual Steps So You Can Stop Worrying	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great book, very helpful	I thought this book was fabulous. I appreciate that as other reviewers said, Orman spends much of the book getting us to understand our ideas about money. Everyone views money differently, as a result of various experiences in our lives. It's not until we understand how we treat money, that we can change our habits about it.<br />There is of course practical money suggestions as well. I found the section about wills/trusts/life insurance to be the most helpful. She spells out the difference between a will and a trust, in simple language that makes it easy for all readers to understand. Furthermore, while I found hints on many things to change in my outlook, I was also very heartened by the things that I am doing right! <br />If you're looking for a book that is entirely practical information,then don't turn here first. However, I strongly encourage you to go through the psychology examples she uses here, and you will indeed be closer to financial freedom.	2002-04-14
US	52223511	R2O9NO1G5CVW53	0879751983	281452341	Flim-Flam! Psychics, ESP, Unicorns, and Other Delusions	Books	4	8	13	N	N	So upfront!	James Randi, former magician, is the great debunker and exposer or pseudoscience world wide... In \\"Flim Flam\\", Randi takes on all sorts of topics, from Kirllian photography to elves in the garden to water dowsing to spirit rappers. He doesn't just say \\"this is likely fake\\". Instead, he gives concrete reasons, proof, and photographs showing the people faking the effect. He is also very upfront. He doesn't spare people their thoughts or their reputations. You can find the information in this book other places, but nowhere else will you see it laid out in such detail to prove his case. <br />Go Randi!!! Help educate the rest of the populace, and keep the perpetators of fraud in their place!	2002-03-16
US	52223511	R2CA44OB066WXW	0964060507	323872538	Mouse Under Glass: Secrets of Disney Animation & Theme Parks	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Decent, but not as good as other books	This book takes each Disney animated movie, and analyzes it with the following subheadings: Original tale, Disney version, plot holes, bloopers, strange/critical reaction, attractions made, cutting room floor, and hidden images.<br />This book was more slow moving than his behind -the-scenes expose of Disneyland. If that's what you're looking for, purchase the Mouse Tales books. You won't find much interesting here. On the other hand, if you'd like to hear how the movies evolved, and enjoy uncovering hidden Disney images, this is a good book for you. You should be a fan of the animated movies to read this book, as there's little else here of interest.<br />It held my interest---but not by much.	2002-03-16
US	52223511	R364THTSBHS0DF	0425179877	940393502	Failure is not an Option: Mission Control from Mercury to Apollo 13 and Beyond	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Unique perspective	I have read a number of the \\"Moon\\" books. As for the actual writing style, I put it in the \\"middle\\" category, this book is unique in its perspective, as it focusses on the MCC Mission Control Center and the flight controllers, instead of the astronauts and the moon.<br />Kranz thankfully spares us long anecdotes about his upbringing or his personal life. Whether this is to keep it personal, or because he thinks we arent' interested, I don't know, but I appreciate it. A book like this, I don't want to be bogged down in background info. <br />Kranz was one of the very first controllers, brought in under Chris Kraft from day one. He worked in the control room from Mercury, Gemini, and the Apollo program. When he tells the stories of these missions, it's not all about the astronauts, or even necessarily about the mission. It's often about the problems they encountered, and how they solved them. This perspective is unique in the \\"moon books\\". It is most interesting in the Apollo 13 crisis, but also Apollo 1, John Glenn's Mercury mission, and even \\"routine\\" missions (is sending a human hurtling into outer space ever routine?) have glitches that he explains how they solve. It's engaging reading, and I enjoyed it thoroughly.<br />By far the best coverage and most comprehensive analysis is of the solving of the Apollo 13 crisis. The title, Failure is Not an Option, was an apocryphal attribution to Kranz, but it is one that he still titles his book with, as it sums up his view of life in MCC. You will also get a better feel about the \\"behind the scenes\\" workings at NASA, and in the end, he gives his views how to revitalize that interest and get to Mars, and beyond.	2002-02-23
US	52223511	R2VDFUY028PBXM	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incredible tale of courage and survival!	This book tells the incredible story of Bruce Reimer--Brenda Reimer--David Reimer. His story is one of inspiration and survival, and the face of incredible odds.<br />After a botched circumscision, he was \\"reassigned\\" as a girl, as a modern experiement in the \\"nature vs. nurture\\" argument. In a scientist's dream, David is one of a pair of identical twins, so the experiment truly had a control.<br />The experiment failed. You can't simply dress someone in girl's clothing and convince them to be a girl. Biology isn't so simple.<br />These are the facts. The story behind them will amaze you. I am awestruck that David has survived this ordeal, that he is happily married, and is so down to earth. He seemingly holds no animosity towards his parents, who were doing the best that they can. He has a common sense attitude towards his ordeal, as well as his manhood.<br />The book also discusses the personalities of the various physicians and psychologists who were involved in the case. The science in the book is simple, and explained well to the layman.<br />What I liked best about this book, was its lack of sensationalism. It tells the story simply, with first person interviews, and relies on factual data. It is an inspiring story of a man who knew who and what he was, his parents who tried their best to do what was right for him, and a psychologist who let his research get in the way of his scientific objectivity.	2002-01-14
US	52223511	R15S4N7W3O80QH	0671534815	211924211	Star Trek Voyager: A Vision of the Future	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Enjoyable	This book was an enjoyable, easy read. Don't let the title (or even a brief thumb through) fool you...this book is not about the show, as an ongoing entity. Poe will extremely briefly mention something that occurs in the 4th season; he has a small section on 7 of 9 and her addition to the show. However, this is only a few pages in a large volume. The vast majority of the book is about the process getting the Voyager pilot on the screen. It talks about the very early preproduction meetings with Rick Berman, Jeri Taylor, and Michael Piller, and how the three of them honed the idea, and moved it forward. It talks in much detail about the designing of the Voyager sets, as well as the model of the ship itself, the computer graphics, casting, shooting, etc. I found it to be an interesting, entertaining read, however I expected it to talk more about the series itself, not to be virtually all a &quot;making of the pilot&quot; book. Be aware that is what this is. Don't let a few pages on 7 of 9 and a photo that includes her fool you.	2002-01-01
US	52223511	R2TUJIBY7RVGTE	0396067441	953093045	Appleby's answer, (A Red badge novel of suspense)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Death by fire!	Another brilliant mystery by Michael Innes. His characters are wildly eccentric, incredibly erudite, and bizarre beyond all imagination! In this book, a mystery author, Priscilla Pringle, and a headmaster of a boys' school, Captain Bulkington, meet. They discuss collaborating on a book...or are they really collaborating to murder Sir Ambrose? John and Judith Appleby stumble on the scene, and solve the mystery. But wait? Was there really a crime? When you read this book closely, you will realise that even that question is not readily apparent.<br />Michael Innes is one of my favorite mystery authors. His books can be difficult to find, due to the lack of availability. Take advantage of e-shops, and buy them here. You won't be sorry. The New Sonia Wayward is the most famous, but this is as good an offering as you'll find, although my favorite so far is Hare Sitting Up.	2001-12-02
US	52223511	R24MO7VV8ODLYE	0899664601	439617492	Triumph of the Scarlet Pimpernel	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Enjoyable, not excellent	Triumph is the first SP book I've read after the original story. I enjoyed it, but it wasn't excellent. I found the beginning to be very drawn out; it took me a very long time to read the first 75 pages or so, before it got going. Once it did start, (with Theresia and SP meeting for the first time) I found it to be fast paced, and I looked forward to reading it. However, the long beginning brought it down to a 3 star book for me. Also, the ending wasn't really explained at all...one second, literally, Robespierre is the tyrant in charge, next paragraph, well, no spoiler, but suffice to say he's not. Even in real life, the change was not so dramatic, and surely Orczy could have written a page or two more explaination.<br />Furthermore, I was disappointed that while St. Just, Andrew, and Tony were mentioned, that was about it; they were barely in the picture at all.<br />A fun adventure.....but not much more than that.	2001-11-11
US	52223511	RGCFS5H4KOXWD	1891620800	449582025	A Question of Intent : A Great American Battle With A Deadly Industry	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The younger the better!	This book is 5% about other battles the FDA fought early in Kessler's tenure, and 95% about his at first reluctant, and then zealous drive to get the tobacco industry under FDA regulation.<br />I admittedly was anti-tobacco before I started this book, however what I didn't realise was how incredibly malicious they are. I thought that they ground up the tobacco, made cigarettes, and oops, they are addictive and cancer-causing, but they are protecting their bottom line, so they try to forget it. <br />How incredibly wrong and naive I was.<br />Kessler describes in great detail, in the style of investigative journalism, just how much the tobacco companies (focussing on B&amp;W, RJR, and Phillip Morris, tho others are discussed) knew about their product, how early they knew it, and how they tweaked it to make it more addictive. Low tar cigarettes? Sounds great, right? Still think so, if they artificially add more nicotine to them, to make them more addictive? How about the testing on their own employees, where they spiked harmful substances, including ammonia, into cigarettes, to see how they would affect taste? Did you know that they have the technology to remove the carcinogens from cigarettes, but just don't bother to do it? How does that make you feel? Then there's the evolution of the Joe Camel character. Kessler uses this to showcase what eventually became his driving theme: that while we tend to think of smoking as an adult addiction, it's truly a pediatric disease, as virtually all smokers start before they are 18. Think the tobacco companies don't know this? In one case, a sales rep asked exactly which teenage smokers to target. The reply? &quot;They got lips, we want 'em&quot;.<br />No wonder that Kessler ultimately concluded that the industry must be dismantled. <br />This book is an incredible read. The facts will fascinate you, and sicken you. The pace of the book starts a bit slow, as Kessler describes his initial reluctance to take on Big Tobacco. As thefacts came pouring in, he ultimately stood up to them, put his job, and perhaps personal safety, on the line. He and his staff withstood ridicule, lawsuits, and defamation of character, all in the interest of protecting our public health and that of future generations.	2001-09-09
US	52223511	R23XDX5KL597VS	034542722X	546393979	Summoning Light (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great addition to the adventure!	I enjoyed this book very much, the next chapter in the story of Galen and the techno-mages. The basic story was very strong. J. Michael Straczynski and Jeanne Cavelos have done it again! I didn't see the plot twist coming that is revealed about the techno-mage.<br />I love how events that we know from the show are interspersed with new events/information. It's never done in a way that is inconsistent. For instance, there are multiple scenes with the mages onboard Babylon 5, interacting with Londo and Sheridan. We know these events occur. Cavelos adds to them, fleshes them out, and makes them an integral part of her story. The little hints about Anna Sheridan, and her life with the Shadows, were intriguing, and have me longing for more.<br />I also liked hearing still more about the techno-mages, yet they are never full explained, either. While they are the protagonists in the story, they still remain mysterious and unpredicatable in many ways. <br />The one thing I didn't like about the book, was how Galen became very one-dimensional. He becomes reduced to an angry and desperate person who can't control himself, with little/no redeeming qualities. If he appeared conflicted, I would understand more, as that would strike me as more realistic. Instead, he is purely focussed on vengeance, and becomes an uncontrollable mage, with no interest or caring about anyone but himself. I lost interest in his character. I hope his struggle is portrayed more realistically in the future...as a struggle. <br />Good book...read it straight though a weekend until I was done, but not excellent. I will definitely continue with the series, however.	2001-08-08
US	52223511	R23COCJ5SINBU6	0140272011	961916975	A Man on the Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Add me to the list of fans!	I'm not easy with the 5 star notation, but this book rates it easily. <br />Like others have written, I have read many of the memoirs of the Apollo astronauts. This book, while written tehcnically from an outsider, is by far the best one. Chaikin spent decades researching the material for this book, and interviewed every one of the Apollo astronauts (less those who died tragically on Apollo 1). In addition, he spoke to many of those who worked on the ground, in mission control, at the various defense contractors, etc. <br />There were three things about this book that truly stood out for me. The first, was while it was very much about the mission, it was about the people, as well. When each new section would start, and he would be discussing a new crew, I felt as if I got to know them. I understood how some crews were very tight knit, and others were purely professional. <br />The second item that stood out, is this book is about the *entire* Apollo program, not just Apollo 11, and the race to get to the moon. The book isn't even half over, when we've covered that information. What happens from there is also discussed in great detail. In fact, I found some of the later missions, when multiple days and multiple moonwalks were taking place on the moon, when they were doing geology experiments, and learning so much more about this foreign place, to be the most interesting. <br />Lastly, the detail in this book is amazing. Chaikin presents hundreds of detailed anecdotes, many of which are laugh out loud funny, others that are very serious. This is not &quot;we landed on the moon and it was great&quot;. It's very detailed, of all the laughs and trials getting there...and back again. <br />If there is a teensy gripe that I have, I would have liked to know more about the political situation that led to the cancelling of Apollo 18/19, and the shut down of the project. I know Nixon's priorities were elsewhere, but surely NASA fought that? I would have liked to have read a bit about that part of the story. Also, I was amazed how little Deke Slayton, who was one of the principles at Mission Control and part of the Original 7, was mentioned. That's alright, tho, Slayton has written his own books that you can read for his perspective.	2001-08-01
US	52223511	R1OU0EGMG8IGER	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Finally, a true accounting!	Inherit the Wind is good entertainment... but it's entertainment, and only loosely based on facts. Read this book, if you're interested in the true story of the Scopes trial.<br />This book is roughly divided into 3 sections. 1., the time before the trial, political and social context, and the people involved. 2. The trial itself, and 3. after the trial, the appeals, and some comments on modern-day Dayton, TN.<br />The background information is the largest section of this book, and is the most valuable. It's interesting to hear who William Jennings Bryan was as a person, how the ACLU became involved, the personalities of Scopes, Darrow, Bryan, as well as the other lawyers involved, the citizens of Dayton, and the judge. You will understand that contrary to the popular view that Scopes was harassed by the religious folk in town, he volunteered to take part, for the sole purpose of testing the anti-evolution law that had just hit the books. You will read how Darrow and Bryan both expanded the issues in the trial, so that religion and evolution became the focus of the trial, instead of simpler questions about what can be taught in school, and educational freedoms. The latter is what the ACLU was testing, although the former became the scope of the trial, much to their chagrin.<br />The trial and wrap-ups were also interesting. I was a bit disappointed that the trial description was so short, relatively. I would have liked to read more transcripts of it, hence the 4 stars instead of 5. <br />Overall, a fascinating and educational book, that is still relevant today. The issues discussed in the Scopes trial are prevalent in modern society, and played out daily in our classrooms.	2001-07-25
US	52223511	R3VPZQSJZVG1DJ	0671568396	693042787	Star Trek Phase II: The Lost Series	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Good info	This book contained information about the transformation from TOS to the making of &quot;phase II&quot;, a TV series that eventually was scrapped and the pilot was morphed into ST:TMP. I found the information to be interesting, and would recommend it to any Star Trek fan, especially those of TOS. <br />Most interesting to me was the analyses of how the scrapped Phase II produced characters and scripts that were eventually seen on ST:TNG. Xon &quot;became&quot; Data, Ilia &quot;became&quot; Troi, and Decker=Riker is fairly obvious. Additionally, scripts like &quot;The Child&quot; that were written for Phase II, were later filmed for ST:TNG. <br />Also included is the full first draft script of the pilot for Phase II, which again morphed int ST:TMP. It's interesting to see how the drafts change and (mostly) become stronger. Furthermore,are 4-8 page descriptions of all each story that would have been in Phase IIs first season. <br />I do recommend this book for any Trek fan. The background information is limited, as the majority of the book is the scripts, but it is still an interesting piece of ST history.	2001-06-20
US	52223511	R2G7SSET67C7YH	0375500987	609309122	Fat Man in a Middle Seat: Forty Years of Covering Politics	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting recollections	If you have seen Jack Germond on the McLaughlin Group or Inside Washington, then you know that he is curmudgeonly. That personality trait is also amply apparent in this book. It gives the entire book a &quot;tell it like it is&quot; feeling to it that can be very disarming. <br />Having said that, I still found it enjoyable. Just as Germond dishes out his disdain, he also tells of people, both fellow reporters and politicians, who he admires. It's not that Germond is unable to give praise, it's that he won't give it to just anyone, even because they are, for example, President of the US. He feels respect must be earned, and if you haven't earned his, he'll mention it. If you have earned it, he'll also mention it.<br />Like another reviewer, I found the second half of the book more interesting than the first. I especially enjoyed the chapter on the McLaughlin book, both for the info into the program that I used to love, and now loathe, and also how he shows the differences between electronic and print media, and how money can be so powerful an influence. <br />Furthermore, I found the chapter where he analyzes the Bush Sr. and Clinton presidencies, to be fabulous. He holds both of these presidents in low esteem, but the reasons why are interesting, if not particularly profound. Still, I was suprised that someone so unabashedly liberal as Germond would be so disgusted with Clinton. Regardless of what you feel about Clinton's presidencies and escapades, the honesty of Germond's feelings was refreshing. He also goes into length about various political reporters and other non-president politicians that he admired. It's very interesting, especially the anecdote about Howard Baker, and the medias role in curtailing his career, and Germond's analysis of it.<br />Additionally, I liked that Germond left his personal life out of this book. He knows we aren't here to read about it, and he left it at home where it belonged. That's refreshing.	2001-05-28
US	52223511	R1BP1X81XWF5K5	0812522397	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Going downhill	Strictly speaking, this book is really Xenocide, Part II. Xenocide ended fairly arbitrarily, and this book begins where Xenocide takes off. <br />Having said that, this book slipped terribly in storyline, and I had a difficult time staying interested. It continues the themes of finding the origins of the descolada virus and if it's possible to communicate with it, saving Jane's life, and intercepting the fleet. <br />Ender is barely a character in this story, and without trying to give too much away, he is more or less dispensed of halfway through the book. Again, credibility is stretched to the max as Peter and a young Valentine Wiggin are essentially reincarnated out of Ender's memories, and they are large players in this story. You also have ugly characters spending all their time yelling at each other (exemplified by Quara and Miro, as well as the others in that dysfunctional family). <br />I do not mind that this story is not action based; Speaker for the Dead is very philosophical, and is a strong story. Additionally, I read lots of other philosophical works. What I object to is the outright preaching, and a story that is so bizarre it doesn't even make an attempt to be realistic, rather it's a tool for OSC to subject us to his various beliefs.<br />Ender's Game and SFTD are both amazing books. However, the series goes down hill from there. I would recommend stopping at that point; buy Xenocide and Children only if you can find them used or at a library. There's too many other good books out there to read to waste your time on this diatribe.	2001-05-12
US	52223511	R1AO1RZABLG38L	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	3	3	3	N	N	He's slipping	This book is decent, but not nearly as good as the earlier books in the series.<br />I don't so much object to the \\"wordiness\\" or \\"philosophical discussions\\" that other reviewers pointed out. What bothered me was that Card now results to preaching, and the plot simply stretched credibility too far. As for the preaching, in his previous books, he alway had points to make about various moral issues. Here, however, he uses his characters to literally preach Card's beliefs. There was one scene where he, through Valentine, discusses polygamy, and I thought I had entered Card's temple. It was simply too much, too preachy. Philosphical discussions are fine, but preaching your gospel was overkill.<br />I also felt that the plot stretched credibility a bit too far. There is always a need to suspend belief in Card's books (teens taking over the world, etc.) but this book was too much, bombarding me constantly. And the conclusion... let's just say that was the epitome of a contrived ending. <br />On the plus side, I like that Valentine reappeared, I like that the story is about Ender, but not solely about Ender, as there are other interesting characters in the story. I found Wang-mu and Qing-jao to be interesting characters as well. I liked that Novinha is not a major character, as she always bothered me, but instead the story focusses on her children and their internal struggles. <br />Warning, Xenocide ends very suddenly, and it's not truly an ending at all. Card realised he had another book to write, so he fairly arbitrarily ended the story and wrote Children of the Mind. <br />I will read the last book, as I have purchased it, and I have enough curiosity to see how the story ends. .... Furthermore, if you didn't like Speaker for the Dead, you definitely won't like this book, as it is even talkier and stretches the credibility boundaries farther than SFTD did. This is not another \\"Ender's Game\\".	2001-05-11
US	52223511	R2L8VWXXJCUEZR	1929180241	155107655	Simple Scrapbooks: 25 Fun and Meaningful Memory Books You Can Make in a Weekend	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Good information	Simple Scrapbooks isn't really a layout book, as it's a book about a style of philosophy of scrapbooking. Stacy Julian's thesis is that people will want to know about our daily lives when they look at our books, not just the birthdays, parties, trips, etc. They will want to see something more about us, who we were, and what we believed in. I agree with her assessment that our daily lives need to be documented in some way.<br />In this book, she gives ideas for various scrapbooks, mostly 5x7 style, that can be done quickly. Furthermore, they focus on things like favorite books, Guests in our home, relationships, girlfriends books, etc. She has some time honored scrapbook ideas here like recipe books, and others that I haven't seen before, such as my hometown. <br />I purchased this book not so much for the layouts, as Stacy's style doesn't appeal to me. That's alright, though, because there aren't many layouts in this book, and there are plenty of other sources for page layouts. Additionally, I don't plan to make separate small books the way she advocates, but instead will incorporate her ideas into my larger books. Instead, I bought this book for the information contained, the ways to make my albums more interesting, the general philosophy that she proposes. If you'd like to see your albums take on a new direction, then purchase this book.	2001-05-09
US	52223511	RHMT6BN7CQFE2	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Even better than Ender's Game!	Ender's Shadow is a fabulous book. <br />It covers many of the same events as &quot;Ender's Game&quot;, this time told from the perspective of Bean, a minor character in &quot;Ender's Game&quot;. Orson Scott Card's writing style, and through it, his characterization of Bean, has strengthened dramatically since he wrote &quot;Ender's Game&quot;. While I loved EG very much, I find ES to be  superior. <br />Bean is an engaging character in his own right, with his own set of personal demons, in the form of his backstory, heritage, and his archnemesis, Achilles. How he deals with these demons, as well as his struggle to be accepted both by the students as a whole, and by Ender in particular, makes for engaging reading. <br />It would be easy to think that if you had read EG, then you don't need to read ES. This is not true. Sure, you know the eventual outcome of the war, but seriously, I'm sure we all did when we first opened the book, anyway. (Did you *really* think Earth would be destroyed?) That isn't the point of the story, however. It is a story about gifted children, discrimination, genetic engineering, acceptance, survival of the fittest, revenge, redemption, adolescence and adulthood. It doesn't matter one whit that you know how the war was won. Besides, there's a twist in the final battle that you don't know about if you read EG. Ender is the hero... but maybe it's Bean... or maybe it really is Ender. You have to decide for yourself. <br />Furthermore, Card allows Bean to analyze the situations around him, and explain them in much more detail than he ever wrote Ender's character. We find out much more about the war and the people who are waging it, than in Ender's Game. <br />This, not EG, is my favorite of the Ender's series so far. The only one I have not yet read is Shadow of the Hegemon... Peter and Bean in the same book?? I can't wait!	2001-05-08
US	52223511	R12TP37AJZ9GEC	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Different, but still good!	Speaker for the Dead is the second book in the &quot;Ender&quot; series by Orson Scott Card. It is very different in style from the much acclaimed &quot;Ender's Game&quot;, but is still an excellent story in its own right. <br />SFTD is at its core, a mystery. Why do the pequeninos butcher themselves in such a horrific manner? Why do they plant saplings where the body is? Pipo discovered the secret early on, but it is never revealed until the very end of the book. Why does Novinha act the way she does? <br />SFTD introduces new characters to the story. They are interesting people, flawed, which makes them more human. Ender interacts with these people and becomes an integral part of their lives, even though they try to reject him. Jane is also an interesting character, and I look forward to learning more about her. <br />This is a much &quot;talkier&quot; and more philosophical book than &quot;Ender's Game&quot;. If you want another &quot;Star Wars&quot; battle type of book, don't get this, but instead check out &quot;Ender's Shadow&quot;. If you would like explore questions about xenophobia, racism, science and relationships, then pick up &quot;Speaker for the Dead&quot;. You won't be sorry.<br />I should add that the end of the story more or less wraps up everything, but does set the stage for the final 4 books. Furthermore, the first 50 pages of the book are quite slow. It takes awhile to get going, but trudge through them. Once I hit page 50 or so, I couldn't put it down.	2001-05-07
US	52223511	R148MVP6F1ERVN	0295980818	100283446	In Confidence: Moscow's Ambassador to Six Cold War Presidents	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Insightful	This book is an incredibly insightful and very balanced view of the Cold War and the warriors themselves, both in the USSR and the US. Dobrynin gives a balanced view of the mistakes that people in both countries made, as well as where they succeeded. I especially found the description of the Cuban Missile Crisis fascinating, as well as Moscow's reaction to Watergate and the resignation of Nixon.<br />Furthermore, this book helped me understand Andrei Gromyko and ---Brezhnev, two people whose names I've heard but I know little about. By reading this book, you will understand more about how the former Soviet government worked, the influence the Politburo had, and how they viewed the US.<br />What I liked best about this book was that it was balanced. Dobrynin never portrays a bias towards his country, indeed he often points out the errors that they make, and how he disagrees with them. Similarly, he is not at all &quot;out to get&quot; the US as the media portrays USSR/US relations. On the contrary, it is clear that he has much respect and affection for our country, which was his home for nearly 30 years.<br />The only reason for 4 stars instead of 5, is at times the subject matter would get slightly tedious. I understand that the main issue between the US and the USSR was nuclear arms treaties, however reading about them for 700 pages did tend to get me bogged down periodically.<br />I highly recommend reading this book for a first hand account of all the behind the scenes machinations between the man who was repeatedly the &quot;confidential channel&quot; between Washington and the Kremlin. Dobrynin was the only player from either country to be present at all summits between the US and the USSR during the Cold War, and was the Ambassador to the US during most of that time. As Presidents changed, and Party Secretaries in Moscow, Dobrynin was a constant. Read all about it here.	2001-04-13
US	52223511	R3GGJ87YXLBRBM	0671021311	397995807	Get a Life!	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Laugh out Loud funny: repeatedly!	This book made me laugh out loud over and over again. Shatner discusses his initial resistance to the Star Trek phenomenon, and how he succumbed to it. He then goes on to discuss it, with some endearing stories that made me laugh.<br />Is Shatner always truthful? Uh.... no. Is he just   *wee* bit full of himself? Yep. Don't stay away from this book for either of those reasons, however. You will be missing out on a real treat.<br />I was lucky enough to attend the convention that he talks about in detail; the first time that the &quot;4 captains&quot; were all present on one stage. The convention was fabulous, but the highlight to me were meeting people from all over the world. Shatner discusses these people, and the impact Star Trek had on their lives, with much humor, and a  bit of irreverance. But then, he discusses himself and his life with much humor, and a bit of irreverance, as well. <br />I found this book more enjoyable than Star Trek Memories, or the sequel, Movie Memories, both of which I enjoyed. However, this book is truly hysterical. It's not a &quot;behind the scenes&quot; book, but rather a look at Trekkers, and what causes us to do some of the fun, albeit silly, things we do.	2001-04-02
US	52223511	R20XAXNN3JQUWH	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not literature, not drivel	.... <br />Everyone, this is not literature. Neither is it complete drivel. <br />I do think it is a step above many works. Unlike many of the reviewers who find the sequences with Dante, the memory palace, etc., to be too &quot;artsy&quot; I think it lends a bit of character and feeling to the book. We wouldn't expect Lecter to be hanging out in Las Vegas now, would we? It adds to and complements his character. There were parts that were chilling,although everything having to do with Mason Verger was too over the top to really be scary. <br />I enjoyed seeing Barney and Ardelia again, and even Crawford. The character of Mason's sister is so grossly stereotyped it's offensive. The settings are wonderful, and the allusions to Dante and Pier della Vigna and Judas Iscariot are fabulous foreshadowing. Pazzi's character is interesting, without being stereotyped. <br />I do find the ending of the book improbable. Ultimately, the story is about the attraction between good and evil. Evil (Lecter) is attracted to good because good (Clarice) is  incorruptable. Good is attracted to evil because he is brilliant and in some ways (ie. the psychoanalysis he performs on Clarice) more honest to her than anyone ever has been before. He cuts into her soul,figuratively. I can't discuss the ending, except to say that that relationship between good and evil would fall apart. It's not believeable as written. <br />I don't want to go into the movie comparison here, as that's not the point, but I will say the movie ending is tighter and superior. Still, there is *lots* that people who didn't read the book first didn't understand about the movie. I suggest both.	2001-04-02
US	52223511	R2NU0C2XPOARSD	0963022288	859783480	Scrapbook Storytelling: Save Family Stories and Memories With Photos, Journaling and Your Own Creativity	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Just Ok	Slan's book is Ok. No more, no less. <br />This book is geared towards people who create scrapbooks, not people who want to write their life's story. Slan gives examples and advice on how to go beyond the who-what-where-when-why style. However, she doesn't explain how to write a long narrative, how to write more than &quot;the kids at the beach&quot;. She doesn't show examples of her writing. Even though there are lots of pictures in her book, I am always amazed that while she is a professional author, she has very little journaling on her scrapbook pages! I know people that I think of as being fairly casual writers, if at all, and they write much more than she does. Certainly don't buy this book hoping to find new ways to incorporate journaling into your scrapbook layouts. <br />The book that taught me to go beyond simple &quot;bullet point&quot; journaling is Denis Ledoux's &quot;Photo Scribe&quot;. This book will not teach you how to write long narratives. It is a start... but only that.	2001-03-31
US	52223511	R3Y211HRKED19	0961937343	921760048	The Photo Scribe: A Writing Guide / How to Write the Stories Behind Your Photographs	Books	5	72	72	N	N	Highly recommended	I have also read numerous books and articles on how to improve your writing skills and telling your life's story. This one is simply the best. It takes you through exercises that are simple, yet effective. I read the book once, and without consciously trying, my writing effectively quadrupled. A few more reads, and I now routinely write 4-5 pages to describe a day's event. Not only that, but the writing style is much tighter, and I have learned not to focus on the obvious, but to focus on the thoughts and feelings of the participants as well. <br />Incidentally, I have also read Joanna Campbell Slan's book. It is different in focus, but if you must choose one, this is definitely the one. Everything else I've read is covered in this book, usually more thoroughly.<br />Note to scrapbookers: this book is definitely useful to scrappers. However, it is *not* a layout book. This is a book about how to write, not how to compose your writing into your scrapbooks. Don't let that turn you off, however. <br />This is easily one of the best purchases I've made.	2001-03-27
US	52223511	R1FPG32G380S9R	0345427211	240340372	Casting Shadows (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good: looking forward to more	I enjoyed this book on two different levels.<br />First, as always, it's interesting to read a story where you're not sure about the outcome. Sure, we do know the Shadows really *are* gathering at the rim, we know how the upcoming war will end, and we know what decision the techno-mages will make. Still, getting from point A to point B kept me in suspense. This was truly a &quot;trust no one&quot; story. I also enjoyed the characterizations of Galen and Isabelle, as well as Burrell, Morden, Elric, Alwyn, and others. They were true to all we know about the B5 universe. The &quot;Johnny&quot; demon made me laugh out loud. It was a subtle, but nice touch.<br />Secondly, and perhaps more important, I enjoyed finally getting to know more about the techno mages, who they are, their concerns, cultures, idiosyncracies, corruption, tricks, etc. <br />I'm not sure I agree that this book is for people who don't follow Babylon 5. It's not a necessity to understand the story, but it makes it more understandable. If I were new to B5, I would start with the Psi Corps trilogy. (Well, I'd start with the TV show...)<br />I would say the first 100 pages or so of the book moved too slowly for me. As stated above, I did like the depth which Cavelos brought to the techno mages...but then there's a point where the story needs to get rolling! She should have started the story moving about 40 pages before she did. <br />Overall, an excellent book. I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.	2001-03-19
US	52223511	R2B8R9I4L75YC	0803713460	718837900	The Great Brain is Back (Great Brain, Book 8)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable story	I read all of the Great Brain books as a child, and enjoyed them thoroughly. I was thrilled to discover this new (to me) volume out. It does follow the same formula as the other books, with chapters where Tom's money loving heart swindles the kids out of their money, as well as chapters where his Great Brain saves the day. The characters are all there, too: J. D.,  Sweyn, Frankie, Parley, Basil, Danny, and the other kids in the town, as well as Mamma, Papa, and a new influence on Tom's Great Brain: a girl! <br />There's nothing new here, as the anecdotes are like those in the other books. I enjoyed best the chapters with the Paiute tribe and the fishing expedition, as it reminds me that life on one hand may not be the same, but maybe on the other hand it is. <br />If you enjoy the Great Brain books, and would like some new stories, pick this book up. If you've never read the Great Brain before, go back and read them in order, or try a few of the paperback editions first.	2001-03-10
US	52223511	R2MMEO6832VT0Z	0787118567	505594294	Warped Factors: A Neurotic's Guide to the Universe	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Do you like Woody Allen?	If so, then you'd probably like this book. I don't like WA, and couldn't decide if I liked it or not, then decided on not. He never tells us any meat of anything interesting. All he seems to want to do is look down upon himself, and tell anecdotes showing how annoying and neurotic he could be. I left myself wondering if I was being toyed with as well. Did some of these events (like the FBI incident at the Intern Housing) *really* occur, or only occur in the mind of a self described neurotic? I'd bet on the latter. <br />On the other hand, my husband, who loves Woody Allen's brand of humor, laughed continuously while reading this, keeping me awake. He loved it. If you like that style of humor, try it out.<br />I never thought his acting was even passable on Star Trek, although I do think he's brilliant as Bester on Babylon 5. I have a feeling the difference in his acting has to do with his neuroses as well. I imagine he relishes the role of Bester in a way that Chekov never fit him.<br />On that note, this is not a book about Star Trek, or even about Babylon 5. Much too much of it is about his childhood years, and very little of it is interesting. I did find the chapter about his father (a Communist) during the McCarthy era to be fascinating. I would have liked to have heard more about that, as well as his relationship with his father, rather than on Walter's pranks and neurotic (and there is a reason he uses that word--it fits) behavior. <br />This is not a terrible book, but I can't in good conscience recommend it, either as an autobiography, or as a Star Trek or B5 book. If you want autobiography of a Trek star, get Grace Lee Whitney's book. If you want a fun ST book, get &quot;Get a Life&quot; by Shatner: you will laugh hysterically for days. If you want a B5 book, get the series by Jane Killick.	2001-03-04
US	52223511	R2C6S5XD46CLH8	0912333898	276181988	Mystery!: A Celebration : Stalking Public Television's Greatest Sleuths	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great jumping off point!	I enjoyed this book on many levels, which I'll discuss below, but the best part about it, is I've now added about 20 books to my wish list (I'm sure amazon appreciates it!). This book is fabulous as a jumping off point. It describes books well enough to pique your interest--or turn you away,if it's not your style. Plots are discussed only in the minimum; there's never any spoilers. It also discusses actors, writers, and production work of the wonderful series Mystery! The pictures from the shows are beautiful. If you have any interest in the show Mystery, or in adding new authors to your stack to read, take a look at this book. You won't be disappointed.	2001-03-01
US	52223511	R4819E79UKWAH	0740705326	144687629	Assorted Foxtrot	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Get on your iFruity and buy this book!	I am a big Fox Trot fan, and have all of the collections. I am not going to insult your intelligence by making it sound as if this is a great work of social fiction, however it did make me laugh out loud many times. The continuing themes of the bad vacations, Paige's shopping, Andy's cooking, etc. are still there, but somehow Amend manages to put new twists on them and they continue to make me laugh. His best work is when he makes strips about Americans and their buying habits: the iFruity (iMac) strips made me laugh hysterically, as did the Phantom Menace and Bitty Babies (Beanie Babies). <br />If you want a good laugh, pick up this book. It's no Calvin and Hobbes, but is at least as good as the last few Dilbert collections, which are getting old IMHO.	2001-02-19
US	52223511	R3NXLRI18S6HQZ	0316117439	586390686	The Book of Think: Or How to Solve a Problem Twice Your Size (Brown Paper School Book)	Books	5	63	65	N	N	I still own my copy from 16 years ago!	I just pulled out my copies of this book and The I Hate Mathematics Book! to show to someone. I read them both prolifically from years 8-12 or so, and to this day pick them up occasionally. I was curious to see if it was still in print, and pleasantly suprised. My copy of this book is so well worn, the cover is falling off of it.<br />The Book of Think, simply put, is a book that teaches critical thinking skills. The puzzles are fun, and sometimes a bit surreal. The skills learned are invaluable. I believe this series was recommended to us by a gifted education teacher. They strongly shaped my formative years. I remember staying home and reading these two books, and others in the series. They are loaded with practical problems and hands on tools to use. I am sure that a teacher could find lots of great activities for students with these books. <br />Quick, click on the link and purchase this book, Hate Mathematics, I am not a short adult, Blood and Guts, The Reason for Seasons, This book is about Time... get them all before they are out of print. You won't be disappointed. It may be the best purchase you have ever made for your children and/or students. Maybe even yourself! I think I'll reread them all. <br />Lisa	2001-02-05
US	52223511	R213GX99RSHR2F	067977548X	523607559	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Make the time to read this	Faster is a well written book, that flows quickly. Gleick is an engaging writer, but more than that, Faster makes you think about your life and American society.<br />You like microwave ovens? You think that they make cooking go by quicker? What about fax machines? &quot;Door close&quot; buttons on elevators? Do you like watching sports where winners are chosen by 100th second intervals? Does watching MTV exhilirate you with its choppy images? <br />Have you noticed that now that we have Federal Express overnight service and fax machines, that all of a sudden everything has to get everywhere overnight? <br />What are the ramifications of our sped-up society? Read this book to find out. Gleick is not heavy handed; he allows you to draw your own conclusions. I suspect you will find yourself nodding in agreement.	2001-02-04
US	52223511	R1YG2XTS732ZLL	0553328255	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes (2 Volumes)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A classic!	I give it a 4 star only because there is an occasional clunker story in here. Overall most of the stories are 5 stars if taken individually. ACD, along with a few other contemporaries, influenced an entire genre of authors. <br />The plots are ingenious. The early-middle period is the best plotted/written of the series. The Adventures... are perfect in nearly every way. Nothing can reproduce the excitement of waiting for &quot;The Speckled Band&quot; in the night with Holmes and Watson, of wondering what it means that the dog did not bark in the nighttime, and trying to decode the dancing men. I was first introduced to Holmes and Watson via the Hound when I was in 4th grade, and have never looked back. It literally opened up a new world to me.<br />In addition to the wonderful plots, the relationship between Holmes and Watson makes interesting reading. Beneath the gruff exterior, Holmes has much affection and even admiration for Watson. May we all have a relationship as close and endearing in our lifetimes. <br />The game is afoot!	2001-01-16
US	52223511	R16NEFWL82S0ID	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun read	This book is what my mom called a &quot;sick book&quot;--that is, a book that can be read easily in one day, that does not have a plot that is so complex it can't be understood when one is home sick in bed. Indeed, I read it recently while having a bout of the flu. I enjoyed it thoroughly, and it kept my thoughts away from my misery.<br />I won't describe the plot in detail here, other than to say that it was fascinating, the characters were interesting, and the puzzle kept me intrigued. Yes, it's a bit surreal, but that is part of its charm. It definitely has a moral, also. I wouldn't get this book for a very young child; I wouldn't want them to take it too seriously, but certainly for an 8+ year old, try it!	2000-12-29
US	52223511	R2CQUOLVETUNDF	0345427203	319827805	Out of the Darkness (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable	book, and a great ending to the Centauri trilogy. The plot lines here are true to those in the B5 TV shows. The characterizations are very true, especially those of Londo and G'kar. I can't quite warm up to Vir being the hero, but that's merely because I am viewing him as the bumbling fool that he was 15 years ago. <br />I'm not much of a sci-fi book fan, but I loved this series, as well as the Psi Corps series. <br />Warning: these books aren't for anyone who has not followed the B5 TV show. Some books are isolated incidents that you could follow without knowing the backstory, but these definitely are not.	2000-12-29
US	52223511	RNRQG6047E4CC	0061003263	339802493	Nemesis	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Three 1/2 stars?	If there were 3 1/2 stars, that's how I would have rated this book.<br />I did not find it as exemplary as some of Agatha Crhistie's work, however I did like it more than most of the other Miss Marple stories. <br />I found the basic plot device of trying to right a wrong that occurred long ago to be interesting. This mystery was solved solely on judging character, rather than searching the ground for clues. Sometimes I find this to be unbelievable, but not for this book. It held my interest entirely.<br />The only part I did not like was the denoument. It smacked of sensationalism a bit too much. <br />If you like AC or Miss Marple, give this a try. <br />I am discovering it is difficult to write a review if you can't discuss the ending!<br />As with most ACs books, the characters aren't well developed, and the puzzle is the focus of the book. When it's a good puzzle like this one, it works.	2000-12-23
US	52223511	R2OA3NAV29Y67O	0345336895	585344480	Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Don't miss this!	Broca's Brain may not be as famous as other works such as Cosmos or Contact, but it's every bit as engaging. In particular, the chapter entitled &quot;A Sunday Sermon&quot; contains tidbits I believe every person on this planet, whatever their religious beliefs or lack therof are, can gain important insight from. He manages to tackle this difficult subject with grace and dignity, without lambasting any view. As he says (paraphrased) &quot;I believe that those beliefs that can't survive scrutiny aren't worth having. Those that do, have at least a kernal of truth within them&quot;. So true, Mr. Sagan.<br />Some of the chapters are simply fun; the chapter on how heavenly bodies are named, and the opening chapter on Paul Broca, and his brain, are like this. You do not need a science degree to enjoy/understand this book. I do possess one, however I read it in early high school, and it's just as relevant to me now.<br />Carl Sagan performed a difficult feat: to make science interesting and accessable to an entire generation. I am in science, loving every minute of it, due in part to Mr. Sagan's efforts. Don't miss this important and fascinating book that covers an amazing array of subjects.	2000-12-23
US	52223511	RO3YOOQSDOIPA	0451199928	168746734	A Caribbean Mystery (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	2	17	24	N	N	Don't make it your fist	..Agatha Christie to read. <br />This is not a good example of her writing. The pace was slow, the characters were a bit too &quot;cookie cutter&quot; and it didn't contain any of the wonderful puzzles that AC is well known for.<br />Miss Marple is on a Carribbean vacation, where, suprise, a murder occurs. Or is it murder? Only Miss Marple can solve the mystery.<br />Is anyone really suprised that the happy couple really aren't? Is anyone really suprised that characters aren't what they appear? This book was too stereotypical for me. AC is not an author strong on character development, however she usually does a better job than this. Similarly, she sends Miss Marple to an exotic locale, then barely describes it or utilizes the locale for differences in her writing. It could just as easily have taken place in St. Mary Mead. <br />If you're an AC fan, you may like this book. I found it readable, but not great. If you're looking for a &quot;classic&quot; AC, try something else: And then there were none, Murder on the Orient Express, Death on the Nile, or The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. Don't get this book unless/until you're a bonafide fan.	2000-12-23
US	52223511	RY325IQ76WG7V	0140276165	50231744	The Unfinished Presidency: Jimmy Carter's Journey Beyond the White House	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Balanced, interesting book	I loved this book.  It struck me as an honest portrayal of a yes, flawed (aren't we all?) but well meaning fascinating individual. I like how it wasn't purely idolatry. Brinkley states when Carter gets angry, or how he snapped at a particular individual, or when his views caused problems for others. It's nice to find a biography written that way.<br />Jimmy Carter is a fascinating individual. You may not agree with his political views, but as Brinkley says, even his critics agree that his post-presidency has been exemplary. Please do yourself a favor, and set your political views aside, and dive into a fascinating portrayal of a rare individual who lives his life and beliefs.	2000-12-19
US	52223511	R36T5O5LZNPPF0	0345406079	935307326	A Calculus of Angels (The Age of Unreason, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ok, not as good as Book 1	I thought this book was Ok, but I didn't find it as compelling as Newton's Cannon. I actually skimmed the last 50 pages or so, as I found them to be very tedious. They just stretched credibility a bit too much for me, and the characters were a bit too surreal and poorly drawn. I do enjoy Adrienne and Crecy; they are both strong women and their relationship is interesting. The rest of the characters lost me, and the plot was too thin.<br />I'm not saying not to buy this book, just that it wasn't as good as Newton's Cannon, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I have already purchased the third book in this series.	2000-10-29
