US	52227822	RKMRW6XMVPTMG	0345407288	621445218	My American Journey	Books	4	2	4	N	N	More Than A Bit Self Serving, But Still Enjoyable	Generally speaking, I don't like autobiographies.  I find most of them to be self-serving manifestos where the subject settles scores and declares how the rest of the world was wrong or ignorant for ignoring their genius.  Thus, it didn't surprise me to find more than a hint of that characteristic in My American Journey.  Where that attribute is especially pronounced is in Powell's treatment of his mistakes.  He frequently blames these mistakes not on errors in judgment, but on his misreading of the political situation surrounding a particular issue.  The result is that Powell comes across as someone who can't admit his personal faults. <br /> <br />In spite of this shortcoming, I found myself growing to enjoy My American Journey as I delved further into it.  Some of this enjoyment came from reading this book through the prism of history.  When was written several years ago, many saw this book as Powell's extended resume in preparation for a presidential campaign.  Since that didn't happen (no surprise if one reads the book), it can now be seen as an indicator of what role Powell would choose for himself after his military career ended.  Thus, the book's readers will likely not be surprised that Powell accepted the Secretary of State position, preached caution regarding the war in Iraq, and stepped aside after he felt he had done all he could in the job. <br /> <br />While it had some of the characteristics that I dislike in all autobiographies, I grew to appreciate My American Journey for being generally informative and entertaining.  Powell more than adequately conveys both his generally optimistic attitude and his overall military philosophy.  He also explains his influences, thereby reinforcing the point that all of us are in many ways shaped by our experiences with others.  Despite its self-serving elements, My American Journey is a useful look at one of the most prominent Americans in the last part of the 20th century.	2005-09-03
US	52227822	R38VN7JWBBTSMA	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Rewarding Leap Of Faith	Ann Patchett demands a lot from anyone reading Bel Canto.  She not only insists on their belief in the concept that terrorists would treat their hostages humanely; but, also requires them to accept that the response to that treatment would be an exaggerated case of Stockholm Syndrome.  These demands are likely too much for some readers, which might explain the book's polarized reviews. <br /> <br />However, those readers who answer Patchett's demands will find that she rewards them for their efforts.  The most obvious of these rewards are the wonderfully realistic characters and some truly beautiful narrative.  In addition to those qualities, Patchett also gives the reader some powerful themes upon which to dwell.  The most challenging of these themes is her contention that business and politics don't bring people together (in fact, she seems to argue that they tear people apart).  By showing Roxane Coss' effect on all of the book's characters, Patchett argues that the arts, specifically music, bring people together and allow them to transcend concepts that otherwise dominate and cheapen their lives.   <br /> <br />The allusions to music are very appropriate to Bel Canto, because reading it is much like listening to a challenging symphony or opera.  The discord generated by the book's more unrealistic elements will result in some disliking it, some enjoying just certain passages, and others enjoying its overall theme.  Regardless of which category where one finds themselves after finishing this book, it's not difficult to appreciate Patchett's ingenuity in creating a well-written story that questions standard beliefs while maintaining a lyrical tone.	2005-07-17
US	52227822	R152DS4I43SGC5	1400034299	873250864	The Dew Breaker	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Intricate Work Highlighting Our Impact On Others	My initial thought upon purchasing The Dew Breaker was I would have difficulty relating to the book's themes.  My impression stemmed from both my unfamiliarity with the book's background (Haiti during the Duvalier dictatorship) and its structure of a separate short story for each character (which I thought would result in a disjointed narrative).  However, by the end of the book, neither concern had become manifest for me.  Danticat's vivid writing style made it easy to become emotionally connected with the book's characters, even though I had little familiarity with their environment.  But, most surprising was the success of the short story format.  Instead of being a haphazard collection, Danticat carefully weaves little facts (sometimes no more than a name) which tie the stories together.  By taking this approach,  Danticat highlights the fact that we are all interconnected in ways we don't readily see.  The approach also allows her to show how that interconnectivity transcends both physical location and time to impact lives.  Such a statement likely wouldn't have been as clearly conveyed under another format. <br /> <br />It is no surprise that The Dew Breaker has found a large audience and received substantial critical acclaim. It is a well written novel with fully realized characters and a powerful message.  If the experiences of the Haitian people are the genesis for such an interesting examination of our humanity, then let us hope that Danticat continues to find their efforts as inspiration for her future explorations of the human condition.	2005-06-19
US	52227822	R97QI3KT23PW1	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not A "How To", But A Fun Read Nonetheless	Bringing Down The House is a book that most readers will find entertaining.  While it's encumbered by some cheesy writing intended to generate more suspense than is inherent in the story, the book does provide an interesting account of a daring exploitation of blackjack's odds.  This isn't a \\"how-to\\" book; but, it will give the reader an understanding that such an exploitation is possible and (potentially) lucrative.  If one can't actually perform the feat described in the book, then reading Bringing Down The House is a more than adequate substitute for experiencing the highs and lows associated with being a high stakes \\"card counter\\" in Las Vegas.	2005-06-19
US	52227822	R2DPN5LIM5X9N0	1586482459	515790369	And the Money Kept Rolling In (and Out): Wall Street, the IMF, and the Bankrupting of Argentina	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Informative Look at a Financial Disaster	After finishing And The Money Rolled In, I recalled the observation that, despite appearances, catastrophes don't happen spontaneously.  Instead, they are usually the result of a series of small mistakes that compound to become memorably devastating events.  Blustein must have recalled the same observation, because he spends critical time and effort documenting the \\"small\\" mistakes behind the Argentine default.  In doing so, he exposes the greed, stubbornness, and political cowardice that combined to make this maelstrom as devastating as it was.  Blustein also takes great lengths to point out that these emotions are still prevalent in both financial markets and seats of government, thereby making another Argentina-like financial collapse more of an inevitability than a fluke. <br /> <br />This book works on all levels.  It's a thorough analysis of (arguably) the largest financial crisis in recent history; a cautionary tale with solutions to avoid a repeat of the crisis; and an accessible, entertaining read.  Given these qualities, it's very likely that And The Money Rolled In will join Secrets Of The Temple by William Greider as one of the definitive texts to shed light on the integration between financial markets and government fiscal policy.	2005-05-29
US	52227822	R69EP1WQW2E9C	0060520752	502448572	The Children's Blizzard	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Book Despite Uneven Story Flow	It's pretty easy to understand why Erik Larson gave The Children's Blizzard a glowing recommendation: it reads like one of his books.  Laskin follows the familiar Larson formula of seamlessly weaving detailed facts with a few dramatizations to create a book where personal tales accentuate the story's overall epic tone.   <br /> <br />Still, as is almost always the case when something is copied, Laskin's efforts fall a bit short of the Larsen \\"standard.\\"  In this case, what differs is Laskin's ability to maintain the story's flow.  Probably because of his scientific background, Laskin enthusiastically depicts minutia about such subjects like the sociological background of the settlers, the meteorological conditions that created this powerful blizzard, and the physiological reactions to hypothermia.  Unfortunately, Laskin lingers a bit too long with these subjects, thereby breaking the flow of his story.  Consequently, a reader may feel the urge to skip past these details in order to resume the main narrative.  <br /> <br />While the story's flow isn't perfect, The Children's Blizzard is still a very entertaining, very informative book.  Laskin does a great job of portraying the storm's impacts on individual lives and the incredible conditions that the settlers endured to eke out a living.  In the end, the reader will have a great appreciation for nature's power and the fortitude of the pioneers who challenged it.	2005-05-01
US	52227822	RRGSGUBCMOFMU	0743264673	271307471	Unwise Passions: A True Story of a Remarkable Woman---and the First Great Scandal of Eighteenth-Century America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Bit Too Much Marketing, But Still Informative	Unwise Passions is breathlessly advertised as \\"A true story of...the first great scandal of 18th Century America.\\"  In actuality, outside of a few short chapters in the book's beginning and an occasional reminder sprinkled through later chapters, the \\"scandal\\" has little to do with most of the book.  The only point Crawford seems to raise by discussing the \\"scandal\\" is that our demand for speedy dissemination of gossip is a one of the very few differences between the modern personality and personalities in the Colonial period.    Instead, the book primarily focuses on the lives of the dysfunctional Randolph clan as they tried to cling to their family's glory while the world changed around them.  In that respect, Nancy Randolph (the subject of the \\"scandal\\") seemed to be the only member of her family who accepted that the way of life established by her ancestors was impossible to maintain.  The lesson of her life, that one can't live in the past when the world has changed, is one that has relevance to today's reader.     Crawford writes an effective story.  His superb research and energetic prose make it easy for readers to visualize all of the chronicle's personalities.  Still, the book would've been more effective had it marketed the relevant power in Nancy Randolph's story, instead of trying to play up the scandalous aspects of her life.  Overall, people should read Unwise Passions for its underplayed, yet vitally relevant, message and ignore its marketing.	2005-04-07
US	52227822	R3PTVW0UQ07BJ7	1400046459	893150799	Feet on the Street: Rambles Around New Orleans (Crown Journeys)	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Not For Everyone	Roy Blount, Jr. chose a slightly different approach in this latest addition to Crown Journeys' travelogue series.  Instead of a straight forward description of New Orleans' attractions, Blount takes the reader on an \\"emotional\\" journey by tying various locations to memories of his time spent in the city.  When it works, it is very evocative in portraying New Orleans' distinctive character.  In those successful passages, one can almost feel the humidity dripping off the page and smell New Orleans' unique scent.  However, when it doesn't work (like in the chapter about some of the \\"friends\\" Blount remembers), it comes off as self-indulgent drivel.  The result is a very uneven book. <br /> <br />For those whose recollections of New Orleans weren't influenced too strongly by alcohol, Feet on the Street will bring back good memories of arguably the most distinct city in the United States.  Still, even those who have a familiarity with New Orleans may have trouble relating to some of Blount's musings.  Those who have no familiarity with the city will probably not enjoy the book, simply because they won't be able to put a frame of reference to the places Blount mentions. Consequently, readers trying to discover New Orleans' special qualities via the written word should probably pass up Feet on the Street.	2005-03-31
US	52227822	R2MQD2TJEI1OZY	0452281768	40670064	The Kid: What Happened After My Boyfriend and I Decided to Go Get Pregnant	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Honesty Is The Best Policy For This Book	The entire premise behind open adoption is that honesty is the best policy.  Proponents of the practice maintain that being truthful with the child about their adoption, as well as maintaining contact with the birth parents, reduces the emotional difficulties that all parties face in this situation.  Given the importance that complete honesty is to open adoption, any good book on the subject should be permeated with that quality.  I was very pleased to see Dan Savage meet that threshold with this book.   <br /> <br />Savage so completely embraces open adoption's honesty ethos that the reader is spared no emotional detail.  He clearly depicts the adoption process' fears, sorrows, anticipations, and joys.  Upon completing this book, the reader will have a clear understanding of the emotions that one goes through while proceeding through an open adoption.  However, while I cautiously anticipated that the book would be honest, I didn't expect it to be as funny as it is.  The passage that had me laughing the most was the fake \\"letter\\" he drafted to the birth parents.  This missive is every homophobe's worst nightmare.  Yet, after playing the stereotypes to the hilt, Savage pulls back and shows the actual letter he drafted to the birth parents.  By moving seamlessly from broad satire to poignant introspection, Savage emphasizes adoption's bittersweet nature. <br /> <br />As has been noted, Savage's penchant for honesty also extends to graphically disclosing the lifestyle that he and his boyfriend live.  Portions of the book, such as the criteria Savage used to decide if his son should be circumcised, will undoubtedly shock some readers (who will likely quickly become ex-readers).  While some might see this disclosure as self-indulgent, it is entirely appropriate when considered within the spirit of open adoption. Still, I don't see The Kid being distributed as a required reading text at open adoption seminars due to these passages.  However, it is a book worth seeking because the emotions and experiences that are depicted will resonate both with people considering open adoption and a broader audience as well.	2005-03-29
US	52227822	RFASXUIL8MNTW	0812968972	595261029	The Birth of Venus: A Novel (Reader's Circle)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Brilliantly Constructed Historical Fiction	A truly talented writer of historical fiction can vividly recreate another time, populate it with realistic characters, and enable a reader to find an emotional connection with those characters despite the gap in eras.  After finishing The Birth of Venus, I'm convinced that Sarah Dunant is such a writer.  Dunant has effectively reconstructed Renaissance Florence by utilizing powerfully descriptive language and strong characters.  Of particular note was her use of each Cecchi family member as an archetype for the artist, merchant, politician, and religious classes that were present in 1470's Florence.  By putting a human face on these classes, Dunant makes the social and political structures of the time much more accessible. <br /> <br />The book's only drawback is its rushed ending.  Dunant spends so much time establishing the era's situations and atmosphere that the exposition of Alessandra's fate seems to speed past the reader.  While this quick ending does diminish the book, The Birth of Venus is still a vividly evocative work by a skilled writer.	2005-02-27
US	52227822	R5MSR55F63VXV	0743266854	316666947	Citizen Girl	Books	3	8	9	N	N	If Only This Book Were Their First Novel	By the end of Citizen Girl, I thought \\"This isn't a bad first novel.\\"  The problem is that Citizen Girl isn't McLaughlin & Krauss' first book.  That book had an emotional rawness that left the reader believing the authors had lived the experiences depicted in its pages (thus making the \\"diary\\" part of that book's title extremely relevant).  With Citizen Girl, that deep emotional connection is missing.  Thus, the book seems like it was written by someone relaying second hand information instead of a personal experience. <br /> <br />There are some qualities in Citizen Girl that make it worth merit.  McLaughlin & Krauss' sharp wit is still present (albeit infrequently), as is their empathy for the difficulties faced by women in today's society.  But, without the emotional immediacy that made their first novel so memorable, Citizen Girl is far below what McLaughlin & Krauss are capable of producing.	2005-02-18
US	52227822	R2019GXTOCQX0X	1582344396	154399189	You Look Nice Today: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A Sharp and Timely Satire	The ramifications of utilizing sexual harassment charges as a workplace weapon have been explored by other authors.  But, few have shown those consequences more pointedly than Stanley Bing does in You Look Nice Today.  Bing portrays how just the mere allegation of sexual harassment, unfounded or not, is enough to make one a pariah in their workplace.  Through this depiction, Bing also casts a painfully bright light on the modern corporation's survival instincts.  The picture of a workplace that is as ruthlessly efficient in eliminating potential internal problems as it is in delivering product is one that will ring true to many people. <br /> <br />The book does drift a bit when its protagonist decides to disconnect from society.  But, while it is focused on the harassment charges and the subsequent trial, You Look Nice Today is as concise as a business textbook.  Given the book's honest situations, realistic characters, and biting wit, many will find You Look Nice Today too close to non-fiction for comfort.	2005-01-02
US	52227822	R2D9N0BLZENL9J	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	6	10	N	Y	Surprising Pacing Problems for a Crichton Book	It's hard to separate the politics from the novel in State of Fear.  While Crichton's books have always been characterized by a lack of subtlety, State of Fear is easily his most strident.  Stridency in the hands of a skilled writer usually results in propaganda, which State of Fear almost is.  But, the flaws in the book aren't in the political message Crichton sends: they reside in the novel's structure. <br /> <br />In addition to his acknowledged ability to take complex scientific concepts and make them accessible, Crichton is a master of page-turning pacing.  That pacing ability is evident during the three \\"big action scenes\\" around which the book is centered.  In between these scenes though, Crichton has his characters spouting the message that he wants to convey.  Unfortunately, these \\"filler\\" sections feel like Crichton is showing off all the knowledge he obtained while conducting research for this book.  These sections also have the unfortunate effect of slowing down the pacing, thereby making the book seem long and at times tedious when compared to Crichton's previous works. <br /> <br />Ultimately, State of Fear is not a revolutionary message from Crichton.  It is the continuation of a theme that he has expounded in several books:  namely, that we shouldn't trust science or scientific advances until they have been thoroughly tested and their implications examined.  But, instead of emphasizing that point, Crichton seems to have been aware that his views on environmentalism would be controversial.  Thus, he chose to spend time documenting the justification for those opinions.  While he did an admirable job of substantiating his position, he did it at the cost of his pacing.  I'm sure most of his fans will ignore the pacing disruptions and thoroughly enjoy State of Fear.  But, they and all readers would have enjoyed it more had Crichton not sacrificed his style for his beliefs.	2004-12-28
US	52227822	R10SYBL5YMUUGA	0156007819	919236623	Eucalyptus: A Novel	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Interesting Allegory About Individuality	On the surface, Eucalyptus seems to be a fairy tale about a confined \\"princess\\" who can only be freed by a \\"prince\\" that names all the trees on her property.  If one stops at that level, they will probably dwell on the frequent descriptions of eucalyptus that tend to break the story's narrative flow and  the characters that seem a little too sparsely defined.  Yet, beyond that basic reading of the text, there is a surprising depth to this book.  To put it simply, Eucalyptus is a very interesting and challenging allegory about appreciating individuality.   <br /> <br />Bail establishes his allegory by showing how his main characters have been primarily defined through speculation and assumption.  For example, he depicts how Holland is subjected to conjecture regarding both his relationships and his past.  Additionally, Bail describes some assumptions that were present when Holland and his wife first met.  Given the prominent role that supposition played in shaping his life, Holland decides that the only man who can have his daughter is one who proves he can see past stereotype in order to appreciate a person's individuality.  Holland attempts to achieve this objective by having his naming contest act as a surrogate for determining if a person can recognize uniqueness.   However, Ellen goes beyond her father's intentions when she falls in love with a man who recognizes the eucalyptus' individuality by relating a story that reflects each tree's character.  This man doesn't even have a name, thereby reinforcing Ellen's ability to see beyond a person's \\"title\\" to that which truly defines them as an individual. <br /> <br />By having his heroine fall in love with a person who recognizes each tree's \\"story\\" and not just their name, Bail makes the point that individuality is not just a person's title.  Instead, he shows that individuality is tied to the experiences and stories that make up a person's existence.  The fact that Bail conveys this point with elegant language and interesting trivia just makes the book richer.  These elements make Eucalyptus much deeper than a simple fairy tale.  In the end, the book is a fascinating examination of what determines individuality and the true way to acknowledge it.	2004-12-11
US	52227822	R2JIZT7V6JOSXZ	1400050251	926574979	Confessions of a Bigamist: A Novel	Books	2	5	10	N	Y	Author's Indecision Taints Interesting Ideas	I was very intrigued by the possibilities inherent in Confessions of a Bigamist.  Specifically, I was interested in the idea of a woman being the party practicing bigamy; something that has traditionally been a male practice in those cultures that condone it.  Lehrer spiced up these possibilities by posing interesting questions throughout the book, like \\"Is over-dedication to work a form of bigamy?\\" and \\"Is it possible to be equally in love with two different people because each appeals to one's different sides.\\"      Regrettably, Confessions of a Bigamist never reaches its potential because Lehrer doesn't seem to know whether she wants to write a social commentary or a romantic fantasy.  This condition is best seen in her treatment of the protagonist's bigamy.  Michelle Banyon does not deliberately choose a life of bigamy; she takes it on because she is afraid to lose her lover.   Since her choice is out of panic, Michelle comes across as one who can't make up her mind about what she wants in her life.  Consequently, it's hard for the reader to empathize with a main character who is simply out of control.  Lehrer compounds her main character's flaws by never fully exploring themes that she introduces.  Time after time, she poses a question or hints at an opinion, but never answers the query or expressly states a view.   When she does get close to expressing an opinion, as is the case with her ideas on the compartmentalization of personal and professional lives, Lehrer backs away from the topic and returns to the \\"safer\\" forum of romantic fantasy.  As a result, I was left wondering if Lehrer doesn't feel strongly about the issues she raises.    Confessions of a Bigamist is rife with possibilities.  Lehrer does a good job laying out those possibilities by portraying the situations and ironies that permeate her protagonist's life (especially ironic was the fact that an efficiency expert could have such a complicated life).  But, because Lehrer doesn't seem to be ableto resolve any of these possibilities, she ends up falling back on the old cliche:  \\"You can have it all!\\"  Ultimately though, Lehrer's attempt to \\"have it all\\" in her own writing falls flat because there is no resolution.	2004-11-27
US	52227822	R3OJYIDMNSL3B8	0300097123	820507049	The Bronze Horseman: Falconet's Monument to Peter the Great	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Exceptional Scholarship Produces Masterful Study	I'll admit that I knew little about the equestrian monument to Peter the Great popularly known as \\"The Bronze Horseman\\" before I read this book.  Having finished the book, my appreciation for this artistic achievement has greatly increased.  This enhanced appreciation is entirely due to Schenker's masterful approach in discussing the statue.   <br /> <br />As one would expect in a work of art history, Schenker gives an analysis of the work's artistic merits.  However, he saves this examination until the end of the book.  Before he provides his analysis, Schenker spends the majority of the book discussing the influences that helped shape Falconet's approach to sculpting the monument.  He shows these influences by providing a thorough look at Falconet's career, his personal and professional relationships, and his personality.  All of these aspects are substantiated with solid research.  By arranging the study in this manner, Schneker gives the reader enough context to appreciate the statue's artistic qualities when they are eventually discussed.  <br /> <br />It's rare to find an art history study as informative, entertaining, and engaging as The Bronze Horseman.  In fact, The Bronze Horseman reads more like a novel than a study.  One cannot make that claim about too many other histories, much less art histories.  Consequently, much as the statue is recognized as one of the world's definitive equestrian monuments, this book will be recognized in the future as a standard for all art histories.	2004-11-10
US	52227822	R1CSI5XHU8XDLK	0451185196	745684315	Black Cross	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Superb Historical Fiction	At some point while I'm reading a work of historical fiction, I'll ask myself \\"Is this story believable?\\"  Well, not only is Black Cross believable, it's hard to imagine that it didn't occur.  Iles has written a story that seamlessly merges historical fact with dramatic narrative.  Yet, a believable story isn't the book's only positive feature.  Iles also masterfully paces the story, resulting in a tale that is difficult to stop reading until the conclusion.  Additionally, Iles has created realistic characters that act in ways which are credible.  All these elements combine to make a book that is near perfect.  In fact, if one took out the superfluous love affair and the epilogue that wraps things up a bit too neatly, this book is perfect.  Historical fiction fans owe it to themselves to add Black Cross to their libraries.	2004-10-16
US	52227822	R2HNNU52F5KLEX	0060562773	282422400	A Girl's Best Friend	Books	2	6	9	N	Y	Too Much Marketing and Not Enough Story	Maybe I'm naive, but I expect a book's marketing to have some semblance to the story inside the cover.  If one were to believe this book's promotion, one would assume that a dog plays a major role in the story's development.  Outside of one major scene, he doesn't.  People who think that A Girl's Best Friend is primarily a story of a woman who overcomes heartbreak thanks to her faithful dog should realize that it's more accurately described as a story of a woman with a dog that's in the background. <br /> <br />Since the marketing is somewhat disingenuous, one has to cast a wary eye on the narrative itself.  While the story is staple \\"chick lit\\" tale of a woman who is trying to find \\"Mr. Right\\", the way in which it unfolds is different (albeit not in a positive way).  One first notices this different style upon seeing the torrent of characters that Young unleashes within the first 50 pages.  While most of these characters fade into the background as the story develops, the overwhelming way in which they were presented leaves the impression that Young was trying to make a more epic story than the subject matter could support.  The book's other interesting feature is that it is centered around three major scenes.  This organizational style leaves the reader with the feeling that they are reading three short stories, and not one novel, that share the same characters. <br /> <br />I've usually found that there's trouble present when a book's marketing doesn't match its story.  Fortunately, A Girl's Best Friend isn't abysmal.  It is a basic, but unremarkable, addition to the \\"chick lit\\" genre.  Still, it might have been more memorable had Young not overloaded the reader with characters and weakly tried to tie three stories into one.  Given these flaws, one should pass on this \\"dog.\\" <br />	2004-09-14
US	52227822	R111U4JOIOAT44	0767914007	223826705	Raid on the Sun: Inside Israel's Secret Campaign that Denied Saddam the Bomb	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Tightly Written Tale With Relevant Overtones	The precision of this operation's execution and the Israeli government's seemingly cavalier attitude in ordering such a strike have long interested me.  Additionally, I'm a sucker for books showing how a seemingly flawless event was actually composed of missteps and near catastrophes which were overcome with hard work and strong leadership.  Given all these qualities, it's no surprise that I had high hopes for Raid On The Sun.  Fortunately, I was glad to find that the book met the expectations I had set for it.   <br /> <br />Claire does an excellent job of laying out the reasons why the Israelis felt the need to perform this mission, the physical and tactical issues which made this attack almost impossible, the struggles to successfully complete it, and the operation's political ramifications.  My only complaint is that the various elements don't get explored in more depth than what is presented.  For instance, I would have preferred to have found out more about the reasons why some high ranking members of the Israeli military opposed the operation.  While it didn't go into the all the depth I would have liked, Claire details the mission in an easy to read manner that more than adequately conveys its magnitude. <br /> <br />Given the current situation in Iraq, Raid On The Sun seems to be an exceptionally relevant book.  But, regardless of whether or not one sees in this story an analogy with the current situation, Raid On The Sun is worth reading because it gives appropriate recognition to an extraordinarily dangerous military action. <br />	2004-08-17
US	52227822	R1VDUO3LB8LUC9	0452283027	129980014	Farm Fatale: A Comedy of Country Manors	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An Entertaining Read That Loses Steam At The End	I thoroughly enjoyed the first two thirds of Farm Fatale.  Yes, it was definitely lightweight literature.  But, the characters were well defined, the setting was established as an integral part of the story, and the prose was liberally sprinkled with wonderful wit. <br /> <br />By the time I got to the end of the book, I realized that what I had thought was being elegantly constructed was simply a house of cards waiting to collapse.  And, collapse it does in its last third.  The weight of both overly contrived situations and plot lines that go nowhere more than offset the strengths that were exhibited in the first part of the manuscript. <br /> <br />Overall, this isn't a horrible book.  In fact, it could be easily classified as excellent \\"beach reading\\".  But, there are more substantive \\"chick-lit\\" books elsewhere in the market that deserve purchase before Farm Fatale. <br />	2004-08-07
US	52227822	R3EKP12HQPGU6M	0060730552	876635042	Touching the Void: The True Story of One Man's Miraculous Survival	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Bit Hard To Read, But Fascinating Nonetheless	It's hard to believe that Touching The Void is a true story.  The level of physical exertion that is depicted in the book seems beyond anything a human could produce.  But, the searing emotions that accompany that exertion are described so movingly that a reader has no choice but to accept that this story is painfully true.<BR> <BR>The only drawback to this fascinating tale is the mountaineering minutia littering the text.  I realize that this information was presented to provide some context to the difficulty of the climb and the descent.  However, instead of informing me, this information actually bored me with its technicality.  It also added a clumsy quality to the writing that ended up disrupting the flow of the story.<br />Like The Climb by Anatoli Boukreev, Simpson makes up for his sometimes clumsy writing style by dramatically portraying the emotions he felt during this ordeal.  As a result, Simpson's story is a testament to the power of ingenuity and faith. After reading Touching The Void, it will be impossible not to have a greater appreciation for the inherent strength of the human character.	2004-07-18
US	52227822	R2YJT7K863W3NA	0609809997	413235641	How the Scots Invented the Modern World: The True Story of How Western Europe's Poorest Nation Created Our World & Everything in It	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	A Convincing Argument On Scottish Contributions To Mankind	The sensations I have upon completing an exceptional book are very akin to the refreshment, exhilaration, and enlivenment that I feel after drinking a glass of ice water on a hot day.  Those were the feelings I had after finishing How The Scots Invented The Modern World.<br />My feelings were the result of the remarkable way in which Herman organized and presented his work.  Herman lays out his case in both chronological and subject order.  The result of this organization is that the reader gets a true sense of how the Scottish Enlightenment's ideas not only grew from one thinker to another, but also how they moved across subject fields to create innovations in those areas as well.  Herman also provides impeccable sources for his thesis, thereby giving credence to the theories he presents on the depth of Scottish contributions.  Finally, he writes these theories and evidence in a way that is very accessible to the average reader.  Even the chapters on philosophy, which had the potential for being very difficult, are presented in a comprehensible style.  Because the concepts are depicted in an easy-to-understand manner, the reader can recognize the relevance of those ideas to modern life.<br />How The Scots Invented The Modern World should be required reading for college level history or philosophy classes.  However, this is not a work that should be solely confined to the classroom.  Any reader that finishes this book will find it impossible not to have an appreciation for the tremendous contributions that the Scots have made to the world.	2004-06-30
US	52227822	RQVP732ZS0DJK	0471450510	516326257	Hollywood, Interrupted: Insanity Chic in Babylon -- The Case Against Celebrity	Books	2	11	27	N	Y	A Pointless Tirade	Hollywood Interrupted could have been an effective rebuttal to the hypocrisy which typifies much of the \\"entertainment\\" that comes out of the film and television industry.  Instead, this book is a rambling diatribe that is as pointless and vapid as its subjects.  In the place of new information and critical analysis, Breitbart and Ebner rehash old gossip and liberally editorialize.  Additionally, the authors employ a writing style that depicts themselves as \\"hip\\" insiders destroying the beast from within.  Unfortunately, the style comes off as more than a little duplicitous, especially since Breitbart and Ebner make their living reporting on the very people they are trying to tear down.    Because of these weaknesses, readers who are looking for an intelligent analysis of the entertainment industry's shortcomings will need to look somewhere other than Hollywood Interrupted to satisfy their search.	2004-06-18
US	52227822	R36IPRMH6OBGMF	0452281091	293422350	Chang and Eng	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Creative Decisions Undermine Interesting Story	The story of Chang and Eng Bunker's long, interesting existence is rife with literary possibilities.  Strauss certainly does a good job of arranging these possibilities, particularly during the scenes set in Thailand.  Among the questions he subtly lays out for the reader to ponder are:     What role does privacy have in shaping an individual's personality?  How would we develop if we had to continually share our existence with another individual?  Were Chang and Eng really two halves of one person?  Would we see Chang and Eng any differently than our ancestors saw them?    Given these interesting questions, one would think that Chang and Eng is an extraordinary book.  Sadly, it never realized its potential.  This failure stemmed from Strauss' decision to center the book on Eng.  Having only one person narrate the story seemed to be an odd creative choice for a novel that is about the (arguably) world's most famous pair of Siamese twins.  It's possible that Strauss made the decision to focus the story after having trouble finding a suitable voice for Chang.  However, instead of focusing the story, I was left wanting more narrative devoted to Chang's character.  Specifically, I wanted to know who Chang was and what he was feeling, instead of having Eng filter those depictions and feelings through his narration.  By the time I finished the book, I felt I had read a story that should have been titled \\"Eng.\\"      Usually, I enjoy it when a book leaves me wanting more.  That's especially true when a book contains vivid depictions of locations and interesting philosophical questions.  But, in the case of Chang and Eng, these strengths were overshadowed by incomplete characterization in both the main characters and the supporting characters.  I can only hope that Strauss' next work is a book that gives appropriate depth to all its characters.	2004-05-15
US	52227822	R2BDE4ZHTIF8E3	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Thought Provoking Allegory on American Spirituality	Having been familiar with Gaiman through his efforts on The Sandman, it was no surprise to see many of the themes which populated that earlier work were evident in American Gods.  What did surprise me was his ability to use these themes to create an original look at the nature of faith in America.<br />Gaiman once again utilizes his encyclopedic knowledge of ancient pantheons to explore the meaning and expression of belief.  He performs this exploration by using his strong characterization skills to make each entity in the book seem alive and relevant to the reader.  However, Gaiman's employment of these characters isn't just an attempt to demonstrate his talent.  He shows that the gods brought over to America by immigrants are still alive, even though they have few, if any, worshippers.  Gaiman implies that the reason why these gods survive is due to the strength of America's inherent spirituality.  He talks about how the land itself is imbued with a spiritual presence.  In Gaiman's opinion, this presence is strong enough to both sustain beliefs that would otherwise disappear and influence the people who live on the land.<br />Many American commentators have expressed surprise in the success of religious based entertainment like The Passion of The Christ and the Left Behind series.  Leave it to a foreigner to bring forward a unique and entertaining perspective on why these forms of entertainment appeal to an American audience.  By using strong characterization and engaging narrative, Gaiman makes a very powerful comment about the power of American spirituality.  American Gods is essential reading for anyone who wants a different, yet engaging, perspective on religion in America.	2004-04-21
US	52227822	RDVPJKZRVRQF9	0774808918	737685744	The Halifax Explosion and the Royal Canadian Navy: Inquiry and Intrigue (Studies in Canadian Military History, 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A Well Written Examination of a Disaster�s Aftermath	I purchased The Halifax Explosion and the Royal Canadian Navy thinking it was a depiction of the navy's efforts to assist victims of this disaster.  While that aspect is slightly covered, the majority of the book deals with the ramifications that the explosion had on the Canadian Navy's organization and morale.  Even though it turned out to be a different book than I expected, I still found it to be absorbing and informative.<br />The main reason I still enjoyed the book was due to Armstrong's superb summarization of various legal and military documents associated with the disaster's inquiry.  This summarization showed how political pressure distorted an otherwise perfunctory legal hearing.  The documents' sections that he chose also brought to life the scapegoats for the catastrophe and the villains behind the pillorying that followed the hearing.  In bringing these proceedings and people to life, Armstrong showed that the political traumas resulting from the calamity affected people and institutions in ways that were as destructive as the explosion itself.  <br />Many potential readers may not think that this book is worth reading, because it barely focuses on the tales of survival and heroism that sprung from the tragedy.  But, thanks to his meticulous research and solid writing, Armstrong presents a cautionary tale that is especially relevant in the aftermath of September 11th.  This book is one that will appeal to anyone who is interested in how people and institutions react to disaster.	2004-02-11
US	52227822	R1AG3SJQ3VPX4D	0399150749	469344396	The Opposite of Fate	Books	3	10	15	N	Y	Curiously Incomplete Memoir From A Top Author	One of the typical purposes of an author's memoirs is to provide understanding about their creative influences.  If that standard is applied to The Opposite of Fate, then one would have to conclude that Amy Tan's influences are narrow.  Tan spends much of the book obsessing over two factors:  her mother and her fear of mortality.  So dominating are these issues that other plausible influences, like her 30 year marriage and her relationship with her living brother, are barely mentioned.  I was left wondering if these other factors really are trivial to Tan's creative processes, or if the two main influences are so large that she is still coming to terms with them.  Regardless of the reason, her reluctance to discuss other influences gave me the impression that the image Tan presented in the book was incomplete.<br />Tan's selection of writings also added to the sense of incompleteness.  I found it disappointing that more than half of the book's stories were reprinted from earlier publications.  Because of her reliance on older material, I felt that I really didn't know Tan much better at the end of book than I did when I began it.  I'm sure that readers who have never experienced Tan's wonderful writing style will enjoy her sense of humor and insights into writing in general.  But, for those who are familiar with these qualities and are looking to gain a better understanding of Tan as a person and a writer, then The Opposite of Fate will seem redundant.	2004-01-01
US	52227822	R2O1GL82MFVEUW	0609610236	736759075	Hallowed Ground: A Walk at Gettysburg (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Essential Even For the Gettysburg Expert	It is rare to find an informative, entertaining, and concise travelogue on any destination, much less one as important as Gettysburg.  But, Hallowed Ground is a welcome exception to that situation.  McPherson uses his experiences and research to provide the reader with a comprehensive look at both the battlefield and the battle.  The anecdotes he offers add a depth to the text that is surprising given its brevity.  That he provides this depth with a dash of humor only enhances satisfaction with the book.  In fact, my only regret is that I didn't have this book when I toured Gettysburg.  Consequently, it is easy for me to say that Hallowed Ground is a worthy addition to any Civil War buff's library, and a necessary companion for any Gettysburg visitor.	2003-12-31
US	52227822	RBG3OW1DA35PU	0786869216	703127096	The Pleasure of My Company: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Good Screenplay Masquerading As An Adequate Book	It was with mild anticipation and strong curiosity that I bought The Pleasure of My Company.  I've found Steve Martin's comedy, theatre, and film work to be enjoyable, which made me eager to explore his writing endeavors.  In the end though, I found the book to be a lot like Martin's recent films:  pleasant, but not memorable.<br />The strength of the book lies in the characterization of Daniel Pecan Cambridge.  Thanks to some strong narration, Martin makes Cambridge so alive that even the rationalizations for his behavior seem somewhat logical.  This strength is augmented by Martin's easygoing writing style, which allows Cambridge's story to move effortlessly from one situation to another.  However, what undercuts these strengths is Martin's inability to delve into Cambridge's and the secondary characters' emotions beyond a perfunctory level.  Because of this lack of depth, even the more outlandish scenes (like Cambridge's essay and his attempts to seduce Elizabeth) come across as either mildly humorous or mildly frustrating.  This weakness, combined with a much too rushed ending, leaves the reader feeling somewhat dissatisfied with what could be a fascinating story.<br />The Pleasure of My Company will probably make a good movie.  In fact, I thought I was reading a screenplay treatment instead of a novel.  But, situations and emotions which can be fleshed out by actors need to be detailed when they are put into a book. It is in this area that The Pleasure of My Company falls short.  It was a mildly enjoyable read; but, in the future, I think I'll stick to Martin's other endeavors.	2003-12-23
US	52227822	R1Q2XCTCJB111G	0452284554	111902659	Riding the Bus with My Sister: A True Life Journey	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Honesty Transforms Potentially Clichéd Tale	I always try to read a book without any prejudices in regards to the author or the story's nature.  But, I have to admit that I was more than a little afraid at first about Riding The Bus With My Sister.  I feared that this book would be a stereotypical \\"feel good\\" story, where the mentally retarded sister was depicted as a misunderstood noble creature and the \\"bus rides are a journey of self-discovery\\" metaphor was abused.  <br />It didn't take me long to realize that my initial fears were unfounded.  They went unrealized because Simon chose to infuse her story with honesty, instead of stereotype.  Nowhere is this quality better displayed than in her depiction of Beth.  Simon makes a point of showing that her sister is stubborn, opinionated, and not liked by everyone.  But, she also shows that Beth has qualities that make her distinctive and important.  By providing this balanced portrayal, Simon gives her sister a realism that transcends the stereotypical depiction of the mentally disabled.<br />The only area where Simon veers dangerously close to typecast is in her portrayal of the \\"wise beyond their station in life\\" bus drivers.  While she does state that not all drivers were like those she highlighted, those that were shown were portrayed as near saints.   What rescues this depiction is the honesty behind the stories.  Simon takes care to show how each of these drivers obtained their wisdom through their life experiences.  As a result, the drivers, and their level of understanding, become believable.<br />While the metaphor running throughout the book had the potential to be abused, it turned out to be appropriate.  Because of the truthful portrayal of her sister and the situations during that year of riding, I came to believe that Simon had discovered, changed, and grown. She shows this growth by movingly displaying the two most important points she learned:  that everyone has value and that insight can be obtained from anywhere.   If every book imparted suchknowledge, the world would be a richer place.  But, since most books don't pass along such lessons, one should grasp those, like Riding The Bus With My Sister, that do add this value to one's life.	2003-12-14
US	52227822	R1OX3ZB9UIAEY5	1890771058	77732929	Stories Grandma Never Told: Portuguese Women in California	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good If You�re Portuguese, Weak If You�re Not	I enjoyed Stories Grandma Never Told on a purely nostalgic level.  Each chapter brought back anecdotes that my grandparents and parents told me of their experiences in immigrating to California from the Azores.  I was surprised at how similar the book's subject's stories were to those that were told by my grandparents.  Above all, I was reminded at how wonderful it is to have a strong cultural identity in one's background.<br />However, I realized early that the reason I was enjoying this book was because I was supplying much of the emotional energy.  I certainly wasn't helped by the writing, which could best be described as pedestrian.  The writing was exceptionally lacking in providing each of the interviewed subjects with a distinctive voice, thus making it difficult to distinguish one interviewee from another.  Because of the Lick's inability to make any of her sources seem unique, the special qualities of the Portuguese culture also seem indistinguishable from those displayed by other European cultures.  As a result, I'm not sure that any non-Portuguese reader of this book would find it interesting or informative.<br />You should read (and probably own) this book if you are Portuguese.  It will bring back many good memories of ancestors, as well as reminders of the struggles they endured in order to be successful in their new home.  But, if you're not Portuguese, you will most likely not find anything that distinguishes these stories from those told by the Italians, the Basques, or any other nationality that immigrated to the United States.  Consequently, Stories Grandma Never Told has to be considered a missed opportunity in sharing the special qualities that come with being Portuguese.	2003-11-18
US	52227822	R2T6T6MHLWX81Y	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A Little Unfocused, But Still Fascinating	Once again, Krakauer has taken a situation that's slightly outside of most people's experiences and made it accessible.  This time, he portrays the actions of Ron and Dan Lafferty, who believed they were told by God to slay their sister-in-law.  His energetic prose brings to life the events and influences that led these men to murder.  While the reader may not be able to fully justify the Laffertys' reasons for their actions, one will be able to understand how they came to their conclusions.<br />Although the book is interesting, it does suffer from a lack of focus.  Krakauer admits in the author's remarks that he had another book about Mormons in mind before writing Under the Banner of Heaven.  This other book rears its head from time to time in the background material on Mormonism.  Even though the material is informative, it prevents this book from having the laser-like focus that made Krakauer's other works so memorable.<br />Overall, Under the Banner of Heaven is worth reading.  Krakauer does a good job detailing Mormonism's history and the sad facts of the Lafferty case.  It's in his attempt to link the two that the book comes up slightly short.  While still having merit, Under the Banner of Heaven would've been better had Krakauer focused on the present and left history for another book.	2003-11-02
US	52227822	R1BC5M7RSDAD4E	0300098480	185193262	The Degaev Affair: Terror and Treason in Tsarist Russia	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Straightforward Telling of an Intriguing Story	Considering the limitations that existed about its subject, The Degaev Affair is surprisingly informative.  The story of a key Russian revolutionary would be interesting enough.  But, Degaev's many role changes, including informant, murderer, and professor, lends a fascinating psychological aspect to the story that leaves the reader wanting to know more about his motivations.  To satisfy this curiosity, Pipes would have had to venture into the realm of speculation.  Fortunately, he recognized that he didn't have enough primary research material to allow him to justify random speculation.  Instead, he chose to rely on the story's intrinsic strength by simply relating its facts.  In taking this path, Pipes treats his subject with a respect that wouldn't have existed had he engaged in casual conjecture.  <br />Some may bemoan the book's brevity given the story's interesting qualities.  But, those who look past the length will find rewards that belie the book's briefness.   One will find a well-written retelling that highlights one person's role in shaping both the Russian revolutionary movement and the government's response to that movement.  Additionally, enough material is presented to allow the reader to draw parallels with current events.   Thanks to Pipes' uncomplicated presentation, The Degaev Affair stands as a distinctive look at a unique case.	2003-10-29
US	52227822	R2UPAURJSL1LEI	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Equal To The Hype	Given the many words that have already been written about this book, I will be brief in my comments.  If you like books that are populated by emotionally realistic characters uttering pitch perfect dialogue and living in a setting that is absolutely essential to the story, then The Nanny Diaries belongs in your library.  Even if you have never been on either side of the nanny experience, it will not be difficult to relate to the situations and emotions which are depicted in this book.  McLaughlin and Krause have done a magnificent job of creating a story that is at times funny, is at times infuriating, but is always entertaining.  All told, The Nanny Diaries is a worthy addition to any bookshelf.	2003-09-12
US	52227822	R3VM80GB5CAILA	006054564X	957972911	My Invented Country: A Nostalgic Journey Through Chile	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Another Non-Fiction Work From Allende That Shines	My Invented County is billed as \\"a nostalgic journey through Chile.\\"  Personally, I thought it was more of a travelogue of emotions centered on Chile.  Allende channels these emotions through her trademark energetic prose to present a vivid portrayal of the Chilean personality, the emotional impact the country's landscape has on its citizens, and the social mores which dominate Chilean interactions.  What never lingers long in the background of this portrayal is Allende's examination of how these elements have shaped her as a writer.  This reflective tone imparts to the reader that Allende is taking stock of her life before embarking on another direction.<br />I'm finding that I enjoy Allende's recent non-fiction books much more than her latest fictional works.  The reason why is because her non-fiction contains much more passion than her  fiction, which often comes off like a research project.  Still, I don't think one needs to have read all of her other works to appreciate My Invented Country (although it doesn't hurt).  Whether one is a long time Allende reader, a native of Chile, or neither, it'll be hard not to enjoy this touching journey though a country and a life.	2003-09-02
US	52227822	R1LF3UGCR4EY6B	1591290562	597400744	A Young Girls's Crimes	Books	2	6	8	N	N	A Good Story In Need Of More Development	It's always difficult to evaluate an author's first work.  Such works almost always showcase an aspect of the author's writing which shows maturity.  However, these works also vividly display the remaining weaknesses in the author's skills.  This is the case with David Rehak and his debut work, A Young Girl's Crimes.<br />What is clear from the book is that Rehak knows what elements are necessary for a good story.  The story of Flora's fall and redemption certainly contains enough emotional power to captivate the reader.  However, two serious weaknesses undermine this strength.  The first is that the story is not adequately developed.  Because each narrative element is touched upon too briefly, it is impossible to create any sort of impact with the reader.  The best example of this error occurs when Flora's father dies.  What could be an affecting moment is trivialized by the sparse description, which says little more than \\"his death was listed in the newspaper.\\"   This type of mistake is repeated almost every time an emotional bridge could have been built.  As a result, the reader ends up caring little for the characters.<br />The book is further weakened by stiff dialogue.  Other than Flora, the words spoken by the characters mostly reside in the area of stereotype, while occasionally venturing into the realm of cliché.  A good example occurs when Bill (Flora's brother) is told that his wife doesn't want to see him.  His response, \\"She's my wife! I'm her husband! And she's coming back home with me!\\", is almost laughable.  Without better dialogue, the reader has little means to relate to the characters.<br />A Young Girl's Crimes definitely feels like a book that was rushed into print.  If more time were taken to develop the story and improve the dialogue, a book that matched the potential of the story probably would have emerged.  However, what exists now is just too brief to be memorable.  Readers who enjoy finding the first work from an author will probably want to buy A Young Girl's Crimes.   But, the majority of the reading public will want to avoid this book.	2003-09-02
US	52227822	R2C1WXM5JG599W	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Despite Flaws, A Solid Exposition of Interesting Subjects	I love finding books that take an obscure subject, discuss it thoroughly, and expose its significance to modern life.  Given that predilection, it's no surprise that I found The Devil in the White City enjoyable.  What did surprise me was the way that Larson managed to make two seemingly diverse subjects interesting and relevant.  Thanks to his thorough research, Larson is able to vividly display the effect that both the Fair and Holmes had, and continue to have, on American life.  However, without the energetic prose that he employs, this book would have been a boring study on dead subjects.  Thanks to his writing style, Larson makes the reader feel as though they are living the stories.    While the writing style is generally very effective, it does have its drawbacks.  Larson tends to end each section with a \\"cliffhanger\\" sentence.  Obviously, he is trying to create some tension and suspense to keep the reader engaged.  However, the material and the narrative are adequate to meet this goal.  Thus, the \\"cliffhangers\\" just seem tedious.  Additionally, Larson never completely explores the link he saw between the Fair and Holmes.  By not fully describing this link, the reader is left confused by the sometimes jarring transitions between the two subjects.    While these flaws are enough to deny The Devil in the White City the term \\"masterpiece\\", it possesses enough charms to make it a very entertaining read.  Anyone who enjoys interesting subjects that are meticulously researched and effectively presented will enjoy this book.	2003-08-13
US	52227822	R2OC5E47F73KFW	0898708257	987395125	Tolkien: Man and Myth, a Literary Life	Books	5	12	15	N	N	An Insightful Look Into A Rich Life	The further I delved into Tolkien: Man and Myth, the more I realized that calling it a \\"biography\\" is a misnomer.  I came to this conclusion because only a minor portion of the book presents biographical information.  Instead, the book could better be described as a work of \\"apologetics\\".  Apologetics, in its most classic sense, uses writings and examples to both clarify a philosophy and refute critical comments about that philosophy.  This method is exactly what Pierce employed to near perfection in Tolkien: Man and Myth.  Pierce uses the writings of Tolkien and others to refute the criticisms of Tolkien's works.  In the process, he provides the reader with a thorough understanding of the philosophy that shaped Tolkien's writings, how Tolkien arrived at this philosophy, and how it influenced his interactions with others.  The result is a deeper appreciation for Tolkien's efforts. <br />Pierce deserves much credit for using the writings of the \\"man\\" to dispel many of the \\"myths\\" surrounding Tolkien and his books.  By taking an apologetics approach to Tolkien's life and works, Pierce provides the reader with a better understanding of his subject than any standard biography could provide.  Consequently, Tolkien: Man and Myth is an essential work for anyone studying the life of this literary giant.	2003-07-15
US	52227822	R289E6FDX62VAB	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Interesting Thesis Obliterated By Poor Organization	I've read several non-fiction books which I felt inadequately supported the writer's thesis.  But, I have never read a non-fiction book where the thesis was lost due to the author's poor organization of the material.  Unfortunately, I have now read such a book in Portrait of a Killer:  Jack The Ripper Case Closed.<br />For some obscure reason, Cornwell chose to present the facts supporting her assertion in a haphazard manner.  To give an example of this manner, one can look at Chapter Ten , which is titled \\"Medicine of the Courts\\".  Given this title, one would reasonably expect a discussion about medical evidence presented in the court inquests surrounding the Ripper case.  The chapter does indeed start out that way.  However, Cornwell diverts off into a discussion of how the painting \\"Ennui\\" is further proof of Sickert being the killer, then discusses how Sir William Gull and the Duke of Clarence couldn't be the Ripper, goes back to the medical evidence at the court inquests, veers off to discuss a psychological interpretation for the victims' wounds, and finishes with various definitions for \\"Jack\\" and \\"Ripper\\".  Sadly, the poor organization portrayed in this example isn't unique.  Each chapter contains the same convoluted presentation of facts.<br />Simply put, Portrait of a Killer is a mess.  There are some interesting assertions in the book.  However, the poor organization not only confuses the reader, it also clouds the evidence to the point that the central thesis remains unproved.	2003-06-25
US	52227822	R34MH8JBDIST4N	0151006903	99041831	Baudolino	Books	3	8	12	N	Y	Unsympathetic Main Character Undercuts Solid Book	I was a little apprehensive to begin Baudolino after having endured the disaster that is The Island of the Day Before, because I feared that Eco had decided to take his writing down a self indulgent road.  Fortunately, Baudolino is better than its predecessor.  Yet, while there is much to admire, its power as a story is undercut by some of the same flaws that crippled Eco's previous book.<br />One of the key strengths of Baudolino is the tremendous amount of historical detail which Eco has placed within its pages. He is one of the very few authors who can portray an encyclopedic knowledge of medieval practices, politics, and people in an entertaining manner.  Yet, Eco shows that he is not just an author who needs a historical basis to build a story.  His efforts into fantasy, as depicted during the title character's quest for Prester John, are as imaginative as those created by any other fantasy writer.  As a result of these efforts, the reader can easily imagine themselves in the world which Eco has created for this story.<br />Ironically, the book's primary weakness is inextricably tied to its strength.  Just like The Island of the Day Before, this weakness lies with an inadequate main character.  Unlike that earlier work's bland main character, Baudolino's title character is very well defined.  Unfortunately, that definition includes the denouement at the book's beginning that he is a self professed liar.  As a result of this confession, I kept wondering if what I was reading was a lie or the truth.  The confusion I felt was not appeased by the book's other characters.  Where the title character was sharply described, the supporting characters displayed very little personality.  The lack of insight provided by these other characters only served to feed the confusion that I was feeling about the story.  In the end, I grew tired trying to resolve the uncertainty I had about the veracity of Baudolino's tale.  Only when the book abandoned all pretense of being historical and delved strictly into fantasy did I find it to be enjoyable.  However, that point didn't occur until almost two-thirds of the way into the book.<br />There is much to recommend in Baudolino.  An intelligent story, witty dialogue, and a well-defined main character are strong points to the work.  But, by prominently displaying the main character's flaw, Eco undermined the power of his story.  Because of this action, many will find Baudolino to be an exercise in tedium instead of a soaring triumph of imagination.	2003-06-25
US	52227822	R2XYY33C5SX79E	0151004145	289512427	The Cave	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	A Powerful Allegory From A Literary Master	It took me a long time to write this review, simply because it took a while to absorb the multitude of themes which Saramago explores in this book.  Even now, I'm not sure I completely understand everything that he was trying to say.  However, those statements that I do comprehend are made in a way that is both powerful and provocative.<br />On the surface, The Cave appears to be the simple story of a potter, Cipriano Algor, trying to sell his wares.  Yet, that simple plot actually masks a challenging statement on the destruction that capitalist economies can impart on the lifestyles and the lives of individuals.  Saramago makes it clear that the primary outlet for Algor's product is The Center, an ultra-modern shopping mall which serves as the metaphor for unbridled capitalism.  When The Center ceases purchasing Algor's product, he struggles to create another product which The Center will purchase, thus maintaining both his livelihood and his life.  In showing Algor's struggles, Saramago makes an argument that a focus on excessive profitability and economies of scale creates conditions which can lead to the destruction of lives, and also restrict choice to a point that is rivaled only by a totalitarian state.<br />Behind all of the statements concerning capitalism lies the specter of Plato's Cave.  While I won't rehash the allegory, I will point out that Saramago's prominent use of it drives home his point that much of modern life is an illusion.  Thus, to build a life around that illusion would only bring discontentment and destruction to anyone who attempted it.  There is little doubt that Saramago is trying to send a \\"wake up\\" message to his readers to abandon the materialism and greed which typify the modern capitalist society.<br />I could also write about the other prominent themes, like the rejuvenating power of love, the mystery of creating life, and the anchoring aspect of family.  But, I'm afraid I'd go well beyond Amazon's word limit for reviews.  Suffice to say, The Cave is a demanding, complex work that discusses many relevant issues in a manner that challenges the reader's assumptions.  This is not a book that is easily read and absorbed.  However, those that dedicate the time to reading it will find a reward that is more than equal to the effort.  Saramago deserves tremendous praise for composing a work as audacious and timely as The Cave.	2003-04-01
US	52227822	R29UC9FELCT5R3	0142000930	876796059	Lake Wobegon Summer 1956	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Sweet And Evocative, But Somewhat Tired	There are few authors alive today who possess the ability to seamlessly mix sweet nostalgia with bittersweet melancholy in their writings.  Garrison Keillor maintains his reputation as one of these authors in Lake Wobegon, Summer 1956.   Keillor skillfully juxtaposes the serenity of small town life and the closeness of family with the frustrations of teenagers and the not-so-idyllic reality of day-to-day family existence.  The result of these depictions is a setting and a set of characters that seem real.<br />My problem with the book is that I felt like I've been here before through Keillor's other Lake Wobegon books.  I was already familiar with the Bunsens, the Larsens, the Sanctified Brethren, and the Chatterbox Café's location.  While I don't mind revisiting familiar territory (a sentiment with which I'm sure many of his readers would agree), I felt that there was nothing really new in this book.  <br />Since Keillor's attempts outside of the Lake Wobegon milieu have had mixed success, it is easy to understand why he would want to stick closely to his \\"comfort zone.\\"  The combination of this familiar setting and his tremendous talent makes the result of an enjoyable read a foregone conclusion.  Yet, one can only hope that Lake Wobegon, Summer 1956 is not the first sign of that one of America's finest writers is running out of ideas.	2003-04-01
US	52227822	R2B1VS2090B165	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An Entertaining, Informative Look At A Cultural Landmark	Much like one of its subject's shows, Live From New York clearly has its high points and its low points.  The high points come from the fascinating collection of anecdotes and remembrances that are offered by a variety of people associated with the show.  Sometimes, these stories are hilarious (like Damon Wayans' retelling of how he caused himself to get fired).  Other times, they are heart wrenching (as in the case of the remembrances of Gilda Radner).  But above all, the stories vividly covey the sense of manic energy and fun that comes across in each Saturday Night Live episode.<br />The book's low points are clearly the contributions of the authors:  Shales and Miller.  One first has to question whether they should be given the title of \\"editors\\" instead of \\"authors\\", because very little of their own words are in the book.  What words they do write are so fawning and uncritical that they threaten to turn the book into an unjustified hagiography.   Yet, the interview material more than adequately offsets the weak contributions of the editors/authors.<br />Fans who recently began watching the show will gain an appreciation for the struggles and the effort it took to get, and keep, Saturday Night Live on the air.  Long time fans will find an entertaining and informative oral history that is sure to evoke memories.  However, what both groups will discover is an appreciation for the talented people who have labored to maintain the show's status as a television comedy standard.  By focusing on the human side of the story, Live From New York turns out to be a solid chronicle of this television icon.	2003-02-12
US	52227822	ROSYNKP2TZFXM	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	3	11	23	N	N	Relevant Conclusion, But Presented To The Point of Overkill	As Michael Rose points out in the forward to Goodbye, Good Men, there is clearly a problem with the American Catholic priesthood.  Rose spends the rest of the book laying out the case that this problem is caused by liberal priests and laity who have made a concerted effort to ordain only those individuals who do not display \\"orthodox\\" tendencies.  With the information and anecdotes that he provides, it's hard to dispute Rose's thesis.  However, Rose goes overboard in presenting his information.  He too often veers toward the sensational, displaying the need to present yet another story about either homosexual seminarians or heretical teachers.  As an ironic result, this information ends up desensitizing the reader instead of startling them.<br />I thought the book could've ended around page 130 and the thesis would have been adequately substantiated.  However, Rose went on for another 150 pages.  As a result of this decision, Rose undercuts the power of his argument by drowning the reader in the lurid.  In taking the sensationalist path, Goodbye Good Men suffers from that most tragic of book maladies:  a great idea that is ineffectually presented.	2003-01-01
US	52227822	RJUKCS32MFFBY	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Haven�t We Been Down This Road Before?	Michael Crichton has clearly developed a formula for his writings .  He begins with the theme that technology often advances more rapidly than the understanding of the implications of that technology, adds some techno-babble, mixes in a few high octane action scenes, and voila:  an instant best seller.<br />Other than the slightly darker ending, Prey doesn't deviate from the formula.  Judging by the sales figures on Crichton's books, it's pretty obvious that this style hasn't cost him any readers.  Yet, one can't help but feel that this book is treading over well worn ground.  The technology being discussed may change, but the style in which it's discussed doesn't.  I suppose that Crichton sees no need to change his method.  But given his obvious talent, one hopes for a little more than just formula. <br />For Crichton fans, Prey does not disappoint.  The book is another excellent display of Crichton's ability to marry cutting edge ideas with solid action sequences.  But, there really isn't anything new in Crichton's presentation to make the book memorable.  Consequently, Prey is much like a roller coaster one has ridden several times:  it's still fun, but it has lost its ability to surprise.	2003-01-01
US	52227822	R2PFYYMXRUW36R	0195111397	169514292	Evolution of Infectious Disease	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Informative and Thought Provoking	If Plague Time can be considered to be \\"Evolutionary Epidemiology for Dummies\\", then Evolution of Infectious Disease is the technical foundation behind the ideas presented in that other work.  Ewald builds this foundation by showing that evolutionary causes are behind many diseases plaguing mankind today.  He also takes great care in pointing out how crafting treatment programs with evolutionary factors in mind would likely control these scourges.  By presenting the information in this manner, Ewald gives his audience with a workable plan to control disease that bypasses many of the shortfalls associated with conventional medicine.<br />Evolution of Infectious Disease has already been called a milestone in the history of epidemiology.  It is easy to understand why.  The ideas presented in the book are revolutionary; the level of research to support them is impeccable; and they are conveyed in a manner which is both accessible and applicable.  Given these qualities, it is no surprise that Evolution of Infectious Disease is now recognized as an essential text for understanding and combating disease.	2003-01-01
US	52227822	R3JPH6T8UCN52S	030681188X	161661538	How to Lose Friends & Alienate People	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Disturbing, Funny, Brilliant	My initial reaction while reading How to Lose Friends and Alienate People was one of shock.  Young's vivid portrayal of the pathetically shallow lives that are led by those people whose sole purpose is to be a parasite to the celebrity culture is truly disconcerting.  In some ways, my emotional response reminded me of the feeling I get while reading a Bret Easton Ellis book.  The only difference was that I comfort myself with the idea that Ellis' books are fiction.  Young makes it vividly clear that the truth is more disturbing than any fiction.<br />Eventually, Young's ability to find the humor in his actions and in the actions of others subdued my shock.  Young's attempts to enter the \\"celebrity worship\\" lifestyle are hilarious enough.  But even funnier are his attempts to impress Graydon Carter.  An unspoken theme throughout the book is Young's desire to become Graydon Carter by emulating his career path:  namely, begin one's career by insulting the celebrity culture, and then use the notoriety generated by those actions to become part of that culture.  Yet, Young's actions around his would be \\"mentor\\" do anything but endear him to the object of his affection.  It's tough not to laugh out loud at some of the stupid things that Young does in order to impress Carter.<br />In the end, I wasn't sure if How to Lose Friends and Alienate People was yet another attempt by Young to \\"crash\\" the celebrity culture.  However, I really didn't care.  Young's willingness to put his mistakes and outright failures on paper for all to see, without drenching the text in self pity, made the book enjoyable.  It is this self-deprecating approach which makes How to Lose Friends and Alienate People an admirable, accessible portrayal of a lifestyle that most people will (thankfully) never experience.	2002-12-17
US	52227822	R3G4460EA65EUH	0452282977	155843737	Miss Garnet's Angel	Books	3	17	23	N	Y	A Mix of Good Elements That Never Really Gels	On the surface, Miss Garnet's Angel seems to have all the elements necessary for a great piece of literature.  There is an exotic setting, a well defined central character to assume an \\"everyman\\" role, good supporting characters that bring out facets of the central character's personality, and a solid narrative which explores several themes.  The most visited theme is how travel can create a more complete person by opening up different aspects of one's persona.  Also, an examination of art's power to invoke spirituality and an exploration of the meaning of love frequently reoccur throughout the book.<br />With all of these elements, one could reasonably expect a solid, if not spectacular, novel.  Yet, for some reason, Vickers never quite puts all of these pieces together.  The setting, while adequately described, is never established as the only place where this story could've occurred.  The main character never transcends her commonness to become memorable.  The themes, while frequently discussed, never seem to reach a resolution.  Finally, the unrealistic fate of the several characters, especially Miss Garnet and the twins, leaves much to be desired.  <br />There are enough elements that are adequately presented in Miss Garnet's Angel to make it a perfectly acceptable choice for reading.  But, by never fully developing these elements, Vickers produced an average book instead of the great book it could have been.  Because of those shortcomings, one might be better off looking at other books before settling on Miss Garnet's Angel.	2002-11-12
US	52227822	RZ51ZJTNK1Q1R	0743224221	570752224	Buck Up, Suck Up . . . and Come Back When You Foul Up: 12 Winning Secrets from the War Room	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Nothing New Revealed, But Still Enjoyable and Practical	James Carville and Paul Beglia have written a book that is short on originality, but definitely long on practicality.  While the lessons they preach are not new, they are presented in a straightforward manner that clearly elucidates the authors' points.  Mix in some wry humor, appropriate anecdotes, and some good old fashioned gossip, and the reader has an entertaining book whose lessons are applicable to fields beyond politics.  While one may not agree with the political slant of the authors, one has to conclude that Buck Up, Suck Up, And Come Back When You Foul Up contains enough good advice to make it worth reading.	2002-10-23
US	52227822	R2OXLIHC8WRL1E	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	5	5	6	N	N	How a Depressing Situation Can Be Entertainingly Presented	One of my English professors said that good writers are usually great listeners.  If my professor's hypothesis is true, then Nick Hornby must be a fabulous listener.  I state that point because his book, How To Be Good, is a triumph of realistic dialogue which adroitly portrays the emotion behind a marriage's disintegration.<br />Since the book is centered around Dr. Katie Carr, it is her dialogue and \\"inner voice\\" that drive the story.  Her dialogue and the supporting narrative are filled with the pain, anger, apathy, and humor that one feels as a relationship slowly disintegrates.  The book would be very good if it were only the main character who displayed such sparkling talk.  However, all of the book's characters are made alive by the same kind of dialogue.  It's easy to relate to Katie's husband's confusion, her son's anger, and her houseguest's calmness simply from the words that they utter.<br />However, How To Be Good is not just simply an exercise in effective dialogue.  It is also an interesting examination of what constitutes \\"good.\\"  As Hornby points out, Katie is a doctor.  This profession is typically considered to be \\"good\\" because its practitioners heal or alleviate suffering.  Yet, Katie's good seems to pale in the face of her husband's more aggressive form of \\"goodness.\\"  Before making him out to be a saint, Hornby shows how her husband's actions not only bring some unintended negative consequences, but also fail to prevent the disintegration of his family.  By showing these actions and situations, Hornby reminds the reader that there is no single answer to the question \\"how does one be good\\" because mankind hasn't found that single answer yet.  In taking this honest stand, Hornby treats his readers with a respect that wouldn't be found had he finished the book with a tidy ending which had everyone living happily ever after.<br />How To Be Good is a complex work.  On the surface, it is a study of the slow, painful failure of a relationship.  Underneath that exterior is a clever examination of \\"good\\" and how that term is defined.  It takes a skilled author to combine thorny themes like these and create an entertaining book.  Thanks to his deft touch with dialogue and a strong sense of narrative, Hornby has created such a book.  How To Be Good should be required reading for anyone who appreciates a good story told in a realistic, emotionally challenging manner.	2002-09-18
US	52227822	R2FWI5TKNYAG2T	0345450523	120324008	Billie's Kiss	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	An Exercise In Style That Goes Nowhere	Elizabeth Knox faced a tough challenge in writing a follow up to her exquisite novel, The Vintner's Luck.  However, given the skill that was displayed in that earlier work, a reader could hope that the same type of unforgettable characters and a similarly subversive philosophical theme would be found in Billie's Kiss.  Unfortunately, Billie's Kiss contains none of the qualities that made The Vintner's Luck so special.<br />Instead of maintaining the strengths she displayed in other works, Knox decided to try to center Billie's Kiss around a particular style.  The style she chose was the Gothic Romance of the 19th Century.  In truth, she did manage to vividly portray the book's setting in the islands north of Scotland.  However, while she managed to match a Gothic Romance's setting, she failed to adequately develop any of the style's other characteristics.  Especially notable in their absence were the strong characters usually found in this genre.  There aren't any characters as memorable as Heathcliff and Catherine in Billie's Kiss.  Instead, we're left with a bland protagonist who would be instantly forgettable if it weren't for the fact that she has pink hair.  The only character worth mentioning is Lord Hollowhume, who is clearly Knox's device for continuing the exploration of God's personality that she established in The Vintner's Luck.  Knox's version of God is a terrible being whose jealousy and manipulations bring ruin to all.  However, if it weren't for these qualities which come forth from this exploration, Lord Hollowhume would be as forgettable as the others in this book.<br />It seems apparent that Billie's Kiss was Knox's attempt to mimic the sweeping passions and powerful landscapes that typify the Gothic Romance.  Yet, the Gothic Romance wasn't just about style.  The genre's best works contained memorable characters for which the reader cared and an emotional sincerity that still rings true today.  Without those characteristics present, one is left with a tedious read whose ending is simply outlandish.  Billie's Kiss is a major disappointment on all levels, and a work that should definitely be avoided.	2002-09-03
US	52227822	R2LK1SSLZBS2O8	0066211611	632147021	Portrait in Sepia: A Novel	Books	2	15	22	N	Y	Better Than Her Previous Effort, But Far Below Her Best	I admit that I had pretty low expectations for Portrait in Sepia, especially when I learned that it was a sequel to Daughter of Fortune (which I consider one of Allende's weaker works).  After reading the first 100 pages, I feared that even those low expectations wouldn't be met.  These pages, which are set in San Francisco, share the same mistakes that plague Daughter of Fortune.  Nowhere can this be better seen than when Allende twice describes her characters as entering &quot;another dimension&quot; after making love.  That overblown expression, which left me rolling on the floor in laughter, made me think I was reading a camp sendup of an Allende novel.  <br />Fortunately, the book got better once the setting was moved to Chile.  The characters became a little more realistic and the story became more interesting.  It at first seemed that by returning the story to Chile, Allende found that emotional core which she needs to tap in order to write effectively.  Yet, I soon realized that the reason why the story was better was not because she had found an emotional core.  She had instead borrowed from her other books where that quality is present.  For instance, the De Valle's are from The House of the Spirits. The theme of photography as a way to insure memory can be found in Of Love and Shadows, as well as in one of the stories in The Stories of Eva Luna.  Using narrative to &quot;show&quot; a person's life can be found in Eva Luna.  The result is like reading a &quot;Greatest Hits&quot; version of Allende's previous works.  While that may sound attractive, it comes across as though she is out of ideas.<br />Portrait in Sepia provides the reader with glimpses that show Allende is still capable of strong writing.  The book contains some vivid characters, employs narrative instead of dialogue to convey the story, and occasionally utilizes effective prose to portray powerful emotion.  The problem is that the book doesn't have a subject which is capable of maximizing and focusing these strengths.  Until Allende finds that subject, she will continue to diminish her standing as a talented author.	2002-06-05
US	52227822	R1NBHW7RSJQZ6E	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Worth Turning Off the Television To Read	The subject of Bias and its ultimate conclusion concerning that subject have been the focus of a lot of debate.  Yet, it is clear that the book has made its mark with the reading public despite the controversy.  This positive reaction is no surprise because there are many reasons why people would want to read this book.  <br />One of the main reasons why Bias is successful is that it is written in an entertaining style.  Goldberg does an excellent job of mixing facts with anecdotes and gossip to convey his point.  The result is a very easy to read book that doesn't misplace its message.  Yet, just because Bias is entertaining doesn't mean that it lacks credibility.  The fact that Goldberg worked within this industry for so long gives him impeccable credibility to discuss this subject.  This credibility carries over to the book, making it more serious than it appears at first glance.  Adding to the credibility is Goldberg's use of outside sources to back up his point.  Goldberg cites media watchdog groups, newspapers, and even some of his former colleagues to substantiate his point.  This level of substantiation only makes his argument more valid.<br />Bias probably won't change the minds of anyone who feels strongly about the existence or lack of bias in mainstream news coverage.  However, for those who never really thought about the matter, Goldberg has made a convincing statement on the issue.  He clearly states his argument, supports it with solid documentation, and presents it in a manner that doesn't talk down to his readers.  Given those qualities, it is no surprise that Goldberg has succeeded in finding a more receptive audience to his ideas than he found at CBS.	2002-05-14
US	52227822	R2S48B93PAYAO0	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Life's Nuances Perfectly Captured	When I first purchased Plainsong, I didn't think the book would equal the hype which had surrounded it.  Thus, I wasn't too surprised when it didn't reach those lofty levels.  However, while I didn't find it equal to the hype, it is still a very entertaining reminder that there are great stories to be found in simple everyday living.<br />Haruf clearly understands that life is made up of a series of little triumphs and little setbacks, instead of the grand drama that is common in most novels.  He conveys this knowledge with a sparse writing style that mirrors the landscape where the story is set.  The style appears at first glance to be very simple.  However, it becomes clear that the language powerfully and convincingly conveys a multitude of actions and emotions going on underneath the surface. Nowhere does this quality become more apparent than in the development of the characters.  Initially, they are so recognizable that one is tempted to call them stereotypes.  However, Haruf uses simple, powerful language to flesh out his characters through their everyday exchanges with each other.  By taking this action, the reader is able to more clearly focus on their shortcomings and their goodness.  The result is that their successes and failures seem more personal and realistic.<br />Plainsong has such a comfortable tone that one feels at the conclusion like they have been on a vacation in the book's setting.  Don't get me wrong, it's not a perfect book (some of the plotting, particularly the \\"kidnapping\\", felt a little forced).  But, it does possess a wonderfully accessible style that allows for the development of fascinating characters in recognizable situations.  In this era when people seem to have less time to do anything, this paean to life's nuances is a gentle reminder that the most powerful moments in our existence are often the most common.	2002-05-14
US	52227822	RF3SK9GQVO95Q	0879734795	421644121	Pontiffs: Popes Who Shaped History	Books	2	1	4	N	N	An Inadequate Exploration Of The Central Thesis	There are few books more disappointing than a history book that doesn't adequately explore its thesis.  Such is the case with Pontiffs.  Hughes mentions in his introduction that he selected popes who \\"...made a difference.\\"  He then goes on to profile eleven pontiffs, from the obvious (St. Peter and Gregory the Great) to the more controversial (Pius VII and Leo X).  However, these profiles barely, if ever, explain the reasons why these popes \\"made a difference.\\"  As a result, one finishes the book wondering why Hughes chose these eleven instead of others who have made equally powerful impacts on the papacy.<br />Pontiffs is good as an introduction to the accomplishments and failures of the discussed popes.  If read on that level alone, it serves as a handy, easy to read primer on their lives.  But, the book advertises itself as an exploration of popes who \\"made a difference\\" in the Church.  By failing to explore the thesis more fully, Hughes ends up diminishing his power of his subject.	2002-03-27
US	52227822	R12PL2SCWYSBCC	0879737018	602805616	Relics: The Shroud of Turin, the True Cross, the Blood of Januarius...History, Mysticism, and the Catholic Church	Books	4	24	27	N	N	A Thorough Introduction That Could Use Some Updating	Relics provides an excellent introduction to the practice of relic veneration that is followed within the Catholic Church.  After giving a brief background on the theological basis for the ritual, Cruz immerses the reader in stories about the various types of relics populating Catholic churches around the world.  The result of this study is both interesting and educational.<br />While the book is a valuable resource, it does suffer from being a bit dated.  It was printed in 1984 and hasn't been revised since then.  An updated version would allow the reader to learn recent developments in the verification of these relics, like the tests performed on the Shroud of Turin in the 1990s.  By providing updated information, Cruz would give the reader a better basis to understand all aspects of this ritual.<br />Even with this shortcoming, Relics is a good starting point for anyone wishing to learn more about Catholic relics and the devotion they inspire.	2002-02-05
US	52227822	R6LGMGHVTC9BI	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	An Interesting Look at How Nature Affects the Soul	In Death Comes for the Archbishop, Willa Cather makes a powerful statement about nature's impact on a person's development.  Her mechanism for making this statement is a series of vignettes about the life of Archbishop Jean Latour.  At first, there seems to be little connection between these stories, other than they detail Latour's work in bringing the Santa Fe Diocese into conformance with the mainstream Roman Catholic Church.  However, nature plays a major role in each vignette.  From the opening outdoor dinner of the Cardinals to the landscape Latour passes as he makes his way to his deathbed, nature is shown playing an important part in defining the choices that each character makes.<br />No character has their personality more strongly refined by their exposure to nature than Archbishop Latour.  The Archbishop is shown at the beginning of the book as clearly being most comfortable within the structure of the Church, to the point that he sleeps in a church's ruins rather than in an Indian pueblo.  However, by the end of the book, Latour is portrayed walking among the hillsides around Santa Fe and perfecting his garden.  While Latour never abandons his version of Catholicism, he does find that a respect for nature is complementary and enriching to his faith.  Thus, his passing is not the tragic or pathetic death associated with someone who refused to change.  Instead, it is a peaceful, uplifting, and natural end.<br />Cather's greatest triumph is to convey the changing power of the New Mexico landscape in her writing.  Reading this book is a lot like visiting New Mexico.  At first, a visitor only sees the desert's desolation and monotony.  Slowly, the beauty of the area starts appearing in little details.  Finally, the visitor realizes that, while it isn't overly dramatic, there is much beauty in New Mexico.  The same pattern of recognition can be applied to the book.  At first, the book appears to be just about Latour's work.  Yet, the frequent evocative descriptions of the New Mexico landscape plant seeds in the reader's mind.  By the end, one has a clear understanding of the high desert's life-changing power.<br />It is no surprise that this work is considered a classic.  Cather's love for the New Mexico terrain clearly shows on every page.  What is most impressive is that she was able to take that love and articulate it into a story which shows the way in which that terrain can change a person.  Death Comes for the Archbishop not only stands as a model of good storytelling, but also as one of the premier works explaining the appeal that the natural grandeur of the American Southwest has on people's imaginations and hearts.	2002-01-01
US	52227822	R1CYNFCEQWURCC	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superb Retelling of A Familiar Story	Upon finishing The Red Tent, I was struck by the strong similarities it had with The Mists of Avalon.  The most obvious similarity is that both books retell a familiar story from the point of view of a (previously) minor female character.  However, I thought that the strongest links between The Red Tent and The Mists of Avalon were those that make them successful fiction.  Both books have vivid settings, realistic characters, strong dialogue, and an epic scope that is respectful of the original source material.  Still, The Red Tent should not be seen as a ripoff of The Mists of Avalon.  Instead, it is a stunningly original work that shares many characteristics with other successful retellings of old myths.  Those who are familiar with the original tale and those who aren't will find a fascinating story that is worth reading.	2001-12-07
US	52227822	R1JBNG97JDMQNJ	0312276729	309220253	The Last Days of Glory: The Death of Queen Victoria	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Informative Account of a Watershed Event	History books can be classified into two types.  The first type is a book where the author uses the historical facts to substantiate an argument.  The second type is where the author presents the facts in order to provide an understanding of the impact an event had on the people who lived through it.  The Last Days of Glory clearly belongs in the later category.  It is just as clear that the book succeeds in meeting the standards of its type.<br />Rennell gives the reader a vivid portrayal of the effect that Queen Victoria's death had on her family, other royalty in Europe, and her subjects in the Empire.  He does this by relating anecdotes from multiple sources, including Victoria's doctor, her assistant private secretary, and even the residents of North Ronaldsay in the Orkneys.  He is so effective in his efforts that the reader can easily picture being in the bedroom with the Royal Family as Victoria expires, or in St. George's Chapel for the funeral.<br />As Rennell points out, the book can also serve as an insight into reactions that might occur when the current, long-reigning queen dies.  Given that perspective, this book is something that may be more relevant than the casual reader may assume.  However, Rendell's scholarship and concise writing make this book worth reading regardless of its possible application to the future.	2001-12-01
US	52227822	R1WVVMQM6GG9E2	1569246874	753402617	Magnificent Corpses: Searching Through Europe for St. Peter's Head, St. Claire's Heart, St. Stephen's Hand, and Other Saints' Relics	Books	3	22	23	N	N	Somewhat Informative, But Too Cynical For The Topic	Having visited a few relics myself (St. Oliver Plunkett's head in Drogheda, Ireland and Blessed Brother Andre's heart in Montreal), I was quite excited to find this book.  I knew that the author isn't a Catholic, so I wasn't expecting a book heavy on either background or doctrine.  Instead, I was expecting a light hearted, but respectful, look at the relics and the people who worship them.  What I found was a lot more background, but a lot less respect, than I expected.<br />It's clear Rufus has studied her Butler's Lives of the Saints very thoroughly, because she does an excellent job of giving the historical details of the saints' lives and telling how their relics ended up in the places where they are located.  She even does a great job of describing the appearance of the churches and the saints' reliquaries.  Where the book falls short is in its compassion for those who believe in a relic's power.  Rufus uses a Joan Didion-esque style to talk about the people visiting the relics at the same time she was visiting them.  In these asides, she primarily focuses on people who either clearly did not want to be visiting the relics or were visiting only as part of a tour.  She also tends to show most people either not knowing where these relics are located, or so focused on day to day activity that they don't pay attention to them.  By focusing on these people and situations, Rufus gives the impression that the relics are not a part of today's life, and that the people who visit them for faith reasons aren't \\"normal\\".  Rufus backs up this impression by interjecting her opinions on the psychological and physiological conditions of the saints.  These comments give the book a cynical tone that isn't appropriate for the topic.<br />Discussing relics is not an easy subject to write about.  Focusing on the morbid or gruesome aspects of the relics will only get the devout angry.  Focusing on the spiritual side to relics would bore the non-believer audience.  Rufus attempted tofind a middle road by taking a journalistic approach to the topic.  Yet, she undermines the journalistic intent of her study by interjecting her commentary into each chapter.  The result is a book that is an interesting introduction to the history of these relics, but one that lacks any spiritual perspective to place these items into their proper context.	2001-11-01
US	52227822	R2F9QWJTXK0IJT	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Simply Brilliant	To put it plainly, Corelli's Mandolin is a stunning achievement on many levels.  De Bernires has created a set of realistic characters, provided them with exquisite dialogue, and placed them in a setting that's dramatic from a geographic, political, and social point of view.  The result is an unforgettable story with both the depth to challenge and the emotion to move.  Given this result, it is no surprise that Corelli's Mandolin has received so much praise.  Fortunately, the praise is well deserved.	2001-11-01
US	52227822	R3CX4HSPDR22BF	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good For The Novice, Might Be Old Hat For The Specialist	Let me state right up front that I liked The Killer Angels. I just didn't like it as much as other reviewers did.<br />I thought that many of the qualities that other reviewers have stated were strengths of the book were instead, weaknesses. For instance, Shaara has created a book that does get the reader into the mind of several of the battle's key participants. However, I also wanted to be exposed to the thoughts of some of the other participants, like Meade and Stuart. I would've also liked to have seen more emphasis on General John Reynolds' death. Reynolds' death was mourned by both sides, yet Shaara has him appearing and quickly dying without any consequence on the battle. While the effect of his death was diminished by the Union victory, it still deserves more than a passing mention.<br />Other reviewers have also mentioned the effectively written battle scenes. I thought they were much too brief. Chamberlain does deserve a lot of credit for his actions on the second day. But, Warren and Weed also deserve a chapter for their bravery on Little Round Top as well. Additionally, Ewell deserves a chapter for botching the Confederate successes at Cemetery Hill (the other flank of the Union line) on the evening of the second day. Minimizing the actions of these other men gives an incomplete picture of the battle.<br />A book must be very good if the basis for one's complaint is that there isn't enough of it. And there is much to praise about The Killer Angels. Each participant that is featured is a well-developed character, whose motivations and feelings are made very clear. Also, Shaara does a great job of describing the terrain and the conditions of the battle. However, I think I would've enjoyed the book more if this had been the first book I had read on Gettysburg. Having read several books on the subject, and having visited the battlefield twice, I think that I was just a little too familiar with the event to fully enjoy this book. In all, this book would be agreat introduction to the battle's characters and events for someone with a passing familiarity with the subject. But, it is not the definitive work on those three days in Gettysburg.	2001-09-25
US	52227822	R3C10F3XUFEJIP	0741404990	946081333	We All Fall Down	Books	2	39	46	N	N	Great Idea Questionably Executed	I found this book to be exceptionally frustrating to read.  My frustration did not stem from the author's ability to create a solid story.  In fact, it is very evident from the text that Caldwell is an incredibly gifted writer.  His depiction of the protagonist being tortured put chills down my spine.  The twists of logic that were expressed by the torturer in those scenes were exactly what one would imagine someone in that position saying to justify their behavior.  Caldwell is also able to show in his writing that he has a strong understanding of the philosophical and theological arguments used to support a Christian lifestyle.<br />Given his ability to write meaningful narrative and realistic dialogue, it is tremendously disappointing that Caldwell chose to waste his gifts by creating such an unlikable protagonist.  I recognize that having a central character with a &quot;fatal flaw&quot; is a standard literary device.  However, the device usually makes people feel sympathy when that character meets their fate.  Such emotion cannot be generated for the main character in We All Fall Down.  It would seem impossible that anyone who recognizes the situation depicted in the book would behave the way he does.  While the language didn't bother me as much as other reviewers, the graphic acts of violence seemed totally out of place for a man who understood that he was living through the Apocalypse.  As a result, I wasn't troubled by his fate: I was pleased, because he got what he deserved.  Sadly, the book becomes unenjoyable because it is centered around this unlikable character.<br />....  I'm sure the immensely talented Mr. Caldwell will produce some masterful works in the future.  However, I'm also sure that We All Fall Down will be noted as an ambitious, yet fatally flawed, debut.	2001-08-14
US	52227822	R2FU1AEG3VQRV	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Wake Up Call For Society	It isn't often that I finish a book and wish that there were more of it to read.  Such was the case with Fast Food Nation.  I thought there was enough material to make a book that was easily triple the length of this expose.  In fact, each of the chapters could become the basis for a great book.  However, Schlosser wisely knows that overwhelming the reader will not do justice to his position.  Instead, he does a great job of showing the interconnectivity of the chapter topics.  Each topic is supported by poignant first hand stories and a mountain of documentation.  The supporting materials are just enough to deliver and validate the message without desensitizing the reader.<br />This is a book that makes a reader angry, sad, and feeling a little used.  Above all, the reader cannot remain apathetic about the role of fast food in American (and increasingly the world's) life after finishing Fast Food Nation. This book may not produce any lasting societal change.  But by educating and stirring debate, it will definitely change the perceptions of those who read it.	2001-07-24
US	52227822	R1CGCWOURJHMSH	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Familiar Material Presented Admirably	My initial reaction upon finishing The Bonesetter's Daughter was similar to that expressed by other reviewers.  I, too, thought that Tan had simply rehashed her earlier books.  My reaction was made more severe by my dismay at the lazy ending that is tacked on at the book's end.  However, I decided to approach the book from a different angle.  I asked myself, &quot;If this were Tan's first book, would I recommend it?&quot;  The answer to that question is undoubtedly yes.<br />The reason for the recommendation stems from the fact that The Bonesetter's Daughter displays both of Tan's strengths as a writer:  the ability to create strong central characters and the skill to describe vivid settings for those characters.  Tan's skill for creating strong female characters is clearly on display in this book.  All of the female characters display an emotional resonance that makes it easy for a reader to relate to their circumstances (even if the reader isn't Oriental).  Readers can also relate to the story's themes through the wonderfully descriptive settings that Tan creates.  Other reviewers have commented that her descriptions of China are much more vivid than her descriptions of San Francisco.  I felt it was a choice that Tan made on behalf of her readers whom most likely have not been to China.  In order to bridge that lack of awareness, Tan is more descriptive in the sections set there in order to provide the reader with a better grasp of the conditions under which the characters live.  Regardless of the location, the settings provide the reader with a dramatic backdrop for the story.<br />Many of the frustrations expressed by other reviewers stem from the fact that Tan is clearly a talented writer, yet seems unwilling to stretch her talent into exploring new areas of the human experience.  I share the desire that she will one day tell a story that is a little more than another exploration of the Oriental mother/daughter theme.  However, until she finds another topic forwhich she has a strong emotional connection, we will have to evaluate her current product on its own merits.  Given that condition, The Bonesetter's Daughter is a worthy addition to Tan's impressive body of work.	2001-06-15
US	52227822	R15JDIQMLIRLP8	1573227749	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A High Wire Act That Never Loses Its Balance	Most authors would steer away from exploring the topic of life's interconnectivity because they would be intimidated to attempt to explain the unexplainable.  Only an author that is extremely confident in their ability would try to explore such an audacious theme.  Fortunately for the reader, Alex Garland is such an author.  While Garland doesn't entirely succeed in wrestling this topic to a manageable level, he is able to create a powerful story that holds the reader's interest.<br />Garland's success is derived from his superb depictions of the book's characters and setting.  From the metaphoric (the PhD candidate who almost literally lives in an &quot;ivory tower&quot;) to the realistic (the doctor who has yet to heal the pain in her heart), Garland creates characters that are unforgettable.  These characters are complimented by his vivid description of Manila and other parts of the Philippines.  The effect of these efforts gives the reader clear focus points to reference while the broader theme is explored.<br />It wouldn't have been surprising if this book had rambled out of control, especially given its topic.  However, it's a testament to Garland's skill that he can tackle a subject of such scope with the incredible focus that is apparent in the narrative.  In fact, the only criticism I have is that the book is a little too focused, as is evidenced by the tidy ending.  Still, a book that attempts to explore such a complex issue, and does it in an entertaining manner, should be read immediately.	2001-06-01
US	52227822	R1YPEAXWBCGL07	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Characterization Makes Excellent Science Fiction	I've never been a big science fiction fan.  I've found that most of the genre's authors substitute believable characters and good dialogue with &quot;over the top&quot; situations and techno-babble.  Thus, I was a little apprehensive when I started Ender's Game.  Fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised.  <br />Card avoids the trap that catches a good number of science fiction writers by not focusing the story on the aliens or even on the technology.  In fact, those elements are very much in the book's background.  Instead, he focuses the story on the character of Ender Wiggin.  Centering the story on this point not only allows Card to dispense with the baggage that bogs down most science fiction, but also allows him to develop a fully realized character who conveys genuine emotions.  By completely developing Ender's personality, Card makes a science fiction story that seems much more realistic and plausible than its setting would indicate.<br />I wouldn't put this book in the &quot;masterpiece&quot; category, mainly because I thought the ending was a little too rushed.  However, it is one of the best science fiction books I've ever read.  It would make an excellent introduction to the genre for children or anyone who previously hasn't read science fiction.	2001-05-15
US	52227822	R2WOFF39P8952U	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Fascinating Trip Through Another Life	There were two points that stood out for me after I had finished this book.  The first was the rich detail of this novel's world.  While it is possible that it does not exactly match the reality of a geisha's world, the language and writing style Golden uses makes his version of that reality very believable for a reader.  The other point that struck me was the subtle, yet prevalent, religious tone to the geisha's lifestyle.  From the intricate ceremonies to the unwritten code of behavior, Golden quietly makes the point that a geisha's life carries with it a sense of duty and servitude similar to those that a religion would espouse.  Thus, the book not only depicts a life and a search for love, but could also be said to show one person's spiritual development.<br />I realize that my interpretation likening a geisha's lifestyle to one of a religious bent might seem a little outlandish.  However, good literature allows the reader to experience something new while still remaining universal enough to reflect their interests.  Memoirs of a Geisha accomplishes this task.  It is a deceptively simple guide to a place and lifestyle that has rarely been visited by other authors.  Yet, the bonds of emotion and obligation depicted in its pages should be familiar to any reader.  The result of this combination is a book that is worthy of the accolades it has received.	2001-04-26
US	52227822	R38RT7P3Z2KF1M	0515129496	536544726	Resurrection Day	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	An Adequate Story Dwarfed by Unfulfilled Potential	I found it ironic that this book dealt with a scenario which &quot;might have been&quot;, because that was exactly my feeling when I finished the book.  While I didn't detest Resurrection Day, I was left disappointed that the book's potential that was never realized. <br />This unfulfilled feeling extended to all parts of the book.  The characters, while adequate, were never developed to the point of being memorable.  The dialogue, while not entirely detracting from the book, also didn't give the reader anything worth remembering.  Finally, the narrative itself suffered from that most dreaded of maladies:  the tidy ending.  For instance, the &quot;Resurrection Day&quot; of the story got a great deal of buildup, but then was barely mentioned at the end.  I had imagined a lot of possibilities for that aspect of the story.  Instead, it got just a few sentences in the last chapter.  Other facets of the story suffered a similar fate.  A more thorough development of the narrative would have resulted in a more memorable book.<br />Some of the hype would have one believe that Resurrection Day is as good as Fatherland by Robert Harris.   I'd actually put it on a level with Harris' Archangel.  Both are stories that have great premises, but are not developed to a level that sufficiently explores those premises.  As with Archangel, Resurrection Day is not a bad book.  However, the promise does not equal the actual product.  Consequently, the result is a book that is instantly forgettable after one finishes it.	2001-03-29
US	52227822	R9Z6614PXM6GA	0316277010	373145889	The Last Amateurs: Playing for Glory and Honor in Division I College Basketball	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Lack Of Focus Detracts From Interesting Subject	A lot of reviews have focused on whether Feinstein has a bias that evident in the book.  Not only do I believe that Feinstein is biased, I don't believe that he does anything to hide that bias.  This lack of subtlety is best exemplified near the end of the book, when Feinstein declares, \\"The Patriot League schools all do things the right way in a college basketball world gone very wrong.\\"<br />Since Feinstein proudly wears his bias, the question becomes whether he has written about the subject in a way that justifies his feelings.  Ultimately, I didn't feel that he did.  While I did find the subject very interesting, I thought that Feinstein stretched the story too thin by looking at the entire league.  Nowhere is this more apparent than in his depiction of the league's players and coaches.  There are strong hints that there are some interesting stories among the league's personalities.  However, the depiction that Feinstein gives them never seems to rise above a one-line blurb (Stefan Ciosici:  top player trying to regain form after devastating injury.  Chris Spitler: over-achiever than wins over the coach.  Ralph Willard:  coach trying to rebuild his career).  He would have been better suited by focusing on one team in the league and examining the actions of that team's administrators, coaches, and players as the season developed in order to give an example of the struggles faced by participants in the league as a whole.  Even centering the story on the league's new commissioner as she struggled to maintain the league's character in the face of external and internal challenges would have provided the reader with a better sense of the unique nature of this conference.  Instead, Feinstein short-changes his subject by jumping from team to team.  <br />Feinstein does write in a journalistic style that makes for very easy, entertaining reading.  Yet, I never felt that I got the full reason why Feinstein thought this league was so special (other than they lack many of the perks of other conferences and have brighter students).  As it stands now, The Last Amateurs did not strike me as the definitive telling of the story of the Patriot League's uniqueness.  It seemed to be only the framework from which that story could be written.	2001-01-01
US	52227822	R25M0KOMPXY72J	0151004218	77621968	All the Names	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	An Intimate, Multi-Layered Masterwork	It is a testament to Saramago's skill as a writer that he is able to explore so many themes in such an intimate work.  As other reviewers have noted, the book does examine the impact that loneliness and isolation have on a person.  But, there are many other aspects that are explored with equal brilliance.  Saramago takes great care in pointing out the prevalent role that pattern and routine have in everyone's life.  He also examines the effect that fate has on a person's behavior.  Each of these themes could easily be the single focus of any book.  However, Saramago also finds a way to include explorations of the depths of obsession, the power of authority, and the need for friendship.  What's more amazing is that each of these themes is explored in a way that feels complete and thorough.<br />All The Names is another incredible work from one who is deserving of the Nobel Prize honor.  Saramago once again challenges the reader to examine their feelings and revise their assumptions about life.  Yet, it is done in a way that allows the reader to sympathize with the main character and be moved by the story.  It is a rare talent that possesses the ability to masterfully handle so many aspects of writing.  When that talent creates a book as multi-layered and fascinating as All The Names, it deserves to be read by as wide an audience as possible.	2000-12-27
US	52227822	R19OZIPT4DGEBG	0684869004	469521034	Plague Time: How Stealth Infections Cause Cancer, Heart Disease, and Other Deadly Ailments	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Intriguing Ideas Make For Worthwhile Reading	About halfway through Plague Time, the author notes the reaction of the evolutionary biologist William D. Hamilton to the theory that AIDS was caused by a contaminated vaccine.  He states that Hamilton did not say that a contaminated vaccine definitely introduced AIDS into humans, but instead stated that the idea needed to be evaluated rigorously because it was being dismissed without adequate evidence for dismissal.  I think that same statement could apply to the ideas presented in Plague Time.<br />Ewald does a marvelous job of taking the readers through the intricacies of evolutionary biology.  He effectively demonstrates how evolutionary biology theories can help explain many of the mysteries surrounding diseases that are currently attributed to a multitude of causes.  It should be noted that he never definitively proves that viruses and bacteria are the causes of these diseases.  But, he does present enough evidence to justify further exploration of the idea.<br />The book is not perfect.  Some of the language gets a little technical at times.  Also, Ewald has a tendency to repeat the same examples, thus giving the impression that there is some \\"filler\\" in the book.  But, these points don't detract from the fact that this is a very persuasive work.  The theories inside it may prove to be invalid, but they are certainly worth further exploration by both the scientific community and the reader attempting to educate themselves on their health.	2000-12-27
US	52227822	R2BOLXQ5QM1IQM	0525464921	754509866	Fire Bringer	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	A Can't Miss Fantasy For Everyone	Fire Bringer is a rousing anthropomorphic fantasy that is sure to appeal to readers of all ages.  It has all of the elements of a standard fantasy story (a prophesy to be fulfilled, a villain with a secret past, a hero that ignores his destiny and then embraces it).  However, instead of being formulaic, Clement-Davies uses these elements to build strong characters, powerful action sequences, and evocative settings that will linger with the reader.  The vigorous writing makes it easy for readers to imagine themselves in the world that the author has created.<br />This book would make a wonderful introduction to the fantasy field for a first-time reader of the genre.  However, even long-time fantasy readers will find enjoyment reading this auspicious debut from Clement-Davies.	2000-11-28
US	52227822	R1CQUBV34XUPUK	0670892084	884489587	Welcome to My Planet	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A Mixed Up Book	I had such mixed feelings about this book after finishing it that I read earlier reviews to see if others shared my ambivalence.  Unfortunately, most people didn't seem to have my mixed feelings.  It seemed that the reviews were either in the \\"loved it\\" or \\"hated it\\" category.  To be honest, I can understand both points of view. <br />On the positive side, I thought the book had a strong flow and powerful emotional content.  Even if it's not a literal autobiographical work, it's apparent that Olson has a clear understanding of the emotions which underpin the book's situations.  I also enjoyed the fact that the book doesn't have a tidy ending.  Because it's a snapshot of a period in the protagonist's life, it felt appropriate to not have a clean ending to the book.  The ambiguous ending conveyed the feeling that life would continue with the hope of things becoming better.  I felt that implied promise was more satisfying than paring the protagonist off with a boyfriend/husband.<br />On the other hand, there were elements that detracted from the book's overall power.  For instance, I really didn't connect with any of the characters other than the protagonist.  I thought that they were surprisingly shallow, especially the boyfriends.  I also didn't care for the book's tone, which was slightly too serious for its subject.  It seemed that the book wasn't quite as funny as others in the \\"neurotic female\\" genre.  While I am the first to admit that some of the situations in the Bridget Jones books are outlandish, they do serve the purpose of adding an \\"over-the-top\\" levity to an otherwise dreary topic.  Unfortunately, Olsen seemed to gravitate more toward the serious, which left me feeling that most of the characters were too whiny. As a result, the book is a lot like dealing with an individual (either male or female) of that temperament:  they're fun at first, but they get annoying after a while.  <br />So, where does that leave me?  Well, it leaves me where I started.  Welcome to My Planet is not a bad book.  The writing is sharp and the pacing is very good.  However, I don't think it has anything new to say about a topic that has been (almost) over-exposed in today's media.  A reader can do worse than Welcome to My Planet.  But, there are better books on the same subject.	2000-11-28
US	52227822	R1QY1PM5V6EFD0	0684865750	771228426	A Clearing In The Distance: Frederick Law Olmsted and America in the 19th Century	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	An Informative Introduction To An American Innovator	To me, a biography is successful if the author conveys both the subject's accomplishments and the influences that helped to shape these deeds.  Rybczynski easily meets these standards in this entertaining, instructive study.<br />Rybczynski spends a lot of time discussing the significance of Olmsted's major projects, like Prospect Park and Mount Royal. The innovations that Olmsted brought to the field of landscape architecture in these projects are clearly laid out for the reader.  However, these discussions were not the main point that I took from the book.  Instead, I was enthralled with the discussions of the various jobs and travels that Olmsted undertook throughout his life, particularly in his formative years.  Rybczynski does an excellent job of showing that these diverse experiences not only satiated Olmsted's curiosity, but also were essential to the development of Olmsted's views on landscape architecture.  It is refreshing to find an example of the belief that a variety of experiences are necessary to bring out new talents, enhance existing skills, and create a well-rounded individual.  <br />I highly recommend A Clearing In The Distance for many reasons.  These reasons include a concise writing style and a multi-faceted subject.  But, above all, the book brings attention to an individual deserving of such study.  It is this quality that makes A Clearing In The Distance a \\"must-read\\" for not only admirers of Olmsted's works, but for anyone who is interested in the creative development of an innovator in their field.	2000-11-03
US	52227822	R1WO1C3S845IP2	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	2	2	13	N	Y	What's The Point?	The main task of any fiction writer is to say something about the human  condition in manner that is new and/or entertaining.  If this task isn't  accomplished, the reader is left with just words on a page.  Unfortunately,  that is the case with Being Dead.  I struggled in vain to find what the  author was attempting to convey.  Ulitmately, I found that the few  potential themes that existed in the book had been explored more  successfully in other works.  Was the author trying to say through his  graphic depictions of the corpses decomposing that life continues and  flourishes even in the presence of death?  The Virgin Suicides looks at  this idea more effectively than Being Dead.  Was Crace trying to explore  why mortality rears its head at particular moments in his depiction of the  times when death interacted with the lives of the main characters?   Thornton Wilder did a better job exploring this theme in The Bridge of San  Luis Rey.<br />Crace also drops situations and people into the book that are  obviously meant to be symbols.  The main characters dying on the spot where  their love came to life, the fact that both of them are biologists, and  their daughter's rejection of their lifestyle are clearly meant to convey  some meaning.  Yet, they lose their impact when this meaning is never fully  developed.  As a result, these points simply become literary  pretensions.<br />There is one quality that makes Being Dead worth noting.  As  other reviewers have stated, Crace writes in a lyrical style that can only  be described as exquisite.  Death has rarely been portrayed in such a  vivid, yet delicate way.  However, Being Dead is a novel, not a poem.   Ultimately, the reader should be able to identify what point the author is  trying to make.  Outside of the obvious statement that death happens and  life continues, it would appear that Being Dead is as pointless as the  murder of its protagonists.	2000-08-29
US	52227822	R1PLSUNP552N49	0786707569	51217682	A Pure Clear Light	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	An Interesting Look At The Temporary Nature Of Life	Deception is both depicted and practiced in A Pure Clear Light.  At first glance, the book seems to be about an affair.  But, the frequent mention of  time and items being &quot;in transit&quot; shows that it's really a look  at how people deal with the temporary nature of life.  The various ways of  dealing with this condition are portrayed through the three main  characters.  Flora chooses to deal with it by becoming more involved with  religion, thereby creating permanence though spirituality.  Simon abandons  all pretense of fighting temporariness by immersing himself in a transitory  relationship.  However, his embrace of the &quot;temporary&quot; is nothing  compared to Gillian Selkirk. Her cool detachment from any emotional aspect  of the relationship, as embodied by her purely sexual definition of the  affair and her involvement with other men while the liaison is occurring,  marks her as someone who embodies the term  &quot;living for the  moment.&quot;  <br />These characters are very powerful archetypes for  conveying the theme.  However, the theme also serves to undermine the  characters.  Since most of them embrace the lack of permanence to a great  degree, it is difficult to develop an emotional connection to them.  The  problem is compounded with the minor characters, who seem to be little more  than footnotes.  The effect is to make the book seem stark and more than a  little cold.<br />Despite the emotional sparseness of the characters, the book  has many attractions.  The dialogue is sharp and the narrative has an  effective flow.  But above all, A Pure Clear Light deserves a  recommendation simply on the basis that it's a skillful exploration of an  aspect of the human condition.  Ultimately, that's what good fiction is  supposed to do, even if it needs to practice a little deception to do it.	2000-08-08
US	52227822	R48HXPZO6JSL7	0140274766	24689234	The Virgin Homeowner: The Essential Guide to Owning, Maintaining, and Surviving Your Home	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	A Practical, Comprehensive Guide For Homebuyers	As someone going through the process of buying a home for the first time, I've been stressing about overlooking something that will later cost me a lot of money.  After reading The Virgin Homeowner, I'm no longer stressing.   This book presents a comprehensive look at all the various features in a  house that could present problems to the new homeowner.  While it doesn't  give detailed solutions, it does provide valuable information that enables  the homeowner to understand the problem in order to begin the process of  fixing it in the most effective manner.<br />The best aspect of The Virgin  Homeowner is that it is written in a tone that evokes an image of a friend  sharing information.  This book is not a dry &quot;how-to&quot; manual.  It  is obviously the product of first hand mistakes, triumphs, and research.   The tone in which it is presented not only makes it very easy to  understand, it also gives it a realistic credibility that only life  experiences can impart.<br />I'm sure that The Virgin Homeowner will give  other readers the same sense of confidence that I didn't have before I read  it.  Frankly, I can't think of a higher compliment for any type of  guidebook.  But, this one is worth the accolade.  This book should be read  by all first time homebuyers either before or immediately after a home  purchase.	2000-07-28
US	52227822	R3CJDEX6VOXOTM	0312866755	324205416	The Silence in Heaven	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Good Ideas and Characters Buried By Overwhelming Storyline	I really enjoyed The Silence In Heaven through its first one hundred pages.  I, like many other reviewers, was entranced by the characters.  All of them, especially Tashum, were developed to the point that they seemed to  be real people.  Scenes like the one where Tashum expresses his pain at  being expelled from heaven create a setting where it's easy for the reader  to develop an emotional connection to the characters. <br />However, I found  my interest and enthusiasm waning as I worked my way through the book.   What started off as an interesting study of what constitutes good and evil  turned into an action movie, complete with explosions and a high body  count.  The powerful characterizations that existed in the beginning of the  book are buried under an outlandish storyline that gets more \\"over-the-top\\"  as it continues.  Compounding the problems inherent in the storyline is  Lord-Wolfe's lack of subtlety in reminding the reader that this book is  going to have a sequel.  Each plot thread that's left open ended is spelled  out for the reader in &quot;Big Questions&quot; format (WHY IS THERE A  SILENCE IN HEAVEN?  Find out in the next book! ).  The pitch for a sequel  reaches its climax in the last chapter, which can only be described as  blatant.  I wasn't exhilarated by the time I finished The Silence In  Heaven.  I was simply grateful that I wasn't going to be hit over the head  in a literary sense by Lord-Wolfe anymore.<br />The Silence in Heaven could've  benefited from more editing.  But, given the numerous punctuation and  spelling mistakes in the text, it's evident that editing was not a  priority.  Still, even with the overwhelming plot, it's a good first book.   The characters are even strong enough to merit reading the sequel.   However, one hopes that the plot's structure will be refined to match the  emotional depth of the characters.	2000-07-18
US	52227822	R1XMTNWCANHNS9	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	An Excellent Sequel To A Great Original	I think that it would be a tough challenge for an author to write a sequel, especially one to a popular book like Bridget Jones' Diary.  It's inevitable that fans of the original will develop ideas and expectations as  to how the characters will grow.  If the author doesn't meet these  expectations, then the book isn't well received.  Fortunately, Fielding  manages to avoid this trap.  This book maintains all the charms of the  original, while managing to advance the characters in a natural, logical  way.<br />Fans will be delighted to find that the humorous spirit of the  original is maintained.  The situations in which the characters are placed  are as outlandish and witty as before.  Yet, the book isn't just a series  of hilarious misadventures.  There is a growth that's depicted in all the  characters.  Bridget seems to learn a lot about herself through the course  of the book.  The other characters also depict the little changes that  constitute growth in a person.  The result of these depictions is that the  book, while still very funny, has an undercurrent of seriousness that makes  it seem more realistic than one would first imagine.<br />Don't let the  slightly serious tone fool you.  Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason is still  great fun.  It's a very worthy follow-up to the original.  I, for one,  can't wait for the next volume of Bridget's diaries to see where Fielding  next takes these characters.	2000-06-22
US	52227822	R1PZ16G1QO7DOI	006065581X	829859759	The Gospel of Thomas: The Hidden Sayings of Jesus	Books	5	146	152	N	Y	An Excellent Introduction To An Important Christian Text	The first verse of the Gospel of Thomas tells the reader that whoever understands the gospel's sayings will not \\"...taste death.\\"  It is a clear message that understanding these sayings of Jesus is key to one's spiritual  growth.  Thus, the onus is on the interpreter to create both an effective  translation and a context to evaluate the sayings in order to facilitate  this growth.  Meyer does a marvelous job of meeting these demands.<br />The  book's introduction gives the reader excellent background information on  the discovery and authorship of the text.  The translation of the text  itself is bolstered by the very helpful notes listed after the gospel.  The  notes made it very easy to cross-reference the gospel's text with similar  passages in the New Testament's four gospels.  Finally, Harold Bloom  provides an interesting commentary that's useful for reflection on the  gospel's themes.<br />There is no guarantee that reading the Gospel of  Thomas as translated by Meyer will provide the spiritual enlightenment that  many people seek.  However, Meyer does his best to allow the reader to  discover this enlightenment by not clutter the text with his own views and  biases.  The result is that Meyer's interpretation is a perfect way to  learn about and evaluate this important \\"lost\\" book of Christianity.	2000-06-06
US	52227822	R1RER28VM7G5C6	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Challenge To Get Through, But Ultimately Rewarding	Let's start with the obligatory comparison to The Name of the Rose.  Because of its lyricism and depth, The Name of the Rose is a better book than An Instance of the Fingerpost.  Yet, while it doesn't reach the level  of The Name of the Rose, An Instance of the Fingerpost is good enough to  stand on its own.<br />Much of the reason behind this success can be  attributed to the book's elaborate plotting.  I enjoyed comparing the  different descriptions given by the narrators of the same scenes.  I also  enjoyed looking up the little clues after they had blossomed into major  plot points.  Such effects could not be possible without a plot that is  comprehensively planned and executed.<br />Pears also does a good job in  giving each narrator a distinct voice.  Da Cola comes across as slightly  pompous; Prescott as obsessed; Wallis as paranoid; and Wood as humble.  These tones give the reader a clear indication of each narrator's  personality and perspective.  Even the characters that aren't narrating the  story have a strong sense of personality, which enhances the story's  believability.<br />While the book has a great plot and strong characters, it  does have lapses in the flow of the story.  I frequently wondered why Pears  was spending so much time focusing on a particular story point.  Sometimes,  the importance of this detail was revealed.  Other times, it wasn't (like  the excruciating detail given to the first blood transfusion experiment).  While this may have been a case of Pears placing \\"red herrings\\", it simply  bogged the story down.<br />Getting through An Instance of the Fingerpost  requires patience and dedication.  However, if the reader perseveres, they  will be ultimately rewarded with a very good story	2000-05-24
US	52227822	R3ANLK6BR7CUF5	0713992816	998162278	England's Thousand Best Churches	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	An Entertaining, Informative Study Of English Churches	Jenkins has created a masterful examination of these jewels in the British legacy.  The book's authoritative tone stems from Jenkins' comprehensive descriptions of each church's distinguishing features.  His eye for detail  enables the reader to appreciate the styles that link each church together,  as well as the individual features that make each church distinct.<br />This  book could have been a dry, lifeless study.  Instead, it is quite  entertaining, thanks to Jenkins' penchant for casually slipping his  opinions on various matters into a church's description.  An example of  this behavior can be found in the discussion of the church at Honeychurch.   He notes: &quot;The sign on the door says simply, 'This door is never  locked.'  It should be the motto of the Church of England.&quot;  These  understated opinions on matters as diverse as church restoration and  Victorian stained glass give the book a casualness that most scholarly  studies don't possess.<br />Anglophiles and architecture students will find  there's something in this book for both of them.  For the Anglophile, the  pictures and descriptive text will easily have one imagining that they are  walking through the moors and dales.  For the student, the discussions of  each church's architectural and decorative details will provide an  excellent resource for understanding the design of the buildings.  However,  the readership of this book shouldn't be limited to these groups.  Any  reader will find the book to be an invaluable guide for understanding the  significance of these English cultural treasures.	2000-05-02
US	52227822	R1GON8OEZ4BNRX	0553568167	831298483	Tales of the Bounty Hunters (Star Wars) (Book 3)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Mildly Entertaining Book For Fans Of the Star Wars Univers	Overall, I'd have to say that this book really didn't add much to my understanding of or interest level in the Star Wars universe.  This is primarily due to the fairly simple writing displayed by most of the book's  writers.  I'd have to agree with many of the story preferences noted by  earlier reviewers.  The Bossk story is easily the worst, mainly because it  really isn't even about Bossk.  Not far behind it in quality is the Boba  Fett story, which reads like a bad rewrite of The Lady and The Tiger.  I  also didn't really care for the IG-88 story.  It, like its subject, simply  got out of control at the end.  I did enjoy Dengar's tale, which helped  flesh out the character.  Finally, I really enjoyed the Zuckess and 4-LOM  tale.  It not only had wonderful characterization, but also a great story.   It was the only tale of the five that fulfilled the promise of giving life  to these characters, most of whom had all of a minute on the screen.<br />Am I  now inspired to read more of these Star Wars anthologies?  No.  There's  better Star Wars literature out there (Timothy Zahn's Heir to the Empire  trilogy comes to mind).  I also can't see this book inspiring people who  aren't fans to read more about the Star Wars universe.  For Star Wars fans  though, it is a somewhat entertaining look at some of the minor characters  in the mythology.	2000-03-15
US	52227822	R4PRM4YIZ0S5U	0452280907	862818905	Fortune Is a River: Leonardo da Vinci Niccolo Machiavelli's Magnificent Dream Change Course Florenti	Books	3	6	11	N	Y	A Shallow Examination of a Fascinating Plan	Masters attempts to prove that Machiavelli and Da Vinci worked together on trying to divert the Arno. Unfortunately, the lack of primary material directly confirming the relationship undermines the credibility of the  book. Ultimately, the reader is left with following Masters' speculations  about the relationship. While plausible, these speculations were never  developed to the point that I felt they were conclusively answered.<br />The  whole book felt like a long term paper to me. The over 60 pages of endnotes  and sources at the end reinforced the feeling. And, just like a term paper  that is trying to reach a certain page count, the book has a lot of filler  at the end trying to explain the impact of the failed project on the lives  of the two architects. Again, while the speculations are intriguing, there  is not enough documentary support to prove them.<br />I have to give Masters  credit for writing an accessible book on a fascinating subject. In fact,  I'd probably recommend this book as a great introduction to the lives of  Machiavelli and Da Vinci. But, as a definitive statement on the connection  between these two giants of the Renaissance, the book falls short.	2000-02-29
US	52227822	R1X8JZ1AFVBR5T	0226503682	297933860	Machiavelli's Virtue	Books	3	17	25	N	N	A Difficult, Yet Rewarding, Analysis of Machiavelli's Works	Mansfield has written the perfect reference book for upcoming term papers on Machiavelli. His analysis of Machiavelli's writings is insightful and innovative. However, the book is written is a very formal style that makes  it difficult to appreciate the interpretation that Mansfield puts forth.  This is definitely not a book that one takes to the beach for some casual  reading. That is a shame, because Mansfield's conclusions have practical  implications for the modern politician or executive. Unfortunately, the  dense style makes this book attractive only to academics	2000-02-29
US	52227822	R3CAFCJWVGMKC2	0684804484	22414532	No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	An Outstanding Example On How History Should Be Presented	Goodwin manages to pull off a delicate balancing act in No Ordinary Time.  She spends a great portion of the book discussing the consequences of the large issues (race relations, labor/production struggles, military  preparedness) facing the country during this period.  Yet, she also spends  as much time noting the personal issues, like Franklin and Eleanor's  struggles with their marriage and the tragic travails of Missy LeHand.  The  result of this balancing act is a wonderfully complete depiction that gives  one an appreciation of not only the complexities of the time, but also of  the incredible intelligence and character of the Roosevelts.   The  comprehensive nature of the book makes it difficult to imagine that a  better book on the Roosevelt presidency during World War II can be  written.<br />A reader may get a little lost trying to keep track of all the  names, especially when they appear only once every fifty or one hundred  pages.  Fortunately, the index in the back is very useful for finding the  first appearance and description of these characters.  Still, this minor  drawback does not offset the powerful lessons that the book teaches.  For  those who equate government with partisan bickering and gridlock, it is  heartening to know that such conditions existed during World War II, yet  were overcome with persistence and ingenuity.  For those who did not live  thorough those times, it gives a vivid portrayal of the sacrifices and  challenges that all Americans endured.  Finally, it shows that Roosevelt's  belief that people will respond successfully when given a challenge and the  freedom to rise to that challenge is true.  These are all powerful lessons  that not only illuminate our past, but give us a guideline for our future.  Ultimately, that is the mark of a successful historical book.  Goodwin  should be (and has rightfully been) commended for making such a book.	2000-02-29
US	52227822	R350R9ZM96ZTI1	1568581289	588231097	The Black Room at Longwood: Napoleon's Exile on Saint Helena	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The Theme Is Reconciliation	I am not disparaging the earlier reviews of this book.  But, I found the theme to be one of reconciliation.  Kauffmann used his trip to reconcile the mythical glory of Napoleon's reign with the factual emptiness surrounding his imprisonment.  Along the way, he found other aspects that  needed reconciliation.  The &quot;Saints&quot; enjoy the benefits of their  status with the United Kingdom, yet don't appreciate them.  The French  consul's father had a productive life in France, yet chose to live as a  recluse in St. Helena.  The consul paints flowers that grow on a desert  island.  And Napoleon's former tomb is a lush contrast to his living  quarters at Longwood.  There are also failed attempts at reconciliation,  such as Napoleon's frequent attempts to understand how he lost at Waterloo.  Behind all these attempts is the almost silent struggle by Kauffmann to  reconcile his own experiences as a captive with those that Napoleon  endured.<br />It's a very ambitious project that Kauffmann undertook.   Fortunately, he pulled it off with incredible elegance.  His descriptions  of St. Helena and Longwood give a vivid image of the bleakness of both  settings.  Addtionally, his reflections on Napoleon's deteriorating  condition are very poignant.  Non-fiction does not ususally make one  reflect on such things as the effect of isolation on a soul and the need  for reconciliation in one's life.  The fact that Kauffman has made a book  that tackles such issues in an intelligent manner makes it one which  everyone should read.	2000-01-27
US	52227822	RBY6G3YE08JDF	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Crichton Plays It Safe	It sure was fun to read Jurassic Park again.  Obviously, Crichton believes in not messing with a good thing.  Simply take Jurassic Park, substitute time travel for cloning, and substitute knights for dinosaurs, and you have  Timeline.  <br />It's still an enjoyable read.  Few authors are better at  mixing cutting edge science and adventure than Crichton.  Timeline displays  all the \\"cool\\" ideas and excellent research that he is known for.  Still,  it's a little disappointing to see that no new ground is broken in this  book.  The characters are very forgettable and the situations they in which  they find themselves are a little outlandish.  One can only hope that  Crichton's future books show as much innovation in plot and  characterization as is shown in the story's science.	2000-01-18
US	52227822	R28GXA9NTKZJUU	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	2	25	31	N	Y	A Mediocre Effort From A Talented Author	Allende's best works (The House of the Spirits, Of Love and Shadows, Paula) display one common element.  That element is a passionate narrative that stems from the first-hand emotional connection that she has with the  book's characters and situations.  Some of those connections exist in  Daughter of Fortune.  Like Eliza, Allende left Chile to settle in  California.  Another trait Allende shares with her heroine is that she fell  in love with (and later married) a non-Chilean.  Yet, any emotional passion  created by these links is not strong enough to transcend Allende's use of  the California Gold Rush period as the story's background.  Since she did  not experience the Gold Rush for herself, Allende's description of the  period comes across like the history books that she must have used as  research material.  As a result, reading Daughter of Fortune is much like  hearing an echo:  there is some connection to the original source, but it  is distorted and faded.<br />Daughter of Fortune is better than the mess  that is titled The Infinite Plan.  The book has maximizes its use of  narrative and minimizes dialogue.  The main characters are well developed.  And Joaquin's outcome is clever.  But, the book doesn't have the passion of  which Allende is capable.  As a result, the book leaves the reader  ultimately unsatisfied (as is evident by the number of reviews noting the  abrupt ending).  Hopefully, Allende will find a topic for her next book to  which she has a strong emotional involvement.	2000-01-18
US	52227822	R2BSZOJLR94FQN	0375502327	449481739	Come Together: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An Honest Portrayal Of The Emotions Behind A Relationship	My initial reaction upon completing Come Together was that I had wasted my time.  I originally thought, \\"Boy meets girl, boy and girl get together, boy and girl break up, boy and girl get back together:  how predictable can  you get?\\"  I was also unimpressed by the stereotypes of people in their  late twenties that are used to depict the main characters.  Thus, at first  glance, I was ready to discard this book into the \\"mistake\\" pile.<br />But,  something kept telling me that I was not giving the book enough credit.  So, I went back and reread it.  That's when I noticed the wonderful scene  where Amy describes her disappointment in discovering that she's not the  first woman Jack's taken to Brighton, even though she has little guilt  about her previous twelve lovers.  I also noticed the great scene where  Matt defines the reasons why Jack told Amy about his unfaithfulness.  I  then realized what this book contains that allows it to transcend its  simplistic plot.  Simply put, there's an emotional honesty to the scenes  that one doesn't usually find in a book that's so straightforward on the  surface.<br />I should stress that Come Together is not great literature.  But, it will make one reminisce about the feelings that everyone feels and  missteps that everyone makes in the early stages of a relationship.  Any  book that can create that kind of emotional resonance is definitely a book  that should be read.	2000-01-04
US	52227822	R2EEL7HQ09G2QU	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	A Revealing Book On A Hidden Subject	I believe a little background is necessary before I begin the review.  I approached this book knowing virtually nothing about the function of submarines in American espionage activities.  I vaguely knew that American  subs patrolled the Russian coast.  I also knew that the one person who had  served on a sub with whom I had a friendship answered all my submarine  questions with &quot;I can't talk about that.&quot;  So, I was hoping that  the book would provide me with a greater understanding of the spying role  of submarines.<br />The book succeeded beyond my expectations.  The authors  did an excellent job describing the missions and their importance to the  American intelligence efforts. But, the technical descriptions were not the  features of the book that impressed me the most.  Instead, I was greatly  impressed by the dedication, ingenuity, and bravery of the men who were  depicted in the book.  Whether named or not, these men are all depicted as  showing an incredibly strong sense of duty.  The authors do a great job of  showing that this sense was necessary in order to cope with the various  emotional and physical strains that submarine service inflicted.  Readers  of the book will come away with the same feeling of admiration for these  men that the authors clearly feel.<br />Blind Man's Bluff isn't perfect.   Several of the incidents are told in a &quot;breathless&quot; style that is  more suited for a work of fiction than a piece of non-fiction.  And the  book does suffer from a slight lack of details, which is undoubtedly a  result of the still classified nature of these missions.  But these are  minor quibbles.  The book is a must read for anyone who is interested in  American military efforts, and a should-be-read by anyone who wants to know  just how some of their defense dollars were spent.	1999-12-23
US	52227822	RVMM53W876LXQ	0446672068	604603479	The Inhabited Woman	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Another Excellent Piece of Literature From Latin America	I found it interesting that Belli would use the character of a Native American woman to be the emotional narrator of this book.  At first, it would seem unlikely that a Native American woman who lived a few hundred  years before her modern counterpart would have much in common with each  other.  Yet, Belli does a marvelous job of tying the emotions of the two  women together.  As a result, the reader is left with the impression that  human beings are basically the same despite differences in circumstances  and time periods.<br />While this theme isn't new, Belli presents it in a  manner that is very typical of Latin American authors.  The book displays a  very strong narrative, well-defined characters, and a touch of mysticism to  make things seem slightly otherworldly.  I did find the revolutionary angle  of the text a little dated.  But, that fact didn't detract from an  otherwise magnificent book.  It should be read by anyone who's either  looking for an introduction to Latin American literature, or looking for a  reminder about the universality of the human emotional experience.	1999-11-23
US	52227822	R3BW8257L1OYX9	0679428887	926822340	Archangel: A Novel	Books	3	14	19	N	Y	Interesting Idea Poorly Executed	I, like many of the other reviewers of this book, enjoyed Harris' previous efforts.  Those books have interesting plots, a descriptive style that is evocative, and strong characters.  Archangel has two of the three of those  elements.<br />I thought the basic premise of the book was intriguing.  Harris does a good job of reinforcing the premise by describing the setting  in very descriptive terms.  I've never been to Russia, so I can't say how  accurate his descriptions are.  But, I can say that he gave me a powerful  image of his version of Russia.<br />Where the book falls short is in its  lack of characterization.  None of the characters rise above the level of a  stereotype.  The Russian men are portrayed as either drunks or schemers.  The reporter is depicted as an amoral, shallow opportunist.  But the worst  depiction is reserved for the object of the search in the book, who  primarily speaks in old Communist Party speeches.  While I understood that  Harris was trying to portray the effects of brainwashing on this character,  it instead came across as confusion as to how to handle him on the author's  part.<br />Archangel feels like a good first draft that was rushed into print  in order to meet a contract deadline.  The elements are there for a great  story.  But, it needs some more work before it can match the level of  Harris' other books.	1999-09-01
US	52227822	R14RGQ69LLPVCE	0375404120	939433309	Glamorama	Books	1	5	8	N	Y	Not Worth The Paper On Which It's Printed	I've enjoyed every one of Ellis' other books.  While they have always had vapid characters, I always had the sense that their lack of a center had a purpose: namely, to convey Ellis' outrage at the decline of morality in our  society.  That sense was totally missing in Glamorama.  Instead, I got the  impression that Ellis was trying to mock the shallowness of popular  culture.  The only problem with that approach is (like U2 discovered on its  most recent tour) that when an artist tries to make fun of this  shallowness, they only expose their own role in perpetuating it.<br />This  book is a major disappointment on all levels.  The main character is  incredibly unsympathetic.  The plot is a mess.  And, the writing is  definitely below the level that Ellis can perform.  To put it simply,  having song lyrics as dialogue for the characters is not good writing; it's  the writing of someone who thinks they're cleverer than what they are.  One  can only hope that Glamorama is a one-time stumble for a very talented  author.	1999-08-19
US	52227822	R9B40M5SYNB4P	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Solid Thriller	Bag of Bones is typical Stephen King.  There are well-written characters, a claustrophobic setting, and enough psychological overtones to keep a tribe of therapists busy.  But, what I enjoyed most about Bag of Bones was  King's little philosophies about life, which pop up through the cracks in  the book much like the sunflowers in the story appear through the  floorboards.  These insights brought a lightness to the book that lessened  the dark nature of its subject.<br />All in all, Bag of Bones is a fun summer  read for anyone looking to spend a few days in a book.	1999-08-18
US	52227822	R290EIVPJOH8ZH	1573221201	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	The Revenge Of The Bard	Like Bloom, I've sat thorough many productions of Shakespeare's works in which the themes and the characters were distorted, mutilated, or simply ignored.  I've wondered if there was anyone in the world who actually read  the plays instead of using them as a marketing gimmick to display their own  concepts.  Fortunately, Bloom shows that he has read the plays.<br />Many of  this book's reviewers have focused their energy on whether or not Bloom  proves his thesis (which is that Shakespeare \\"invented\\" the ways that we  define ourselves as humans).  Just to put my opinion on it, I don't think  he did.  Then again, I don't think Bloom thinks he did either, as is  evident by his statement in the book's end that Chaucer \\"invented\\" the  human and Shakespeare perfected it.<br />So, why should a reader invest time  in a book where it is questionable whether the author proved the central  thesis?  Because Bloom does such a wonderful job of dissecting the plays  that one gets lost in the nuances that he brings out.  His critical  analyses of the plays are insightful and provocative.  While I might take  exception to some of his comments (I don't think Richard III is as weak as  Bloom thinks it is), his writing style has conveyed his ideas in such a way  that I have to respect his opinions.<br />I was glad that I had read/seen some  of the plays so that I could understand the context of Bloom's comments  about them.  I did feel a little lost when reading his analyses of those  plays to which I had not been exposed.  Instead of wallowing in the  feeling, I wanted to read those plays in order to see if I agreed with his  comments.  Any critical study that makes one want to return to the original  source material to discover if its arguments are valid is a very good  study. While I don't believe one should accept Bloom's analyses at face  value, his comments provide a solid counterpoint to many of the myths about  the plays. I heartily recommend this book to those who want to broaden  their perspective on Shakespeare's works.	1999-07-27
US	52227822	R2YWPLJ1LTGF3G	0151002517	787923440	Blindness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Harrowing Trip To Familiar Territory	Saramago takes the reader on a frightening journey into a world where disease has caused the social structures to disintegrate.  He does a very good job of portraying the horror of such a world, and the desperate  struggle that some undertake in order to retain their humanity.  The  writing he uses to portray this struggle is economical, yet lyrical.  <br />Many other reviewers have commented about the lack of punctuation and  names in the book.  To them, the lack of these devices detracted from the  enjoyment of the book.  I thought the author purposely used them in order  to impose a form of \\"blindness\\" on the reader.  As readers, we are use to  the visual cues that punctuation and names give to us.  By removing them,  Saramago gives us the same feelings of loss and confusion that his  characters possess.  If anything, it makes us emphasize with them more.  I  recognize that Saramago has used this technique in his other books.  But,  nowhere did it provide as much emotional impact for me as it did in this  book.<br />While I did enjoy the book, I ultimately felt that I'd been in this  setting before.  Other authors have explored the potential outcomes for  humanity once the social order has been dissolved and (in many ways) did it  just as well as Saramago.  While I haven't read \\"The Plague\\", I thought  this same theme was covered in \\"Lord of the Flies\\".  I'd even go so far as  to say that Stephen King touched on the theme in the beginning of \\"The  Stand.\\"  I'm not saying that King is as good an author as Saramago.  I'm  simply saying that the topic is not original, and Saramago has little new  to say about it.<br />I still recommend the book.  It is great to read an  author who possesses a firm command of language.  And, for those who  haven't read books that explore the question of what becomes of man once  the structures of civilization disappear, this book will prove to be  thought provoking.  But, if you are familiar with other authors'  exploration of that idea, then Blindness may prove somewhat unfulfilling.	1999-07-27
US	52227822	R190YNZFW3QKAV	0374283923	150979101	The Vintner's Luck: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Evocative, Thought Provoking Literature	About two-thirds of the way through the book, Xas declares that \\"Complete symmetry is an insult to God.\\"  It is at this point that the reader realizes that many of the key elements in the book have been marked by  cases of symmetry.  From the two murders committed by a key character in  the book to the results of the relationship once Sobran takes a male lover  as a complement to his wife, the evil that is manifested in the book is  caused by \\"complete symmetry.\\"  On the other hand, \\"incomplete symmetry\\"  brings much of the \\"good\\" portrayed in the book.  For instance, Aurora  loses one breast to cancer, and lives.  Also, the characters regain their  luck once Sobran takes a second lover to complement the relationships he  has with his wife and his male lover.  <br />So, what is the author trying to  say?  Is she saying that only God can be perfect, and therefore He  tolerates no attempt by any lesser being to achieve perfection?  If that's  so, then is God purposely inciting chaos in order to keep humans from  attaining symmetry?  And finally, is she saying that for humans to strive  to attain what is the province of the divine is pointless because God will  never give up that feature that defines Him?<br />As always, there is a danger  of reading too much into a book.  But, the fact that this book can spark  such introspection and debate makes it stand out among the countless other  collections of words filling the bookstores.  Even if these qualities are  not appealing, The Vintner's Luck offers many other charms.  The characters  are solidly written and the dialogue is superb.  It is our luck that The  Vintner's Luck has come along.  It makes us realize that literature of this  caliber still has a place on all of our bookshelves.	1999-07-27
US	52227822	R1FIBG3E0IAE10	0674637119	459511438	The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A Must-Read For Any Lover of Shakespeare	Vendler does an excellent job of making the sonnets accessible and illuminating for all readers of Shakespeare.  For those who are novices to Shakespeare's work, Vendler points out the patterns of structure inherent  in the poems.  To the individuals more familar with the sonnets, Vendler  offers a detailed analysis of the words of the poems.  The sum of these  approaches provides both the novice and the expert with an appreciation for  the depth and complexity of the sonnets.<br />Interestingly, Vendler does not  often provide interpretations of the meaning of the poems.  Instead, she  chooses to provide the reader with an appreciation of the elements of the  sonnets in order to allow one to make their own informed interpretations.   <br />Vendler has created a book that mirrors the sonnets in that it can be  enjoyed on many different levels.  But, regardless of which level upon  which it is enjoyed, the book is an indespensible guide into the wonders of  Shakespeare's sonnets.  Any student of Shakespeare needs to have this book  in their collection of critical works on the Bard.	1999-05-26
US	52227822	R362PZNEHNBCPN	0156001411	770567673	The Gospel According to Jesus Christ	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	An Absolutely Stunning Interpretation of Christ's Life	Given the fact that Saramago had won the Nobel Prize for Literature, I had some high expectations for this book.  But, I was not prepared for the enormous scope of emotion that this book presents. After I had finished it,  I believed I had experienced the humanity of Christ.  All of Christ's joys,  disappointments, and failures were brought to life for me.  And as a  result, he seemed much more accessible than the demi-god presented in the  Bible.<br />I was particularly impressed with Saramago's use of nature as  both a precursor and an accompaniment  to the events in Christ's life.  The  book is filled with wonderous natural events, from the miracle of the  fishes to the cries of a newborn animal.  By tying God and Christ to the  magic of nature, Saramago gives the book a supernatural tone that's both  plausible and appropriate.<br />Special acknowledgment must be given to  Giovanni Pontiero for his excellent translation.  The book retains all the  mysticism and energy that Saramago poured into the original text.<br />After  reading this book, it is easy to see why Saramago won the Nobel Prize.  This book is brilliant.  It is a must read for anyone who has spiritual  inclinations.  Instead of being (as some fear) a deconstruction of Christ's  life, it is instead a celebration of the sacrifices and trials of this most  extraordinary figure in human history.	1999-01-06
US	52227822	RXNV9LA9FWZ3V	0140274782	38246072	Wobegon Boy	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Another Solid Outing By Keillor	Reading a Garrison Keillor book (except for the bizzare Book of Guys) is like laying on a couch next to a fire under a comforter while the rain falls outside.  Wobegon Boy continues the Keillor streak of writing  &quot;comfortable&quot; literature.  The characters are solidly defined,  the dialogue is witty, and the situations that arise in the book are  sharply told.<br />There aren't any surprises in Wobegon Boy.  The subject  is one that Keillor has visited many times.  But, then again, one doesn't  buy a Garrison Keillor book to be surprised.  One gets his books to  rekindle the feelings of home and family that one possesses (or wishes they  possessed) in their minds.  And Wobegon Boy is more than adequate to  meeting this task.	1998-12-14
US	52227822	R1F4O4AO0Z0MJF	0312965338	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Excellent Companion to Into Thin Air	After reading this book, I was struck by the contrasts between Jon Krakauer and Anatoli Boukreev.  Boukreev was a professional climber, while Krakauer is a serious hobbyist at climbing. On the other hand, Krakauer is  an excellent writer, while Boukreev didn't have that ability.  Yet, the two  of them are inextricably intertwined because of their experiences on  Everest in May of 1996.  And the link between them continues because of the  presence of these two books.<br />The Climb is not as well written as Into  Thin Air.  The language used in it is clumsy, perhaps a reflection of the  fact that English was a second language for Boukreev.  But what it lacks in  style, it makes up for in technical knowledge.  The description of the  thought processes that Boukreev went through in deciding to go back up  Everest in the storm feels authentic.  In fact, most of the actual  descriptions of the events feel authentic.  It is this authenticity that  helps convince the reader that Boukreev was justified in taking the actions  that he took on Everest that night.<br />It's ironic that two men who shared  the same experience would create books that would stand as opposites to  each other.  While I never believed that the &quot;bad guy&quot; of Into  Thin Air was Boukreev (I thought Krakauer was much harder on Hall and  Fischer), there is no doubt that The Climb is a rebuttal to Into Thin Air.   Yet, while seemingly at opposite ends of the spectrum, the books make  wonderful companions for the purpose of telling the whole story of what  went on that day.  If you are (or have) read Into Thin Air, you have to  read The Climb.	1998-12-02
US	52227822	R25ODKEBVG4LQ	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Funny Look At The Trials Of Modern Living	Given all of the hype surrounding this book, I was expecting to be slightly disappointed by the actual product.  I'm pleased to say that it surprised me.  It was as funny and poignant as I had heard.  Fielding's  insights into the stresses and small pleasures of modern life are on the  mark.  I could easily relate to Bridget's experiences.  And that's not easy  to do to a thirtysomething male with his own batch of ****wittage with  which to deal.<br />The book isn't perfect.  Some of the jokes will probably  be over the heads of readers who haven't been to Great Britain recently  (like the Jenny Eclair in Edinburgh minor insult).  And the ending is a  little too neat for a messy life like Bridget's (getting a boyfriend on  Christmas Day is much too blatent for me).  Still, these are minor quibbles  for an otherwise outstanding book.  Overall, the humorous insights make it  a book worth purchasing.	1998-11-30
US	52227822	R2G6T6I4AA5G2F	0060175907	719815318	Aphrodite: A Memoir of the Senses	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Wonderful Examination Of Food and Life	Allende has created a stunning rumination on life in her new book.  And as an added bonus, she's thrown in a pretty good cookbook as well.  This book serves as a wonderful counterpoint to Paula. While Paula was about death and it's effects on the human spirit, Aphrodite is about living life to its fullest by savoring what nature gives us.<br />Allende's strength as a writer is in using the powerful emotional connection that she has to the material to create an effective narrative flow.  If she doesn't have that emotional connection, she ends up relying on her characters' dialogue, which is definitely not her strong suit (see The Infinite Plan).  In Aphrodite, she uses only narrative, which shines with a playfulness and joy that comes from someone who is enjoying the material.  <br />I remember attending a lecture where Allende said that after Paula, she thought she would never write again.  I'm very glad that rice pudding helped her get over these feelings.  This book should be read by everyone so that they may be reminded (as she obviously has been) that it's the simplest pleasures of life that make life worth living.	1998-06-08
US	52227822	R38PCQW6XVX8MB	0374173079	121874211	The House Gun	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Somewhat Dispassionate Look At How Murder Affects A Family	This is the first Gordimer book I've read.  I bought it because I thought the subject was interesting.  Gordimer's impressive literary standing didn't hurt my interest either.  But, I was ultimately left unmoved by the story.  For me, a writer succeeds when they either transport you to another place or provide enough insight into a character to make you feel something for that person.  But, this book did neither for me.  I would imagine that having a family member who committed a murder would have a profound effect on my family's interactions with each other and the community.  However, Gordimer only hints at that effect in her characters.  As a result, I never got the sense of shame and introspection that such an event must cause. <br /> After disregarding the thoughts of the murderer for most of the story, she turns toward him for the last part of the book.  While some might see this as an integral part of the story, I read it as an act of desperation on her part.  It was as though she had run out of things to say about the parents, but still had fifty pages to fill.  And I still never figured out his motives for his actions (unless I were to believe his lawyer). <br />  In all, the book didn't transport me to South Africa and didn't shed any insight into how people behave in those circumstances.  I will give her credit for being able to write solid dialogue.  However, the shallow narrative ultimately betrays the story.	1998-04-29
