US	52223825	R1LD4S18B94Y3M	0451212169	334422204	Bright Eyes (Coulter Family)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging and Humorous!	I am a sucker for a family series, and I have been in love with the Coulter family since reading Phantom Waltz (Ryan and Bethany).  Each book in the series weaves an engaging, mature, and heartwarming story.  Bright Eyes is no exception.<br />Bright Eyes is Zeke Coulter's story.  Confirmed bachelor Zeke Coulter finds himself in a tomato patch of a mess when his neighbor's son vandalizes his house, and he goes over to confront the boy's family.  What he finds is Natalie Patterson, a temptation in a black dress and strappy black sandals.  Zeke's bachelor existence is turned upside down when he convinces Natalie to let her son work off the damage to his property.  From this point on, Zeke's life is completely changed.<br />Not only does he find himself falling under the spell of Natalie,he also becomes wrapped around the finger of her cute-as-can-be daughter Rosie.  As much as Zeke tries to resist, he finds himself wishing less and less for bachelorhood and more and more for what Natalie and her children can offer.<br />Natalie is a divorced mother, who once had dreams of being a singer, but must now struggle to support her children because of her ex-husband's narcissicism.  Natalie is very much attracted to Zeke but bitter experience has made her cautious.  <br />Bright Eyes is an engaging story that leaves the reader with a warm and fuzzy feeling.  After reading one of Catherine Anderson's story I am always left with a feeling of family.  This book offers romance, suspence, heartache, and renewal-all essential elements for a great story.  Throw in the family &quot;pet&quot; Chester (who is such a scene stealer), and you've got humor like you've never seen before.  Chester's antics kept me laughing  out loud several times during the night.<br />Overall, Bright Eyes is a well-paced read.  Lucky for us, there are several more Coulter kin so we can revisit this family once again.	2004-06-05
US	52223825	R1WZAA30E0890O	0060514086	359862399	And the Bride Wore Plaid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The Talisman Ring Strikes Again!	I will start my review with all of the positives.  I love the Talisman Ring series.  Karen Hawkins has done an amazing job of drawing us into the world of the St. John family and the \\"possessed\\" family heirloom that fortends impending marriage to its bearer.  My favorite story thus far has been An Affair to Remember (Anthony and Anna's story).  KH is also talented at building anticipation for the next story in the series.  After reading How to Treat a Lady (Chase and Harriet), I couldn't wait to find out what happens with Devon.<br />Of course, Devon is determined to outrun the \\"curse\\" of the ring, as he has no intentions of ever pursuing marital bliss.  He runs away to a friend's remote castle in Scotland-only to meet the beguiling Kat, who is also running away from marital bliss for reasons of her own.  The story centers around both Devon and Kat's desire to avoid the parson's trap warring with their growing desire for each other.<br />Now, for the not so positives.  I love the story, but it got off to a rather slow start, in my opinion. The pace of the book does pick up and is rather comical and romantic toward the middle and end of the book.  The Malcolm and Fiona subplot detracted a bit from what otherwise was a perfect story.  Also, I am not sure that I like the Snow White metaphor.  I can appreciate the humor and irony in the 7 \\"dwarves\\" being 7 tall and imposing Scotsmen. I like authors who turn the classic storybook cliche, but I don't think it worked so well for me this time.<br />And the Bride Wore Plaid is a great summer read. If you love the Talisman Ring series or are just a Karen Hawkins fan, you'll love this book. Despite what some might see as a mediocre review, I liked the story and can't wait to find out what Marcus does when he discovers what happened to the ring.	2004-06-04
US	52223825	R1TBG6FVNGGJRF	0312984839	744273408	Dance with the Devil (Dark-Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Best of Dark Hunter series so far...	Why do I give Dance With the Devil 5 stars? The answer is simple: ZAREK.  Zarek could arguably win the award for the most tortured hero in the history of romance novels (literally and figuratively).  We first meet Zarek in Night Embrace.  The guy has a mega chip on his shoulder.  He doesn't take crap from anyone, and he doesn't play by anyone's rules. Zarek seemed completely unlikable, and I, personally, kept hoping that a daimon would zap him.  <BR>However, now that I've read DWTD, I want to marry the guy and love him with every fiber of my being.  Sherrilyn Kenyon does an amazing job of character development with Zarek.  After reading this book, I know why Zarek was mad at the world and why he really, really needed someone to rescue him and love him.  <br />In DWTD, Zarek must face his day of reckoning for betraying the Dark Hunter code and the goddess Artemis. In order to avoid execution, he must be judged. His judge has to find redeeming qualities in Zarek that prove his ability to love.  Unbeknownst to Zarek, the nymph Astrid (his judge) disguises herself as someone who appears to have all of the qualities Zarek hates most. Astrid's job gets tougher when she gets a peek into Zarek's psyche and makes some amazing discoveries.  Zarek, meanwhile,is having a tough time maintaining his aloof facade as he finds himself drawn to Astrid.<br />This story is action-packed and sensual, with plenty of paranormal thrown in for good measure.  The imagination and creativity of Sherrilyn Kenyon knows no boundaries.  Her world of Dark Hunters,Were Hunters, and others come alive to even the most practical person.  I reccomend ALL of the Dark Hunters series, but Dance With the Devil is my personal favorite thus far. This is the only paranormal book I think I've ever read that made me cry, which is an amazing accomplishment.	2004-02-02
US	52223825	R2KJYY53I97LWT	0060505249	793121371	Where's My Hero? (A Bow Street Novella)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I've Found My Heroes!!	Finally, finally we get to see what makes the good Dr. Jake Linley tick!!  Imagine my  wonderful surprise to find that he loves Lydia Craven, the eldest daughter of Derek Craven and Sara Fielding (Dreaming of You).  I could not contain my excitement because not only was I reading about my favorite secondary character Jake Linley, but I also got to peek into Derek and Sara's future. Against the Odds is an amazing love story.  Although it unfolds very quickly, you are aware of the history of poignant attraction between Lydia and Jake. The story delivers the sensuality and passion that has become the trademark of Lisa Kleypas.  Ms. Kleypas is, arguably, becoming the queen of novellas.   <br />After a long wait, Ned Blydon finally makes it to the altar!!  But, dear Ned is in for a shock when he finds himself not longing for his bride-to-be but her sister Charlotte.  You are amused by the antics of Belle and Emma (who make cameo appearances)as well as the twists and turns (and irony) that weave a lighthearted and romantic tale. I thorougly enjoyed A Tale of Two Sisters.  Julia Quinn  delivers a romantic tale that is witty, clever, and refreshing-a writing style that has many considering her the Jane Austen of romance.  I must say that I agree.  <br />Having never read any of Ms. MacGregor's (or Ms. Kenyon's) work, I was eager to sample her talents. After all, the fact that she's part of the triumvarate with Lisa Kleypas and Julia Quinn reflects very highly of her talents-in my somewhat biased opinion : ).  For those of you familiar with Kinley MacGregor, this is the story of Simon of Ravenswood, known as The Wraith in the Brotherhood. With a slight twist on Cyrano De Bergerac, Simon woos the lady Kenna with beautiful letters.  Kenna believes that she is receiving these soul-searing, romantic letters from Stryder, Earl of Blackmoor and consummate medieval ladies' man.  Although Simon longs to tell Kenna that he is the man of her dreams, he knows that if the secret gets out his best friend and his lady love may never forgive his deception. And just when Simon decides to maintain his secret love, fate deals him a chance of a lifetime. Although I am not a fan of medieval romances, Ms. MacGregor has convinced me through her talented writing that medieval can be romantic and fun!!<br />After reading the romantic tales of Jake, Ned, and Simon, I can truly say I have found my heroes!!<br />p.s. Ms. Kleypas, where is Lord Ravenhill (Where Dreams Begin)?  I think he is a hero, too : ).	2003-08-30
US	52223825	R1G0SRUZXGW2I4	0060185708	680960032	The Reluctant Suitor	Books	4	17	25	N	N	A Legend At Work!!	No one can argue that Kathleen Woodiwiss is the first lady of romance and romantic epics.  Ms. Woodiwiss is the reason that I love the romance genre so much.  I was hooked the first time I read The Flame and the Flower.  No other author in this genre has the ability to weave a story that transcends the pages and whose language is poetry in itself.  Ms. Woodiwiss is a lengendary wordsmith, and her stories capture your heart, make you laugh and cry at the same time, and sigh after you've read the last page.<br />Her latest literary accomplishment is The Reluctant Suitor, a tale of two people who've known each other all their lives,yet don't really come to know each other and love each other until 16 years later.  The hero is Colt Wyndham, a war hero, the Marquess Randwulf, and a man running from a betrothal to the &quot;scrawny&quot; Adriana Sutton, whom his father feels is a perfect match for him.<br />To escape the trap that he feels his father has set for him, Colt runs off and joins the military, not knowing that fate would intervene and bring him home to his destiny.<br />Sixteen years later, Colt returns home to find that his &quot;scrawny&quot; bethrothed has now blossomed into a much sought-after beauty that no man can resist.  Colt pledges that he will keep his father's promise of a 90-day courtship, but will resist falling under the spell of the bewitching Adriana, no matter the cost.  <br />Adriana is shocked to find that her reluctant bethrothed Colt has finally deigned to come home from the war.  She resents the fact that he rejected her so long ago and vows to make him rue the day he met her.   However, Adriana is amazed when the very man she hopes to keep at bay is the very man she finds herself fantasizing about and longing to be near.  <br />What a beautifully written love story. The story unfolds at a leisurely pace, with excitement, passion, adventure, heartache, and redemption added along the way.  This is not a story that you can read in one sitting.  The depth, beauty, and complexity of the written language must be savored to fully appreciate what a legendary author Kathleen Woodiwiss is.  I promise you once you get past the venacular, you will enjoy The Reluctant Suitor immensely.	2003-03-20
US	52223825	R2GGD1OE3SJB3K	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Welcome Back, Judith McNaught!!	I have been waiting and waiting for Judith McNaught to release a new book.  After a few years' hiatus, JM has graced us with the romantic thriller \\"Someone to Watch Over Me.\\"  This title works on several levels because our heroine Leigh Kendall definitely has several people watching over her: her husband Logan, his enigmatic business associate Michael Valente, the police, and her eerie and elusive stalker-who keeps getting bolder and bolder.<br />You are drawn into the story on the first page as Leigh wakes up in the hospital after someone tries to run her off the road.  She soon learns that her husband Logan is missing, and he wasn't quite the man that she thought he was.<br />As the story unravels, Leigh finds herself the prime suspect in her husband's disappearance. She also finds a mysterious champion in Michael Valente-a enigmatic man with a criminal record as long as his arm and plenty of secrets to boot. Does Michael Valente have Leigh's best interests at heart? Or, is there a hidden agenda?<br />This story has plenty of suspense, thrills, twists, and turns! All of the characters are interwoven together to create a seamless story that never lags. We get a glimpse into all of the characters' lives,including the growing relationship Mitchell McCord and Samantha Littleton.  <br />This book is like getting two books in one because you get the suspense/thriller, and you get the comtemporary romance.  This book offers tender and poignant moments that will make you weep.  Overall, this is an outstanding book!!  This is a great comeback novel for Judith McNaught.	2003-02-21
US	52223825	R24UASREYCJO8T	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Delightful!!! What an amazing concept!!	Before I get too involved in my review, I have to say that Julia Quinn is the most clever writer to appear on the scene in years!  I bought this book because I am a JQ fan and the wordsmith Lady Whistledown is a literary character you won't soon forget.  Although we now know this clever one's identity (ha! ha!-did you really think I was gonna tell you?), it was good to have LW make a special appearance in this clever anthology.<br />Now, that I've gotten that out of the way-I wanted to say that The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown is the most clever concept for an anthology that I have read in a long time!!  Imagine four different authors with four distinct writing styles creating four different stories that take place simultaneouly with ALL of the characters from the different stories interacting with each other!!!  That takes talent! And Julia Quinn, Susan Enoch, Karen Hawkins, and Mia Ryan definitely deliver!  From the witty \\"36 Valentines\\" to the romantic \\"Two Hearts\\", you will find something for everyone! There is lots of humor here, too.  I laughed til I cried at the ball with Lord Durham (you have to read to know what I mean-wink**).  I wept for Lord Darington.  I cheered for Royce and Liza.  The witty exchange between David and Susannah is classic!!  <br />You must get yourself a copy of this book. You won't be able to put it down.  Congratulations to all the authors on creating a new concept in anthologies.	2003-01-31
US	52223825	R1NU5Q8YO1O914	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	46	49	N	N	This story is Worth Any Price!!	I have been waiting months to find out the fate of the intriguing Nick Gentry, who, if you read Lady Sophia's Lover, was last \\"offered\\" a legitimate position as a Bow Street runner by his nemesis/now brother-in-law Sir Ross Cannon.  At last the wait is over, and, as usual, Lisa Kleypas delivers!!  We find out some very interesting things about Nick in the beginning of the story-things which help us to see Nick in another light and begin to empathize with him more.  While you are awed by the street savvy devil-may-care Nick Gentry, you will also come to love the man who was robbed of his birthright and must struggle with and travel a path that leads him back to a life he was meant to have.<br />Nick's fate is decided when he is sent to search for Miss Charlotte Howard (\\"Lottie\\"), the runaway bride of Lord Radnor.  He finds her on the estate of Lord Westcliff, where she has become as inconspicuous as possible.  From the first moment he sees her, Nick knows he must have her.  Instead of returning her to Lord Radnor, Nick finds himself offering her the one thing he never expected-marriage.  Although Nick doesn't know it at the time, Charlotte becomes his saving grace. But, can Nick reconcile his haunted past with his future?<br />You will like Charlotte as a heroine.  She is strong-willed and optimistic, despite the fact that she has a tainted secret she'd like to forget.  She is drawn to Nick from the beginning and sees past his hardness. But, can she forgive him for betraying her trust? Can she come to love a man she has promised to marry, but finds she doesn't really know at all?<br />As always, the story between the characters is mature and sensually rich.  Unlike other authors, the heros and heroines in an LK novel grow and develop before our eyes. There isn't the harsh separation or cruel deceptions between the characters.  Instead the characters are able to explore their feelings and come to a natural progression of love. Not to mention, Ms. Kleypas is always able to reinvent the love scene, giving us more and keeping us guessing with each new novel.<br />This is the last of the Bow Street Runners series, and I really hate to see this hunky, dashing group of men go away. However, Ms. Kleypas still has a few minor characters to possibly develop into future novellas or stories.  Dr. Linley or Lord Westcliff definitely would make good protagonists in a story. I especially like that Dr. Linley. Although he doesn't play a major role in this story, I am still wondering what makes the good doctor tick.<br />You will fully enjoy all facets of Worth Any Price. The story is brilliantly written, the characters are mature and memorable, and the passion is beyond compare.  To me, this story is worth any price...e to reinvent the love scene, giving us more and keeping us guessing with each new novel. <br />This is the last of the Bow Street Runners series, and I really hate to see this hunky, dashing group of men go away. However, Ms. Kleypas still has a few minor characters to possibly develop into future novellas or stories.  Dr. Linley or Lord Westcliff definitely would make good protagonists in a story. I especially like that Dr. Linley. Although he doesn't play a major role in this story, I am still wondering what makes the good doctor tick.<br />You will fully enjoy all facets of Worth Any Price. The story is brilliantly written, the characters are mature and memorable, and the passion is beyond compare.  To me, this story is worth any price...	2003-01-29
US	52223825	R1B1ZOZTOYNO7B	0534919383	670859100	Costing Human Resources: The Financial Impact of Behavior in Organizations (Kent Series in Human Resource Management)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very Helpful to the HR professional!!	I actually bought this book because I was working on a class project for Labor Relations and needed to read Chapter 7. Once I got the book, though, I realized that I had actually gotten a treasure. This book will help any HR professional who wants to think strategically and find a way to quantify the value of any organization's most valuable commodity-its people.  The book is surprisingly easy to read and understand.  <br />It contains very helpful and useful information. I would recommend this book very highly.	2003-01-29
US	52223825	R1ZY55I05FDOYX	067101420X	730430702	Forever... : A Novel of Good and Evil, Love and Hope (Forever Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lukewarm.	I am very openminded to any author, especially one as talented and versatile as Jude Deveraux.  I have read many of her stories over the years, and I have enjoyed them all very much.  I, too, am a fan of the prolific Montgomerys and their cousins the Taggerts. It is always a joy to read about any member of the family.<br />With that in mind, I was hoping that Forever would continue the tradition of smooth storytelling that JD is famous for.  Alas, I was disappointed.  This story is lukewarm, at best.  The first chapters are outstanding. You are drawn into the story of a woman who becomes consumed with power from the possession of the legendary Nostradamus' mirror and the prophecy of the blond, blue-eyed waif who would be her destruction.  Then, you meet the skinny down on her luck girl Darci, who possesses a power that's even stronger than she could imagine. I found it hard to identify with Darci.  She is portrayed as the stereotypical poor white trash, and I had a hard time believing she possessed such a gift or could attract the eye of a Montgomery.  Don't get me wrong-I liked Darci, but I kept wanting to wrap a blanket around her and protect her. She was just too fragile as a heroine.<br />Of course, Adam Montgomery is rich, sexy, and handsome.  I wouldn't have expected him any other way.  And, what makes Adam so intriguing is that he's hiding some weighty secrets.<br />I like the way the stories and lives of the characters are interwoven together.  That is the one element of this story that actually works.  I never believed, though, that the sexual attraction was there between Adam and Darci. I can't even get a mental picture (or at least not a flattering one).  And, I think the subplot of witchcraft and the mirror were superb-except for the fact that the story got choppy toward the middle and end.  I felt let down with the way the story ended.  I really expected more.<br />All in all, this book only generated a lukewarm response from me. I wanted more, and I feel let down.	2002-10-08
US	52223825	R3B5YRRLWLXZG3	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Surprisingly Great Read!!	Like most fans of Julie Garwood's wonderful historical romance novels, I was very hesitant to read any of her contemporary novels for fear that I wouldn't like them.  As fate would have it, a rainy day, some free time, and plain old curiosity made me pick up a copy of Mercy.<br />I was hooked from the first page. I was drawn into the plot of the corrupt Sowing Club and their connection to the heroine Dr. Michelle Renard.  Michelle is a strong, smart contemporary character who is easy to like and identify with. I very much liked Theo Buchanan, who is sexy, smart,and quite versatile.  I felt that the romantic and sexual tension between her and Theo was just enough to make you drool but not too much to make you roll your eyes in disgust.<br />Most surprising to me about this book was Julie Garwood's ability to balance the mystery/adventure with the romance between the two characters.  Unlike most books I have read, I was not able to predict the ending (other than Michelle and Theo living happily ever after).  I must say that Ms. Garwood has done an excellent job in transitioning to contemporary novels.  I will give her future contemporary works more consideration when choosing something to read.	2002-09-28
US	52223825	R37A6OG8PKSQLE	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Only in Your Arms Gets a Makeover!!	When I first heard that Lisa Kleypas was re-working her 1992 novel Only in Your Arms, my first thought was, \\"what is she thinking?\\"  After all, Only in Your Arms, in my opinion, is one of those novels whose epic love story lasts through the ages. <br />I must say, though, after reading When Strangers Marry, I realized that you CAN improve upon perfection!!!  The story of Maximillien Vallerand and Lysette Kersaint is magnified and enhanced!! Max is sexy and charming in a way that he never could have been in OIYA.  Max still has that dangerous quality that attracts and repels us to him, but he is much more approachable and easier to laugh.  Lysette is a lot stronger heroine in the re-work.  Even in her slight size, she stands up to Max and appears unafraid of the man that everyone else calls \\"murderer\\".<br />The best thing about this book is that the sensuality is more intense between Max and Lysette.  These characters sizzle in each other's arms.  I think all of Ms. Kleypas' fans will be pleased to see Max more open and tender with Lysette. And, Lysette is Max's dream come true.<br />I was happy to re-visit the Vallerand family.  It was good to see Justin (that wicked man!!) and Phillipe again.  I am glad that Ms. Kleypas chose to maintain Justin's dangerous rebellion, but temper it with an earlier reconcilliation with his father.  And, although the murder of Max's first wife is still looming over the family, the love story between Max and Lysette is not overshawdowed by it.  <br />Kudos to Ms. Kleypas.	2002-08-01
US	52223825	R2DXRQBL0CGT82	038082079X	161550759	An Affair to Remember (Talisman Ring)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Anthony and Anna sizzle!!	I loved An Affair to Remember!!! Even though I didn't like The Seduction of Sara, I knew that Anthony and Anna's story would be a real page-turner. I wasn't disappointed! <br />Anthony Eliot, The Earl of Greyley, \\"inherits\\" his cousin's (whom he despised)five children, and they wreak havoc on his organized, bachelor existence from the very beginning.  Anthony is at wit's end, going from one governess to the next. His sister Sara suggests that Anthony hire Anna Thraxton, her best friend, Anthony's nemesis, and the best governess of the ton.  At first, Anthony refuses because he knows how Anna has a way of causing trouble, speaking her mind, and changing things that don't need to be changed. But, Anthony is desperate!!!<br />Anna Thraxton's family has fallen on hard times, and Anna must now work to support herself and her cudmugeon of a grandfather Sir Phineas.  She is considered the best governess of the ton for her ability to work with \\"difficult\\" charges.  When Anthony offers Anna the position, she refuses. She knows that no one affects her senses like the totally proper, arrogant Earl of Greyley.And no one infuriates her more!!  <br />Anthony makes Anna an offer she can't refuse, and she wonders if she's going to her worst nightmare or her dream come true.  <br />This is a very well-written story. Both characters are very strong and have their own minds, which makes the struggle and the passion between them very believable. I give this book 4 1/2 stars!!	2002-07-31
US	52223825	R3B8A0HYBCUNY2	0743419162	604430790	Fanning the Flame	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another bestseller for Kat Martin	Ms. Martin has another bestseller under her belt. Fanning the Flame is the heart-warming, romantic tale of Adam Hawthorne, Clayton's friend in The Fire Inside, and Jillian Whitney.<br />Adam finds himself attracted to the mysterious Ms. Whitney when he sees her every day during his morning rides in the park. As he is drawn to her, he wonders how the innocent angel feeding the ducks could be the same woman rumored to be the mistress of the ancient Earl of Fenwick.<br /> When the Earl of Fenwick is murdered, Jillian becomes the primary suspect. She finds herself in the custody of Adam, and she must prove to him and everyone else that she did not murder the Earl of Fenwick. Adam is the one man who could be her saving grace or her fall from grace.<br />This story offers sensuality, romance, and intrigue from page One. You will be pleased by Ms. Martin's writing talents. I actually give this book 4 1/2 stars. I guarantee that you won't be disappointed.	2002-07-31
US	52223825	R3E389QFQ36U9P	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	At Last!! Colin and Penelope's story!!!	Romancing Mister Bridgerton is probably the most highly anticipated book in the Bridgerton series.  Like everyone else, I have been antsy waiting for Colin and Penelope's story.<br />I am happy to report that it was well worth the wait!! Julia Quinn weaves a very mature and romantic story of the handsome, witty third Bridgerton brother and the wallflower who has adored him all her life.<br />As you read this tale, you will quickly see that there is a lot more to Colin and Penelope than anyone ever thought or suspected. Both of them possess secrets that will surprise and shock the other, as well as bond them in a way that is beyond either of their dreams. <br />To top that off, Lady Whistledown is at it again. But has her day of reckoning come? And, will we finally get to unmask the ton's worst nemesis?<br />I feel this book is for all the \\"unattractive\\" girls who got looked over because no one could see beneath the surface. And, it makes one believe that unrequited love can be fulfilled. <br />This is the best in the Bridgerton series so far. With 3 more unmarried Bridgertons and 1 widowed, I am sure Ms. Quinn will allow us to visit this prolific, warm, and loving family once again.  I can't wait to find out where Eloise runs off to.	2002-07-03
US	52223825	R1P6E8SLHJ2FL5	0380818507	82826908	A Matter of Scandal (With This Ring, Book 3) (Vol 3)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	A Real Let Down!!	Once again, I have fallen prey to recommendations.  I bought A Matter of Scandal based on some very high recommendations. After getting 1/2 way through the book, I am very disappointed!!  While I like the plot of the book with the wager, I felt that the story could have been better developed overall.<br />What distracted/frustrated me most was the fact that Grey brought along his shallow friends and those simpering women!! They kept getting in the way of what could have been a more romantic, fun story.<br />I think Grey's arrogance was a bit over the top!! He just really wasn't my favorite type of romantic hero.  Emma was developed a bit more than Grey. If she had been paired up with a stronger hero this story may have worked for me.<br />I am going to donate this book and a few of my other &quot;recommended&quot; books to a nursing home, hospital, or local library.  Otherwise, it will collect dust on my bookshelf from lack of reading.	2002-06-17
US	52223825	R3CK7ASZBMVV6Y	0380815265	625565407	The Seduction of Sara	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Disappointing!!	I was very disappointed with The Seduction of Sara.  This book came highly recommeded to me through ... and from some of my favorite authors.  I expected the story to be witty, seductive, and romantic.  What I got was a choppy, irratic story with a premise that doesn't work anymore for me.<br />Nick is okay, as far as heroes go.  He came across to me as exactly what he was-an outcast member of the nobility with lecherous tendencies.  I think Sara was good to a certain extent-she was a young widow who had a bad marriage and wanted her freedom.  I think she deserved a man who would sweep her off her feet and show her what being loved felt like. Instead, she got Nick. <br />I couldn't even stretch my imagination to see how megrims/migraines could be a reason for such a big secret between Nick and Sara.  I think Nick should have been rational enough to know to stay away from the laudanum!!<br />I found myself focusing more on the subplot of Anthony and Anna.  There was more sexual tension between the two of them than there was between Nick and Sara. I am actually looking forward to reading An Affair to Remember (Anthony and Anna), despite the fact that I found this story so lacking.<br />I will be a much more cautious from now on when considering other's recommendations.	2002-06-17
US	52223825	R24MCM69Z05MHN	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	A Kleypas classic in the making!!	What can I say about this book? I was filled with anticipation over Sir Ross Cannon's story!! The most fascinating love stories are always about the elusive, mysterious man. Sir Ross Cannon appears to be cold and aloof on the surface, but underneath this man smolders!!<br />Sophia is another bold Kleypas ingenue. She sets out to trap Sir Ross to avenge her brother's death, yet, as she learns what makes Sir Ross tick, she finds herself caught in a trap of her own making.<br />This book is sensual and passionate.  The chemistry between Ross and Sophia shows from page one. Also present is the usual \\"Kleypas twist\\" that always keeps the reader guessing.<br />Overall, I give this book a 5. This book has everything that you could want in a romance. What I like most about Ms. Kleypas is her ability to weave a sensually rich story in the most simplistic way. I also like the fact that the characters spend more time exploring their attraction to each other than fighting it. Even though both characters have suffered in his or her own way, they don't dwell on it and are mature enough to love again.  <br />I read this book in one night because I couldn't put it down!! I even had to re-read a few passages because I was so intrigued. Ms. Kleypas is always willing to explore romance and sensuality in a way that very few romantic authors are willing to explore. I always come away wanting more after reading a LK novel.  If you're already a Kleypas fan, you won't be disappointed. If you haven't read a Kleypas book before, you are in for a treat!!!<br />I can't wait to read Nick Gentry's story!!	2002-06-08
US	52223825	R33YCBI4XZEZAY	0312979444	539399007	Heartless	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Great Book!!	Instead of writing a long review, I'll just say that Justin and Ariel's story was excellent!!  I really give this book 4 1/2 stars-it's that great!!<br />Kat Martin is one of my new favorite romance authors. I look forward to reading more of her books.	2002-05-20
US	52223825	RHZVYZJNAAJSE	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Heatwarming and Rich Love Story	This book was everything I could have wanted in a love story.  The hero Clayton is a strong well-written romantic hero. He's handsome, attractive to women, and strong.  Kassandra (Kitt)begins as headstrong, stubborn, and reckless. She later becomes a strong and mature woman.<br />There is romantic and sexual tension between these characters from the beginning of the book!! It actually begins in Heartless and carries over into their story. I read Heartless first, and I couldn't wait to read The Fire Inside to find out what happened. I was not disappointed. <br />Kitt leads Clay on a merry chase before a \\"compromising\\" position forces them to marry. Kitt has a secret from her past that threatens her marriage to Clay and forces her to decide whether or not to trust her husband. Clay hopes that by marrying Kitt he can control her recklessness as well as the burning passion he has for her. As each of them soon finds out, they both must find a way to come to terms with the undeniable feelings they have for each other.<br />This book captured my interest from the first page. The sexual tension is believable. The plot is just as believable, with many twists and turns. I didn't want this book to end. I wanted the story to go on and on.  <br />My wish is that Adam Hawthorne, Lord Blackwood, will get his story next. He played an instrumental part in several scenes in the book, and he is begging to feel the snares of passion  like Clayton and Kassandra.	2002-05-20
US	52223825	R3U0A0GLVASH5	0312954786	919384603	Devil's Prize	Books	2	9	9	N	N	I wanted to give this book a 3, but.........	I really, really wanted to give Devil's Prize a 3 or higher.  I was really anticipating reading Rayne's (Sweet Vengeance) sister's story. Alexandra/Alex/Alexa seemed very headstrong, if not intelligent in Sweet Vengeance. So, why when she gets her own story in Devil's Prize, does she act like a complete ninny?<br />The plot of this book is fueled by revenge. Damien Falon seeks Alexa out to avenge the death of his brother Peter. He believes that Peter's unrequited love for Alexa is what caused his death. After \\"winning\\" a night with Alexa, Damien compromises her, but he ends up married to her instead.  Later on, Damien realizes that Alexa was not responsible for his brother's death, as he assumed, but by then he has laid a horrible ground for mistrust between his young bride and himself.<br />Alexa is impetuous in this book. Whether she is doing this to hide her grief at Peter's death or Ms. Martin is showing us through Alexa's actions how immature the heroine is, we may never know.  I felt that Alexa's immaturity and mistrust is what caused Damien and she a lot of heartache and pain throughout the book.<br />We find out early that Alexa isn't responsible for Peter's death (although the \\"real\\" reason he died isn't revealed until the epilogue), and Damien tries to make amends. Still, she holds onto this mistrust, while claiming to fall in love with Damien.  Her mistrust leads her to believe that her husband is a spy for the French, and, again, we see how her mistrust for Damien leads him into peril, danger, and harm.  It seems like every time she struggled with her \\"love\\" for Damien, she ends up doing something stupid to contradict that.<br />I wanted the story of Alexa and Damien to work. There are some explosive and passionate love scenes in the book.  But, I kept screaming in the back of my mind that Damien deserved better than Alexa!!  And, when Alexa was getting herself into trouble, I kept praying that Rayne would appear to help her!!<br />Alexa does redeem herself toward the end of the book, but by then I was already so peeved at her, I didn't care.  I only wish that Alexa had been more of a heroine instead of impulsive and immature. And if she hadn't betrayed Damien so many times, I would have believed she loved him.<br />Devil's Prize rates a 5 for Kat Martin; 4 for the sensuality, 5 for Damien, and Maybe a 1 for Alexa.	2002-05-18
US	52223825	R2LWAKAMINEQP0	0312962436	994782512	Nothing But Velvet	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Awesome Story, But....	Nothing But Velvet is the awesome love story of Jason Sinclair and Velvet Moran.  Jason was wrongly accused of murdering his father the Duke of Carlyle, and, now eight years later, has come back to prove his innocence.  He plots to kidnap his brother's betrothed &quot;wealthy&quot; heiress, Velvet. Jason soons discovers that even the best laid plans have a way of going awry when Velvet is nearby.<br />Velvet, the heroine, is forced to wed because her father wasted the family fortune. She poses as a wealthy heiress and captures the notice of Avery Sinclair.  Velvet is set to marry him, when she is kidnapped by One-Eyed Jack Kincaid, the notorious highwayman.  And even as she is afraid of him, she finds herself attracted to him in a way she never could imagine.<br />Overall, this story is awesome. There is adventure, romance, subplots, and all kinds of twists and turns.  However, the book lagged in some places, and it took over 200 pages before we found out why Jason is the tortured hero and what happened to him during his eight-year imprisonment.  <br />I just started reading Ms. Martin's books.  My favorite so far has been Innocence Undone. I tend to measure the rest of her books by that one. On a scale of 1 to 5, I give this one a 4 or 4 1/2.  It's not as good as Innocence, but it is still a great story.	2002-05-05
US	52223825	R1HQKQWPCKM1P0	0312962479	788562587	Dangerous Passions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Romance!!	Dangerous Passions is the story of Adrian Kingsland (Innocence Undone)and Elissa Tauber.  Elissa is caught up in a web of intrigue, espionage, and deceit as she poses as the Contess von Langen to weed out the identity of The Falcon, the coward responsible for murdering her brother Karl and carrying military secrets to the French.<br />Elissa's deception brings her into contact with Colonel Adrian Kingsland, Lord Wolvermont. She first encounters him when he climbs through her bedroom window, mistaking her for someone else.From this point on, Adrian is consumed with possessing the elusive \\"countess.\\"  As Elissa soon discovers, Adrian becomes more lethal to her senses than the charade she has chosen to carry out.<br />Danger Passions is a well-paced novel, full of twists and turns. Adrian and Elissa share some passionate love scenes, as well as some wild adventures. This is another good book to curl up with on a rainy day or a lazy sunny day at the beach.	2002-05-03
US	52223825	R1ZB75YGA12UXM	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Deliciously Wicked!!	Suddenly You is the story of Amanda Briars, a bluestocking spinster, who is about to turn 30.  Amanda seeks to give herself the ultimate birthday present-a night of unbridled passion.  Little does she know that her life is about to be turned upside down!!<br />She meets Jack, who she believes is the prostitute come to divest her of her virginity.  This ironic event becomes the foundation for a sensually rich and passionate love story that causes a woman to discover the side of herself she never knew existed.<br />Jack continues the line of Kleypas heroes who overcome horrific childhoods and build themselves into powerful, intimidating men.  Amanda and Jack complement each other in ways the other could never imagine!!<br />Suddenly You is very intense sexually, as Jack introduces Amanda to the pleasures of the flesh, and, eventually, the pleasures of the heart. There is also the allure of the Older Woman/Younger man syndrome, which serves to make the passion here that much hotter.<br />... I think Ms. Kleypas' use of the blatant sensuality was done to shock and indulge the senses.  After all, romance is nothing else if not an indulgence of fantasy!! I must say I was intrigued by the honest and raw power of the love scenes. That is what creates the magical relationship between Amanda and Jack.<br />This book is definitely a 5.  Ms. Kleypas' writing continues to expand and develop into the best in recent history.	2002-05-03
US	52223825	R1HQJNR77TVOIC	0671042505	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe: A Novel	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Great Love Story!!	I really would give this 4 1/2 stars. The story of Hallie and Chance is wonderful.  The passion between the two of them smolders and explodes!! And who says a cowboy has to be the aloof type? Chance is caring, giving, generous, and selfless. Not to mention the dream lover.  I now know the answer to the question \\"Where have all the cowboys gone?\\".  They are in Primrose Creek, and Chance is the standard by which they should be judged!!<br />The modern people of Primrose Creek still possess that timeless quality that helped to build the fictional town during the pioneer days from Women of Primrose Creek.  They embrace Hallie and her two precocious twins Kiley and Kiera, even though Hallie possesses a dangerous secret that could bring turmoil and heartache to the close knit community.<br />The story of Chance and Hallie has romance, adventure, humor, intrigue, and mystery.  This is a good book to curl up with on a rainy day and get lost in the mystique of The Last Chance Cafe.	2002-04-27
US	52223825	R1TVNSSHQ6AAOR	0312960891	906503525	Innocence Undone (St. Martin's Paperbacks Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romance Novel Done Right!!	Innocence Undone was everything I could have wanted in a romance and more. The story was thoroughly developed, the passion between the hero and heroine sizzled, and there was enough adventure, conflict and subplots to keep me enthralled in the story.  I hated to see this book end.  Matthew is a strong hero who is afraid to love because of his not being shown open affection as a child. This struggle is what makes him the deep, brooding romantic hero.  His developing attraction to Jessica, and ultimately his journey into love, is fueled by Matthew's mistrust of and fear to love.<br />Jessica is a strong heroine.  She begins life without much hope and a prayer. She is the daughter of a doxy, she is abused by her brother and she resorts to all sorts of undesirable behavior.  Underneath all that, Jessica is a loving, caring person who wants to rise above her pitiful lot in life.  Jessica eventually becomes this headstrong, intelligent, and nurturing young woman.  And although Matthew doesn't think he and Jessica \\"suit\\", he finds himself on a journey that causes him to break down all the walls he has erected around his heart just to keep up with his father's ward.  The conflict between these two characters is classic!! The passion between them is timeless!! If you don't read this book for anything else, read it just to find out what Matthew does when he thinks Jessica is going to marry someone else!!<br />You will fall in love with all the characters. And, you get to see two other romances develop along with Matthew and Jessica.  The story of Gwen and Adam, Lord St. Cere, is heartwarming and makes me believe in knights in shining armor.  Even \\"Papa Reggie\\"  finds love in this twilight years with Lady Bainbridge.<br />Trust me when I tell you that this is a romance for all ages. If you enjoy this book half as much as I did, you will have found an unforgettable romance that you will want to read over and over  again.	2002-04-21
US	52223825	R3AU5N7FTVEF5J	0380978555	842568057	The Pursuit (Sherring Cross)	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Very disappointing!!	The story of Lincoln and Melissa in The Pursuit could have been served more properly in a novella. After all, they meet and fall in love within the first 60 pages of the book.  Most of this asinine (pardon my use of the word) book is dedicated to the idiotic antics of Melissa's uncles keeping her away from the \\"crazy\\" boy they haven't seen since he was 10!!! Who in the world could believe this plot?  I was very disappointed. I was hoping for more more romantic tension between the characters and less slapstick from the MacFearsons.<br />I am a huge fan of Ms. Lindsey, and I know that she can write romance that sizzles.  This doesn't even fizz.  I was glad to visit characters from her former stories, but otherwise I don't think she did any justice to Lincoln and Melissa.<br />Please, Ms. Lindsey, give your fans more of what they like from you.  I so much miss the chemistry and passion that you have written with your other characters.	2002-03-30
US	52223825	R4B72GDFGS2T	038081479X	969944777	Heart of a Warrior (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ms. Lindsey, Can We 86 the Aliens? Where are the Mallorys?	Johanna Lindsey is a legend. I love her work, especially the Mallory series. So, why in the world do I feel gyped when I read Heart of a Warrior?  First of all, I need an interpretator to understand the \\"language\\".  And, I need a flow chart to keep track of which planet is which, and so on...I have actually had to put this book down to relieve my headache from trying to keep track of it all. I have read romance novels for years, and I know that a really good one does not give me a headache.  The most redeeming quality of this book is the fact that the \\"hero\\" in the book is sexy as hell!!  I had a few good dreams from the tight leather pants description.  Otherwise, I think the chemistry between Dalden and Brittany is lacking, the plot is slightly unbelievable (even for my imagination), and I still need an interpretor to understand the language. I honestly did not like any of her outer space series novels (Warrior's Woman, Keeper of the Heart, Heart of a Warrior).  I am hoping that Ms. Lindsey will go back to the Mallory family and give Jeremy or Travis a love story!!  I give this book 3 stars based on the fact that Ms. Lindsey is a romance novel legend,and Dalden can let me lay on his chest anytime!!	2002-03-24
US	52223825	RJI02GSWVCGKI	038078145X	15276320	Stranger in My Arms	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful work!!	With Sommersby undertones, Stranger in My Arms is a wonderful love story full of suspense and passion until the very end. The story of Lara and Hunter is so powerful, I almost cried at some point.  <br />Although Lara appears to be a cold fish, she is really a passionate, selfless woman who loves and cares for others deeply to fill the void of love and children missing in her life.  &quot;Hunter&quot; appears and introduces her to a love and passion so deep that the reader won't care whether he is her long-lost husband or not.  Hunter helps to teach Lara that real love doesn't hurt, ridicule or deride. He teaches her the beauty of giving your heart, mind, and body to someone. <br />Although you know where the plot is going, you will still find yourself surprised with the &quot;Kleypas twist&quot; at the end.<br />I give this book 4 stars because I think Ms. Kleypas is a brilliant author. And, in the midst of reading an outstanding love story, there is always some social commentary to generate debate and stimulate the conscience.	2002-03-24
US	52223825	R1KVOI9RXGTBAF	0380761513	191666433	Only With Your Love (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	44	49	N	N	Magnifique!!	I did not know how much I enjoyed this book until I read it again!! The story is perfect. The heroine is naive at first and at conflict with her desires. The hero is dark and brooding!! And the sensuality....There were a few times when I thought the book would burst into flames. <br />While Celia appears to be delicate, timid, and insecure, underneath it all she has a depth of character and strength that is a common thread in Lisa Kleypas' heroines.<br />Who could not love Justin? The tormented &quot;pirate&quot; who is tortured by his past, struggling with the need to be free, yet needing to be loved. <br />Usually, sequels are not nearly as good as the first. But, I think &quot;Only With Your Love&quot;, picks up where the story of Max and Lysette left off.  We get to see Justin and Phillipe as adults, and we get to see how Max and Lysette's love has continued. <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone. It has romance, sensuality, adventure, depth, and characters who come to life. You will scream at Celia. You will get mad at Justin. But,you will cheer for them both as you watch them grow as individuals and as a couple. <br />This is my favorite Lisa Kleypas book, aside from &quot;Dreaming of You&quot;.	2002-03-19
US	52223825	R160MGM3THMN66	0843949317	454538948	Wish List	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Lisa Kleypas Makes the Book.	The only reason I gave this book 3 stars was because of &quot;I Will&quot;. I am a huge fan of Lisa Kleypas and was pleasantly surprised to see Andrew, Lord Drake, with his own story. The other authors I was not familiar with, but I read their stories with the hope I would find new authors to read. But, alas, I found myself disappointed. I know it's hard to develop characters as in depth in novellas, but most of the characters in the last three novellas had little or none.  I give this book a good rating for choosing Lisa Kleypas, but not the others. Sorry to the other authors' fans.	2001-11-11
US	52223825	R326D9L3KO6JYY	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	DOUGALD RUINS THE BOOK!!	This would be a wonderful story, if not for Dougald!! How in the world could Christina (Dodd) imagine someone as intelligent and independent and free-spirited as Hannah being paired with a controlling pompous jackass like Dougald? From the beginning of the book, he is manipulative and controlling and not at all my idea of a romantic hero. He has no redeeming qualities. If I had been Hannah, I would have run away, too!! To give Ms. Dodd credit, I think this plot is more developed than her other books because we actually get to delve more into the governess's past and find out what lead her to the present point. Just some advice Ms. Dodd-if you get the chance to re-write this book, please change the hero or develop him into someone we can like. I would give this book 3 or 4 stars, but I was so damned mad at Dougald reading this book that I have given it 2 stars. At some point  I actually wanted to burn the book because of Dougald.	2001-03-27
US	52223825	RO5Q6E33FI4KP	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Another Success for Lisa Kleypas	Looks like Lisa Kleypas has done it again!! Her new book WHERE DREAMS  BEGIN is an engaging love story of two people who find themselves on  different sides of society and who each struggle to love each other despite  their differences. Lady Holland Taylor is warm and strong and courageous.  Yet, she struggles with living in shadow of her dead husband's image and  finding love with someone who is far from the perfect man her deceased  husband seemed to be. Zachary Bronson reminds me a bit of Derek from  DREAMING OF YOU. He comes from extremely poverished conditions to make  himself into the kind of man whom everyone fears because of his aura of  power. Zachary also must come to grips with &quot;fitting&quot; into the  new society he's stumbled upon. And in the process, he finds love in a  woman who he never thought was obtainable. All in all, there is a very  powerful love story in WHERE DREAMS BEGIN. But, there is also a very strong  commentary of the hypocrisy of society during that time period. I would  recommend this book to anyone who is a loyal Kleypas fan or who is looking  for an exciting new author to read. I am hoping that Ms. Kleypas will grace  us dear fans with a book for Lord Ravenhill. He is too mysterious to not  have his own love story.	2000-08-04
US	52223825	RW8A3OUFA04N1	0312970021	79914577	Night Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	OUTSTANDING!	This was the first book I ever read by Kat Martin, and I was thoroughly impressed.  This book reminded me why I started reading romance novels in the beginning.  First, it was an epic story that takes place over several  years and several locations.  Second, the two characters have been fighting  an attraction to each other for years, which makes their love story seem so  believable.  Third, Marcus is a classic romantic hero-he's handsome,  strong, and dashing.  I also like the fact that KM made him stronger, even  at his weakest point.  Fourth, Brianne (Brandy) is the type of heroine I  love-she's spunky and brave, and she doesn't give up on love no matter  what.  Overall, this book just touched my heart in a way that no roamance  novel has in a long time.  Thank you, Kat Martin, for restoring my faith in  romance novels.	1999-06-02
US	52223825	R1GQE8Y4NYEN7H	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BRILLIANT!! WITH A TWIST!	Lisa Kleypas has outdone herself again!  I fell in love with Grant within the first few pages of the book. And Vivien reminds me so much of Sara (DREAMING OF YOU).  This is one of those books where you shouldn't believe  everything you read.  I was so intrrigued by all the unanswered questions,  I had to finish the book in one night to find out.  This book will  definitely become of Lisa kleypas' classics.	1999-05-06
US	52223825	R3T54WP1G5VKJY	0671026879	823062447	Jessica (Springwater Seasons)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	much better than MIRANDA!	Even though I wasn't very enthused with MIRANDA, I was ecstatic about JESSICA.  Linda came back to her senses and created a character in line with Evangeline, Rachel, and Savannah.  Jessica is a very strong  and  insightful character.  The sexual friction between Gage and her is classic  romance. I would definitely recommend this book in the series to everyone.   I was also happy to be able to visit some of my favorites characters again.   I can't wait for the Christmas book.  I'll be counting the days until  then.	1999-04-08
US	52223825	R18I8EVG2M1US7	0671026860	927784107	Miranda (Springwater Seasons)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Worst story in the series!	Miranda deserved better than this! Why did Landry have to pine  away for his wife the way that he did?  It made Miranda seem like trash and a little beggar.  I was really disappointed with this story, as the others have been  very intriguing and romantic.  I hope JESSICA is much better.	1999-03-06
US	52223825	R3HEU8QTUAQPW8	0671003356	792256877	Ransom	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I READ THIS BOOK IN ONE NIGHT!	I could not put this book down.  I loved the romance and intrigue.  I really missed Julie Garwood, and I think she has another winner with this one.  I'm glad I got to revisit Iain and Judith, as well as the whole  Maitland clan.  And Brodick and Ramsey-they are to die for! Only in your  fantasies can a woman admit she likes the handsome, strong, and laconic  type.  I was actually disappointed when the story ended because I wanted to  see what happened next.  How was Ramsey and Bridgid's wedding? Did Brodick  build Gillian a house?  I wish there were another sequel.	1999-02-09
