US	52231964	RKZL6PLO6ECYS	0702222542	899691943	A body of water: A year's notebook	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Text and context	This book seems to have been championed both by literary theorists and creative writing teachers: the former because it's a \\"transgressive\\" text that troubles the supposedly constraining distinctions between fiction and biography, between story, notebook, poetry, poetic fragment, and brief notation; and the latter because it can be interpreted as an example of \\"life writing\\", an increasingly popular (and lucrative) genre for amateur authors. It's also possible to read this, I suppose, as a work of fiction entirely. It may well be. But regardless of the particular interest you bring to this book, it's fascinating. What Farmer has given us here is presumably an edited version of her writer's notebook for 1987-8, intercut with the short stories she wrote and published during this period. While it would be naive to think what we're getting here is the entire notebook, utterly uncut, from the entries we have been given we can see the genesis of the stories - how they grew out of particular moments, memories, experiences - and all the anxiety that comes with the creative act. The things that come through repeatedly and most powerfully are the author's intelligence and skill, and also her suspicion about her apparent reliance on cannibalizing life experiences in her fiction. Farmer is clearly very well read, so the reader here is also treated to some insightful reflections on Marjorie Barnard, Peter Handke, the short fiction techniques of Alice Munro and various approaches to Buddhism. Farmer's memories also feature strongly, particularly her years in Greece, as do her evocative observations on the Australian coastal landscape, and her understanding of the risks and rewards of solitude. But it's the documented genesis of the short stories that makes this a particularly good read.  Those interested in this kind of thing might also appreciate Penguin's \\"Selected Essays and Notebooks\\" of Albert Camus, wherein the author's diary entries trace the composition and reception of his novels \\"The Outsider\\" and \\"The Plague\\".is novels \\"The Outsider\\" and \\"The Plague\\".	2005-09-25
US	52231964	R1XSJZ2RNHEQ1V	0449912205	411484941	A Month of Sundays: A Novel	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Hilarious celebration of pagan flesh and baffled spirit	When the Reverend Thomas Marshall is busted for philandering with more than one of his buxom parishoners, he's dispatched by his bishop to a desert sanitorium for forty days of reflection, recuperation and golf.  His carer, Ms Prynne, suggests he write as a form of therapy and this novel consists of Marshall's morning writing exercises and four sermons which he writes on Sundays.  He recounts his recent past, the infidelities which led him here, reflecting on the joys of the flesh and the agonies of the spirit.  In so doing, he also embarks on a cunning seduction of Ms Prynne... This is a wonderfully clever comic novel.  It's rich with layers of symbolism and Biblical references - the Omega-shaped sanitorium, the forty days and nights in the desert - and bubbles along with puns, comic typographical errors, plus arch footnotes and endless wisecracks.  It's beautifully plotted, impeccably structured, and like most of Updike's work, it's laugh-out-loud funny but utterly serious in its intent.  It's an exploration of the nature and challenges of religious faith in contemporary America.  The \\"sermons\\" are spectacular examples of the way we can reason the Bible into meaning anything - we can even turn adultery into the purpose of marriage and the key to fulfilling one's human destiny.  Updike's control of language is astonishing - some reviewers find it confounding but they lack the patience to read this book slowly, to savour it like a seduction, to enjoy it as it was meant to be enjoyed.  When you look back, you realize how meticulously crafted it's all been, and you're dazzled not only by that craftsmanship but also by how lightly it wears the weight.  Updike's touch is deft, subtle and most of all incredibly funny.	2005-09-10
US	52231964	R3S2HVKIITD7XJ	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Topical page-turner with heart - but no masterpiece	It's old Afghanistan in the 1970s - before the Taliban, before the Russians, even before the revolution. Two young motherless boys, Amir and Hassan, are inseparable. Amir and his father are privileged Pashtuns. Hassan and his father are their servants - worse, they're Hazaras. But that doesn't stop these two very different boys being friends. An inexplicable bond connects them, until one winter evening in 1975 when Amir fails to act and thereby ironically sets in motion a chain of events that will alter their lives forever. Twenty-six years later, as events in New York are about to change the face of Afghanistan once more, Amir is given a chance to atone for his crimes...<br /><br />If you can get past the monumental selfishness of the young Amir enough to care about what actually becomes of the little swine, then you'll probably be hooked on this novel. It has a vast sweep - geographically and temporally - and Khaled Hosseini's pacing is superb as we follow Amir through childhood in Kabul, youth and early adulthood in America, and the inevitable return to his roots to atone for what he's done. Along the way we're treated to a potted history of Afghanistan and the religious, racial and political tensions that have continually reshaped her over the last thirty years, and we gain some insight into the cultural traditions of her people at home and in America. It's an engaging, compelling and surprisingly easy read.<br /><br />But this isn't high art. It isn't great literature. If not for its topical milieu it might never have punched through the layers of ignorance and indifference that swaddle the American cultural consciousness; and if not for the B-movie accessibility of its storytelling it might never have found an audience once it had. It's narrated in a voice that is alternately journalistic and melodramatic which only emphasizes Hosseini's unrealistic plotting. The patterning of scenes clearly reflects the editing of television, and the plot relies too much on coincidences for Amir's redemption ever to be truly convincing - the worst is the utterly unnecessary reappearance of his childhood nemesis, Assef, in a key role late in the novel.<br /><br />It's a predictable story, but that doesn't mean it isn't enjoyable or occasionally moving. The instant the boy Sohrab appears on the scene you will know precisely where it's all heading. But that doesn't mean it won't affect you. I could picture the final scene, even predict the final page, nigh on 200 pages out - but I was still wiping away tears when I got there.  That has to count for something.'s redemption ever to be truly convincing - the worst is the utterly unnecessary reappearance of his childhood nemesis, Assef, in a key role late in the novel.  It's a predictable story, but that doesn't mean it isn't enjoyable or occasionally moving. The instant the boy Sohrab appears on the scene you will know precisely where it's all heading. But that doesn't mean it won't affect you. I could picture the final scene, even predict the final page, nigh on 200 pages out - but I was still wiping away tears when I got there.  That has to count for something.	2005-09-09
US	52231964	R12Y3ERRYHAFPU	0140439110	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde: And Other Tales of Terror (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent edition of a classic tale	Stevenson's famous \\"shilling shocker\\" from 1886 has almost been distilled into a diagnostic commonplace.  The notion of the \\"Jekyll & Hyde\\" personality has become a shorthand description for someone who leads a psychological double-life.  Stevenson's tale dwells on the dangers of duplicity and addiction, and the unpredictable consequences of starting down the slippery slope: once you start giving in to the darker half of your nature, it isn't always possible to go back.  The idea is well known, generally from the numerous screen adaptations, but the original story isn't.  It's well worth reading, especially in this fine edition from Penguin.  Apart from including some lesser known tales from Stevenson, editor Robert Mighall provides detailed notes, an excellent introduction, and a fascinating final essay entitled, \\"Diagnosing Jekyll: the Scientific Context to Dr Jekyll's Experiment and Mr Hyde's Embodiment\\".  This essay situates Stevenson's tale in the context of nineteenth-century London society, considers the likely contemporary medico-scientific explanations for Jekyll's \\"case\\" (including the memorably named condition of \\"masturbatic insanity\\"), and also reveals the impact Stevenson's work had on the public's interpretation of the real-life criminal case of Jack the Ripper.  Mighall's commentary will also appeal to literary-critical readers who'll want to think about the narrative device of presenting a supernatural tale through the testimony of doctors, lawyers and written documents.  Mighall also identifies some slip-ups in Jekyll's final confession which suggest he isn't quite as neatly divided as he claims.  This is an excellent edition for student readers, or for those who like to read so-called classics in context.	2005-06-24
US	52231964	RC2E0XBT19TK	1590170431	842442200	Dirty Snow (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	"He wanted it.  He had been afraid of it, but he wanted it."	Eighteen-year-old Frank Friedermaier lives in an occupied, wartime city.  But he lives in relative luxury with his mother, who operates a clandestine brothel from their top-floor apartment, while the neighbours suffer through the winter with tiny lumps of coal and watery soups.  Since he was a child - when he was temporarily shipped off to rural foster parents - Frank has wrestled with the problem of powerlessness in the face of destiny.  Confronted with fate, one might either deny it or embrace it.  But Frank chooses to taunt it by running huge risks and daring the world to snap back at him.  In this way he makes himself feel powerful.  The occupied city gives him every opportunity for such a game, letting him follow abjection wherever it leads: murder, petty theft, procuring young girls for his mother's business, and subjecting the one girl who loves him to a quite depraved betrayal.  It can only be a matter of time before destiny bites back...  Simenon's project here seems to be the exploration of a particular type of personality.  He has been praised for getting the sense of occupied France \\"just right\\", but it could just as easily be American-occupied Germany, or any situation in which an individual feels oppressed by social convention.  The story is a simple one, but the real interest here is Frank's character.  The more we observe him, the more we see that there is something driving him other than the apparent urge for annihilation.  In the final pages, we see that his violent immoral quest has been, ironically, as much about striving for connection as self-destruction: he is reaching out for a father in Holst, a lover in Sissy and, in \\"the woman at the window\\", a vision of domestic bliss.	2005-03-26
US	52231964	R1DB9VRBOV4RVC	1590170962	496810705	Monsieur Monde Vanishes (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Beautifully understated, impressively human	Norbert Monde, a fourth-generation bourgeois Parisian businessman, \\"comes to his senses\\" on the afternoon of his forty-eighth birthday, withdraws 300,000 francs from his bank account, and promptly vanishes, abandoning his second wife, gay son, and money-grubbing daughter to their own devices.  He surfaces in Marseilles where he is quickly drawn into a domestic crisis at a hotel and winds up living a new life among gamblers, drunks and prostitutes in Nice.  He's happy, for a while, in realizing his lifelong ambition to be nobody other than a man in the street.  But when his work at a nightclub brings his first wife, Therese, into his orbit, Monsieur Monde finds himself drawn back into the world of moral responsibility.  Beautifully understated and impressively human, Simenon's take on the familiar \\"walking out on your life\\" tale is one of the better examples.  In its empathy for the desperation of middle-class life, and for a man whose childhood values have fed into a lifetime of limited scope, it reminded me of that slim European classic, Patrick Suskind's novella \\"The Pigeon\\".	2005-03-26
US	52231964	R2PH02LSW5GX1B	0446608009	435144744	The Drowning People	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Good intentions, but no cigar	The best thing about Richard Mason's debut novel is its deeply macabre plot about upper-class family madness, murderous revenge, and the ruthless insensitivity of young people in love.  Taken on its own, it's quite good fun in a gothic, BBC-drama kind of way, and would make a decent movie.  You'll work out what's happened well before the final pages, but that doesn't actually spoil things at all - it's entertaining to watch it all unfold like a car accident in slow-motion, and most readers will be happily immersed in it.  Mason clearly has a talent for conceiving bizarre revenge plots (as his second and weaker novel, \\"Us\\", confirms - not available in the USA, but you can get it from Amazon UK).  What he's not so good at (yet) is the actual writing.  In \\"The Drowning People\\", he seems to have made the fundamental error of wanting us to take the plot seriously; or, rather, choosing such a plot as the basis for a novel which obviously yearns to say something serious about guilt, the dangerous power of first love, and the life-long consequences of youthful selfishness.  But it's too convoluted, too B-movie, and too concerned with its own construction to be very effective in that task.  The result is that the real \\"content\\" of the novel - the ideas about guilt and responsibility - don't emerge from the events.  Rather, they're imposed on them.  They're constantly re-stated by a narrator who pontificates about Life and all that he has learned from it, which sadly seems to be little more than a raft of platitudes and cliches, delivered in a pompous, finely-cadenced, T.S. Eliotesque tone that irritates more than it convinces.  But what else would you expect from an 18-year-old writer with no experience of the kind of life-long perspective he's affecting?  It's a classic example of a nervous young author striving to make his point clear and impressive via narrative commentary because he knows it doesn't flow from the action - action which, once again nervously, he's made too flashy, too plot-heavy, to be emotionally engaging in the way it needs to be.  If Mason had chosen just one part of this elaborate story - the James-Eric-Ella love triangle, for example, with its hideous \\"proof of love\\" pact - and gone deep rather than long, it might have worked.  James' pain would have been far more interesting, far more tangible, if he'd really described how it actually felt to a confused 22-year-old rather than just relating it to abstract morality.  The familiar lovers'-bargain-with-disastrous-consequences device used in the James-Eric-Ella vignette has long been a powerfully effective one, as in \\"Les Liaisons Dangereuses\\" and \\"Wings of the Dove\\", and could have been given a nice contemporary airing here exploring issues of class, masculinity, sexuality and female power.  Alternatively, Mason might have taken Sarah's point of view - for she's actually a much more interesting character than narrator James.  But he didn't make these choices.  So, in the end, the novel doesn't work beyond the level of \\"trashy thriller with literary pretensions\\", neither fish nor fowl, etc.<br /><br />To observe the difference between this and really good writing, you need only pick up one other novel, published in the same year, which is also about the memory of a juvenile crime and its life-long ramifications: I'm talking about Ian McEwan's \\"Atonement\\".  It has everything Mason's novel lacks: a simple but compelling plot, credible characters, a subtle use of language, a convincing depiction of several historical periods, a wonderful sense of the passage of time, and a quiet but entirely justified confidence in its own hidden complexities.  It's also incredibly moving in a way Mason's novel strives to be but never comes close to achieving.  Moreover, the actual telling of the story is not simply an excuse to revel in \\"the wealth of shameful detail\\" (p.196), as it sometimes seems to be in Mason's novel despite the narrator's protestations to the contrary.  For McEwan, the telling is a vital act emerging from the central character's nature; an imaginative transformation, that is itself a part of the story, and immovably locked into the novel's theme.  Read them back to back and you'll see what I mean.telling is a vital act emerging from the central character's nature; an imaginative transformation, that is itself a part of the story, and immovably locked into the novel's theme.  Read them back to back and you'll see what I mean.	2005-03-14
US	52231964	R27KBX895674QH	0413772829	446955885	The Drowned World (Modern Plays)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful play about envy and desire	If you've ever felt intimidated by the beautiful people, and lamented the impossibility of ever achieving such effortless grace yourself, then you might be more comfortable living in Gary Owen's drowned world.  Here, such jealousy isn't just acceptable - it's the law.  This is a dystopian future where only the ugly are deemed \\"citizens\\", and the radiantly beautiful are outcasts.  They're hunted down by death squads in an effort to contain \\"radiance sickness\\": an affliction which saps the moral will and can be passed on simply by touching the hair of a beautiful woman, like Tara, or by glancing into the eyes a handsome man, like Julian.  Exposure leads to \\"acute moral weakness\\": tears, mood swings, paralysis in the face of sunsets and birdsong.  Worse, it makes you hate yourself.  As the citizens explain, \\"We can't have these fatally radiant creatures walking round the place, reminding us how clumsy, and mean-spirited, and graceless, and cowardly, and shapeless, and flabby, and foul we all are.\\" It just won't do.  Radiance is dangerous, and it must be exterminated.  But as in any society which establishes an Us and a Them, there are rebels among the citizens, like Darren, who will risk their lives to protect the outcasts; and doubters among the authorities, like Kelly, who are tempted to possess what they're tasked to destroy...<br /><br />\\"The Drowned World\\" explores the nature of envy and desire, the need to belong, and the ways in which we see ourselves in the eyes of other people.  Beauty is figured as both irresistible and terrifying, something to be coveted and loathed in equal measure.  Desire for the radiant people consumes us, ruining our chance of happiness with each other.  As Kelly laments: \\"We turn on each other for want of them, we chew each other up, for want of them...\\"  But you can't legislate desire out of existence.  You can't kill a want, even if you remake the world.  As Victor Hugo noted: \\"The new world which emerges from the chaos will see the ideas of the drowned world soaring above it, winged and full of life.\\"  In Owen's world, the citizens aren't free - they're still trapped by envy and desire.<br /><br />Owen's play is also interesting for its take on totalitarianism and institutionalized violence.  Hatred of other groups - classes, races, genders - almost always has its origin in a hatred of the self.  We crush others because they remind us of our weaknesses.  Bigotry is self-hatred writ large; genocide a substitute for suicide.  Today, stories dealing with genocide and cultural cleansing are sadly familiar.  Yet often the situations they present are reasonably alien, dealing with people we don't know and places we've never lived.  It's easy to empathize with victims you personally have nothing against.  Owen's play, however, is about us.  It jacks into a resentment that many of us feel and which is deliberately stoked by a culture that worships beauty and actually needs us to feel ugly so we'll more readily pay for a cure.  Advertising insists on that lack.  \\"The Drowned World\\" puts us, the imperfect ones, in a position of power and enacts a brand of victimization that many of us, in our darker moments, might actually relish.  While this makes it original and personally relevant in a way that other stories of totalitarian violence aren't, it does share with them one important element: what they all demonstrate is that inhuman depravity is never far from the surface of \\"civilized\\" life.  To unleash it, all we need is an excuse.  And as \\"The Drowned World\\" argues, what ultimately divides good from evil, citizens from outcasts, isn't the colour or quality of our skin: it's how we choose to behave when that excuse presents itself.e ideas of the drowned world soaring above it, winged and full of life.\\"  In Owen's world, the citizens aren't free - they're still trapped by envy and desire. <br /> <br />Owen's play is also interesting for its take on totalitarianism and institutionalized violence.  Hatred of other groups - classes, races, genders - almost always has its origin in a hatred of the self.  We crush others because they remind us of our weaknesses.  Bigotry is self-hatred writ large; genocide a substitute for suicide.  Today, stories dealing with genocide and cultural cleansing are sadly familiar.  Yet often the situations they present are reasonably alien, dealing with people we don't know and places we've never lived.  It's easy to empathize with victims you personally have nothing against.  Owen's play, however, is about us.  It jacks into a resentment that many of us feel and which is deliberately stoked by a culture that worships beauty and actually needs us to feel ugly so we'll more readily pay for a cure.  Advertising insists on that lack.  \\"The Drowned World\\" puts us, the imperfect ones, in a position of power and enacts a brand of victimization that many of us, in our darker moments, might actually relish.  While this makes it original and personally relevant in a way that other stories of totalitarian violence aren't, it does share with them one important element: what they all demonstrate is that inhuman depravity is never far from the surface of \\"civilized\\" life.  To unleash it, all we need is an excuse.  And as \\"The Drowned World\\" argues, what ultimately divides good from evil, citizens from outcasts, isn't the colour or quality of our skin: it's how we choose to behave when that excuse presents itself.	2005-03-08
US	52231964	R2YHWVJ6TJR2H8	1844286568	436871357	Surrender	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Magnificent	Gabriel is dying.  As life slips away, he looks back over his brief twenty years that have been clouded by frustration and humiliation. A small town and distant parents ensure that he is never allowed to forget the horrific mistake he made as a child. He has only two friends - his dog Surrender, and the unruly wild boy Finnigan, with whom he made a boyhood pact. When a series of arson attacks grips the town, Gabriel realises how unpredictable and dangerous Finnigan is. Events begin to spiral out of control, and it becomes clear that only the most extreme measures will rid Gabriel of Finnigan for good ... The most gratifying thing about \\"Surrender\\" is that, against all odds, it works.  It would have been easy for this novel to succumb to the machinations of its thriller plot (a wonderful yarn borrowing from both the Faust and \\"wheatbelt gothic\\" traditions), or to the complexities of the episodic, double-voiced structure necessarily required if it's to do the things the author wants it to do.  Add to that Hartnett's penchant for a prose that regularly borders on poetry and, in lesser hands, it could have been disastrous. As it turns out, \\"Surrender\\" is probably the best novel you'll read all year. What saves it is not only Hartnett's skill and experience, evident on every page, but the fact that the entire thing is shot through with such intense compassion. Damaged children are her stock in trade, and she never fails to make you feel for them, understand them, love them - even when they're involved in things we might otherwise deem unspeakable. Like her last, prize-winning effort for adults, \\"Of A Boy\\", this is one of those extremely rare novels possessed of all the essential qualities of great fiction: brilliant language, engaging characters, the urgency of an airport page-turner, and something important to say. It's one of those books that makes you sit back and wonder what the hell it is that other writers think they're doing with their time - and yours.	2005-02-24
US	52231964	R2LTYN4LI4C4T0	0395798671	352408002	Personality Types: Using the Enneagram for Self-Discovery	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An insightful, revelatory book about you	Don't let that weird shape fool you.  There's nothing mystical or cultish about the Enneagram.  While Riso does spend time up front exploring the ancient origins of the shape and its use in various traditions, you can quite easily forget all that (if it unnerves you) and focus on what the Enneagram actually is today: a personality typing model made up of nine categories.  They're no more or less mystical than the categories you might get from Freudian or Jungian analysis - indeed, Riso helpfully spends quite a bit of time in later chapters mapping the nine categories to other models and traditions. So why use the shape at all?  What it adds, in terms of understanding the nine types, is that it maps the paths of \\"integration\\" and \\"disintegration\\", i.e. the other personality type each one is likely to edge towards when the person is living at their best, or at their worst.  For example, Type 4 integrates to Type 1 through objectivity and self-discipline, and disintegrates to Type 2 through self-absorption and self-indulgence.  The best thing about this book is the detailed articulation of the range of healthy, average and unhealthy behaviours each personality type exhibits, plus some insightful analysis on childhood origins and the central problems each confronts.  As Riso shows, we generally go about getting what we want in the worst possible way - because it feels like the best possible way - and end up bringing about the very thing we fear the most.  For example, Type 7 thinks it will be happy if it gets all it wants, but ends up frustrated, alienated and anxious because it pursues everything to excess.  That's good to know, but not very helpful if you don't know how to fix it.  Fortunately, Riso has another book - \\"Practical Guide to Personality Types\\" - offering excellent recommendations for every type, and some useful tips on how not to misidentify your type, e.g. thinking you're Type 1 when you're actually Type 3, etc.  Typing yourself can be tricky, but fortunately there is now a wide range of tests available to help you (many online, so try Googling).  I first read this book back in 1989 and have found it immensely helpful over the years.  Strongly recommended, if self-discovery doesn't turn your stomach!ately there is now a wide range of tests available to help you (many online, so try Googling).  I first read this book back in 1989 and have found it immensely helpful over the years.  Strongly recommended, if self-discovery doesn't turn your stomach!	2005-02-21
US	52231964	R1XEG1C9P8IPB5	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Thoroughly deserves its status as a classic	Lou Ford, 29, is the Deputy Sheriff of Central City, Texas.  He's a local boy, son of the town doctor, and a sure thing to marry the girl nextdoor.  He's also a secret sufferer of what he terms \\"the sickness\\": text-book paranoid schizophrenia, as it turns out, the dramatic upshot of which is a penchant for committing nasty murders, preferably of women. It first emerged in adolescence and resurfaces now when Lou is drawn into a plot to rid the town of a prostitute who has the potential to embarrass the town's first family.  Things rapidly escalate when suspicion falls on Lou and he needs to eliminate an ever-growing number of human loose ends - including several people he claims to love.  The genius of Thompson's classic noir novel is that he manages to describe the truly vicious murders and all the careful premeditation that goes into them - narrated in Lou's wonderfully dead-pan voice - and yet still have you feeling for the man.  By the end, you understand him.  You can't forgive him, but you may accept that, for Lou, perhaps it couldn't have been any other way.  There's a lot to like here: beautiful plotting, masterful use of laconic speech rhythms and Texan dialect, and a whole raft of wonderfully realized minor characters who, while still identifiably small-town types, are never just caricatures.  Moreover, it's actually about something, and not just schizophrenia: there are several passages in which Thompson touches on the tenuousness of civilized morality, on the phoniness of social interaction and the dark reality it masks.  This recognition of the inversion of values - the difference between the way the world is, and the way we say it is or should be - is a staple of the noir genre, but Thompson gives it a highly effective articulation here.  That makes this a superior thriller.  Running chills down your spine is one thing.  Making you think is something else.	2005-02-19
US	52231964	R21JLJ19XMWTKM	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beauty, class consciousness and obsessive love	Alienated, impotent council clerk and amateur butterfly collector, Fred Clegg, 25, wins the Pools. Within weeks he's quit his job, farewelled his oppressive aunt and spastic cousin on a long trip to Australia, and set about converting a Sussex cellar into a prison for Miranda Grey, the 20 year-old art student he's been ardently admiring since she was in boarding school ... Fowles' startlingly accomplished first novel begins as an exploration of what happens to a man when the controlling pressure of living in the everyday world is lifted by money, giving him both the power and the idleness to follow his dark fantasies to fruition. But that all happens in the first twenty-odd pages. Fowles is actually more interested in what happens next - how the captive and the captor get on. With that in mind, the novel soon morphs into something more sustainable and actually far more interesting: it's ultimately an exploration of obsessive love, British class consciousness, and their connection to two conflicting understandings of beauty - is it something that can be captured and admired, or is it something that must be lived and allowed to live, because to capture it is to snuff it out? Fowles cleverly builds his case by offering two perspectives on the events - Fred's blunt retrospective, and Miranda's diary which she secrets under the mattress in her basement prison. Fred's account is polite, reserved, and plagued by self-consciousness; Miranda's is effusive, filled with escape plots, speculations, memories and artistic and literary parallels (Shakespeare's \\"Tempest\\" and Austen's \\"Emma\\" feature prominently). Fowles' novel not only takes us inside the minds of a psychopath and his victim, but also into the heart of mid-century Britain with its embarrassed bourgeoisie, elitist creative \\"few\\", and the hideous New People - the tasteless new rich whom Miranda and her philandering hero, the artist G.P., credit with the destruction of everything good in the world. It's in this kind of critical sociology that Fowles' real concern lies, I suspect, but he wraps it in an ice-cold thriller which makes it never less than totally compelling.critical sociology that Fowles' real concern lies, I suspect, but he wraps it in an ice-cold thriller which makes it never less than totally compelling.	2005-02-13
US	52231964	R12XD3AMPXSPPA	1851682910	544075894	Nietzsche (Oneworld Philosophers)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Good introduction	I'm no Nietzsche scholar, but I found this book to be remarkably helpful.  I came to it looking for a concise introduction to Nietzsche and his work, and that's precisely what I got.  Wicks' approach is roughly chronological, but this is not a biography.  He takes the major themes of Nietzsche's thought and follows their development from the abandonment of God through to the embracing of \\"life\\" or \\"existence\\" (similar notions for Nietzsche, but as Wicks points out they are quite different things).  Wicks is very good at exploring the influences on Nietzsche's thought, at situating it in nineteenth-century Europe, and at making fine conceptual distinctions.  Refreshingly, he doesn't shy away from Nietzsche's many contradictions.  Rather, he acknowledges them and then gives them a generous reading.  This is helpful for students, as it allows them to see one possible conclusion but recognises that there may be others.  All of Nietzsche's major concepts are explored - the will-to-power, slave morality, the ubermensch - but Wicks smoothly contextualises them so the reader comes to understand them as nuanced evolutions in Nietzsche's thought, and not just notions that can be transplanted into other traditions.  Speaking of which, Wicks includes a very insightful chapter on the enduring influence of Nietzsche's work, especially its misunderstood connection with Nazism.  As Wicks points out, Hitler clearly admired Nietzsche's idea of the \\"superman\\" and there is an unmistakably Nietzschean echo in Hitler's overblown rhetoric and \\"us vs. them\\" mentality.  But these connections are superficial, and actually shared by many schools of social thought.  Nietzsche was no Nazi.  He was more often anti-German and anti-nationalist, and would probably have diagnosed Nazism as a violently defensive expression of weak and sickly society.  The connection with Nazism is more the fault of Nietzsche's sister who ingratiated herself with European fascists in an attempt to extend the influence of her late brother's work.  Wicks caps it all with a helpful glossary of key Nietzschean concepts and terms, detailed footnotes, a thorough index, and a categorized bibliography.  The only things missing are a chronology/timeline of Nietzsche's life and publications, and a short statement on the major themes of each.of her late brother's work.  Wicks caps it all with a helpful glossary of key Nietzschean concepts and terms, detailed footnotes, a thorough index, and a categorized bibliography.  The only things missing are a chronology/timeline of Nietzsche's life and publications, and a short statement on the major themes of each.	2005-02-05
US	52231964	R3LF5HILLUTQ75	1559362251	920565485	A Number	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Near-future science becomes a domestic nightmare	On a routine visit to hospital, Bernard receives some shocking news: he's been cloned.  When he confronts his father, he finds out it's worse: he is just one in an unknown number of genetically identical sons.  But is Bernard the original or a copy?  Does it matter?  And what's going to happen when two other versions come knocking at the door?  \\"A Number\\" takes the ethical labyrinth of genetic engineering, and the timeless debate over nature versus nurture, and reconstitutes them as a bracing family drama.  As Bernard and his \\"brothers\\" wrestle with a range of very human responses to the news - shock, anger, horror and delight - their anxious father ducks and weaves, grudgingly revealing their histories and the anguished choices he's made.  The play's themes might be borrowed from science fiction and philosophy, but its scale is confrontingly domestic.  There are no speeches, no grand pronouncements, no finely honed philosophical dialogues here.  It consists almost entirely of the halting, taciturn exchanges that usually pass for conversation between men, especially fathers and sons.  This makes the issues real for us.  It grounds them in the eternal questions and doubts that hover over every child and every parent who wishes they could cancel their mistakes.  \\"A Number\\" looks fearlessly at what is often left over when the excitement of new science fades: damaged people.  In this case, they must confront not only what's been done to them, but the more terrifying issue of just what they actually are.  By extension, it's something we're invited to ponder about ourselves.  As one \\"son\\" reminds us: \\"We've got ninety-nine percent the same genes as any other person.  We've got ninety percent the same genes as a chimpanzee.  We've got thirty percent the same as a lettuce.\\"  So what makes me different?  What is it that makes me, me?  What accounts for that look in the eyes, the set of the shoulders, the scowl or the smile that allows a father to distinguish between his genetically identical sons?  We can create life in a petri dish, but do we actually know what it is?  It's a chilling question, and one that may well be unanswerable.  But as Caryl Churchill shows in this spare, harrowing and above all humane play, those kind of questions are precisely the ones worth asking.tically identical sons?  We can create life in a petri dish, but do we actually know what it is?  It's a chilling question, and one that may well be unanswerable.  But as Caryl Churchill shows in this spare, harrowing and above all humane play, those kind of questions are precisely the ones worth asking.	2005-01-22
US	52231964	R2TQS7I5977340	0465017738	482087892	After Theory	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Rehabilitating the Left	This book has been somewhat mis-categorized by sellers as literary theory.  Chapter 1 covers that ground admirably, and Eagleton's no-nonsense historical tour will be bracingly refreshing to anyone who has studied literature at university in the last twenty years.  Of course, he doesn't quite toss out everything from structuralism to postmodernism, but he does probe their limits with his customary humour and flair and give a convincing explanation of the academic interest in pop culture that followed them.  But all this is merely a prelude.  Eagleton's real project here is the recovery of the intellectual Left which, since the 1970s, has been burrowing ever deeper into arcane academic specializations under the banner of \\"cultural theory\\", and simultaneously becoming ever more politically remote.  As Eagleton puts it, Marxism is now just a mildly interesting way of talking about \\"Wuthering Heights\\". This won't do.  By and large, cultural theory has been massively evasive on such central topics as Truth, Objectivity, Morality, Virtue and Evil, preferring to take a contingent, relativistic, culturally-informed non-view on the rare occasions when it got around to raising such issues at all rather than just shunning them in embarrassment at the prospect of having to stand for something.  But the period when this was more or less acceptable may be coming to an end.  The Left, he maintains, has a lot to offer in an age of resurgent far-right extremism - a malady afflicting both the West's enemies and its self-proclaimed defenders.  Most of \\"After Theory\\" consists of an attempt to rehabilitate the Left - to lure it down from the ivory tower (if not smash its foundations) and to reapply it to those Big Questions.  Socialism is offered not only as a system of government, but as probably the only way of really understanding what a human being is.<br /><br />Does Eagleton convince?  He puts his case with verve and enthusiasm - even if a little too flippantly at times - but in devoting only 200-odd pages to such a vast topic he can do little more than scratch the surface.  He admits as much in the final pages, but is a text which merely gestures towards the topic enough?  \\"After Theory\\" will probably remind dormant radicals what they used to care about before they became depressed, but it won't convince the conservative morons it needs to.  The problem is that it's very difficult to point to working examples of socialism.  Marxism shifted to cultural theory partly out of political impotence and mass disenchantment.  Nothing has changed on that score, whereas triumphal capitalism is the very air we breath (increasingly polluted as it is).  Most people associate socialism with repression, uniformity and an embarrassing class consciousness, whereas capitalism (which has all those traits and more) has cunningly refashioned itself as democratic, libertarian and impeccably inclusive.  Everyone is welcome. As Eagleton quips: \\"It really doesn't care who it exploits.\\"  Yes, Terry, but it doesn't much mind who it elevates, either.  And while ever capitalism continues to succeed in pitching the dubious but occasionally truthful argument that the next billionaire might very well be you, then thinkers like Eagleton will have a very hard time shifting it.  If you lean to the Left anyway, then \\"After Theory\\" will make you think about what you've wasted the last 20 years being distracted by, and it just might rekindle your revolutionary spirit.  If you lean to the Right, then it's unlikely to change your mind.only 200-odd pages to such a vast topic he can do little more than scratch the surface.  He admits as much in the final pages, but is a text which merely gestures towards the topic enough?  \\"After Theory\\" will probably remind dormant radicals what they used to care about before they became depressed, but it won't convince the conservative morons it needs to.  The problem is that it's very difficult to point to working examples of socialism.  Marxism shifted to cultural theory partly out of political impotence and mass disenchantment.  Nothing has changed on that score, whereas triumphal capitalism is the very air we breath (increasingly polluted as it is).  Most people associate socialism with repression, uniformity and an embarrassing class consciousness, whereas capitalism (which has all those traits and more) has cunningly refashioned itself as democratic, libertarian and impeccably inclusive.  Everyone is welcome. As Eagleton quips: \\"It really doesn't care who it exploits.\\"  Yes, Terry, but it doesn't much mind who it elevates, either.  And while ever capitalism continues to succeed in pitching the dubious but occasionally truthful argument that the next billionaire might very well be you, then thinkers like Eagleton will have a very hard time shifting it.  If you lean to the Left anyway, then \\"After Theory\\" will make you think about what you've wasted the last 20 years being distracted by, and it just might rekindle your revolutionary spirit.  If you lean to the Right, then it's unlikely to change your mind.	2005-01-18
US	52231964	RCB6BYCYR1LAR	0394752848	317320204	Hopscotch: A Novel (Pantheon Modern Writers Series)	Books	4	123	127	N	N	Not for the plot-hungry, but worth it for enthusiasts	I suppose it's unreasonable to expect the world's first so-called hypertext novel - one in which you can read the chapters sequentially, or in an order recommended by the author, or in any other order you choose - to have a compelling plot.  After all, plot relies on anticipation and surprise, both of which come from authorial control over how and when information is revealed.  A lot of the delight in fiction comes from this, and most of the rest from character, theme and the texture of the language.  Cortazar's revolutionary novel is big on the last few, but not unexpectedly fails to be very engaging when it comes to story.  It's more of a character study, or rather an elaboration of a philosophical position through the depiction of certain people in a particular place and time, i.e. left-leaning international emigres in 1950s Paris, and later the locals in Buenos Aires, who spend most of their time smoking, drinking, listening to jazz, competing for affection, philosophizing about life, and trying not to be the creative geniuses they obviously know they are.  There are some wonderful set pieces: the infamous Chapter 28 involving a baby in a darkened room; the afternoon a plank bridge is erected to join two hotel rooms on opposite sides of a busy Buenos Aires street; an elaborate booby trap of water-filled basins, tangled threads and ball-bearings to thwart a vengeful lover in the night; and, obviously, the hopscotch squares of the title which are drawn in the courtyard of an insane asylum.  These incidents are all engaging, comic, and wonderfully laden with a metaphorical/philosophical import which serves Cortazar's embedded theme: that is, the conundrum of consciousness; the unending desire to break through \\"the wall\\" to the other side of life in order to achieve the \\"unity\\" we intuitively feel exists but to which there is no easy path.  This is the novel's engine, but it does take a while to fire up.  If slowly savouring 500+ pages of that kind of thing interests you, then you'll enjoy \\"Hopscotch\\" immensely.  If it doesn't, then reading this novel will be somewhat like being trapped at a really bad party with drunk and depressive philosophy undergraduates who think they know everything about jazz.  I had the urge to leave early, but I'm glad I stayed until the end.  Eventually, someone shut the music off, opened all the windows, and in the silence of dawn something clicked.s you, then you'll enjoy \\"Hopscotch\\" immensely.  If it doesn't, then reading this novel will be somewhat like being trapped at a really bad party with drunk and depressive philosophy undergraduates who think they know everything about jazz.  I had the urge to leave early, but I'm glad I stayed until the end.  Eventually, someone shut the music off, opened all the windows, and in the silence of dawn something clicked.	2005-01-01
US	52231964	R12RIP1VA6L6RI	0142437298	303427184	Herzog (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Masterpiece, but no easy read	The middle-aged Moses Herzog is a notable literary-historical academic, the father of two children from two failed marriages, and the lover of a string of exotic women.  His most recent wife, the Catholic convert Madelaine, has lately left him for his best friend. Herzog is lost.  As he reflects on the continuing disaster that constitutes his life, and the choices which led him to this crisis, he begins writing unsent letters - to friends and family, colleagues and enemies, to famous figures both living a dead.  As Bellow himself has noted, Herzog is a man who, in the agony of suffering, finds himself to be his own most penetrating critic. He re-examines his life by re-enacting all the roles he took seriously - the professor, the son, the brother, the lover, the father, the husband, the avenger, the intellectual.  It's an attempt to divest himself of these personae, and when he has dismissed them, there comes a pause - a moment of grace - which is infinitely more valuable than his trying to invent everything for himself, or accepting human inventions, the collective errors, by which he's lived. He's decided to go through a process of jettisoning or lightening.  The effect is that this is something the reader shares.  Bellow has the capacity in his novels to cover the smallest timeframe - a matter of days, or even hours in some cases - and yet through the subtle interleaving of flashbacks, meditations and philosophical musings, cover a vast amount of intellectual and emotional ground.  His novels are vast in scope yet humanly scaled.  The philosophical is made real by instantiation.  \\"Herzog\\" is a wonderful example of this, and it also contains two of the most compassionate moments I've ever read: Herzog's reaction to a court scene in which the death of an abused child is recounted; and the subsequent scene in which Herzog witnesses, through the window of the marital home from which he's been banished, his best friend and betrayer bathing Herzog's own child.  Bellow's genius is to take these moments, one horrifying and one tender, and make them emblematic - give them real cultural, historical implication - without losing for a moment the convincing personal immediacy they have for the characters living through them.  That's quite an achievement, and it's why Bellow's novels can be so intellectually rich and so viscerally touching at precisely the same time.s genius is to take these moments, one horrifying and one tender, and make them emblematic - give them real cultural, historical implication - without losing for a moment the convincing personal immediacy they have for the characters living through them.  That's quite an achievement, and it's why Bellow's novels can be so intellectually rich and so viscerally touching at precisely the same time.	2004-12-30
US	52231964	R2MLCXZ15014JS	0679723439	902786352	Despair	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Entertaining metafiction	Russian-born Hermann Karlovich, 36, is a married and disappointed purveyor of chocolates in pre-war Berlin.  When he meets a young vagrant he considers to be his physical double, he undertakes to exploit their likeness to commit the perfect crime.  The less said about what happens next the better, as revealing any more might undermine your pleasure.  And there is a lot to enjoy here.  The plot is playful - it's contrived, familiar and somewhat childish, but as it unravels we realize those qualities are precisely part of Nabokov's point in choosing it.  Hermann is a monstrous narcissist convinced of his own criminal (and literary) genius and unable to see his plot's fatal flaw.  With Hermann as the narrator, recounting his criminal \\"triumph\\", the novel progresses with a highly self-conscious awareness of itself as a potential High Art text.  Hermann is almost constantly reflecting on literature and the typical constructions by which such a mystery story, and novels in general, routinely unfold.  This might be irritating if it weren't for the subtle intention behind it - Hermann's error is to assume that his life can and will be experienced as work of art (by himself and by others); that the \\"perfect crime\\" is possible and that he can commit it, just like in the world of fiction.  In creating such a wonderfully unreliable and deluded narrator, Nabokov explores and critiques the literary conventions by which so many novels proceed, and contrasts them with a character (and climax) which are refreshingly, horrifyingly human.	2004-12-30
US	52231964	R328IDMWLDFI1S	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	6	11	N	N	"We have the pleasure of electing the President...	...and you have the pleasure of burning him in effigy.\\" With those words to his international audience, Jon Stewart earned a place in my Pantheon of Political Commentators. Down here in Australia we only get the weekly version of the Daily Show (and that only sporadically), but it's always a pleasure to see. How wonderful that this book is now available. Political satire is one of the hallmarks of a functioning democracy. But in an age which has slipped so far to the right, I thought American politics was beyond parody. Its self-righteous presentation on Fox News is ALREADY comical. Yet Stewart shows that there is always something more to laugh at. And at a time when Republican AND Democrat supporters are becoming increasingly, graspingly extreme, it's good to see a book that is so refreshingly even-handed. Jon Stewart for President!	2004-12-23
US	52231964	R38UNCLXY3917W	0140189351	623648507	Dangling Man (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	"I am alone ten hours a day in a single room..."	\\"There was a time when people were in the habit of addressing themselves frequently and felt no shame at making a record of their inward transactions.\\"  So begins Bellow's first novel and one of the most consistently excellent oeuvres in American fiction.  It's Chicago, 1942, and in preparation for his imminent draft into the army, Joseph has given up his job and moved himself and his wife into one-room lodgings in a boarding house.  That was nine months ago and the draft letter hasn't come.  Joseph is dangling - alienated, without real purpose, but no longer distracted by the banal minutiae of everyday working life.  He begins to see the absurdity of social roles, the hypocrisy of long-held ideologies, and the horror of life without routine.  Breaking from friends and family, Joseph observes the slow disintegration of his social self.  Significantly, while unthinking discipline is offered as one way out of such a nightmare, we're not encouraged to see this as the only or best solution.  Bellow never comes down on one side or the other.  This announces one of the central themes of Bellow's work generally: that there is a big difference between thinking and having an idea.  Thinking involves a free opposition of ideas, and it raises the work from the level of a tract to the level of art.  The opposites are free to range themselves against each other, and they are passionately expressed on both sides.  At its best, it is energetic, passionate, and open.  An idea, in contrast, is a state of closure which kills truth because it denies the multivalence of experience.  According to Bellow, thinking is vital to a novel.  The continuing dilemma which concludes most of his narratives may well be aimed at this effect.  Thinking is still in progress - hopefully in your head.  \\"Dangling Man\\" achieves this: Bellow doesn't tell us what to think, he invites us to think for ourselves.  This novel is also notable for its bold project of bringing a European form - the sophisticated, introverted, philosophical diary novel - into the American mainstream as a deliberate antidote to hardboiled-dom, both in fiction and in life.  Bellow adheres closely to its formal requirements: like his European forbears, Joseph is an alienated, bookish, unemployed part-time flaneur, part-time room hermit, whose impotence and hermetic isolation are underscored.  Yet he has an unmistakable touch of America about him, which makes him all the more accessible for readers in the English-American tradition.  Bellow puts American life under a European microscope, and finds the central issue much the same: the problem of being human.introverted, philosophical diary novel - into the American mainstream as a deliberate antidote to hardboiled-dom, both in fiction and in life.  Bellow adheres closely to its formal requirements: like his European forbears, Joseph is an alienated, bookish, unemployed part-time flaneur, part-time room hermit, whose impotence and hermetic isolation are underscored.  Yet he has an unmistakable touch of America about him, which makes him all the more accessible for readers in the English-American tradition.  Bellow puts American life under a European microscope, and finds the central issue much the same: the problem of being human.	2004-12-01
US	52231964	R26CTAH8IPLL3E	1590170946	293561930	The Diary of a Rapist (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	41	41	N	Y	Deeply unsettling, utterly compelling	Earl Summerfield, 26, feckless junior clerk at the State Unemployment Bureau, miserably married to the loveless Bianca, 33, keeps a diary for one year.  It becomes a record of marital hatred, the paranoia and pathetic rivalries of office life, and, increasingly, a record of violent crime - the rapes, robberies, senseless murders and gas chamber executions reported in the daily news.  Earl's apparent disgust and dismay at the crime wave alternates with violent sexual fantasies of his own.  Fleeing Bianca and his apartment some nights, he begins sneaking into other people's houses.  When he becomes fixated with the local beauty queen, Mara St Johns, it's only a matter of time before Earl's fantasies become reality.  Or do they?...  I imagine many readers flee from this novel - even from the title - assuming it's some kind of exploitative or voyeuristic pornography.  Far from it.  It is relentlessly voyeuristic, but the object of that gaze is Earl's mind.  This is a tremendously engaging novel of psychological realism, and what gives it that vivid quality is that Earl is as inconsistent as any real person.  He loves himself, he's filled with self-loathing.  He deserves to be promoted, he's an idiot for dreaming of it.  One day he despises work, the next he can't wait to go in.  One night he revels in personal insights and dreams of self-transformation, making life-changing decisions which are instantly reversed or forgotten by the next.  He's a man unravelling; caught in the trap of middle-class existence which fuels his dreams without giving him any real hope of achieving them; caught, too, between desire and the Puritan legacy for which the circuit breaker is a violent rejection and punishment of sex.  What's most compelling about Earl's diary is that the more deranged, anti-social and evangelical he becomes, the more consistent are his writing and behaviour.  In the end, he lives up to his rhetoric.	2004-12-01
US	52231964	R3LBB3SISB1FY3	0805051813	622187388	Real People	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"Fiction is condensed reality..."	When writers write about writing, the results are usually very interesting.  Think of Calvino's \\"If On A Winter's Night a Traveler\\", Byatt's \\"Possession\\", Roth's \\"The Ghost Writer\\", and Coetzee's \\"Elizabeth Costello\\".  Alison Lurie's 1970 novel is right up there with them, to my mind.  It's only 146 pages long, but what it lacks in length it more than makes up for in elegance and sophistication.  Janet 'Belle' Smith - married, early forties, and the author of a well-received collection of short stories - is taking her annual sojourn at Illyria, a New England mansion which has been converted into an invitation-only retreat for artists of all kinds.  Craving escape from a deadening home life, Janet is delighted to find her friend Kenneth is on the guest list, but the appearance of the witless waif Anna May and the husky sculptor Nick Donato threaten to disrupt everything.  As Janet struggles to construct new stories she is forced to confront some uncomfortable truths about herself, her companions, and the potential fraudulence of her art.  Lurie chooses Janet's diary as the narrative device, and it's an excellent choice for a novel which deals with the difference between appearance and reality, between social roles and one's own sense of identity, and in which the protagonist's reflection on these differences is vital.  Apart from constructing a neat snapshot of American art in the 1960s, Lurie deftly explores the familiar crisis of female artistry: the competing claims of being a wife/mother and having a creative career which family members more or less refuse to take seriously.  But this isn't just about women.  It's about the relationship between art and reality.  What starts out as a comedy of manners escalates in profundity until it becomes, in the final pages, a concise manifesto on the nature and purpose of art - which turns out to be truth:  \\"If nothing survives of life besides what artists report of it, we have no right to report what we know to be lies.\\"	2004-12-01
US	52231964	R1Y61ESG8YV15H	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A breath of fresh air	Most relationship-help books for women make the tragic mistake of assuming that any man is gettable so long as the woman changes her body, brain or values, plays manipulative mind games, or learns to think the supposedly complex thoughts of men. What trash. Men know what they want and they go for it. Case closed. Any woman who has been relentlessly pursued by a creep knows this well enough. So why don't women apply this logic of male behaviour when the guy in question is someone they like? That's precisely what Behrendt and Tuccillo invite you to do in this book. The principles are pretty simple. Most men are \\"verbally uncommunicative\\" when it comes to their emotions - that is, we're usually too weak to say, \\"I don't like you\\". But, as Behrendt and Tuccillo make clear, our actions say it all. Men aren't afraid of commitment. We're just afraid of committing to someone we don't love. This book is curiously liberating for men, too. Too often we're made to feel guilty about breaking up, like we're morally obliged to continue an abortive relationship with a woman even after we've realized she isn't \\"the one\\". But no transformative pop-psych voodoo is ever going to create romantic bliss out of two people who simply aren't compatible, but too scared to face up to the truth. This is a wonderful wake up call for single women, and a godsend for men. If the phone isn't ringing ladies, move on - because he already has.	2004-11-13
US	52231964	R3LCALA3WPSU1C	4770029047	87490493	Almost Transparent Blue	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	"But maybe we'd feel something after all..."	It's 1976, and a group of Japanese teenagers living near an American airforce base indulge their appetites for drugs, alcohol and bi-curious group sex.  Like most sensual quests for liberation and vision, these only lead to the annihilation of consciousness and a confusing desire to escape back into bourgeois life.  Getting high is one thing.  Connecting with reality is something else.  In 126 pages of orgiastic indulgence, drug-induced catatonia and suicide attempts, there are three moments of transcendence in which Murakami's case is made: the memory of a beautiful piece of music; the experience of almost being killed by an aircraft taking off; and the narrator's climactic desire to communicate a personal vision of the world, himself and their possible unity.  Murakami's call for connection and creativity in the face of mortality and post-war nihilism is a familiar one in twentieth-century literature, but the way he goes about it is refreshing.  Firmly realist in his approach, Murakami stays on the surface.  Sticking with the physical details he refuses to burrow into the minds of most of these youths where he might have interpreted or psychoanalyzed their inner lives for us.  Ironically, this works.  Their own halting attempts at self-expression are so much more poignant, and so much more credible for being vague and incomplete.  If the bulk of this narrative strikes you as tedious, pointless, repetitive and occasionally appalling, then Murakami has succeeded in capturing the reality of a life devoted to escapism.  It's only in such a context that the moments of incipient self-awareness and transcendence can have such a powerful resonance for these characters, and for the reader.	2004-10-29
US	52231964	RZ9UNWKE4HR61	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	30	48	N	N	Monstrously stupid - A MUST READ!	Hannity's book is a curious sociological specimen, because it unwittingly lays bare the moronic &#34;logic&#34; by which the groundless conservative argument usually proceeds.  &#34;Certain things are evil, and certain regimes encourage them.  We have a right and a responsibility to remove those regimes from the world.&#34;  Sure, great idea.  But don't the terrorists say precisely the same thing?  Don't they have the same objective?  In the eyes of conservative America, radical Islam is evil.  But in the eyes of radical Islam, so is conservative America.  Like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it's a classic fundamentalist deadlock.  The arguments just cancel each other out.  Of course, Hannity would no doubt reply that there's one essential difference - Islam is a false faith, so his argument is the only one that's true.<br /><br />If you'd like to learn about &#34;evil&#34; and the religious motivations of terrorists and what we should be doing to thwart them, then I have some recommendations other than this book:<br /><br />&#34;The Problem of Evil&#34; (Larrimore ed.);<br />&#34;The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason&#34; (Sam Harris);<br />&#34;Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought&#34; (Pascal Boyer);<br />&#34;The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity&#34; (Tariq Ali); and<br />&#34;Why We Hate&#34; (Rush Dozier).of conservative stupidity - a disease that obviously and urgently needs to be more widely understood.  Hannity's book is a curious sociological specimen, because it unwittingly lays bare the moronic \\"logic\\" by which the groundless conservative argument proceeds.  \\"Certain things are evil, and certain regimes encourage them.  We have a right and a responsibility to remove those regimes from the world.\\"  Sure, great idea.  But don't the terrorists say precisely the same thing?  Don't they have the same objective?  In the eyes of conservative America, radical Islam is evil.  But in the eyes of radical Islam, so is conservative America.  Like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it's a classic fundamentalist deadlock.  The arguments just cancel each other out.  Of course, Hannity would no doubt reply that there's one essential difference - Islam is a false faith, so his argument is the only one that's true.  Gee, Sean.  What would we do without you?  You've just shown us how to resolve 2000 years of religious conflict.  My hero.	2004-10-19
US	52231964	RA9RD6C972HY1	1841951722	461943586	The Assassin's Cloak: An Anthology of the World's Greatest Diarists	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Spectacular work	What a surprisingly marvellous anthology.  I was initially put off by the arrangement - with wildly disparate entries for each day of the month, at first this seemed more like a novelty book than a serious exploration of diarists and their work.  Yet I've found this eclectic approach to be absolutely perfect, not least because the entries for each day have been so thoughtfully selected: some amplify the themes of the others, while some offer instead a comic or tragic counterpoint.  Indeed, comedy is one of the hallmarks of this edition: diaries are always \\"bitchy\\", to some extent - as the title suggests, the diary is like an assassin's cloak we wear while stabbing comrades in the back with a pen - and the dark, neurotic humour so typical of the diarist is here in spades.  The Taylors have also been kind enough to package their selections with an insightful introductory essay, thumbnail biographies of all their sources, along with full bibliographical references and a comprehensive index by diarist.  The only thing missing is an index by subject - but that would probably be bigger than the volume itself.  This is a brilliant, must-have anthology for anyone interested in literature, social history, and the art of the diary.	2004-09-27
US	52231964	R1BQWH0OWUPXC4	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Don't expect miracles, but it's a good kick-start	You'll see a lot of criticism on this page from people who haven't tried this program and can't believe that 20 minutes of cardio three times per week plus three 45-minute weights routines will do anything for you, let alone totally transform your body in just three months. Sounds a little crazy, doesn't it? Perhaps Bill Phillips is. His quirky writing style which moves in an erratic arc between jingoism, down-home folksy wisdom and quasi-religious fervor certainly doesn't help his credibility, nor do some of the quite simply unbelievable photos of his \\"success stories\\". As if that wasn't enough, the constant promoting of his overpriced dietary supplements should have everyone's alarm bells ringing. So is this just a 200-page pitch for protein powder? It might be, but hose off the hype and what you actually have here is a solid program that really can help you get started on the road to fitness. For me, the genius of Phillips' program is that sticking to it is actually possible. You can have a busy life and still to do everything the program requires - better yet, you can be perfectly comfortable and happy about doing it. It doesn't take hours per day. You don't even need to go to a gym (you can do everything at home with a set of dumb-bells, a bike and a bench). You get to eat almost constantly (yes, even carbs!) so you never feel hungry. Then, one day per week you get to slob about, do nothing, and eat whatever you like. With this program you start to feel better almost immediately, and you will lose weight, build muscle and look better - even within the first four weeks. I know this because I've done it. Sure, you're not going to get those dramatic muscle gains if you don't use the protein supplements (or their equivalents), but I found this program was still immensely beneficial without them. At the very least it will break you out of bad eating habits, establish exercise as part of your daily routine and, most importantly, it lets you demonstrate to yourself that you CAN do those things. That boost in self-confidence can put you on the path, even if it ultimately isn't the one Phillips recommends. If you think you have no willpower, despise exercise, and yet are still concerned about your weight, I strongly recommend you give this program a shot. Take it seriously, though. Read the book thoroughly, and follow the steps closely - especially the parts on the High Point, interval training, and diet. Knowing a bit of the \\"less is more\\" science behind why this program works will help you overcome your seemingly logical objections to the promises it makes. And once you get into the swing of it, it's actually pretty good fun - or am I just still high on endorphins?at you CAN do those things. That boost in self-confidence can put you on the path, even if it ultimately isn't the one Phillips recommends. If you think you have no willpower, despise exercise, and yet are still concerned about your weight, I strongly recommend you give this program a shot. Take it seriously, though. Read the book thoroughly, and follow the steps closely - especially the parts on the High Point, interval training, and diet. Knowing a bit of the \\"less is more\\" science behind why this program works will help you overcome your seemingly logical objections to the promises it makes. And once you get into the swing of it, it's actually pretty good fun - or am I just still high on endorphins?	2004-09-24
US	52231964	R1COMU3DDY3048	1570621691	244362489	The Shambhala Guide to Taoism (Shambhala Guides)	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Comprehensive and serious introduction to Taoism	Those new to Taoism, or confused by it, will almost certainly find Eva Wong's book immensely helpful.  It immediately addresses the problems most people experience when they first become interested in this tradition, i.e. \\"Why do there seem to be so many different versions of Taoism, some of them quite contradictory?  What are the differences and similarities between these 'schools' and how did they arise?  If someone is 'practicing Taoism' today, what does that actually mean?\\"<br /><br />By dividing her book into three sections - History of Taoism, Systems of Taoism, and Taoist Practices - Wong clearly articulates the development and varieties of Taoist thought, its key figures, texts, beliefs, concepts, principles and practices.  She does this in short, well-focused chapters, and uses a very clear and concise style.  Each chapter ends with a \\"Further Readings\\" section offering what I've found to be very useful pointers into the immense body of Taoist literature, sometimes even referring to specific chapters of books and pointing out which ones are more general or more academic, and which translations she prefers.  Wong also includes a detailed index, a solid bibliography, and two useful appendices containing a map of China and a chronology of the dynasties.<br /><br />What you won't find here is the kind of nonsense that plagues so many books about ancient traditions that have recently become more popular - Wong gives you no detailed instruction on how to conduct ceremonies or create talismans or wield \\"magic\\".  Rather, she respects Taoism as a serious and living tradition and recommends that if you are interested in learning the specifics of any particular Taoist sect then you must find a Taoist master and complete the necessary training.  Wong refuses to treat Taoism as a New Age novelty.  Moreover, her honesty about the limits and relativity of her work is admirable.  As she notes at the outset, she is acting here as a guide: someone who offers knowledge arising out of personal experience; who offers a perspective, not necessarily rigorous objectivity; and who does not pretend that what she is saying can ever be complete.  Having said that, I think Wong's book comes as close as you're likely to get to a comprehensive introductory text.  It certainly answered all of my questions.nal experience; who offers a perspective, not necessarily rigorous objectivity; and who does not pretend that what she is saying can ever be complete.  Having said that, I think Wong's book comes as close as you're likely to get to a comprehensive introductory text.  It certainly answered all of my questions.	2004-09-24
US	52231964	R2G2RTMP1K484U	1901285227	724867186	Confusion: The Private Papers of Privy Councillor R von D	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Rediscover the long-neglected Zweig	It's nearly impossible to review \\"Confusion\\" without giving away the \\"hideous secret\\" on which the plot turns, so I'll limit myself to saying that, by today's standards (outside conservative America, at least), the scenario Zweig offers here verges on implausible. Today, the Professor's \\"vice\\" would be well known, of little consequence, and hardly likely to generate much confusion - least of all in Roland, an intelligent and highly-sexed nineteen year-old. Zweig's popularity declined soon after his death in 1942 and his sentimental humanism, based on the values of late nineteenth-century Viennese liberalism, has made him an easy target for some. Yet his vivid, psychoanalytically-oriented biographies, novellas and stories are still incredibly engaging. Something like the fictional equivalent of Freud's collected works, they usually deal with the psychological representation of repressed personalities suffering major crises under the weight of nineteenth-century values, and in that sense they are wonderfully evocative of the time. For twenty-first century readers, I suppose, it's that shift in values that is now part of the point of reading Zweig, and a large part of the pleasure. But not only that: his focus is always the emotions - agonizing frustrations, secret fears, explosive joys - with insightful analysis of all of them; and his characters are closely observed - entire plots can turn on one look, one word, one obsessively worried-over instant.  It's a rich and rewarding oeuvre, not least because of Zweig's finely cadenced voice (translated here with considerable skill by Anthea Bell).  \\"Confusion\\" is also worth reading for the Professor's unusual theory of Elizabethan drama, its historical motivations, and its arguable place at the pinnacle of English theatre.  It's also interesting because it confirms something we all know from experience: that the events which determine the course of our lives are not always the ones others might think.	2004-09-23
US	52231964	R3R1WEAZ14N9OC	0141180641	828207438	Hunger (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Beware of bad translations	If you're sitting there thinking of buying this wonderful novel, please do - but make sure you're buying Sverre Lyngstad's translation rather than Robert Bly's (or at least take the time to compare them).  Bly's version is probably responsible for most of the interest Hamsun's work has generated among English-speaking readers, but, Lyngstad argues, it's also flawed to the extent of about five errors per page.  For those interested in the arcane art of translation, these include: misreadings of idiomatic expressions; literal renderings of metaphors; misreadings of tone; misreadings of homophones; grammatical misconceptions; mistaken or arbitrary word meanings; not to mention a completely botched rendering of the urban geography of Oslo.  Now I'm no speaker of Norwegian, but I know this: the more subtle and sophisticated a text is - and Hamsun's is both, to a considerable extent - the more tonal, metaphoric and idiomatic errors in translation will matter.  Lyngstad argues that his new version corrects these errors and renders the text in an English much closer to Hamsun's nuanced Norwegian original.  It's accompanied (in some editions) by a vehement introductory essay exploring the issue of translation in more detail - worth reading in its own right - and a convincing appendix of examples of where his and Bly's versions differ.  Lyngstad's version is available through Penguin or Canongate.  You can get the Penguin one here at Amazon - ISBN 0141180641 (if you're not already on that book's page).  Paul Auster's engaging essay, \\"The Art of Hunger\\", sometimes reprinted in the Bly version, is available in Auster's book of the same name and, presumably, in his \\"Collected Prose\\" (available now in the UK and Australia, but not in the USA until March 2005).  Auster also offers a nice meditation on translation in his novel \\"The Book of Illusions.\\"	2004-09-16
US	52231964	RVT1TUJPK9CGE	0312421990	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Diary of delusion	Soon after the beguiling, upper-class art teacher Sheba Hart joins the staff of St George's, a run down government school, she begins a sexual affair with one of her male students who has become sexually obsessed with her. Leaping to her rescue is Barbara Covett, a sixty-something spinster and history teacher who has deliberately cultivated a friendship with Sheba, apparently to protect her from the lecherous predators and bores who make up the rest of the staff, but really as a salve to her own loneliness. Of course, Sheba's affair is exposed, and this novel is Barbara's account of the affair and its scandalous aftermath. But as it proceeds it becomes more a diary of delusion, a case study in a kind of psycho-sexual obsession - Barbara's obsession with Sheba, that is - that might be far more unsettling and ultimately dangerous than any dalliance Sheba had with her young beau ... The central achievement of this novel is the consistency of the carefully crafted narrative voice. Barbara is a wonderful creation - frightening, sad and yet wonderfully acerbic - and Heller deserves her Booker nomination just for creating her. But it's in the way she tells the story through Barbara that the skill of this novel really lies. It is almost impossibly difficult to construct a narrative which makes clear that the narrator is deeply deluded, obviously deluded, without it also being improbable that such a person would be able to continue in such a state of self-delusion (and without the reader therefore losing interest in what such a clearly unreliable narrator has to say). Such a narrative has to proceed by suggestion, by implication. The reader is required to read around and between the things that are being said by the deluded narrator and infer the real state of affairs. That Heller enables us to do this without ever making the complex machinery of it obvious is quite remarkable. The other remarkable aspect of this novel is that despite Sheba's woefully naive indiscretion, and Barbara's self-serving, predatory exploitation of it, the reader comes out of it with sympathy for everyone involved while still being able to see their motivations as deeply suspect. It's a masterpiece in the generation of empathy. Heller is also very good, in passing, on the pitfalls of the British education system, the persistent discomfort of perceived differences in social class, and the petty power games of the workplace. Highly recommended.Barbara's self-serving, predatory exploitation of it, the reader comes out of it with sympathy for everyone involved while still being able to see their motivations as deeply suspect. It's a masterpiece in the generation of empathy. Heller is also very good, in passing, on the pitfalls of the British education system, the persistent discomfort of perceived differences in social class, and the petty power games of the workplace. Highly recommended.	2004-08-08
US	52231964	R1V99LO88T4S50	1569473285	438697489	Come Closer: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A parable of female power	This clever little novella can be read in one sitting, but don't let that suggest it isn't significant.  It has the intensity of a parable, and that's probably the best way to describe it, given the subtext.  Ostensibly this is a story about a case of demonic possession, but Sara Gran uses that as an analogy for the psychological crisis of Amanda - an intelligent, thirty-something, professional woman trapped in a too-safe relationship that has drained her life of meaning.  The demon apparently possessing her is Naamah - Adam's second wife, in Jewish folklore, and the woman he rejected because he saw her being created by God, i.e. he saw the human blood and guts beneath the feminine beauty.  Forced to confront a real human being rather than a submissive sexual object, Adam refused her and she fled to the Red Sea.  (A story hidden in documents only accessible to older Jewish men, of course!)  As Naamah wheedles her way into Amanda's consciousness through blood-soaked dreams and nagging voices, and slowly starts to take control of her life, the subtext emerges: Gran's story can be read as an exploration of the fear felt by both women and men about female power and the surprising incapacity of modern life to allow women appropriate avenues for its expression, especially as they grow older.  It also confirms the way religious/mythical stories grow out of the real and predictable crises of adult human life.  But don't worry - this doesn't read like some kind of feminist psycho-babble.  The subtext isn't worn on the sleeve.  Gran focuses on the visceral as she carefully unwinds her tale with all the skill of an accomplished high-end horror writer, but with quite a bit more economy and flair.  It's a testament to her narrative power that in the questionnaire entitled \\"Are YOU Possessed by a Demon?\\" she can foreshadow, several times, the chilling logic of escalating violence by which the story will proceed, without actually undermining the horror of those events when inevitably they come to pass.  The key is the bluntness of the narrative voice.  Every step is executed with a dispassionate distance that makes it more chilling, more credible, more real.  This is a highly recommended novella that rewards re-reading.bly they come to pass.  The key is the bluntness of the narrative voice.  Every step is executed with a dispassionate distance that makes it more chilling, more credible, more real.  This is a highly recommended novella that rewards re-reading.	2004-08-08
US	52231964	R1X71M36KHU7CE	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	1122	1425	N	N	The post-literate novel	Seventy pages into Dan Brown's surprisingly putdownable potboiler, the inevitably green-eyed, French-accented code cracker Sophie Neveu sighs, \\"This is not American television, Mr Langdon.\\" Oh, Sophie, if only that were true. You know a book owes too much to the screen when an albino assassin appears on the very first page, and rather than taking the time to construct an original variant on the intelligent-action-man hero you're simply instructed to think of Harrison Ford - in tweed. This is a movie, pure and simple: a thinly plotted, strongly visual, mildly entertaining Hollywood chase movie about cardboard characters (replete with sappy childhood flashbacks) and with enough Opus Dei-bashing to make it a fast-acting antidote to \\"The Passion of the Christ.\\" Crammed full of supposedly arcane revelations about mathematics, religion, symbolism and art - most of which read like verbatim downloads from Google - the \\"intellectual\\" content won't be dazzling or new (forget accurate) to anyone even slightly inquisitive about these topics. Worse, it's presented with a juvenile fascination for \\"connections\\" that would embarrass the most seasoned New Age charlatan. It all moves at a cracking pace, of course, and has enough scope and colour to hold your rapt attention for a few winter nights, and enough Catholic conspiracy theory to warm the heart of an atheist. But it's so devoid of literary merit, so apparently committed to the squandering of every opportunity to do anything interesting with the material - rather than just ape the narrative grammar of cinema - that it truly beggars belief. The characters are just names on the page, huge swathes of deadpan \\"I'm glad you asked\\"-style exposition pad out the clunky plot shifts, and because it's all so closely modeled on the rhythms of Hollywood nothing ever comes as a surprise - not a word, not an image, not a moment. This is post-literate prose at its direst, plugging directly into pre-fabricated scenarios, characters and images, absolving the reader of the need to imagine anything - which is why it's such a famously easy read. This is reality as a simulacrum of television, a copy of a copy, and about as convincing. It's an odd stylistic choice in a novel which takes as its theme the notion that great art depicts truths which evil empires would suppress. My advice? Save your time, and wait for the movie, i.e. wait until this story is presented in its natural form. I'm actually really looking forward to it. Seriously. I quite like the story, I just dislike the way it's presented here. It's fundamentally a puerile novel, but as a Hollywood movie I'm sure I'll be tickled by it. In the mean time, if you want to read the kind of novel this purports to be, get yourself a copy of Umberto Eco's \\"The Name of the Rose\\" or, better yet, \\"Foucault's Pendulum\\". If those don't grab you, at the very least try Donna Tartt's \\"The Secret History\\" - nothing to do with the Grail, but it's certainly more deserving of the \\"intelligent thriller\\" label than this. Is there really nothing better to be said for \\"The Da Vinci Code\\", as novel? Sadly, I'm with Harrison - I mean Robert: \\"Langdon considered it a moment, then groaned.\\" (p.93)absolving the reader of the need to imagine anything - which is why it's such a famously easy read. This is reality as a simulacrum of television, a copy of a copy, and about as convincing. It's an odd stylistic choice in a novel which takes as its theme the notion that great art depicts truths which evil empires would suppress. My advice? Save your time, and wait for the movie, i.e. wait until this story is presented in its natural form. I'm actually really looking forward to it. Seriously. I quite like the story, I just dislike the way it's presented here. It's fundamentally a puerile novel, but as a Hollywood movie I'm sure I'll be tickled by it. In the mean time, if you want to read the kind of novel this purports to be, get yourself a copy of Umberto Eco's \\"The Name of the Rose\\" or, better yet, \\"Foucault's Pendulum\\". If those don't grab you, at the very least try Donna Tartt's \\"The Secret History\\" - nothing to do with the Grail, but it's certainly more deserving of the \\"intelligent thriller\\" label than this. Is there really nothing better to be said for \\"The Da Vinci Code\\", as novel? Sadly, I'm with Harrison - I mean Robert: \\"Langdon considered it a moment, then groaned.\\" (p.93)	2004-08-04
US	52231964	R1MHFPEOSC1ENF	0340766913	311216331	Journey to the Stone Country	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Together in this place	Alex Miller's latest novel begins like a conventional, large-format American romance. Forty-year-old Annabelle Kuen is abandoned by her academic husband when he falls for a big-breasted student. She flees their comfortable Melbourne existence for North Queensland where her family once owned a vast station. Not wanting to return to her cheatin' dog husband, Annabelle agrees to help an old friend conduct surveys for \\"significant remains\\" (evidence of past habitation) on sites proposed for mining or other developments. Of course, it isn't long before she meets up with Bo Rennie, an Aboriginal ringer from her childhood, who fondly remembers frolicking nudely with her in the waterhole when they were kids, and seems slyly confident that her return has something to do with their shared fate. The stage is set for a middle-aged \\"recovery romance\\" which might easily have found its way onto Oprah's dire Book Club list, and the real Bo and Annabelle (mentioned in Miller's dedication) onto her equally dire show.<br /><br />Thankfully, Miller isn't interested in telling that kind of story, but he does cheekily borrow its premise - no doubt roping in readers who wouldn't ordinarily pick up one of his books - to tell a story which is far more significant and compelling. Indeed, this is one of the better Australian novels of recent years, not only for its effortless style and engaging plot, but for the theme at its core: the vexed issue of black/white relations and their competing claims to large tracts of Australian land. The thing that distinguishes Miller's novel from most hand-wringing attempts at \\"reconciliation literature\\" is its recognition of the historical and contemporary picture in its entirety. Here, there are good whites and bad whites, good blacks and bad blacks. There is selfishness and compassion, spirituality and materialism, on both sides; just as there is the desire to reconcile, the desire to exploit, and the desire to fight the war for a thousand years more. Miller explodes the simple black/white dualism, risks the charge of racism, resists the temptation to be \\"politically correct\\" - and thereby creates characters that are recognisably human. The ruins of white settlement, he suggests at one point, are arguably just as significant as the ruins of black. This is a backhanded slap in the face to white Australians, and a well-deserved one. We tend to think only of the Aboriginal people as being \\"dispossessed\\" and we rarely think of our own culture as having ruins. But when Miller presents us with Ranna Station, destroyed in less than five generations, and compares it to the Aboriginal culture which has endured in the same place for thousands of years, white culture is the one that starts looking flimsy. At Ranna, whites are the vanished race - and may one day be so across the entire land.<br /><br />Ultimately, though, Miller goes beyond the issue of claiming the land, and invites us to consider the land as something in itself. What I took away from this novel is that the land does not care which particular culture infuses it with its equally contingent, equally spurious meanings. Is this piece of land a spiritual playground, a farm, a mine, or the site for a dam? None of the above, actually - for all are cultural impositions. The land will endure, though we may not - black or white. Nevertheless, Miller recognises the significance that places have in both white and black hearts, and the need for each culture to respect that. As Miller shifts the argument away from a tussle over territory and onto the more difficult ground of how we are to live together, what started as a romance becomes a metaphor for race relations. The final image of Bo and Annabelle may well be Miller's vision of the way forward for black and white Australians. \\"They lay in the silence, not speaking, holding hands and listening. For the moment it was enough to be together in this place.\\"odes the simple black/white dualism, risks the charge of racism, resists the temptation to be \\"politically correct\\" - and thereby creates characters that are recognisably human. The ruins of white settlement, he suggests at one point, are arguably just as significant as the ruins of black. This is a backhanded slap in the face to white Australians, and a well-deserved one. We tend to think only of the Aboriginal people as being \\"dispossessed\\" and we rarely think of our own culture as having ruins. But when Miller presents us with Ranna Station, destroyed in less than five generations, and compares it to the Aboriginal culture which has endured in the same place for thousands of years, white culture is the one that starts looking flimsy. At Ranna, whites are the vanished race - and may one day be so across the entire land.    Ultimately, though, Miller goes beyond the issue of claiming the land, and invites us to consider the land as something in itself. What I took away from this novel is that the land does not care which particular culture infuses it with its equally contingent, equally spurious meanings. Is this piece of land a spiritual playground, a farm, a mine, or the site for a dam? None of the above, actually - for all are cultural impositions. The land will endure, though we may not - black or white. Nevertheless, Miller recognises the significance that places have in both white and black hearts, and the need for each culture to respect that. As Miller shifts the argument away from a tussle over territory and onto the more difficult ground of how we are to live together, what started as a romance becomes a metaphor for race relations. The final image of Bo and Annabelle may well be Miller's vision of the way forward for black and white Australians. \\"They lay in the silence, not speaking, holding hands and listening. For the moment it was enough to be together in this place.\\"	2004-07-18
US	52231964	R2JYW4T31AETWL	0330359711	149755678	Tirra Lirra by the River	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The globe of memory	This is one of those novels you'll read in a day and remember for the rest of your life.  Memory is the subject here; or, more specifically, the way memory can protect us from the past and yet nonetheless inform all we do in the present and future.  Returning to her childhood home in Queensland after half a lifetime in London, Nora Porteous finds echoes of her seemingly irrecoverable childhood in almost everything she sees.  While she rests through a bout of pneumonia, supported by her neighbours, we're treated to an extended series of flashbacks in which she recounts the missing years: her childhood, her short and disastrous marriage, her escape to London, and the eventual decision to return.  She has been protected by her \\"globe of memory\\" on which the horrible things have been kept on the dark and distant side - but now it has begun to turn.  Only in the final pages do the strands of memory, recurring symbols and recent revelations converge in a single moment that explains everything, including the unusual title.  Apart from being a wonderful tale, Anderson's novel is an object lesson in tone.  It covers some dark and dangerous ground - abortion, suicide, the misery of marriage, the Depression, and the agony of the suburbs - but the language is never indulgent.  It is straightforward, plain and accurate, and all the more moving for it.  The artifice of this clever novel is hidden in the structure and the timing of what is revealed, and Anderson never lets the cleverness get in the way of the actual telling.  Incidentally, this novel also provides a neat social history of women in early twentieth-century Australia - particularly their powerlessness and the extraordinary barriers men threw up to deny them financial and sexual freedom.	2004-07-18
US	52231964	RG8547KGZEZSE	0374172471	51217157	Homesickness: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The voice of Orstraliah	The typical, magical Murray Bail moment is this: a humorous, strange, near-slapstick incident is narrated in a contrastingly high scientific-philosophical language, and slyly worked into a powerful metaphor for something far more serious and intellectually engaging than you would ever have thought possible, let alone expected.  He does it repeatedly in his short stories (see his marvellous collection, 'The Drover's Wife and Other Stories', the title one being a deserved OzLit classic), and this novel is chock full of them. They range from the surreal and savagely political - such as the Museum of Handicrafts, the 'pygmy collection', and the 'verification' of Lenin's corpse - right down to the simplest of incidents, like a tourist cart-wheeling down some steps, or a freak accident involving the American flag.  As his thirteen ill-matched Australians tour through Africa, England, Ecuador, America and Russia, Bail treats the reader to a series of elaborately crafted metaphorical sequences illuminating his major theme, which seems to be 'museum culture' (for want of a better term), i.e. the contingency of reality in a postmodern world, and the difficulty post-colonial peoples such as Australians encounter in defining themselves and their nation within it.  Time after time, Bail captures so beautifully the multivalence of the ordinary - that sense that the everyday is both absurd and profound, and in equal measure.  The combination of high voice and low comedy I mentioned is perfect for this kind of story.  It's a wonderfully destabilizing technique - the reader is never quite sure where Bail 'is coming from', as our American friends might say.  It functions, too, as the approximate literary equivalent of that laconic deadpan irony we tend to associate with the typical Australian voice (quite wrongly associate, of course - which, for Bail, may well be part of the joke).  I'd hesitate to say this is a novel only Australians could enjoy, because the appeal of Bail's gently surreal comedy is hopefully universal.  But there are some moments, some characters, some finely observed turns of phrase, that only Australians will appreciate fully.surreal comedy is hopefully universal.  But there are some moments, some characters, some finely observed turns of phrase, that only Australians will appreciate fully.	2004-07-13
US	52231964	R1DAQLGBLRGJ45	0702226807	418419772	The White Woman (Uqp Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"She justified everything, you see..."	Once again taking history as his cue, Davison recounts the nineteenth-century search for the infamous \\"white woman\\" of Gippsland, Victoria - a British woman, presumably the survivor of a shipwreck, who was \\"taken captive\\" by an Aboriginal tribe and supposedly subjected to all kinds of heinous indignities at the hands of the \\"savages\\". Sightings of the white woman have become increasingly common, so, at the urging of a newspaper man with exclusive rights to the story, an expedition of \\"noble\\" mercenaries sets out from Melbourne in 1846 to rescue her. But is she real? Does she actually exist? Or is she merely the figment of colonial imagination; a telling mental manifestation of a cultural outpost desperate for something to justify its fears and its own murderous response to them? With this novel, Davison has delivered an Australian \\"Heart of Darkness\\". Conrad's famous novel followed Marlow up the ever-darkening Congo as he searched for Kurtz, and in doing so probed man's fears of his own primal nature and mortality. Davison borrows Conrad's narrative position and pattern - the retold tale, the quest into an alien civilization - and the parallels between the stories are many. But this isn't plagiarism. It's a careful and supremely effective intertextual move. Davison's story of the search for a possibly imaginary woman becomes a journey into the heart of the colonial Australian psyche, and it articulates perfectly certain attitudes rampant in the nineteenth century and still frighteningly prevalent today: fear and hatred of indigenous peoples; the way imperialism is so easily refigured as a romantic, messianic quest to \\"save\\" (then in Africa and Australia, now in the Middle East); and the notion that History is a grand narrative of bright, white Good prevailing over dark, dirty Evil, with the selective reportage of events to fit that plot. Stories of captivity and loss seem to be spawned by post-colonial cultures, and \\"The White Woman\\" is a very effective one. My only criticism is that sometimes Davison spells out the metaphoric import a little too heavy-handedly with the narrative voice occasionally slipping into didacticism - a flaw which cannot quite be mitigated by the conceit that the teller is an old man seeking to impress the significance of the story onto his listener. But overall, this is a wonderful novel, and a highly recommended one.criticism is that sometimes Davison spells out the metaphoric import a little too heavy-handedly with the narrative voice occasionally slipping into didacticism - a flaw which cannot quite be mitigated by the conceit that the teller is an old man seeking to impress the significance of the story onto his listener. But overall, this is a wonderful novel, and a highly recommended one.	2004-07-09
US	52231964	R3AVMLS1VRF1LM	0140064966	341255751	Sister Kate (An Australian original)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Historical fiction, emotional truth	Descendants of the real Kate Kelly have disputed the climax of this novel, and the available documentary evidence is inconclusive. Yet Jean Bedford makes no claim to veracity. This is a work of fiction - as is much of the Kelly mythos - but the power and significance of 'Sister Kate' is the depth of genuine feeling it engenders, and the unique vision Bedford brings to material one might have thought was long exhausted.  We're used to thinking of the infamous Kelly Gang members as roguish heroes, colonial villains, or as ciphers for a particular notion of the Australian national character. We rarely make the more complicated effort of trying to see them as human beings. Robert Drewe's 'Our Sunshine' is a touching step in that direction, but Bedford's novel is the more effective at rendering them as men. Surprisingly, Bedford does this by focusing on women - particularly Kate Kelly, Ned's young sister, and her relationship with the 21-year-old Joe Byrne.  This is a striking premise, and one that immediately exposes the gaping hole in most accounts. But this isn't the story of the Kelly Gang through Kate's eyes, or not only that. The boys are dead by page 60. Most of the novel recounts what happens in the ruined female lives they leave behind, and the way the Kelly legend was sprouting even in Kate's own lifetime. In a remarkable scene towards the end of this novel, Kate is forced to endure a ribald pantomime in which she and her dead brothers and lover are depicted in vile caricature. If this sounds like Bedford has appropriated the Ned Kelly story and twisted it to the advancement of some revisionist or feminist cause, think again.  Above all, this is a sensual novel - even erotic, in parts. What comes through most defiantly is Kate's ardent sexuality, her undying love for the murdered Joe, and the numbing addiction to which his loss might have eventually pushed her. Bedford's account of their furtive relationship and Kate's unbearable suffering in the aftermath of his death is powerfully affecting. Bedford's description of Joe's dead body, as seen by Kate, references the famous photograph of his corpse strung up on the door of the Benalla police lock-up. In this moment, Bedford does something utterly remarkable: she makes us see an iconic image from Australian history as the picture of a dead boy who was loved. If her novel achieved nothing else, that would be enough.is death is powerfully affecting. Bedford's description of Joe's dead body, as seen by Kate, references the famous photograph of his corpse strung up on the door of the Benalla police lock-up. In this moment, Bedford does something utterly remarkable: she makes us see an iconic image from Australian history as the picture of a dead boy who was loved. If her novel achieved nothing else, that would be enough.	2004-07-09
US	52231964	REAXDDPYQMQK3	0868196762	994465134	Half & Half	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"Nature is the only promise kept..."	Forty-five year old Luke returns to his childhood home after a decade's absence to find his mother long dead and his twenty-five year old half brother, Ned, still living in the ruins.  The house is a mess; the garden, like their mother's grave, is woefully untended; and Ned seems little more than a hermit with an abiding interest in crosswords.  As the brothers slowly re-establish a relationship - an intimacy growing as much out of mutual antagonism as from any imagined fraternal bond - another change occurs.  Using at first weeds and soil from the local cemetery, and then long-hidden, sleeping bulbs, the brothers transform their drab kitchen into a garden full of breezes and birdsong and echoes of Eden.  It is an act of hope that has profound and unexpected consequences for both of them.  \\"Half and Half\\" is a narrative of yearning and rediscovery that skillfully weaves the macho dissimulations of Australian masculinity with a surprising and lyrical theology of Nature.  The garden is more than a metaphor for burgeoning brotherly love.  The play argues for a reconnection with purposeful action and a reverence for the unknown.  What holds Luke and Ned together - what defies their apparent loneliness - is what ultimately holds us all: Nature's patient regeneration in the midst of everything.  As Luke notes, \\"Nature is the only promise kept.\\"  It is a promise which, in the play's final moments, goes beyond the power of language to describe.  Yet the language employed in getting there is typically Keene - heartbreaking soliloquies grow out of equally stunning exchanges of passionate, articulate and devastatingly accurate abuse.  Much of the play consists of a passive-aggressive linguistic duel, each brother using witty but spurious logic to trample memory, to quash the claims of his own hidden tenderness - to do anything but open up.  The vocabulary of Australian theatre, too, is extended by this award-winning play.  Keene consistently works at the frontier, steadfastly refusing to be drawn back by the institutional demands of commercialism, popularity or the supposed need to entertain.  Theatre, for Keene, seems to be more about an imaginative collaboration between actors, audience and text - an occasion which borders on the sacred.  \\"Half and Half\\" asks big questions, yet never makes the mistake of delivering comfortable or cliche answers to them.  Its power lies in the way it renders them on the scale of the everyday, making them real for us.  Keene transposes his themes from the realm of abstract philosophy and makes them implicit in this time, in this country... in this very room.  He brings them, like these brothers, home.refusing to be drawn back by the institutional demands of commercialism, popularity or the supposed need to entertain.  Theatre, for Keene, seems to be more about an imaginative collaboration between actors, audience and text - an occasion which borders on the sacred.  \\"Half and Half\\" asks big questions, yet never makes the mistake of delivering comfortable or cliche answers to them.  Its power lies in the way it renders them on the scale of the everyday, making them real for us.  Keene transposes his themes from the realm of abstract philosophy and makes them implicit in this time, in this country... in this very room.  He brings them, like these brothers, home.	2004-07-01
US	52231964	RN8KK4LNOIS98	0702224626	990276724	Soundings (UQP FICTION)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"A European doesn't see your land at all."	Soundings are what sailors used to take when navigating unknown channels.  Using a handline, they could plumb the depth of the water to find the hidden, perilous contours of the seabed below.  Davison's novel takes watery Westernport as its setting, a region of coastal Victoria.  It's a highly unusual piece of Australian landscape - a swamp-ridden peninsula and bay, filled with deadly mud that shifts and changes from one day to the next.  It's a refreshingly different landscape from the dusty deserts or colonial towns we often get in Australian fiction.  Davison's aim here isn't to tell the history of Westernport (though he does use historical accounts to good effect).  Rather, he's interested in using the watery region as a kind of three-way metaphor for the unconscious, the distortions of cultural expectation, and the masking blanket of time.  Part of the aim is to explore how European eyes might see the Australian landscape, or rather not see it.  It's a point that's been made before, most famously by Marcus Clarke in his meditation on the \\"weird melancholy\\" of the Australian bush.  To his credit, Davison doesn't just leave it there.  His novel interleaves three stories in the same location, unfolding in three timeframes - the sealers and explorers of 1826, German and English settlers of early 1900s, and a lone photographer, Jack Cameron, in the late twentieth century - to show the different way the same piece of landscape might be apprehended.  One of the clearest notions that comes out of this is the striking inability of photography, the supposed \\"truth machine\\", to capture the essence of sight. \\"The camera only shows the surface of a thing,\\" not the memories, fears and accumulated expectations which inform a thing as seen by human eyes.  Towards the end, Cameron finds in Aboriginal dot paintings something which better approximates the lived experience of a human engagement with the landscape - a layering of past, present and possible futures, in which everything exists at once and goes on existing; in which a shared understanding informs what is \\"seen\\".  But then Cameron starts to find this in his own photographs when ghostly images from the past seem to appear: \\"He saw each of the strips as a sounding line into the past.  The weighted lines bumped across contours beneath him, trembling into the present as though the past was still there, immovable under the tide.  Each line brought part of it up - a glimpse of how others had seen things, random points in a pattern.  They suggested connections between them.  They hinted at order as though Cameron might draw them up on a chart, plotting the contours to see for himself how everything fitted together.  But connections refused to be made...\\" (p.201)  The novel's concept is strong, but some readers may find it slightly weak and fragmented when it comes to storytelling.  This isn't a novel for those who demand a thrilling plot.  While the three \\"stories\\" are good, and there are exciting (and heartbreaking) moments, this novel's pleasure lies more in the strength of its ideas and the careful, meditative articulation Davison gives to them.ing exists at once and goes on existing; in which a shared understanding informs what is \\"seen\\".  But then Cameron starts to find this in his own photographs when ghostly images from the past seem to appear: \\"He saw each of the strips as a sounding line into the past.  The weighted lines bumped across contours beneath him, trembling into the present as though the past was still there, immovable under the tide.  Each line brought part of it up - a glimpse of how others had seen things, random points in a pattern.  They suggested connections between them.  They hinted at order as though Cameron might draw them up on a chart, plotting the contours to see for himself how everything fitted together.  But connections refused to be made...\\" (p.201)  The novel's concept is strong, but some readers may find it slightly weak and fragmented when it comes to storytelling.  This isn't a novel for those who demand a thrilling plot.  While the three \\"stories\\" are good, and there are exciting (and heartbreaking) moments, this novel's pleasure lies more in the strength of its ideas and the careful, meditative articulation Davison gives to them.	2004-06-19
US	52231964	R117117A8KRDHX	0800877977	578561728	Tourmaline: A novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Taoism Downunder	Tourmaline is a crystalline mineral, but here it's also a fictitious town in outback Western Australia. The ruined remnant of a once vibrant mining community, its mix of white and indigenous inhabitants are now dependent on the weekly arrival of a truck bearing food and beer. Falling out of the passenger's seat one day is a badly sunburned and dehydrated young man who, on recovery, turns out to be the mesmerically handsome 'diviner', Michael Random. He claims he can bring water back to the town. Though some have their suspicions, he becomes the focus of the dreams and longings of many of the desperate townsfolk. When he demonstrates strange powers - finding a buried reef of gold; instantly quelling an orgiastic drinking binge - he is quickly deified and celebrated in the town's abandoned church with fiery rituals embracing both Christian and aboriginal theology. But, of course, the diviner is not quite what he seems, and it doesn't take long for the pitiless Australian landscape to undermine his authority... Stow is one of a number of Australian writers who turned to Taoism as an alternative epistemology for Europeans grappling with an intractable and alien continent. In this novel, he sets himself the difficult task of showing how it might apply. The difficulty is that the tenets of Taoism are notoriously inexpressible, so the argument must be made by inference. This might account for the irritated incomprehension with which this novel was received by most readers in 1963. Contemporary readers with no experience of Taoism will probably find it equally perplexing. Taoism is a world-view which can, to the Western mind, seem frighteningly nihilistic but is actually quite otherwise. Its 'virtue of non-contention' resolves the disconnection between oneself and a hostile world by acknowledging the Great Void and aligning the self with it. This is not nihilism, because the self is not obliterated. Nor is it solipsism. Taoism offers a way of being that renders the human serene and passive, at one with the indifference of his environment. Man becomes an element of Nature. There is no contention set up between the two, which is drastically different to the spirit of conquering imperialism in which most colonial cultures are forged. In the adaptive ways adopted by some of his characters - the narrator (the local cop, known as the Law), Tom Spring, Bogada and Dave Speed - Stow shows how Taoism might be usefully applied to Australian experience. Though the Law is attracted to the diviner's youth, beauty and promise of transformative power, there is an order of Nature to which he more naturally responds: one that runs truer than, and counter to, the obsessive imperialist desires for gain that Random represents. 'Tourmaline' is interesting not so much because it pits Taoism against the diviner's neo-Christianity in some kind of death match showdown. Rather, it shows the self-destructive impotence of messianic imperialism as a 'way of being' in this part of the world. Through the delicate use of symbols, the inner struggle of the narrator (and a rather indelicate precis from Tom at the end of Chapter 13), Taoism is allowed to declare itself in the wreckage that remains when Random's cult implodes. The novel isn't entirely successful, but it's an engaging and thought-provoking attempt at what is, perhaps, an impossible task - expressing the inexpressible.rene and passive, at one with the indifference of his environment. Man becomes an element of Nature. There is no contention set up between the two, which is drastically different to the spirit of conquering imperialism in which most colonial cultures are forged. In the adaptive ways adopted by some of his characters - the narrator (the local cop, known as the Law), Tom Spring, Bogada and Dave Speed - Stow shows how Taoism might be usefully applied to Australian experience. Though the Law is attracted to the diviner's youth, beauty and promise of transformative power, there is an order of Nature to which he more naturally responds: one that runs truer than, and counter to, the obsessive imperialist desires for gain that Random represents. 'Tourmaline' is interesting not so much because it pits Taoism against the diviner's neo-Christianity in some kind of death match showdown. Rather, it shows the self-destructive impotence of messianic imperialism as a 'way of being' in this part of the world. Through the delicate use of symbols, the inner struggle of the narrator (and a rather indelicate precis from Tom at the end of Chapter 13), Taoism is allowed to declare itself in the wreckage that remains when Random's cult implodes. The novel isn't entirely successful, but it's an engaging and thought-provoking attempt at what is, perhaps, an impossible task - expressing the inexpressible.	2004-06-14
US	52231964	R6KKQPDAA7U8S	0140283803	195776939	Drylands	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Contemporary classic	Embittered and sharp-witted widow Janet Deakin sits in her flat above the newsagency in Drylands - an emptying, disintegrating outback town, 'pouring itself out like water into sand' - and proposes to write a book for the world's last reader. Her interconnected tales recount the real or imagined struggles of the townsfolk against the entropy of rural subsistence, the innate and inane brutality of Australian men, the powerlessness of poverty and colour, and the idiocy of wasted years. In escaping from Drylands her characters all achieve small victories, but they're equally hollowed by the question, \\"And then?\\" Having escaped, what now? Where to? With whom? As one character puts it, \\"Nothing's ever finished. Didn't you know? ... Nothing. It goes on and on.\\"  Only in the arms of her husband does one woman find a fullness to pit against this constant emptying, a tenderness described as beginning, middle and end.  Astley is one of Australia's most prolific, versatile and socially conscious writers, and \\"Drylands\\" is one of her better works. It could be enjoyed simply as a collection of quintessentially Australian stories, or more seriously as a meditation on a decaying culture and, specifically, the loss of literacy. Reading is figured in this book as the thing that might have \\"saved\\" us if it weren't already too late; page and screen are presented as mutually exclusive and morally opposed. In the final moments, narrator Deakin is bitterly tickled by the memory of discovering a reference to a Rimbaud poem in the naming of an Australian house, \\"Bateau Ivre\\" (The Drunken Boat); she's amused by the utter implausibility of the suggestion that Australia could ever have been so civilised. But in referencing Rimbaud, Astley might also be giving us a clue to one way her novel can be read - as a livre compos&eacute; that borrows the narrative pattern of Rimbaud's poem, but swaps its visionary journey over European water for an ironic tilt over Australian sand.  Whatever you make of \\"Drylands\\", the prose is dazzling. As Astley herself might lament, to call it \\"literary\\" these days risks the misinterpretation that it's pretentious. What I mean is that it's sharp, evocative and above all accurate. Astley's vision has a stark and pitiless precision - the characters and settings are vividly realized and instantly recognisable as Australian without ever being clich&eacute;. You get the sense she could conjure the nation in a single phrase. As Randolph Stow noted in another context: \\"What enormous and desolate landscapes are opened by the voice of a lone crow.\\"lands\\", the prose is dazzling. As Astley herself might lament, to call it \\"literary\\" these days risks the misinterpretation that it's pretentious. What I mean is that it's sharp, evocative and above all accurate. Astley's vision has a stark and pitiless precision - the characters and settings are vividly realized and instantly recognisable as Australian without ever being clich. You get the sense she could conjure the nation in a single phrase. As Randolph Stow noted in another context: \\"What enormous and desolate landscapes are opened by the voice of a lone crow.\\"	2004-06-10
US	52231964	RKL8FLRLPP8X2	0151010749	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good, though better in retrospect	Fans of Victorian and Edwardian ghost stories will probably enjoy this most, with its interweaving of carefully crafted homage pieces and a contemporary literary-mystery plot. There's a lot to be said for this kind of \\"writerly\\" novel: it's a wonderful opportunity to explore literary-theoretical musings while using an engaging mystery to drive the story; and plots in which the past resonates powerfully in the present are always fun. The problem is that A. S. Byatt aced this particular sub-genre, probably for all time, with her Booker-winning \\"Possession\\" (1990), and it's still so far ahead of anything else in the game that newcomers are invariably found wanting, even if they aren't courting comparison (as I'm sure Harwood isn't here). I quite enjoyed \\"The Ghost Writer\\" but, for me, it wasn't quite daring enough. The author clearly knows his sources, but he doesn't do anything dazzling with them. He throws in a few references to Henry James but then feels the need to explain them, presumably for the benefit of the less widely read. Moreover, he refuses to explore much of the theoretical territory his metafictional narrative must necessarily cross: the crisis of the subject; the relationship between reader, writer and text; the faith we put in written records, even fictional ones. Nor did I find the novel sufficiently plot-driven to sustain interest merely as a thriller. Tension builds, but the short stories which end up being central sometimes feel, in the reading, irritatingly tangential. You get the sense that it took a very long time to \\"build\\" this book; that it was made like a carefully crafted object, held up and considered from different angles, refined, worried over, and extensively revised. I say that because it's more pleasing in retrospect when you can see it in its totality; when the mystery is solved and you see the seemingly complex plot in its devilish simplicity. But as a story which unfolds in time, as stories must, it isn't quite so compelling. You get the impression that information is being wilfully withheld - it is of course, as it must be in every story of suspense, but the trick is to disguise the process. Here, I just felt I was being toyed with. Ultimately, though, these are minor quibbles. The novel works. It really comes to life eighty pages from the end, and that ending, when it comes, is powerful, vivid and magnificently dark. When you put the book down and look back on what you've read, you see that the plot and the passions which drive the characters are really quite macabre and extraordinary. The effect is that \\"The Ghost Writer\\" is a novel you might enjoy looking back on more than reading. It'll certainly have you looking forward: this is a first novel, and the dark intelligence behind it bodes well for Harwood's future work.get the impression that information is being wilfully withheld - it is of course, as it must be in every story of suspense, but the trick is to disguise the process. Here, I just felt I was being toyed with. Ultimately, though, these are minor quibbles. The novel works. It really comes to life eighty pages from the end, and that ending, when it comes, is powerful, vivid and magnificently dark. When you put the book down and look back on what you've read, you see that the plot and the passions which drive the characters are really quite macabre and extraordinary. The effect is that \\"The Ghost Writer\\" is a novel you might enjoy looking back on more than reading. It'll certainly have you looking forward: this is a first novel, and the dark intelligence behind it bodes well for Harwood's future work.	2004-06-04
US	52231964	RCA2A568PP554	0151997357	238455713	The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis	Books	4	92	95	N	N	For the initiated only	Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa (1888-1935) famously responded to what philosophy calls \\"the crisis of the subject\\" - that nagging sense that one's identity is contingent, relative and inherently unstable - by developing multiple authorial selves, or \\"heteronyms\\": Alberto Caeiro, a bucolic providore of rustic verse; Alvaro de Campos, a strident modernist; and Ricardo Reis, a meditative pagan and classicist. Each wrote a poetry the others did not and could not write. In this way, Pessoa solved his problems of identity and poetry simultaneously. He recognised his multiple \\"selves\\" and set them free. The cultural transplantation he experienced might account for this. He was born in Portugal, but educated in South Africa where he learned to speak and write in English. He spent the remainder of his life in Lisbon where by day he translated business letters, and by night was a figure in the local modernist movement. He was probably an alcoholic, and lived in fear of insanity. (See Michael Hamburger's excellent study of modernist poetry, \\"The Truth of Poetry\\", for a lucid account of Pessoa and the significance of his work.) For those who know the story of Pessoa, Saramago's long and luxurious novel offers a delicious premise: Fernando Pessoa is dead, yet Ricardo Reis still lives. Indeed, three months after Pessoa's death, Reis returns to Lisbon from sixteen years of self-imposed exile in Brazil. It's 1936 and Europe is on the brink of war. As Reis contemplates re-establishing a life in Portugal, and pursues relationships with two remarkably different women - Lydia, a chambermaid; and Marcenda, the partially paralysed daughter of a wealthy provincial - the narrative becomes a reflection on Portuguese nationalism and literature, the temptations of communism and fascism, and various other philosophical probings. Saramago's style is infamously dense, full of elegant conceits, frequent circumlocutions, and seamless segues from nuanced prose to undifferentiated dialogue in paragraphs running over several pages. It's an effective, destabilizing technique for a novel which takes, in part, the contingency of identity as a theme. Experienced readers of \\"world literature\\" - especially Latin American metafiction and magical realism - who also have a firm grasp on Portuguese history and Pessoa's strange oeuvre will probably enjoy this the most. They'll see the connections: lines, moments and characters (both Lydia and Marcenda) from the poems, echoes of other Portuguese novels, staged conversations between Reis and Pessoa (who makes ghostly day trips from his tomb), and the more subtle in-jokes, such as the ongoing references to a book Reis is reading - Herbert Quain's \\"The God of the Labyrinth\\", a non-existent book \\"invented\\" by Jorge Luis Borges. The uninitiated, however, may well find all this immensely tedious. While the setting and events do provide some semblance of a romantic-thriller plot, the real joy of this novel lies in what is unsaid - in the way it uses the reasonably arcane knowledge the reader is required to bring to it.raphs running over several pages. It's an effective, destabilizing technique for a novel which takes, in part, the contingency of identity as a theme. Experienced readers of \\"world literature\\" - especially Latin American metafiction and magical realism - who also have a firm grasp on Portuguese history and Pessoa's strange oeuvre will probably enjoy this the most. They'll see the connections: lines, moments and characters (both Lydia and Marcenda) from the poems, echoes of other Portuguese novels, staged conversations between Reis and Pessoa (who makes ghostly day trips from his tomb), and the more subtle in-jokes, such as the ongoing references to a book Reis is reading - Herbert Quain's \\"The God of the Labyrinth\\", a non-existent book \\"invented\\" by Jorge Luis Borges. The uninitiated, however, may well find all this immensely tedious. While the setting and events do provide some semblance of a romantic-thriller plot, the real joy of this novel lies in what is unsaid - in the way it uses the reasonably arcane knowledge the reader is required to bring to it.	2004-05-23
US	52231964	R26O0ZWC21KOGP	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Masterpiece	Readers expecting a romance in the contemporary sense may well be disappointed with \\"Possession\\".  While it does offer its fair share of relationship drama, Byatt's Booker-winning masterpiece makes clear in its epigraph that \\"romance\\" is being used in a more arcane, literary sense here: it's an adventure, a hunt, a quest or chase, with elements of love, fantasy and improbability.  In that sense, \\"Possession\\" doesn't disappoint.  Indeed, Byatt's tale about the quest of two frustrated young academics to find and prove the veracity of a set of love letters between Victorian poets becomes the locus around which she builds what is probably the most accomplished novel of the late twentieth century.  It's an exploration of Victorian poetry, contemporary criticism and the biography industry as well as a ripping yarn.  Byatt's range - in both style and theme - is immense, as is the scope of what she's attempted here, and she nails every bit of it.  My only criticism is that some readers will lose interest battling their way through the extended letters of Ash and LaMotte and the lengthy extracts from Sabine's diary.  These sections, though important and beautifully written, are longer than they need to be and a little frustrating, if only because the main plot is so exciting that we want to get back to it as soon as possible.  But, I suppose, what would a Victorian romance be without a little excess?  Readers who've studied literature at university level will probably enjoy this novel the most, not only because the poetry will pique their interest, but because the academic characters - with their vanity, arrogance, anxieties and obsessions - are so precisely observed.  For me, Byatt's central achievement in this novel is that she manages to poke serious fun at the literary-critical industry, cut the theoretical legs from under everything from the idea of metaphor to Freud and feminism, and yet she never loses sight of, and respect for, those spine-tingling, hackle-raising moments that make literature worth reading and writing.  Indeed, she delivers a suite of them.ments that make literature worth reading and writing.  Indeed, she delivers a suite of them.	2004-05-16
US	52231964	R1A56XPK9F7KHD	0060929847	868213085	Our Town (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Misunderstood classic	Superficially a folksy, American nostalgia piece, \\"Our Town\\" spans the first thirteen years of the twentieth century in the life of Grover's Corners, a small village in rural New Hampshire.  It's the archetypal town of the American Mythology: a place where the names on the oldest gravestones are the same as those of the townspeople today; where the doctor delivers twins before breakfast, and is home in time to shoot the breeze with the paperboy; where the kids share an ice-cream soda, their mothers sing in the church choir, and a girl grows up and really does marry the boy nextdoor.  The play's fond recollection of an America that never existed was nostalgic even in 1938, yet Wilder's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama became an instant classic and remains one of America's most loved and frequently performed plays.  America today is the shambles of a destroyed hope, the stillborn ruins of the way of life \\"Our Town\\" imagines but which in reality was never achieved.  For those immune to the appeals of the American Dream, or more familiar with the reality of the American Global Empire, the play may seem deliciously rich in unintended irony. You could be forgiven for thinking the American preference for escapist, self-aggrandizing fantasy might account for its enduring appeal. Yet you would be wrong.  Scratch the surface and \\"Our Town\\" is no quaint tale of hayseed family life.  Wilder was an intellectual, an admirer of the avant-garde and the experimental works of James Joyce.  Steadfastly minimalist in its presentation, engagingly postmodern in its insistence that we see the cast as actors rather than characters, and more thematically challenging than we are initially led to expect, \\"Our Town\\" is a work of social criticism which indicts us with personal responsibility for the way we see our lives.  Wilder turns our nostalgia against us, demolishing our vision of the past as a Golden Age, and demanding we live here and now, simply and fully.  The play shows ordinary lives in pursuit of universal meaning, and by confronting us with our own mortality it challenges us to explore our small allotment of years in the same way.  This isn't so much a play of memories as a play about memory - private and public.  It evokes nostalgia to warn against it, and argues instead for an acceptance of transience, a celebration of life while it is lived, and a recognition of that small, unknowable fragment of the self that is eternal.  It's with this universalizing, evident in the final act, that \\"Our Town\\" transcends twentieth-century America and becomes an enduringly relevant work of art - one about memory, fantasy, and the power and price of both.pursuit of universal meaning, and by confronting us with our own mortality it challenges us to explore our small allotment of years in the same way.  This isn't so much a play of memories as a play about memory - private and public.  It evokes nostalgia to warn against it, and argues instead for an acceptance of transience, a celebration of life while it is lived, and a recognition of that small, unknowable fragment of the self that is eternal.  It's with this universalizing, evident in the final act, that \\"Our Town\\" transcends twentieth-century America and becomes an enduringly relevant work of art - one about memory, fantasy, and the power and price of both.	2004-05-01
US	52231964	R3PG0OH9BPHZNH	0679748989	655716976	The Ghost Writer	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Minor masterpiece	This is the best novel I've read all year.  It's 1956 and Nathan Zuckerman, a twenty-three year old literary wannabe from the Village, spends the night at the Berkshires home of his latest literary idol: E. I. Lonoff, a reclusive, meticulous literary genius with seven volumes of stories to his name and a seething hatred for the New York literary scene.  Thrown into the mix are Lonoff's long-suffering wife, Hope (\\"It's like being married to Tolstoy\\"), and the young Amy Bellette - ostensibly a student, but who might also be Lonoff's mistress and the ultimate literary victim of Nazi persecution who just happened to make it out alive.  Given it's narrated by Nathan from a distance of more than twenty years, the situation is ripe for self-impaling humour, and Roth's effortless voice slides the stake home pitilessly.  (\\"To indicate that it was all right with me if I was being condescended to and that I would understand if I was soon asked to leave, I went red.\\")  So many Bildungsroman use fond self-deprecation as a cover for self-love, but Roth's novel doesn't have a single disingenuous line.  If this novel were only a comedic recollection of youth, what Roth gives us would be more than enough but, as it proceeds, \\"The Ghost Writer\\" becomes not only an exploration of what Henry James called \\"the madness of art\\" but something far more specific. Nathan, Lonoff and Amy (at least as Nathan imagines her) are all Jewish writers, and through the decisions they've made about their work and their lives, Roth manages to turn this social comedy into an artful exploration of what it means to be a Jewish writer and the kind of obligation - if any - that entails.  Should the Jewish writer suppress aspects of his work to avoid or counter anti-Semitism?  Should he ensure that the characters in all his stories \\"represent a fair sample of the kinds of people that make up a typical contemporary community of Jews?\\" (p.103)  Or should he be honest and risk including something that might \\"warm the heart of a Julius Streicher or a Joseph Goebbels?\\" (p.104).  It's a worthy topic for consideration, and the real achievement of this novel is that Roth manages to address it in a way that's hilarious, sophisticated, moving and profound - in almost equal parts.  It's so rare to find a novel this enjoyable which has something important to say.  I loved it.the heart of a Julius Streicher or a Joseph Goebbels?\\" (p.104).  It's a worthy topic for consideration, and the real achievement of this novel is that Roth manages to address it in a way that's hilarious, sophisticated, moving and profound - in almost equal parts.  It's so rare to find a novel this enjoyable which has something important to say.  I loved it.	2004-04-21
US	52231964	R3CSZAR8X2MQIA	0394746627	887568128	Briefing for a Descent into Hell	Books	4	58	59	N	N	"Time is the whole point..."	\\"Sometimes when you read a book or story, the words are dead, you struggle to end it or put it down, your attention is distracted. Another time, with exactly the same book or story, it is full of meaning, every sentence or phrase or even word seems to vibrate with messages and ideas, reading is like being pumped full of adrenalin.\\" (p.155) You don't say, Doris. The title alone should be enough to tell you that Lessing's 1971 novel isn't going to be an easy read, and the first 100 pages are a very hard slog indeed. But it's worth the effort. This self-declared \\"inner-space fiction\\" narrates the gradual \\"recovery\\" of amnesiac Charles Watkins, a Cambridge Classics Professor who is hospitalized after being found wandering along the London Embankment. The narrative alternates between Watkins' inner world and the efforts of his doctors and friends to revive him. Lessing has been accused of trivializing mental illness here, but the charge carries no weight. She isn't attempting to articulate the experience of amnesia, nor of delusional psychosis. Her aim is philosophical. The further we go into the novel, the more we come to realise that Watkins may not, in fact, be ill at all - rather, the human condition may be his \\"illness\\" and his breakdown is actually a kind of waking up. What emerges is a view of the world in which identity is conditional, all matter is a unified system, and \\"time is the whole point\\". The \\"Hell\\" of the title may not be mental illness - it may be life as it is lived in the supposedly real world. Of course, Lessing can give no definitive answer to such philosophical questions, but her exploration is powerful and increasingly sharp. Once we leave Watkins' inner world and he is asked to write about his experiences, Lessing's narrative elevates to a level of startling lucidity. The stories Watkins writes about his apparent wartime experience in Yugoslavia, and what he can see from the window of his Cambridge study, are both beautiful and profound. They make the philosophical point far better than any academic essay ever could. And what is the point? It's a particular understanding of reality. As Lessing's epigraphs - one from a fourteenth-century Sufi mystic, the other from a twentieth-century marine biologist - neatly show, we tend to think of religion and science as heading in precisely opposite directions, but they are in fact inching ever closer together. No, the conclusion is not that God actually exists as some old man sitting up there in heaven, but rather that the ancients' intuitive understanding of the nature of reality is startlingly similar to what quantum physics is telling us about space-time today. Much of human suffering may stem from an inability to look at our world and ourselves in the right way. Readers engaged by this kind of thinking might also enjoy \\"Valis\\" by Philip K. Dick.ke the philosophical point far better than any academic essay ever could. And what is the point? It's a particular understanding of reality. As Lessing's epigraphs - one from a fourteenth-century Sufi mystic, the other from a twentieth-century marine biologist - neatly show, we tend to think of religion and science as heading in precisely opposite directions, but they are in fact inching ever closer together. No, the conclusion is not that God actually exists as some old man sitting up there in heaven, but rather that the ancients' intuitive understanding of the nature of reality is startlingly similar to what quantum physics is telling us about space-time today. Much of human suffering may stem from an inability to look at our world and ourselves in the right way. Readers engaged by this kind of thinking might also enjoy \\"Valis\\" by Philip K. Dick.	2004-04-18
US	52231964	R3BAEKI6UPTEBA	0571194370	458399910	Intimacy	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good, but only half the story on men	\\"Intimacy\\" is rightly valued for its dispassionate presentation of the duplicity and selfishness of men in love. Intimacy is both the goal and destroyer of monogamy, Kureishi seems to being saying, and he certainly pulls no punches when it comes to explaining why. Men always want someone else. Blame nature, blame nurture, blame contemporary social demands incompatible with six hundred millennia of evolutionary development. Whatever the case, we seem to be programmed to break women's hearts and to ruin our own happiness in the process.  Kureishi gives an agonizingly candid insight into the machinations of male ego and self-justification. My problem with it is that many happily married men would probably say, \\"Speak for yourself, Hanif.\\" And rightly so. What of the men who live perfectly happy lives devoted to their wives and children? It doesn't mean they aren't attracted to other women, it doesn't mean they don't ever think of straying. It just means they don't go through with it. Are they all repressed? Are they all kidding themselves? Do they secretly hate their wives and resent their children? Or have they learned that the infantile fantasy of endlessly variable sexual experience is precisely that, and therefore not worth pursuing?  Kureishi doesn't seem to allow that such men might exist.  He tells only half the story on men, and so this tragi-comic articulation of male infidelity comes very close to celebrating it as natural, inevitable and therefore of little consequence. I'm not taking the moral high ground here.  I'm just acknowledging what Kureishi refuses to: that some men aren't cheating dogs.  My only other quibble is that this novel is too long, even at 120 pages. It wouldn't seem that way if I hadn't previously read an exquisitely edited extract, published as a short story in The New Yorker, which said everything the novel says, but better.  It was less totalizing, less cockily assured of its own position - and therefore closer to the truth.  (It's still available in \\"The Art Of The Story\\", edited by Daniel Halpern - a collection well worth a look.)ll available in \\"The Art Of The Story\\", edited by Daniel Halpern - a collection well worth a look.)	2004-04-18
US	52231964	RNUWS433RGFYD	0374525463	976963611	Running Wild	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Perfect introduction to Ballard	This short, clinical, unflinching novella about the violent end of a gated community is a perfect introduction to the priceless talents of J. G. Ballard.  Adopting the persona of a forensic psychiatrist investigating the mass murder of the occupants of a London residential estate, Ballard explores the dangers inherent in even the most privileged manifestations of social control - the fabricated society is an attempt to lock danger out, but its regime of repression is more likely to lock danger in.  You'll solve the mystery of what happened in Pangbourne Village within the first ten pages, but that isn't the point.  It's not whodunit that matters, but why.  Ballard's epigrammatic summary, when it comes, is slightly trite and hardly does justice to what's come before it: a chilling work of distilled intensity.  It isn't the best exploration of Ballard's searing sociological vision, but it's a delicious appetizer.  Readers who enjoy this will probably find \\"High Rise\\" to their taste, too.	2004-04-18
US	52231964	R25604AMK6A7CZ	1555972179	395119154	The Ancestor Game	Books	5	3	4	N	N	"I am in the secret place I once knew in my imagination."	\\"The ancients of all nations understood that we don't belong anywhere real. They understood that the mystery of life, the paradox of our existence, is located in that charged space between the present reality of our individual life and the dream of the immortality of our species. It's the Phoenix, among the mythical beasts, which embodies this paradox for both the occidental and the oriental worlds alike.\\" (p.259) Winner of Australia's coveted Miles Franklin Award more than decade ago, Alex Miller's \\"The Ancestor Game\\" is probably still the post-colonial novel par excellence. Recently returned to Australia after his father's death in England, Steven Muir sets out to write a series of biographical sketches from the life of his friend, the Chinese-Australian artist and collector Lang Tzu. His sources include a memoir from one of Lang's relatives who spent her life in the sprawling Melbourne mansion he now calls home, and the diaries of Lang's family doctor from Shanghai, the expatriate German August Speiss, translated by his daughter Gertrude. Weaving extracts from these sources, Muir's biographical sketches, and the contemporary story of Steven, Gertrude and Lang, Miller's novel becomes a mesmerizing tour through early twentieth-century China, the International Settlement, the Ballarat goldfields and 1976 Melbourne. Yet this isn't some melodramatic historical potboiler. Indeed, some detractors have criticised this novel for lacking an engaging plot. While this isn't entirely true - the vignettes are well-plotted and the novel's climax is one of the most unexpected and effective I've ever read - Miller's novel isn't about telling a single compelling story.  It just doesn't proceed that way, nor could it. This novel does its work by an arrangement which is non-linear, which relies more on echoes and resonances, on the reader noticing the symbolism of objects and episodes and the near-perfect craftsmanship in the construction of every scene. Miller clearly enjoys the visual arts, and that's an apt way of thinking about the way this novel is structured: like a series of paintings, only a few of which are \\"thrilling\\", but which make an incredibly powerful statement when viewed together.  If you're bored by this approach, stick with it. Read slowly, read carefully. Read it again (you'll want to). Miller has plenty interesting to say about the notion of \\"extraterritoriality\\", colonialism, storytelling, and the way we antipodeans forge our identities with, or against, the claims of ancestry.sual arts, and that's an apt way of thinking about the way this novel is structured: like a series of paintings, only a few of which are \\"thrilling\\", but which make an incredibly powerful statement when viewed together.  If you're bored by this approach, stick with it. Read slowly, read carefully. Read it again (you'll want to). Miller has plenty interesting to say about the notion of \\"extraterritoriality\\", colonialism, storytelling, and the way we antipodeans forge our identities with, or against, the claims of ancestry.	2004-04-11
US	52231964	R1X471PSP0Z4GE	0805073205	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel (Auster, Paul)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	We live in the present, but the future is inside us	\\"Thoughts are real... Words are real.  Everything human is real, and sometimes we know things before they happen, even if we aren't aware of it.  We live in the present, but the future is inside us at every moment. Maybe that's what writing is all about... Not recording events from the past, but making things happen in the future.\\" (pp.221-2)  Picking up on the Flitcraft episode from \\"The Maltese Falcon\\" - in which a man's response to a near-death experience is to walk out on his life - Paul Auster's eleventh novel tells the story of nine days in the life of writer Sidney Orr.  Recovering from a serious illness, Orr begins a sketch for a novel in his new blue notebook, and it seems to have an oracular influence on his life.  As always with Auster, this delicious conceit is just the way into something far more serious and, on this occasion, a veritable babushka doll of plots involving time travel, Portuguese stationery, mysterious manuscripts, prophecies, a love triangle, a nuclear shelter in Kansas City, and the 1937/8 Warsaw telephone book.  Some reviewers have decried the lack of resolution to some of the stories Auster's characters kick around, but can you really expect a piece of postmodern metafiction to offer you a neatly resolved, Grisham-style plot?  Still, I couldn't put this down.  I read it in a single afternoon, mainly because I found the ideas so compelling.  Auster's theme here is the imagination, or more specifically the literary imagination.  Is the kind of imagination at work in storytelling a way of ordering the chaos, a way of tracing - or creating - patterns of meaning in the randomness of life?  Do we write about what is already happening beneath the surface of our selves and our relationships?  What is the price of this?  Does such art do violence to the lives it touches by way of appropriation?  (If you like this theme, then I strongly recommend \\"What I Have Written\\" by John Scott - another highly literary and erotic piece of metafiction involving untimely death and a mysterious manuscript.)  Auster fans will find much that's familiar in \\"Oracle Night\\": the notebook, the locked room, the poverty-stricken writer suddenly flush with money and time, and even Boris Stepanovich popping in from \\"In The Country of Last Things\\".  But there's something new here, too: a real sense of playfulness and fun that was lacking from some of Auster's earlier work.ving untimely death and a mysterious manuscript.)  Auster fans will find much that's familiar in \\"Oracle Night\\": the notebook, the locked room, the poverty-stricken writer suddenly flush with money and time, and even Boris Stepanovich popping in from \\"In The Country of Last Things\\".  But there's something new here, too: a real sense of playfulness and fun that was lacking from some of Auster's earlier work.	2004-03-13
US	52231964	R1ZIK6V4US27XA	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Explains everything and nothing	I'm told this novel intersects with Philip K. Dick's biography in some interesting ways, but as someone who knows little about the man but has enjoyed a number of his novels and stories (\\"The Man in the High Castle\\" is one of my favourite novels in any genre), I found \\"Valis\\" to be an engaging work in its own right.  Dick's themes here are the nature of religious faith, the pitiless contradictions of a universe supposedly designed by a deity, and the nonetheless remarkable consistency of religious revelations throughout all time.  There are any number of plausible explanations for all of this: God exists and has manifested in numerous forms; religious faith is entirely unjustified, but is a more or less constant aspect of human nature; space-time does not exist, we are devolved aliens, and \\"God\\" is a satellite broadcasting laser-driven epiphanies and inspiring subliminally affecting films (and novels?).  Lovers of SF will enjoy this immensely, but so will lovers of good literature, and those interested in the philosophy and psychology of religion.  If, like me, you happen to enjoy all three then you're in for quite a treat.  Of course, it's the nature of the material that \\"Valis\\" can offer no final answers, but it's the way Dick raises the questions that makes it such an appealing novel.  There is a tenderness and humanity to the characters - quite an achievement given the \\"way out\\" nature of the material.  With its insoluble theological-philosophical themes, drug-culture setting, and interestingly unreliable narrative viewpoint, I'm sure \\"Valis\\" would be right at home on the Literary Studies curricula of any number of liberal arts colleges.  Not before time, too.  Hollywood is so far the only \\"institution\\" that has caught on to the tantalizing genius of Philip K. Dick.  It's about time the rest of them caught up.	2004-03-10
US	52231964	RLA79PSHJ385M	0670031305	183103177	Elizabeth Costello	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A scholar's intellect meets a novelist's imagination	This is an unusual but immensely satisfying book which sees Coetzee combining the two aspects of his literary personality - prize-winning novelist and eminent scholar - in ways that will challenge some readers' preconceptions about the relationship between imaginative and critical writing.  Many have ridiculed this book for being ostensibly a pastiche of previously published pieces, torn from their contexts and offered as a unified set of \\"lessons\\" which we're supposed to accept as a \\"novel\\".  The very first lesson, \\"Realism\\", with its deliberate foregrounding of the artificiality of fiction, works as an elaborate justification for what follows: \\"stories\\" populated with \\"characters\\" who sometimes seem scarcely more then puppets through which Coetzee ventriloquises philosophical points.  Yet this artificiality, I think, is in itself part of the point of a novel which discusses (among other things) the role of the contemporary writer and his or her work.  It deals with a matrix of ethical, cultural and theoretical issues which have been preoccupying literary critics and scholars in recent decades - the morality of creative works and the collision (or blurred intersection) of religion and humanism as they grapple with evil, eros, death and what it means to be human.  Ironically or not, Coetzee's \\"stories\\" - especially \\"The Humanities in Africa\\" - benefit immensely from the opening expose of realism: it reminds you that authorial choices are constantly being made, and allows you to appreciate the ones Coetzee ultimately makes.  It's almost as if he has stripped off the surface layer of a realist novel and shown us what is really going on underneath.  I enjoyed that and, in some ways, found it more honest than a wholly, unselfconsciously realist account of the same experiences would have been.  Is Elizabeth Costello simply Coetzee, transposed from one Antipodean home to another?  Of course she is - but only to the extent that most of her intellectual combatants are other facets of Coetzee, too; which is to say they represent other positions which any intelligent, thoughtful human in an outpost of Europe could just as happily occupy.  But Coetzee is there, physically, too, I think.  Who else could that tall, dark and bearded man who keeps popping up now and again possibly be?facets of Coetzee, too; which is to say they represent other positions which any intelligent, thoughtful human in an outpost of Europe could just as happily occupy.  But Coetzee is there, physically, too, I think.  Who else could that tall, dark and bearded man who keeps popping up now and again possibly be?	2004-03-03
US	52231964	R2E61LFGLHBHEA	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A gift to the postwar generations	\\"The Reader\\" explores Germany's guilt-ridden relationship with its own past by objectifying it in the sexual and emotional coupling of a 15-year-old boy and a 36-year-old woman.  On the face of it, that doesn't sound like the premise for one of the best pieces of Holocaust fiction available (certainly the best I've read), but it is.  Far from eroticizing Nazism or trivializing the Holocaust, using the metaphor of a human relationship makes them both more accessible.  Schlink provides a way into the unique postwar experience of the German people by relating it to things we have all experienced: guilt and romantic love.  Issues and events which usually repel or dismay us with their enormity are taken out of the zones of History and Philosophy and reconfigured on to a human scale - the scale on which they happened, and on which they must be confronted if we are ever to understand them fully.  I was surprised and moved to find a novel which treats the Holocaust in this way; a novel which risks being horribly misunderstood in order to foster understanding.  The erotic aspect of the novel is, in the end, a minor one and hardly the point: it's about so much more than that.  Through careful characterisation and plot development, Schlink manages not only to make plain the ease with which German civilians were drawn into unspeakable roles, but also to explore the difference between a legal conviction and real justice, between retribution and recompense, and, most importantly, the almost insoluble situation in which Germans born postwar find themselves - laden with guilt for things they did not do and for which they cannot possibly atone.  Interestingly, Schlink's book also becomes a sustained yet subtle commentary on the function of literature and literacy as ways of recording and recovering the past.  (Those interested in this subtext might like to read next W. G. Sebald's \\"On The Natural History of Destruction\\" which explores the historical unwillingness, and therefore the contemporary inability, of German literature to deal with the terrorist victimization of German civilians at the hands of the Allies.)  For all its high intent, and equally high achievement, \\"The Reader\\" is almost an easy read.  Schlink's language (or Carol Brown Janeway's translation, at least) is smooth, straightforward, concise and precise.  His subject is dignified by such simplicity.contemporary inability, of German literature to deal with the terrorist victimization of German civilians at the hands of the Allies.)  For all its high intent, and equally high achievement, \\"The Reader\\" is almost an easy read.  Schlink's language (or Carol Brown Janeway's translation, at least) is smooth, straightforward, concise and precise.  His subject is dignified by such simplicity.	2004-01-28
US	52231964	R360T1Z0FPW81U	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	An exercise in empathy	Many readers seem to reject this novel because it offers no clear explanation for the psychololgical collapse it narrates.  But nor, from the perspective of the afflicted, is there often any such explanation in real life.  I find the way Plath unexpectedly cuts from the hilarious antics of Esther's month in New York City - told in a voice as endearing as Holden Caulfield's - into her sudden depression to be a very effective literary device.  Plath doesn't explain what happens so much as she shows us what it feels like.  Compare the tone of the first fifty pages to the last and you'll see this is a narrative which gradually unhinges, disintegrates, becomes less and less reliable.  This is precisely what you'd expect in a first-person account of a depressive episode.  Yes, it can get \\"boring and repetitive\\" as many reviewers have noted - and that's an apt representation of the lugubriousness of depression and the traditional treatments for it.  There is no simple answer, no easy happy ending for Esther.  She is a young person confronting the meaninglessness of life, too intelligent to fall into the easy distractions of marriage and work, but not sufficiently self-knowing to forge her own path without them.  That such a path is unclear is part of the point.  Hatred for this book seems to come out of a view of life (and literature) as something certain, meaningful, entertaining and closed - precisely the view which Esther, and most depressed people, cannot take.  That Plath can put us in her position for a few hundred pages, and show us how puzzling and frightening it can be, is a testament to the strength of her talent.	2004-01-17
US	52231964	R2NG94DFYIW5RH	1740510119	903526957	The hidden	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Memory captured and concealed	\\"The Hidden\\" explores memory and the ways in which photography and writing can capture and conceal it.  For her narrator, Baker cleverly uses a photographer/academic who seems uncomfortable with the process of writing.  This is a good choice.  As the narrator reflects self-consciously on preparing photographs for a retrospective exhibition, and on compiling a frightening memoir, she foregrounds both of the topics Baker wants to discuss and gives the reader the theoretical apparatus required to understand the novel's point.  It also allows the author (rather less seamlessly) to give commentaries on various famous photographs and on photography in general.  If this all sounds a little ethereal, don't worry.  Baker wraps it around a shocking and violent relationship drama, which she unwinds with all the skill and finesse of an accomplished crime novelist.  As in her collection of excellent short stories - \\"The Powerful Owl\\" - what Baker gives us here is a canny blend of high art and good yarn, one that will still be resonating with you long after you've read the final page.	2003-12-15
US	52231964	R2QTU3918UHST2	0765307669	888796257	The Darkest Part of the Woods	Books	2	27	39	N	Y	Lovecraftian touches hide an empty core	I bought this novel on the strength of the story premise given here at Amazon, and it's certainly a good one. The problem is that Campbell does nothing interesting with it, and does it so badly that I found parts of this book almost unreadable with their insistence that everything be decorated with an adjective, preferably a \\"woody\\" one. A character can't look out a window or drive down the motorway or see another person without it being described in tree-like terms. Do you get it, reader? Do you get it?! Yes, Ramsey, we get it - the woods are imbued with a brooding menace and you want to imbue the entire story with the brooding menace of said woods. Now would you please get to the part where SOMETHING HAPPENS? The novel vacillates through 200-odd pages of false starts before what you suspect is going to happen from the first page even looks like getting started. There is very little tension, no frights, a wonderful mystery which no one makes any real attempt to solve, and hardly any exciting prose. The best passages owe too much to Lovecraft (which is no great compliment). Indeed, the whole premise of the story owes far too much to Lovecraft's Cthulhu concept, but without the bit that really counts - Lovecraft's \\"mechanistic materialism\\" emphasized man's ultimate cosmic insignificance, whereas Campbell's plot has the nameless menace relying absolutely on human agency for its work. But the most disappointing thing about this novel is that, as usual, Campbell's characters and premise are really quite inspired. They could have been the basis for a far more engaging work. Anyone familiar with the scientific community's current \\"best guess\\" as to the real cause of the witch scare in Salem - an hallucinogenic fungus on the rye crop - will find that's just one of the many unexplored directions in which this novel could have gone. The morality (or not) of environmentalism, the power of representational art, and a Dionysian view of adolescent sexuality are other missed opportunities. If you want see what can really be done with the menace of the wilderness, a vanishing father and a sustained deployment of symbolism - and how it can all be worked up into a novel of enduring power and meaning - go read Margaret's Atwood's \\"Surfacing\\". Or to see what serious fun you can have with real English history, take a look at Michel Faber's novella \\"The Hundred and Ninety-Nine Steps\\". I know these are unfair comparisons; genre fiction aspires to do very different things to its literary cousin. But even rated against its own apparent goals - to thrill, to engage, to frighten and to entertain - \\"The Darkest Part of the Woods\\" only hints at what might have been.rtunities. If you want see what can really be done with the menace of the wilderness, a vanishing father and a sustained deployment of symbolism - and how it can all be worked up into a novel of enduring power and meaning - go read Margaret's Atwood's \\"Surfacing\\". Or to see what serious fun you can have with real English history, take a look at Michel Faber's novella \\"The Hundred and Ninety-Nine Steps\\". I know these are unfair comparisons; genre fiction aspires to do very different things to its literary cousin. But even rated against its own apparent goals - to thrill, to engage, to frighten and to entertain - \\"The Darkest Part of the Woods\\" only hints at what might have been.	2003-12-12
US	52231964	R1OWXJ4NUV74K8	067166770X	770492577	The PIGEON	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Short and satisfying	The central achievement of S&uuml;skind's novella is the way it articulates the social anxiety of a man whose childhood fear of abandonment has played out as a lifetime of limited scope, controlling routines and self-imposed isolation.  That might sound heavy but it isn't - mainly because S&uuml;skind wisely chooses the \\"free indirect\\" narrative style (mastered by Henry James).  The story is told in the third person, but is nevertheless filtered through Jonathan Noel's gaze and consciousness so that external reality exists only as refracted in his mind.  The result is that we see the world as he sees it, but without the unreliability that such a point of view entails.  S&uuml;skind is thereby able to show us precisely what he wants us to see - both the horror and humour of Noel's experience - and to deliver a climax which remains somewhat objective and thereby inspires hope.  Other reviewers seem to have found the ending cloying and unrealistic, but I think they're assuming more than S&uuml;skind suggests.  Noel and his life are not utterly transformed at the end - he has an epiphany, he loses his fear, but it may or may not last.	2003-12-07
US	52231964	R2FOPQ0QVP3IV0	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The search for self	Atwood's early novel is ostensibly the tale a young woman's return to her childhood home - a remote island in northern Quebec - to search for her mysteriously vanished father.  But Atwood uses this tantalizing premise to draw you into something far more ambitious and interesting: a story about how returning to the sites of childhood can trigger the recovery of those parts of ourselves which have been repressed by the need to live in a particular kind of grown-up world - in this case, a modern and male one.  The novel's probing of contemporary gender roles, male violence, Canadian nationalism and environmentalism are occasionally heavy-handed, but it always remains an extended metaphor rather than descending into a simplistic moral fable.  What pulls it through is the credibility of the narrator's emotional experience as she descends deeper into her own past and her own psyche, all keenly articulated by Atwood with typically understated finesse.  Like most of Atwood's fiction, \\"Surfacing\\" is a masterful balance of gripping plot, engaging ideas, and mesmerizing literary artifice.	2003-11-15
US	52231964	R2RT5MZZ3XV74P	0801865409	68963306	Escapism	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Culture as an escape from animality	We tend to think of the way we live as \\"reality\\".  Yet all human culture - from the smallest object to the grandest ideological-religious system - is a form of escape. Indeed, argues Tuan, it may well be the defining feature of humans, as a species, that we have this capacity to imagine and implement transformative projects; that we can turn the world to our will (or try to), rather than remaining the victim of Nature or of our own natures.  \\"Escape\\" or \\"the imagination\\" is value-neutral, argues Tuan, as he explores the methods by which we attempt to escape from animality, and how it can lead us into both the grotesque and the sublime.  What's incredibly satisfying about this book is that Tuan approaches his topic not from the position of philosopher or psychologist, but from the perspective of &quot;human geography&quot; which, in practice, becomes a helpful blend of sociology and anthropology grounded in history and science, but with enough gaps to allow for fruitful speculation.  My only complaint is that the sheer breadth of Yi-Fu Tuan's knowledge leaves you feeling slightly dissatisfied, as if this book is only scratching the surface of an immense topic - which, of course, it necessarily is. So I suppose my dissatisfaction is only with myself.  Thankfully, Tuan provides detailed notes and an excellent bibliography to point the way forward.	2003-11-15
US	52231964	R3T110FE47EUU4	067003102X	533355715	Youth: Scenes from Provincial Life II	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Don't be afraid to fail	Coetzee's fictionalized memoir is a painfully honest account of a would-be writer trying to forge himself through two misguided yet common strategies of youth: heading to one of the world's \\"great cities\\" (London) because only in these places does \\"destiny happen\\"; and kidding himself that both he and his work will be somehow redeemed by love. That he promptly falls into an abyss of middle-class working life and a series of loveless relationships is unsurprising. Coetzee's detached third-person style (an admirable achievement in such a personal work) and his preference for narrating rather than dramatizing most situations here add to the lugubrious mood, though this never becomes a self-indulgent or melancholy work. Indeed, it is saved from that by two things. First, Coetzee's inspiring articulation, in the final pages, of the real reason behind artistic failure in the young: a paralyzing lack of self-confidence which kills art and any chance of a loving relationship. It's the unwillingness to fail and therefore the unwillingness to try which usually thwart us. Secondly, Coetzee's reflections on what I presume to be his own reading history are wonderful. His interleaved commentaries on Henry James, Ezra Pound and Ford Madox Ford are keen and insightful. This is a book that young would-be writers will find alternately depressing and inspiring - and perhaps the not-so-young ones, too. Exhausted, over-educated dwellers in the white-collar wasteland will find much to inspire and console them here. After all, Coetzee was an I.T. professional who didn't publish until well into his 30s and went on to win the Nobel this year at 63. He's certainly made up for lost time.	2003-11-08
US	52231964	R1CLIGOGA4667U	0393320030	215157850	On Becoming a Novelist	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Buy this book	If you want to start writing fiction, or improve what you're already writing, then buy this book.  There's really nothing more to say.  Gardner's slim volume is worth twenty tomes on archetypes and story structures and channeling your inner child.  Those things are important, but for the most part they can take care of themselves.  The strength of Gardner's approach is that he gets straight down to the serious business of putting words on the page and figuring out if you're the kind of person who's good at it.  Drawing examples from his own writing and experience as a teacher, he describes what he sees as the \\"writer's nature\\" (verbal facility, accuracy of vision, a particular kind of intelligence, and a daemonic compulsiveness), gives some blunt observations on the usefulness (or otherwise) of creative writing workshops, some helpful pointers on editors and publishing, and a nice final chapter on creative faith.  My only reservation is that he comes down quite heavily on the side of realism.  \\"Good writers may 'tell' almost anything in fiction except the characters' feelings,\\" he maintains (p.33).  Certainly, a lot of bad writing is bad because it \\"tells\\" rather than \\"shows\\", but I think one of the great beauties and values of prose fiction is precisely that it can take us inside the minds characters and make legible what they are REFUSING to show.  Ironically, this often provides a much greater fidelity to 'real life' than the strikingly un-lifelike practice of levering arcane metaphors into place to represent, externally, a character's mental or emotional experience.  If prose fiction isn't allowed to recount a character's inner life, then what value does it have over film and television - two forms which Gardner seems to decry?  Still, Gardner's advice is generous and convincing, yet never totalizing.  You get the distinct impression that if you totally disagreed with everything he said, and yet still wrote good fiction, he'd be nothing less than delighted for you.  Now that's a good teacher.ou.  Now that's a good teacher.	2003-10-19
US	52231964	R7N8JL1G9Q4SF	0241135796	26357912	Kitchen Venom	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Some nice moments, behind the mask	\\"That is the trouble with people; they are always different, and always refuse to fill the roles we supply for them; and yet they have their roles.\\" (p.322)  This seems to be Hensher's central thesis: the idea that public facades, the roles we are forced to play - father, husband, daughter, lover, and of course our jobs - are masks, and that most of our problems come from the gap between the role and the real.  That's a valid observation, and choosing to explore it through the intersecting destinies of some minor middle-class functionaries in the British Parliament at the tail end of Thatcher's reign drives the point home quite effectively.  But the seriousness of Hensher's intent is undermined by the lack of even one truly likeable character and a tone of relentless pomposity which, at moments, verges on Biblical with its cadenced repetitions.  Given that the novel seems to be narrated by Margaret Thatcher, I suppose that kind of voice is intentional - but it doesn't make it any less irritating.  As this voice gives way to large patches of campy humour and homosexual high jinks, the result is something like Ben Elton pretending to be T. S. Eliot pretending to be Evelyn Waugh, i.e. a bit of a mess, and not quite as funny as it thinks it is.  Still, when Hensher drops his own campy mask and actually says something, he's excellent: especially on the reasoning behind duplicity, the eroticism of secrecy, and the banality of bureaucratic routines.  Not without rewards.	2003-10-05
US	52231964	R1RXHSIREPX914	0856462756	805614900	The Truth of Poetry: Tensions in Modernist Poetry Since Baudelaire	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Indispensable study of modern poetry	Michael Hamburger is one of those academic writers you just want to call up and thank.  He seems to delight in making complex concepts plain, but without dumbing them down.  Anyone who finds twentieth-century poetry \\"difficult\\" or irritating or considers it grossly inferior to the lyrical work that came before it should read this book.  Hamburger narrates the century-long story of poetry wrestling with itself as it tries to find new ways to make meaning, and confronts (or evades) the political, philosophical and psychological developments of modern life. His observations on the use of \\"personae\\" and the problematic distinction between public and private poetry are particularly valuable, as is the breadth of this study which isn't limited to poetry written in English.  Unlike so many academics, Hamburger recongnises that plenty of the works influencing a poet's practice were not even written in the same language (think of the French Symbolists' influence - it even got as far as Australia).  Hamburger seems to be an ardent modernist, but he doesn't let his enthusiasm blind him to modernism's failings and contradictions - indeed, they're some of things that make it so interesting.  His analysis of the work of several canonical modern poets is refreshingly evenhanded.  His insightful exploration of Pound and Eliot is superb, particularly the way in which he relates Eliot's poetry to his philosophy and criticism.  Those crouched at Eliot's feet might do well to look up for five minutes and read it.	2003-09-26
US	52231964	R1CI9RJ8A0Q4LF	0670862312	234998229	The sitters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Available again, at last	The real joy of Australian literary awards is that our publishers can always be relied on to cash-in by reissuing an awarded author's back catalogue.  It's often the only time older books come back into print.  Since Alex Miller won the 2003 Miles Franklin Award for \\"Journey to the Stone Country\\", all of his work has been reissued, including this slim but marvellous novella about an ageing portrait artist who recounts the saddest yet most inspiring episode of his creative life: the portrait of Jessica Keal.  With its distilled intensity, its focus on a creatively significant male-female relationship, and its deeply illuminating observations on portraiture and creativity, it feels for all the world like Rod Jones channelling John Berger - which is no bad thing.  But this isn't only about painting, or even, in the end, about painting at all.  It's about creativity generally - its preoccupations, its patterns, its methods.  Beyond the sheer power of the story, and the quality of ideas, what's most remarkable about this novella is how much Miller can say, and how simply, without it ever feeling more like an essay than fiction.  It's a quite remarkable achievement in tone.  Highly recommended, especially if you enjoy reflecting on your own creative process.	2003-09-17
US	52231964	R19HJ0WE7K0XJ3	0868612200	741966713	An Open Swimmer	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Still has power after 20 years	This simply written yet surprisingly sophisticated coming-of-age story set in Western Australia was Tim Winton's first novel. It won the Vogel Award in 1981 and, reading it now, it comes as no surprise that Winton has gone on to become a multi-award winning, Booker-shortlisted novelist. Two qualities much admired in Winton's short stories of the same era - a straightforward simplicity of language, and a steadfast, minimalist refusal to explain everything for the reader - are employed very effectively here. In the stoic interaction of his male characters he captures that paradoxical combination of qualities we tend to associate with Australian men: a reserved bluntness. Yet there's nothing unsophisticated about Winton's craft. There are some well-chosen motifs which resonate through the novel - the notion of 'diving into the wreck' (set up with an epigraph from Adrienne Rich's poem); a sense of anxiety about masculine identity, established in the prologue episode and echoing through all that follows; and the final explanation of the 'open swimmer' that folds back and makes new meaning out of much that has come before it. Far from being pretentious, forced or merely decorative, these 'literary' touches are gently deployed, quietly amplifying the themes of the novel and elevating it from a conventional coming-of-age teen drama into the realm of serious literature. Winton's refusal to neatly resolve every strand of Jerra's story is true to life, too - something which many coming-of-age stories, usually written by or from the perspective of nostalgic middle-aged men, are not. Winton published this when he was only 22, which might have something to do with it. It's clearly a young man's novel, but it rings with the truth of lived experience. For that reason, it still has something to say.	2003-09-17
US	52231964	R1WY3UXRLQPDO8	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	18	23	N	N	An explanation is not an excuse	\\"Blaming American foreign policy for the 9/11 attacks is the same as justifying them,\\" write some reviewers.  No, it isn't the same.  An explanation is not an excuse.  One insane agenda can be the trigger for another without either being justified on any grounds.  To unthinkingly accept the righteousness of American foreign policy without considering its consequences is precisely the kind of infantile \\"either/or\\" mentality the American right relies on: \\"You're either with us, or you're with the terrorists.\\"  Actually, Mr. Bush, I'm with my conscience and common sense.  Open your mind.  Read this book.  You might not change your views, but at least you'll have tested them against something more than White House press conferences and other forms of infotainment like Fox News.  Chomsky condemns the 9/11 attacks, as any rational, moral human being does.  But he's brave enough to think seriously about what motivated them, even when the answers might be painful.  How brave are you?	2003-09-05
US	52231964	R39IARE212O403	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Momentarily good	What drew me to this book was the shocking originality of its true-story premise: a thirteen-year-old boy is abandoned by his mother into the dubious care of her psychiatrist, and ends up having a sexual relationship with the psychiatrist's thirty-three-year-old 'son'.  Now there's a pitch for a New York publishing house!  Burroughs isn't coy - nor particularly indulgent - when it comes to describing his apparent physical relationship with the man, but he's surprisingly silent on the issues that really matter.  Why was he drawn into this?  How did it affect him, emotionally?  Does he see this kind of thing as legitimate?  What impact did it have on his relationships later in life?  Just when you think he's going to set aside the stand-up routine for a few chapters and focus on these more serious issues, he wanders into a series of campy, vaguely amusing vignettes about hair care, lesbians, and toilet bowl divination, many of which read like short stories he wrote long ago.  And so it goes, virtually to book's end.  Only in the final chapters does he give us anything which delivers on the promise of the poignant opening chapter.  For the most part, he seems content to shock and amuse, and shock some more, and to dazzle us with wordplay.  But for all the rave reviews, the language isn't actually that dazzling.  In the delicate, well-handled moments - like the walk through the waterfall at Smith, and young Augusten's ultimate break with the Finches - there's a restraint and a tenderness which point to a much greater talent than Burroughs usually let's us see.  In those moments, he's far less Jay McInerney and much more Edmund White.  And he's wonderful.  Perhaps the superficiality was a choice: I get the sense this was a project informed more by what Burroughs might call his \\"desire to be professionally lit\\" than by the desire to illuminate anything.  Such a choice will leave a lot of readers out in the cold.  Nevertheless, this is an entertaining memoir which certainly leaves you wondering \\"how it all turned out\\" for young Augusten in New York.  Which, I guess, was the pitch for \\"Dry\\" - one I won't be reading.y leaves you wondering \\"how it all turned out\\" for young Augusten in New York.  Which, I guess, was the pitch for \\"Dry\\" - one I won't be reading.	2003-07-18
US	52231964	R1KRQRGE5AIDHC	0679723056	515602185	What We Talk About When We Talk About Love: Stories	Books	5	192	195	N	N	Master of 'the moment'	I used to hate Carver.  \\"Nothing happens in these stories!\\" I would say.  \\"What does it MEAN, for God's sake?!\\"  It took me a while to realise that Carver's genius isn't for the grand epiphany, the convoluted plot, or the surprise ending.  His genius is for moments of pathos; for moments of carefully observed humanity; for human foibles unflinchingly, but never unkindly, revealed.  You really have to read him for yourself to understand, but here's an example: the story \\"Gazebo\\", which is one of my favourites from this collection.  The story works because what 'the gazebo' means to the couple in the story is something most of us have felt: a dream of future happiness that is now lost to us; lost because we don't see how we might escape the banality of our own lives; lost because we fail to see how close we are to achieving it, if only we could slightly change the way we see things, or the way we live.  None of this is overtly stated in the story - and that's Carver's genius.  It is simply implied by juxtaposition.  Thematic statements and grand epiphanies undermine so many stories (even some of Carver's earlier ones) because they are embarrassing.  I don't mean embarrassing for the writer, I mean embarrassing for us, the readers: to have these slightly pathetic, vaguely shameful, and yet very human moments which are recognisably our own shoved in our faces feels like an accusation, and one we understandably reject.  But to have them placed before us, gently, apparently undeliberately, so that we might see them for ourselves is wonderful.  It engages OUR powers of observation and reflection, not just the writer's.  We see ourselves reflected there in the story, and it's a private moment of self-revelation, of self-understanding.  And more often than not, this is NOT a life-changing experience for us.  No, the effect is much simpler, more realistic and more honest.  It's a feeling of: \\"Oh, thank God.  Other people feel this way, too.  I'm not alone.\\"  It's a moment of empathy, not of explanation.  Carver gives us this gift many times, and so well.  Go read everything he's written.  Especially if you're interested in writing your own stories.  Carver's small body of work has as much to teach us about writing as it does about our lives.empathy, not of explanation.  Carver gives us this gift many times, and so well.  Go read everything he's written.  Especially if you're interested in writing your own stories.  Carver's small body of work has as much to teach us about writing as it does about our lives.	2003-06-17
US	52231964	R3UN1YJKU9OC7B	0702226882	554039599	The Architect	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Why do the innocent suffer?	Good question. What I really want to know is, when are more people going to wake up and start reading John Scott?  With a small collection of novels, and some equally fine poetry, Scott has stunned me and every other reader to whom I've recommended him. (His \\"What I Have Written\\" is my all-time-favourite Australian novel.)  \\"The Architect\\" is ostensibly a tale about two architects: an ageing German with drawers full of unrealized masterpieces; and a young, successful Australian devotee. When the master meets the student and proposes a collaboration, things very quickly get very dark.  Scott takes us into some terrifying but fascinating moral territory here and, like the novel's German protagonist, the author is utterly relentless. For me, this novel is essentially an interpretation of, and a reply to, the Book of Job which famously explores the issue of undeserved suffering.  Scott's novel seems to suggest that man develop a morality which transcends that of God, i.e. a morality predicated on human mortality rather than on some notion of heavenly reward.  Yet for all its intellectual weight, this is a very visual novel and a surprisingly easy read.  It wears its learning lightly.  There is a general absence of interiority, which probably accounts for the powerful sense of inexplicable evil it generates.  It does its work quietly, delicately, through the use of settings and symbols and finely turned phrases.  It's a novel that rewards re-reading.	2003-06-14
US	52231964	R2MBGFD8FKQ36T	1569245835	420770683	Awake: Stories of Life-Changing Epiphanies	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Rewarding anthology	This is a nice collection. Don't be fooled (or discouraged) by the packaging, which tries to market these short pieces as \\"therapy and inspirational self-help\\".  That makes them sound like New Age fluff. They're actually well-selected extracts and complete stories from some of literature's best writers. What they share is a moment in which the protagonist or the writer suddenly understands something significant - either about themselves, about life, or about the nature of reality. Commendably, editor Thomas Dyja doesn't skew his selection towards religion or to one particular philosophy, but rather gives us as broad a range of epiphanies as he does writing styles. There are some nice juxtapositions: none better than putting Henry James' dense yet rewarding \\"The Beast in the Jungle\\" up against a delightfully fresh extract from Jean Shepherd's \\"In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash\\". What his selections show, time and again, is one of the great virtues of literature: the way it speaks up for what is hidden, for what we might otherwise have missed. It whispers through the fissures of the world.	2003-06-07
US	52231964	RF4E3E5PFRRFA	1865089397	819341403	Dark Victory: The Tampa and the Military Campaign to Re-elect the Prime Minister	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Profound contribution to Australian journalism	This is a book for the ages. In closely recounting the Tampa crisis, the \\"children overboard\\" affair, and the whole sordid mess of Operation Relex and its role in the 2001 federal election, Marr and Wilkinson have made a profound contribution to Australian political journalism, and to documenting the shameful record of Howard, his government of moral degenerates, and their distressingly inept Opposition. What might surprise some of Marr's critics is that this book shows an admirable lack of editorializing: he and Wilkinson don't need to seize the moral high ground and lecture the reader. The facts just speak for themselves. They make abundantly clear Howard's shameless tactics (such as 'dog whistle' and 'wedge' politics), the complete lack of independence in the Australian public service, and the contemptible weakness of military officers who refused to speak up with 'frank and fearless' advice even when they knew the government was lying. What the book also demonstrates is the terrifying gap between daily media reports and the reality of what goes on - and this in a country with a reasonably free press. To be fair, Marr and Wilkinson had the luxury of access to ministers, the detailed records of naval vessels, the reports of various inquiries and more than a year to write their book. But it does make you wonder: are most journalists just lazy? Or does the \\"news\\" move at such speed these days and get presented in such a format that it disallows the kind of close analysis a democratic citizenry deserves? Thankfully, people like Marr and Wilkinson are around to reassemble all the pieces for us - their role is essential in a country which seems to be suffering from collective A.D.D. when it comes to Howard and his kind. I was particularly impressed by the authors' meticulous research and referencing, helpful glossary and thorough indexing. This is an important book about a very important issue. I encourage all Australians to read it, and any potential illegal immigrants - sorry, foreign nationals (the Liberal's rhetoric is catching) - who might be interested in understanding the mockery of enlightened democracy that is Australian politics today.s - sorry, foreign nationals (the Liberal's rhetoric is catching) - who might be interested in understanding the mockery of enlightened democracy that is Australian politics today.	2003-05-04
US	52231964	R2HGIPKOCL3RYN	0141008008	1873025	Cry In The Jungle Bar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Australian classic	This is one of several Australian novels from the 1970s-80s which explore the plight of Australians in South-East Asia.  Expatriate scientist and ageing rugby hero Dick Cullen has relocated to the Philippines with Margaret, his allegedly neurotic wife.  Cullen works for the UN and is compiling a report about the use of the water buffalo in Asian agriculture.  To complete the report, Cullen and two colleagues embark on a regional tour through an increasingly dangerous and Americanized Asia; a tour which, for Cullen, becomes ever more harrowing.  Meanwhile, Margaret seeks relief in Eastern mysticism, fad diets and faith healing.  Drewe's Asia is one of exotic-erotic charge and the danger of political unrest.  He has constructed a very readable novel.  It has action, psychological insight, intrigue and `seedy foreigners': everything you could want in this kind of book.  Yet it also raises at least three deeper issues:  the relationship between masculine anxiety and games of power; the misrepresentation of Asian women as exotic, sexually-available playthings; and the conflict between scientific and spiritual perceptions of experience.  Cullen is a man whose size, science and masculinity are being systematically attacked by Asia, and in the particular challenges it makes to him (physical, sexual and epistemological) it becomes a projection of some uniquely Australian concerns.  More complex than it seems.	2003-05-02
US	52231964	R9PB61E3J5FJ1	0099437554	173107375	Ian McEwan: The Essential Guide	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent	Reynolds and Noakes have put together a very helpful book for fans of McEwan and academic readers alike.  They provide detailed analyses of \\"The Child In Time\\", \\"Enduring Love\\", and \\"Atonement\\".  But rather than insisting on one particular \\"reading\\" of each novel, they proceed by asking useful questions about certain passages, techniques and themes. These questions open up the texts in a variety of ways, encouraging you to reflect and re-read and ultimately to make up your own mind.  The initial essay and interview with McEwan are informative, as are the selected reviews and the glossary of literary-critical terms at the back.  (My only complaint is that an analysis of &quot;Black Dogs&quot; isn't included, which I think is one of McEwan's best.)  Overall, this is a book which recognises the complexity of its subject, yet proceeds in a way that makes it accessible without \\"dumbing it down.\\"  In that sense, the book is much like those of McEwan himself: it invites you to explore some fairly complex issues, but in a remarkably engaging and entertaining way.	2003-04-20
US	52231964	R2FFBVU8S5GHSD	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Eloquent skewering of American policy	For those who've been reading a lot about the rise of American conservatism, there isn't much new here. But no one says it quite like Vidal. In essays cropped from \\"Vanity Fair\\" and foreign publications brave and intelligent enough to print what the American press won't, Vidal deals eloquently with some familiar issues: the danger of the Bush administration's response to terrorism; the stupidity of the FBI at Waco; the willful non-investigation of the Oklahoma City bombing; the perils of a \\"democratic\\" system dominated by the representatives of big business; the dangerous fusion of far right Christianity and public office; and, of course, the final debasement of American democracy - the \\"election\\" of President Bush by a losing margin of half a million votes. In discussing these issues, Vidal articulates a point that many commentators miss: that the kind of policies and tactics adopted in the name of patriotism, evident in all these sorry episodes from America's recent past, fundamentally betray the vision of the founders and actually have the USA inching towards a police state - not in appearance, but in reality. Vidal sees the difference between the American Republic, and the American Global Empire which is its most dangerous enemy. And until most Americans learn to separate the flag, the Presidency, and absolute moral righteousness, and see that unthinking worship of any one of them can be used as a smokescreen for the debasement of the others, then the fear of seeming \\"unpatriotic\\" will be used to frighten and manipulate Americans to whatever ends those in power choose.	2003-04-20
US	52231964	R1KFW9UXO546LS	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic of objective style	Hammett's classic tale of Sam Spade and a mysterious statuette is widely lauded as the \\"greatest detective novel of all time.\\" While we should always be suspicious of such claims for a novel (\\"the greatest\\" by what standard?), \\"The Maltese Falcon\\" is certainly one of the most significant. It defined the 'hard-boiled' style, and inspired an entirely new genre in which the anti-heroic detective is just as tainted as the villains.  What strikes the reader most about this novel is the absolute absence of interiority: there is not a single moment when the narrator takes us behind the eyes of a character and gives us direct access to his or her thoughts. Not once are we given this privileged position which, as readers of contemporary fiction, we're likely to take for granted. Any sign of what characters are thinking is given through facial expressions, gestures, or tone of voice. Even then, Hammett's descriptions are so cold and clinical that they read more like the stage directions for a screenplay or the dutifully enumerated details of a police report. Surprisingly, this makes the novel extremely visual - the absence of florid description forces the reader's imagination into action (note the number of reviewers who say, 'I hadn't seen the movie, but I could clearly see every moment of the story in my mind.'). It's a clever choice for a detective novel, too. It makes us proceed entirely from sensory clues, much like Spade has to. Showing us the world as the disenchanted Spade might see it - without feeling, without moral reflection, with nothing but objective physical reality - Hammett tells us more about his famous protagonist than two-hundred pages of purple prose could ever do. But by withholding from the reader vital details that Spade has long ago deduced, he is imbued with a frightening power which gives his early depiction as \\"a blond satan\\" a chilling resonance. Perhaps this is more than a detective story after all. Hammett's prose style certainly takes some getting used to. It's an adjustment that some readers might find difficult to make, and a novel they might enjoy more on reflection. It stays with you, that's for sure.ing used to. It's an adjustment that some readers might find difficult to make, and a novel they might enjoy more on reflection. It stays with you, that's for sure.	2003-04-05
US	52231964	R2CEAKP9DND70U	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	8	14	N	N	You have the right of reply	How wonderful that America is still a country where people like Michael Moore can openly ridicule the administration and live to tell the tale.  How wonderful that America is still a country where Amazon can provide a forum for people like us to exchange our views on Moore's work from one side of the world to the other.  I don't know if Moore is right or wrong on every claim he makes.  I'm not yet in a position to judge all the facts.  But I know this: I will NEVER be in such a position unless people like Moore are allowed to write and distribute this type of book.  You disagree with him?  That's great.  Write your own book.  Write a pro-Republican, pro-Bush volume laying out your evidence against every claim Moore makes.  Don't just demand his book be banned, or ridicule him for being fat or white or supposedly \\"unpatriotic\\".  Show YOUR OWN patriotism!  Step up to the plate.  Shout back.  That's what free speech is all about.  Use those inalienable rights you claim to hold so dear, and get writing.  I'm sure you won't have any trouble getting published.	2003-03-29
US	52231964	R37FL13LUKY16I	067476868X	251396829	The Rhetoric of Reaction: Perversity, Futility, Jeopardy	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	Helpful historical study of conservative rhetoric	Hirschman is concerned with three types of argument typically deployed by reactionaries, i.e. conservatives vehemently, vocally and automatically opposed to proposed changes in the political, social or economic order. The arguments are: (1) Perversity: \\"The change will only exacerbate the problem you are trying to solve.\\"(2) Futility: \\"The change will achieve nothing, because it fails to acknowledge incontrovertible political, social or economic laws.\\" (3) Jeopardy: \\"The change will threaten or destroy some cherished previous accomplishment, such as freedom or democracy.\\"  Hirschman's approach is historical. Drawing examples from three key periods of reactionary thought - the aftermath of the French Revolution, the nineteenth-century push for universal suffrage, and the more recent rejection of the Welfare State - he tracks the development, deployment and intertwining of the arguments. His study raises some unstated questions about the psychology of conservatism, the tendency of the populous to be drawn in by such arguments, and the ease with which they can be deployed in short soundbites making them ideal for a modern mass media. Unfortunately, Hirschman doesn't address these issues, so if you're interested in exploring them you will need to look elsewhere. (Eduardo Giannetti's rather advanced psycho-philosophical study, \\"Lies We Tell Ourselves: The Art of Self-Deception\\", might be a challenging place to start. Giannetti addresses the issue only tangentially, but he does give a full account of the kind of self-delusion that a lot of conservative thinking requires.) While the three arguments Hirschman describes have been used most often by conservatives, he turns in the final chapters to the occasional tendency of \\"progressives\\" to deploy similarly intransigent arguments. Such even-handedness is refreshing. This book will be useful to anyone wanting to promote or defend a progressive agenda as it delineates the likely arcs of resistance you will face, and alerts you to the possibility of woolly thinking infecting your own arguments. It's strongly recommended for conservatives, too. You'll learn that the kind of thinking you find \\"natural\\" and \\"morally right\\" has a long and hysterical history. This book will have both sides of the table thinking - which is always a good thing.u to the possibility of woolly thinking infecting your own arguments. It's strongly recommended for conservatives, too. You'll learn that the kind of thinking you find \\"natural\\" and \\"morally right\\" has a long and hysterical history. This book will have both sides of the table thinking - which is always a good thing.	2003-03-28
US	52231964	RH0MQVY8SO6ZY	1876175621	991343157	Amerika Psycho: Behind Uncle Sam's Mask of Sanity	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A vitriolic entertainment	Best known for his ground-breaking work in \\"Oz\\" magazine half a lifetime ago and his amusing memoir of the era (\\"Hippie Hippie Shake\\"), self-declared futurist Richard Neville has collected his more vitriolic contributions to Sydney's \\"Good Weekend\\" magazine and republished them here. His consistent target is America's global selfishness. This is a nation whose starting point in any conversation about the environment is, in the words of Bush the Elder to the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, \\"The American way of life is not negotiable.\\" The American way of life - the global pursuit of more of everything - is precisely THE PROBLEM we need to solve. And a nation which sacrifices its own and everyone else's long term future to protect the short term interests of the megacorporations that fund the Presidency is not morally equipped to be running the planet, Neville argues. He attacks America's self-congratulatory assertion of global dominance, and its pigheaded ignorance of the moral responsibilities that go with it. And no, playing \\"global policeman\\" in the Middle East is not one of them: masking a geo-political power/oil grab as \\"liberating the people of Iraq\\" is precisely the kind of transparent, hypocritical double-speak Neville abhors. He occasionally reminds us that his hatred is not for the American people, lovely as they are, but for two things: the American administration which (barely) represents them, and the seemingly disembodied forces of economic and cultural imperialism devouring in their name. But Americans could be forgiven for feeling more than a little insulted by these tirades: and many were, if the e-mail correspondence accompanying some of the essays is any indication. (But kudos to Neville for including them.) In no sense is this a well-researched academic volume. These essays are clearly no more than reworked magazine pieces, and the content and tone are precisely what that implies: they're long on ridicule and short on viable alternatives. The book has the kind of entertainingly preachy passages you'll enjoy reading down the phone to your friends, but which won't convince them unless they already happen to be post-materialist lefties like you. Neville's strident whining wears thin before the final page, and he clearly enjoys the sound of his own voice. But not without reason. He still has a talent for the economical phrase: \\"The American way of life is not negotiable. Worse - the American way of life is inescapable.\\"he kind of entertainingly preachy passages you'll enjoy reading down the phone to your friends, but which won't convince them unless they already happen to be post-materialist lefties like you. Neville's strident whining wears thin before the final page, and he clearly enjoys the sound of his own voice. But not without reason. He still has a talent for the economical phrase: \\"The American way of life is not negotiable. Worse - the American way of life is inescapable.\\"	2003-03-22
US	52231964	R2E1YQ9R6H4LVL	0745319629	319637958	Beyond September 11: An Anthology of Dissent	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Voices of reason	Why am I the first Amazon reader to review this book? It was published over nine months ago. While we were busily filling our carts and stroking our egos with copies of Bernard Lewis's almost offensively inane \\"What Went Wrong?\\", Phil Scraton had already compiled an anthology which actually answers the question. This is easily the most cool-headed and comprehensive book to be inspired by September 11. What surprises me most is that it exists. Scraton's contributors - a range of journalists, academics, lawyers, human rights advocates and other commentators - take the unthinkable step of actually questioning the Bush/Blair response to September 11. They come to this view from many different political and ideological positions. What unites this particular coalition of the willing is their willingness to do two things: first, to look into the history of the Middle East, and the history of Western influence there, as a way of making sense of the terrorist attacks; secondly, to explore the motivations for, and consequences of, our ultra-conservative response. These writers cut through the fatuous hubris of \\"Muslims hate us\\" and the \\"axis of evil\\" and lay bare the real motivations - on both sides. When successive British and US governments come out of such an analysis looking somewhat less than innocent, it would be easy to dismiss this book as \\"excusing\\" terrorism. It does not do that. To explore the origins and motivations of terrorism - to explain it - is not to excuse it. Understanding our enemies is surely THE essential element of an effective strategy for defeating them. That this can be accurately described as the \\"dissenting\\" view shows precisely how far we in the West have slipped to the right. Still, it is immensely reassuring that some journalists and academics are willing (and still able) to engage publicly in this kind of debate, considering it is actively discouraged if not gagged by an American press which, like Bush himself, is mostly a lapdog of defense industry advocates, conservative fear-mongers and other American fascists intent on world domination. You don't believe me? Go visit newamericancentury.org to see Cheney and Rumsfeld's plan to have us goose-stepping through the next hundred years. Their logic is simple - the economy depends on war, so let's start a few. With friends like these, who needs enemies?dustry advocates, conservative fear-mongers and other American fascists intent on world domination. You don't believe me? Go visit newamericancentury.org to see Cheney and Rumsfeld's plan to have us goose-stepping through the next hundred years. Their logic is simple - the economy depends on war, so let's start a few. With friends like these, who needs enemies?	2003-03-07
US	52231964	R3LI9M1ZJWU9D	185375482X	488694343	Wake in Fright: Filmed as The Outback (Film Ink)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Australian classic	Something like a transposition of Flann O'Brien's 'The Third Policeman' to rural Australia, Kenneth Cook's brilliantly agonizing novel is a study of young male paralysis and redemption. Few novels capture the sheer horror of outback isolation and the madness it inspires, but Cook manages it beautifully. The 'two-up' scene will be with you forever. This is a forgotten classic of Australian literature, mainly because it has been out of print for many years. Thanks to Text Publishing in Melbourne for resurrecting it - Text is one of the few publishing houses that seems to be taking an intelligent interest in Australian literature these days.	2003-03-07
US	52231964	R3HA6DE4HHLYZ8	0702233196	679851861	I Knit Water	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A promising debut	Craig Bolland's first novel tells the story of Mark Heron, technical writer and aspiring author, who after being dumped by his girlfriend moves into a ramshackle house of apartments to drop out.  His fellow tenants are an eclectic bunch, each representing a particular philosophy of life.  Over the six months he spends with them, Mark gradually recovers a sense of self and, most importantly, the ability to live in the moment - to do nothing, but do it very carefully.  He learns to `knit water', as one of his new friends explains it.  There's a lot to like in this novel.  The physical and emotional `space' that Mark finds himself in will be familiar to most semi-professional twenty-somethings who are too intelligent to be content with the vacuous routines of contemporary life but too inexperienced to know what to do about it.  The characters aren't cliched, but nor are they so irritatingly quirky and original as to preclude all empathy.  And Bolland clearly has something important to say.  I just wish he'd said it a little differently.  Most of this novel is written in a kind of middle-Australian laconic voice, much like the G-rated humour you might find in the back pages of the magazine that comes with the weekend paper.  Intercut with this are some painfully confessional or philosophical passages which read like they're torn straight from the author's diary or writing exercises.  Juxtaposing these is an odd choice and it doesn't entirely work.  While one could argue that it deftly captures the mental landscape of the twenty-something urban intellectual, it doesn't always make for good reading: each can become an ironic counterpoint to the other, draining both of credibility.  For me, the laconic voice sometimes sounded forced, and the confessional one self-indulgent.  I wish Bolland had chosen one and stuck to it.  This hesitancy might result from nervousness on the part of a young writer.  Bolland seems to lack the confidence to let the story speak for itself.  He can't help jumping in to explain things for us just in case we've missed the point.  Quite often he presents us with a well-crafted vignette, the emotional significance of which we're quite capable of understanding unassisted.  Yet the narrator intrudes and explains it all for us.  This might be a deliberate technique: after all, this is a novel about self-discovery, told in the first-person.  But I don't think that's the reason, because Bolland sometimes even has inarticulate characters burst into effusive lyricism to ventriloquize on his behalf.  At those moments, it feels false.  Good writing trusts the reader.  Good writing leave us with something to do.  As the narrator, recalling Henry James, reflects towards the end of the novel: \\"...life doesn't mean things. It is things.\\"  So it is with a good novel: it gives us people, situations, events, but their meaning is something we work out for ourselves.  If the writer is careful enough, we get his or her intended meaning without it having to be explained.  Not trusting the reader might also account for Bolland invoking Calvino: the epigraph is his, as is the old trick which links the final paragraph to the chapter titles, turning them into a kind of prose poem.  Such lofty bookends irritate, not only because they come from works which are so very unlike this one, but because they aren't necessary.  Bolland's novel can speak for itself.  Despite the problem of tone (which I've probably overemphasized here), \\"I Knit Water\\" is a solid effort.  It was refreshing to read a novel about contemporary Australian life that dealt frankly with the frustratingly indefinable angst felt by so many of us.  I look forward to reading more of Bolland's work.can't help jumping in to explain things for us just in case we've missed the point.  Quite often he presents us with a well-crafted vignette, the emotional significance of which we're quite capable of understanding unassisted.  Yet the narrator intrudes and explains it all for us.  This might be a deliberate technique: after all, this is a novel about self-discovery, told in the first-person.  But I don't think that's the reason, because Bolland sometimes even has inarticulate characters burst into effusive lyricism to ventriloquize on his behalf.   At those moments, it feels false.  Good writing trusts the reader.  Good writing leave us with something to do.  As the narrator, recalling Henry James, reflects towards the end of the novel: \\"...life doesn't mean things. It is things.\\"  So it is with a good novel: it gives us people, situations, events, but their meaning is something we work out for ourselves.  If the writer is careful enough, we get his or her intended meaning without it having to be explained.  Not trusting the reader might also account for Bolland invoking Calvino: the epigraph is his, as is the old trick which links the final paragraph to the chapter titles, turning them into a kind of prose poem.  Such lofty bookends irritate, not only because they come from works which are so very unlike this one, but because they aren't necessary.  Bolland's novel can speak for itself.  Despite the problem of tone (which I've probably overemphasized here), \\"I Knit Water\\" is a solid effort.  It was refreshing to read a novel about contemporary Australian life that dealt frankly with the frustratingly indefinable angst felt by so many of us.  I look forward to reading more of Bolland's work.	2003-03-02
US	52231964	R1FD4EIJD6XBS3	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	2	41	69	N	N	Fails to answer its own question	Don't buy this book if you're trying to understand current Middle Eastern politics or their recent blowback onto American soil. As the author notes in his preface, this book was already in page proofs when the Twin Towers fell down. So its status as a recent New York Times Bestseller says more about our turning to literature as a way of comprehending September 11 than it does about the author's intentions or the book's actual content. Lewis can't be blamed for that. But even so, he fails to address what the jacket blurb promises. It claims the book explores the intersection of Western and Middle Eastern cultures and, in particular, 'examines the anguished reaction of the Islamic world as it tried to understand why things had changed, and provides a fascinating portrait of culture in turmoil.' I thought I was going to get a short-course history of Muslim culture and politics and an unflinching analysis of how Islam engaged with Western imperialism. But Lewis provides nothing of the sort. Patched together from his public lectures and previously published articles, Lewis conducts a chatty, schematic and rather disjointed tour through Muslim social history in a tone you'd expect from a secondary school text or, in places, an inflight magazine. And he stops well short of the period that matters the most: the last fifty years when the creation of Israel, the struggle for oil, and the West's covert efforts to thwart regional communist insurgency combined to create the ugly and dangerous spectacle the Middle East is today. Only in the final ten pages does Lewis even address the issue of the book's title. But he doesn't actually explain what went wrong - he merely gives a dismissive precis of some possible answers and concludes (rather disingenuously, I think), that the future of the Middle East is in its own hands. That it most certainly isn't is more than half the problem: if only we could leave it alone!  This book is useful if you want a brief introduction to the history and culture of the Ottoman Empire. But if you want to understand the political, ideological and economic forces which shaped the Middle East in the twentieth century, and inspired militant Islamists to violence, look elsewhere.and culture of the Ottoman Empire. But if you want to understand the political, ideological and economic forces which shaped the Middle East in the twentieth century, and inspired militant Islamists to violence, look elsewhere.	2003-03-01
US	52231964	R2H0DKK3D6CRK5	1859846793	348527795	The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Historical context for September 11	Those who think looking for an explanation for September 11 in the unfortunate collision of American foreign policy and fundamentalist Islam is to somehow \\"excuse\\" the terrorists will find nothing to please them here - nor anything to flatter their prejudices.  Tariq Ali is an atheist, and he's just as brutal in his dismissal of Islam and other religions as he is of Western imperialism.  Religion is to be rejected for two reasons, he says: it is a set of ideological delusions; and it is a system of institutional oppression, with immense powers of persecution and intolerance.  So don't buy or reject this book thinking Ali's an apologist for Islam and a hater of the West.  \\"The Clash of Fundamentalisms\\" is about the long history of South Asia and the Middle East, the engagement of Islam and the West, and the consequences of their conflicting interests.  It requires some understanding of Middle Eastern history and politics, but not a lot.  It will appeal mainly to those wanting to understand the background to the current Middle East situation and the motivations for the terrorist attacks; who want to know how America's fanatical efforts to repel Communism from every corner of the globe drew it into some dangerous, secret and unlikely alliances and how we're only reaping the \\"rewards\\" of that now.  You will have to be fearless enough to accept that the terrorists were not illiterate, bearded fanatics from the mountains of Afghanistan but, as Ali puts it, \\"highly-skilled, middle-class professionals\\" acting on a sincere religious conviction.  That we find that conviction deplorable, and their murderous actions utterly indefensible, should not discourage us from trying to understand them.  Surely understanding the enemy is an essential element of an effective strategy for defeating them?  I enjoyed Ali's writing.  I found it refreshing to hear a voice which was strident, committed, and quite a bit more convincing than what passes for serious analysis in the Western media.  But the lack of a bibliography, and little evidence of real scholarship was disappointing and hardly added weight to his claims.  Many Westerners, especially Americans, will probably find this book offensive in the extreme.  Which is why I think the chapter entitled \\"A short-course history of US imperialism\\" should be compulsory reading in Western high schools.  I say that not because I agree with it, not because I think everything Ali claims is true (I do not), but because it would be wonderful for students to hear both sides of the story; to get the sense, if just for a moment, that another side of the argument exists.  Ali will make you think.  He will inspire you to read other books on the topic.  He might even have you making up your own mind about the issue from a position of informed judgement.  And even if you end up disagreeing with him, you'll still have to thank him for that.But the lack of a bibliography, and little evidence of real scholarship was disappointing and hardly added weight to his claims.  Many Westerners, especially Americans, will probably find this book offensive in the extreme.  Which is why I think the chapter entitled \\"A short-course history of US imperialism\\" should be compulsory reading in Western high schools.  I say that not because I agree with it, not because I think everything Ali claims is true (I do not), but because it would be wonderful for students to hear both sides of the story; to get the sense, if just for a moment, that another side of the argument exists.  Ali will make you think.  He will inspire you to read other books on the topic.  He might even have you making up your own mind about the issue from a position of informed judgement.  And even if you end up disagreeing with him, you'll still have to thank him for that.	2003-02-23
US	52231964	R2L46D0XJMBAKO	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Delightful	Readers coming to this book via Curtis Hanson's wonderful film, as I did, will not be disappointed.  Screenwriter Steve Kloves did a remarkable job of transposing it into a touching comedy, but when you read Chabon's original you realise just how much more there is in it and how perfectly director Hanson captured its tone.  There's a whole backstory on Grady's youth involving a suicidal writer in the style of H. P. Lovecraft, and the tale of how he met his editor Terry Crabtree.  There's much more of the visit to the Jewish family home of Grady's soon-to-be-ex-wife Emily, and more than one dead pet.  Chabon's prose is remarkable.  He sneaks up on you with an uncanny ability to be both laconic and precise, humorous and profound, erudite without annoying you with his erudition.  To wit: \\"I'd spent the whole of my life waiting to awake on an ordinary morning in the town that was destined to be my home, in the arms of the woman I was destined to love, knowing the people and doing the work that would make up the changing but essentially invariable landscape of my particular destiny.  Instead here I was, forty-one years old, having left behind dozens of houses, spent a lot of money on vanished possessions and momentary entertainments, fallen desperately in and abruptly out of love with at least seventeen women, lost my mother in infancy and my father to suicide, and everything was about to change once more, with unforeseeable result.  And yet for all that I had still never gotten used to the breathtaking impermanence of things.\\"  And that's only on page 45.  Writers (even, or perhaps especially, aspiring ones) will find this novel particularly engaging both for its story and its style.  A true five-star affair.	2003-02-02
US	52231964	R2P0R7IB1ML32C	0571204341	648761260	Landing on the Sun	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Highly accomplished	With its enticing blend of sex, death, Establishment politics and academic philosophy (in this case the theory of happiness), the setup for this intriguing novel sounds like something by Ian McEwan. But Frayn brings to it his trademark sense of humor, so it never quite gets into the same territory. The comic aspects of an unlikely love affair between a devious public servant and the Oxford academic who is also his boss are fully exploited, providing a nice counterpoint to the more intellectually engaging philosophical material. In that sense, this novel makes a nice companion piece to Frayn's two most recent efforts - \\"Headlong\\" and \\"Spies\\" - both of which similarly deploy comic plots as devices for discussing more serious concerns. In the right hands, this kind of thing can really work. Frayn consistently manages to pull it off because he makes clever narrative choices. Here, he uses the first-person narration of an investigator, the transcripts of meetings, and audio tapes of the lovers to tell a story which unfolds in two timeframes. He also sets up an intriguing mystery - Who killed Stephen Summerchild? - to pull you through. Highly original and engaging, this should appeal to readers who prefer literary fiction but also enjoy the intrigue and pacing of crime/mystery novels. It's a challenging fusion of the two.	2003-01-31
US	52231964	R14RA680QTUILN	0571204295	192619004	The Trick of It	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Metafictive delight	This is a story of hero(ine) worship, a disastrous relationship, and the destructive power of envy, told in the form of letters from an English academic who becomes romantically involved with the famous author who is the subject of his studies. As in \\"Headlong\\", Frayn gives us a flawed protagonist we both like and despise. We can see the value of what he wants and wish him well in his quest, but then can only look on in agonized impotence as he goes about securing his object by entirely inappropriate means. The comedy of the scenario would be enough, but Frayn has more on his mind. This is a novel about novels, about writing. It's a kind of metafiction which explores \\"the trick\\" of fiction. What is it that writers do? How do they create their stories? Do they invent? Or do they plunder their own lives and the lives of those around them? In the manner of most good metafiction, this one raises more questions than it answers. In the end, the origin and status of what we have just read is never quite resolved. Is this simply a collection of the protagonist's letters? Or is it the 'factual novel' he has lately been writing in competition with his wife? Or is it in fact a novel written by his wife, based on their shared experiences? Or one written by his Australian academic friend to whom these 'letters' were addressed? Or even one by the biographer who was urgently trying to locate them for his own dire ends? We never really know - which is part of the trick of it.	2003-01-31
US	52231964	RJ9IXZER2CBFE	0571204244	59186170	Towards the End of the Morning	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Still funny after 36 years	Michael Frayn's 1967 Fleet Street novel draws unavoidable comparison with Evelyn Waugh's \\"Scoop\\", and that it comes off looking pretty good speaks volumes for Frayn's talent. It tells the story of John Dyson, a middling newspaper man slipping towards the end of his youth and towards the end of his foundering career. It also parallels the end of British print media in its traditional form as it gradually gave way to Americanization, i.e. the unavoidable slip towards television. But Frayn's portrait is a fair one: he isn't suggesting the lager-soaked world of British print was any better than what replaced it. He exploits the humorous potential of both. His dramatization of British class-based social anxiety and the irritating bullishness of American upstarts are both spot-on. Frayn's introduction to this edition interestingly explains the origins of the novel and the actual people and experiences on which it is based.	2003-01-31
US	52231964	R2VLAJLFCWMWN0	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A tale of two 'special relationships'	Though perhaps the most conventionally plotted of McEwan's wonderful novels, \\"The Innocent\\" is no less enthralling, sexy or deliciously gruesome than the rest. Here he takes an actual historical incident - a British-American attempt to tunnel into East Germany for the purpose of tapping Russian phone cables in 1955-56 - and expands it into allegory. While this story could be enjoyed simply as a spy thriller, McEwan clearly has more in mind than that. He invites us to read the sexual and political adventures of English surveillance officer Leonard Marnham, his German girlfriend Maria, and his American supervisor Bob Glass, as a metaphor for a naive England's failure to secure an interest in post-war Germany. In particular, he explores the way England's \\"special relationship\\" with America undermined it. As Maria chides Leonard thirty years later: \\"It was wrong of you to retreat with your anger and silence. So English! ... If you felt betrayed, you should have fought for what was yours. You should have accused me, you should have accused Bob. There would have been a fight, and we would have gotten to the bottom of it. But I know really that it was your pride that made you slink away...\\" She's talking about their romance, but if it isn't also an indictment of British politico-military paralysis then I don't know what is.  McEwan is very good on Germany, and \\"The Innocent\\" is a great book to read along with his next novel (and, to my mind, best), \\"Black Dogs\\", which addresses evil, God and German reunification among other things.	2003-01-23
US	52231964	RBJ9VSXA70MCV	0385497520	507343445	The Child in Time	Books	5	121	126	N	N	Magnificent	This is the first of McEwan's mature novels, and easily one of his best.  He goes well beyond the psycho-sexual darkness of his short stories and novellas into new philosophical territory.  When it opens with the daughter of children's author Stephen Lewis being snatched from the local supermarket, you could be forgiven for thinking this novel is going to be about Stephen's obsessive, fruitless search for her and his inevitable psychological collapse.  But Kate's disappearance is just the beginning.  McEwan sidesteps the perils of family melodrama and rapidly escalates this into an intelligent and surprisingly moving novel about childhood, memory, growth, the horrors of conservative politics, and the joys of theoretical physics.  McEwan's topic is time, and in addressing it from unexpected and seemingly disparate directions he demonstrates that a novel doesn't have to be an obvious, linear, plot-driven story.  By the end, you realise you have in fact been told a wonderful story - one about Stephen's emotional adaptation - but that the novel is all the better because this has not been the explicit or only focus.  In fact, all the pieces of this dazzlingly audacious philosophical puzzle slot perfectly into place in a final chapter which is as wonderfully unexpected as it is profoundly moving.  McEwan's gift is for making the \\"big themes\\" real for us; for showing us how they're constantly moving, like continental plates, beneath the mundanity of our every day lives.  He takes you places you don't expect to go.  He assumes you're as intelligent as he is, and he gives you plenty to think about and plenty to do.  When it works, as it does here, it's wonderful.	2003-01-20
US	52231964	R33V6OWPPO7P7G	0679749845	93773817	The Comfort of Strangers	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A long short story	\\"The Comfort of Strangers\\" reads like an extended version of something you might find in one of McEwan's two collections of short stories, \\"First Love, Last Rites\\" or \\"In Between The Sheets\\".  It's a tale of psycho-sexual obsession (of course!), played out between two couples.  It's very Bataille, and in places a little dull - though perhaps the languor is a deliberate recreation of Colin and Mary's holiday experience.  It's excellent on the tiredness of a worn-out relationship and the perils into which politeness can lead you - especially overseas.  It's less good at what McEwan's later works do best: integrating the philosophical material with an engaging narrative.  The result is that the philosophical point - an argument about the cusp of violence and desire - needs to be explained in some passages which sound artificial, non-fictional, almost ripped from the pages of French philosophy and pasted in.  It doesn't have the satisfying 'connectedness' which distinguishes his later novels.  That's hardly a criticism, I suppose: you can't fault a writer for improving. McEwan fans (and I'm a big one) will find plenty to enjoy here: in particular, a plot suffused with the terrible menace for which the author is deservedly is renowned.	2003-01-20
US	52231964	R3MBO7HIADHN7L	0805054081	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Magical	For Auster devotees, plenty will be familiar here: a tantalizing unsolved mystery; a literary-intellectual protagonist with ruptured relationships and sudden access to money; and, less pleasingly, the occasional too-convenient plugging of plot holes.  In its style of execution - novel as testimony - \\"The Book of Illusions\\" echoes Auster's \\"Leviathan\\", and it's no surprise that it deals with many of the same themes: the power of art; the limits of language; the importance of taking something forward and the value of what we leave behind; creativity as atonement; the power of coincidence; the interconnectedness of lives.  But here, Auster throws philosophical nominalism into the mix, and a surprisingly profound appreciation of film, to deliver a novel with all the Auster trademarks and quite a bit more chilling depth. Some reviewers complain that Auster keeps writing the same book.  That charge could be leveled at any number of writers, but with Auster it misses the point.  Writers often have big themes they want to explore, recurring issues they like to grapple with, and a talent for a particular kind of story.  If, as in Auster's case, those themes, issues and story types happen to be engaging, then where's the problem?  Auster could go on writing the same book forever and it would be perfectly fine by me.  I hope he does.  And even if he doesn't, I know I'll be re-reading this one.  I get the sense that \\"The Book of Illusions\\" is a book to be returned to, rediscovered and enjoyed all over again.  The novel proceeds by a kind of patterned symbolism: aspects of the lives and works of Zimmer, Chateaubriand and Mann recur and intersect, and we can read \\"out\\" from these instances, making sense of what comes before them as much as what comes after.  Their lives aren't linear biographies; they fold, double-back, intersect and amplify each other.  This technique is more poetic than prosaic: in poetry, repetitions of sounds and images open up new strata of meaning beneath the surface.  So it is with Auster, and especially in this novel.  I expect that on the second and third readings echoes and intersections previously unnoticed will suddenly appear.  It makes \\"The Book of Illusions\\" a rare find: one not only immediately engaging, but also endlessly enjoyable.he surface.  So it is with Auster, and especially in this novel.  I expect that on the second and third readings echoes and intersections previously unnoticed will suddenly appear.  It makes \\"The Book of Illusions\\" a rare find: one not only immediately engaging, but also endlessly enjoyable.	2003-01-15
US	52231964	R1PF9UOOM9OFL3	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	5	10	11	N	N	More brilliance from Paul Auster	Paul Auster has to be one of the cleverest writers around, and one of the most rewarding.  \\"Leviathan\\" tells the story of Peter Aaron's 15-year friendship with Benjamin Sachs - a wunderkind novelist and conscientious objector who, ultimately through violent protest, makes his political convictions a part of his everyday life.  Running from the mid-seventies to 1990, this is a tour through Reagan's America and its somnambulistic abandonment of every value that makes America great.  Once again, Auster usefully blurs the boundaries of autobiography and fiction, making his unlikely tale feel real.  And his choice of a \\"mystery story\\" setup and personal tone are perfect: with its largely undramatized sequences presented in the casual, reflective style of a memoir, it never gets preachy despite its political intent; and our desire to uncover the mystery of just how and why Ben died pulls us effortlessly through the labyrinth to the end.  For me, the final scene was remarkably touching.  Compulsively readable, perfectly pitched, and ultimately about something important - novels don't get much better than this.	2003-01-09
US	52231964	R20OICDZEWDIAU	0375706399	151828413	The Book on the Bookshelf	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good on engineering, less so on the rest	Petroski's guided tour through the history of books and bookshelves is most interesting when it focuses on what the author knows best: engineering. His discussions of Dewey's \\"golden mean\\" of shelf design, the pros and cons of movable shelving, and the arcane mysteries of bookstack engineering are particularly insightful. The appendix on the various ways of ordering a book collection is also very good. Less appealing is the plainly historical material which reads like a litany of not-so-interesting facts. The best popular historians give much more emphasis to anecdote, character and the requirements of storytelling as a way of making dry material engaging. Petroski tries, but he's never less successful than when he attempts to be lyrical or funny. There are also what appear to be a few pompous snipes at colleagues and (former) friends which, without exception, fall embarrassingly flat. Nevertheless, this book still appeals and is a useful contribution to an often neglected field. There are few books which can have you thinking about the object in your hands, or the shelf you just pulled it from, and realising that while both might seem completely obvious and 'natural', they stand, in fact, at the end of a long history of technical innovation.	2002-12-08
US	52231964	R1U2AFW7CF2O01	0452272726	296956896	The Eye in the Door	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Regeneration Trilogy	Pat Barker's magnificent trilogy is not only a profound contribution to our literature on the First World War - it is also one of the most distinguished works of contemporary fiction in any genre. Barker doesn't skirt around the central issues with a po-faced patriotic reverence, but rather tackles them head on: the agonizing contradictions of patriotism and protest; the politics of social and self-surveillance; the homoerotic undertones of trench camaraderie, especially among the war poets; the horrendous physical and psychological costs of war; and the sense of personal duty which drives us, nonetheless, to fight. These are big themes, but Barker's talent is to handle them in a way which makes her novels feel like an easy read. They are accessible, engaging, seemingly simplistic in their style - but in the end profoundly moving in a way which only the highest literature aspires to be. The trick is that she makes her characters so real for us - Prior and Rivers, the consistent protagonists, are completely human. She makes us experience a world-historical incident on a very human scale. Harrowing, intelligent, moving and funny, Barker has crafted a fictional epic that will stay with you forever. Walking through Sydney's Central railway station months after finishing these books, I came across the honour boards listing the hundreds of railway men and women who died in the Great War. Barker's books made the war real for me, made these lives - these deaths - real. If they do nothing more than that for you, they've succeeded.	2002-12-05
US	52231964	R9KBH022JPQUQ	0452270073	779881568	Regeneration	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Regeneration Trilogy	Pat Barker's magnificent trilogy is not only a profound contribution to our literature on the First World War - it is also one of the most distinguished works of contemporary fiction in any genre.  Barker doesn't skirt around the central issues with a po-faced patriotic reverence, but rather tackles them head on: the agonizing contradictions of patriotism and protest; the politics of social and self-surveillance; the homoerotic undertones of trench camaraderie, especially among the war poets; the horrendous physical and psychological costs of war; and the sense of personal duty which drives us, nonetheless, to fight.  These are big themes, but Barker's talent is to handle them in a way which makes her novels feel like an easy read.  They are accessible, engaging, seemingly simplistic in their style - but in the end profoundly moving in a way which only the highest literature aspires to be.  The trick is that she makes her characters so real for us - Prior and Rivers, the consistent protagonists, are completely human.  She makes us experience a world-historical incident on a very human scale.  Harrowing, intelligent, moving and funny, Barker has crafted a fictional epic that will stay with you forever.  Walking through Sydney's Central railway station months after finishing these books, I came across the honour boards listing the hundreds of railway men and women who died in the Great War.  Barker's books made the war real for me, made these lives - these deaths - real.  If they do nothing more than that for you, they've succeeded.	2002-12-05
US	52231964	R2ELSXNYCC9J5O	0452276721	129425029	The Ghost Road (William Abrahams)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Regeneration Trilogy	Pat Barker's magnificent trilogy is not only a profound contribution to our literature on the First World War - it is also one of the most distinguished works of contemporary fiction in any genre. Barker doesn't skirt around the central issues with a po-faced patriotic reverence, but rather tackles them head on: the agonizing contradictions of patriotism and protest; the politics of social and self-surveillance; the homoerotic undertones of trench camaraderie, especially among the war poets; the horrendous physical and psychological costs of war; and the sense of personal duty which drives us, nonetheless, to fight. These are big themes, but Barker's talent is to handle them in a way which makes her novels feel like an easy read. They are accessible, engaging, seemingly simplistic in their style - but in the end profoundly moving in a way which only the highest literature aspires to be. The trick is that she makes her characters so real for us - Prior and Rivers, the consistent protagonists, are completely human. She makes us experience a world-historical incident on a very human scale. Harrowing, intelligent, moving and funny, Barker has crafted a fictional epic that will stay with you forever. Walking through Sydney's Central railway station months after finishing these books, I came across the honour boards listing the hundreds of railway men and women who died in the Great War. Barker's books made the war real for me, made these lives - these deaths - real. If they do nothing more than that for you, they've succeeded.	2002-12-05
US	52231964	RNIJS89MQ9OE4	1582340579	478945976	Lies We Live By: The Art of Self-Deception	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Broad, deep and accessible	Don't be fooled by the catchy title - this isn't a pop-psych wander through commonly-held delusions.  Blending science, philosophy and psychology, Eduardo Giannetti makes a rigorous yet accessible attempt to explain precisely what goes on in our minds when we (try to) deceive ourselves, why we do it, and its consequences.  Only in the fourth and final chapter does he really apply this theory to intra- and interpersonal behaviour and draw some interesting conclusions for the rule of law.  Giannetti is an historian of ideas, and it shows.  The scope of his research for this book is enormous.  But for all the depth and breadth of its inquiry, you don't have to be a student of philosophy to appreciate it.  A passing acquaintance with epistemology - especially Descartes - will smooth your path through the first two chapters, but Giannetti's skill for cogent argument, his clear examples and comprehensive end notes are enormously helpful.  You come away feeling like you've had a crash-course in neuroscience, evolution, psychology and ethics, and with a long list of books you want to buy.	2002-11-30
US	52231964	R7SZHK86QGBCQ	0517552698	835302519	Black Water: The Book of Fantastic Literature	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Best of its kind, with one annoying flaw	Alberto Manguel - anthologist extraordinaire - put together this definitive collection of fabulist fiction almost twenty years ago, and it's yet to be surpassed.  It covers an immense range of themes and an eclectic international mix of writers.  Moreover, it's one of the few anthologies in which almost every story appeals.  What appeals less, however, is Manguel's immensely irritating habit of revealing key elements of most of the stories in his pithy introductions.  Such editorial spoiling is always annoying, but it's especially frustrating when applied to 'fantastic' fiction because so much of its effect depends on mystery, surprise endings, and the wonderful disorientation of not knowing precisely what is going on.  Here, story after story is derailed by Manguel telling us up front that it's a 'time travel story' or a 'ghost story', or how it ends, or that it achieves its effect in a particular way.  My recommendation is that you read the introductions only after you've read each story - and do read them, because apart from spoilers, they quite often reveal savvy observations, unusual connections, and interesting biographical notes.  Dates of composition for each story (where known) would have been a helpful addition.  You can in some cases deduce these from the copyright acknowledgements at the front of the book, but not always.  Manguel's preface to the volume is illuminating: it strikes just the right balance between personal memoir, academic apparatus and useful information.	2002-11-18
US	52231964	R15196FAX45DHA	0553381008	865881389	Stories of Anton Chekhov	Books	5	109	112	N	N	A fine selection	These thirty stories provide not only a superb sampling of Chekhov's talent, but also - I'm assured - the finest translations available. I'm no expert, but I found the proof was in the reading: though they contain many of the same stories, this collection is vastly more enjoyable than \\"The Essential Tales of Chekhov\\" (translated by Constance Garnett and edited by Richard Ford). The translations by Pevear and Volokhonsky are somehow much fresher, lighter, subtler, but without losing any of the dark reality they depict. I ploughed through Ford's collection with difficulty, but the Pevear/Volokhonsky edition was a delight. Helpfully supplemented by end notes, dates of composition and a learned introduction, this edition clearly tracks the development and deviations of Chekhov's talent: short, satirical character studies and tragi-comic romances sit comfortably alongside stories which more seriously and sympathetically explore the nineteenth-century Russian way of life. The longer stories such as 'Ward No.6' and 'A Boring Story' are particularly impressive but, for me, it's in the later stories such as 'The Lady With the Little Dog', 'A Medical Case' and 'The Fianc&eacute;e' that Chekhov really hits the mark. Like most of the grim offerings of Russian literature, Chekhov's stories aren't for everyone. They render a sobering portrait of pre-Revolutionary Russia: a world of oppressive poverty, cruel winters, loveless marriages, and a remarkable number of consumptive relatives lying on stoves. And those looking for gripping plots or surprise endings should look elsewhere. But those who appreciate delicate observations, 'slice-of-life' narratives, and the occasional epiphany, will find plenty to enjoy here.	2002-10-30
US	52231964	R1PT350HRTCP27	0140131558	71854538	The New York Trilogy: City of Glass; Ghosts; The Locked Room  (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	146	158	N	N	Surveillance of the self	If you're looking for detective stories, look elsewhere.  Auster isn't interested in the classic noirish private eye tale as anything but a way into territory vastly more compelling.  Though his three novellas ostensibly revolve around men hired or driven into the pursuit of others, they end up being more about the psychology of the pursuer than the pursued.  Surveillance of the self and the collapse of what we assume is our own identity is the abiding theme here, and Auster gives it three fascinating spins with simple plots which quickly spiral to literary altitudes.  But don't expect simple resolutions.  There are no straightforward answers here.  If these were simple issues, they wouldn't justify the exploration Auster gives them.  I had the pleasure of reading this immediately prior to Auster's \\"The Art of Hunger\\" (1997), a collection of essays and interviews which reveals, among other things, how \\"The New York Trilogy\\" blends aspects of his autobiography, literary theories and abiding interests into a fascinating work of fiction.  Read them together. Then read everything else he's written. You won't be disappointed.	2002-10-21
US	52231964	RRLFT1EE9DU79	0312421435	815137418	No Logo: No Space, No Choice, No Jobs	Books	2	30	39	N	N	Ideology as fashion	Irritatingly anecdotal and blithely schematic, Klein's casually researched litany of apparent bombshells on global capitalism boils down to little more than a string of obvious facts for anyone with a modicum of economic sense: unregulated markets tend towards monopoly; producers minimize labour costs to maximize profit; advertisers devise increasingly insidious means of promoting products.  Really?!  You don't say!  Ironically, Klein is most interesting when unconvincingly defending her generation's past inaction on globalization along the lines of, \\"Sorry, but we were busy decrying other things.\\" A legitimate point and a surprising confession, but it's also a telling one: what 'thing' will it be next year?  In America's repetitive cycle of issue activism, when anti-globalization's gloss inevitably fades Asian wage slaves and their heartless masters will no doubt be quickly forgotten like so many Ethiopian famine victims or battered baby seals. Klein's rousing call to arms might be significant if it actually changed consumer behaviour - if it not only gave us pause the next time we slipped on a pair of Nikes or strolled into Starbucks, but actually curtailed the purchase. But it won't do that, for the simple reason that the almost hysterical enthusiasm with which this book has been received (check the reviews) is fueled by precisely the same kind of mania, the same kind of look-at-me populist grandstanding, that has us wearing sports shoes as fashion items and drinking bad coffee in the first place: we somehow think it's cool.	2002-10-21
US	52231964	R34BDUNYMA7FL3	0140261060	448819895	The Practice of Writing	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A wonderful book	In contrast to the towering arrogance of many critics, academics and novelists who have published reflections on the craft of writing, Lodge stands alone as an enduring voice of common sense - probably because he's worked as all three.  This breadth of experience keeps him grounded in the real world - which is good, because that's where writing and reading are actually done.  In this collection of essays, he never disappears into theoretical ivory towers, nor does he make ridiculously large claims for the art of the novel or the enormity of his own talent.  His essays are characterized by a generous, unpretentious ease.  This book will be immensely enjoyable for writers and readers alike, but particularly for writers.  Lodge's refreshing honesty about his own writing practices and experiences - especially in adapting his own novels and others - is a treat.	2002-10-16
US	52231964	RUX4DJU2T551E	009928944X	823631097	The Understanding of Jenner Ransfield	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A rollicking, blustery feminist tract	This begins like a ham-fisted parody of a conventional romance novel - and it's probably intended to, given that it quickly escalates into something more ambitious, more political, and ultimately more interesting.  When Theodora Potts, Australian veterinary scientist, goes to England to complete some research with renowned geneticist and notorious sexual predator Jenner Ransfield, she becomes embroiled with the violently verbose Jenner and his uniquely dysfunctional family: wife Elspeth, devoted homemaker and frustrated mariner; daughter May Margaret, feminist sculptor; and son Robin, web evangelist.  There's also Fergal, a sexually abstemious environmentalist whose particular form of protest is to hang naked from trees.  Imogen de la Bere uses this unique configuration of characters to explore many issues, but chiefly male-female relations in a post-feminist age.  It's a wild, chaotic ride, but not an uninteresting one.  And beneath the rollicking bluster of it all, there are some quiet moments of real perceptiveness in de la Bere's prose - she handles flashbacks particularly well, subtly revealing the emotional backstories which make her characters do the things they do.  In these passages, she shows a style and a sensitivity she'd do well to develop.  If she set aside the desire to shock and amuse, I'm sure a truly great novel would be within her reach.  (One criticism: Very lazy substitution of New Zealand for Australian vernacular: we wear \\"jumpers\\" or \\"sweaters\\", not \\"jerseys\\"; and a bloke might play AFL for his \\"shire\\" or \\"region\\" or even his \\"county\\", but never for his \\"province\\".)	2002-10-16
US	52231964	RAPIJ2ZFQK10S	0292785151	491203203	The Understructure of Writing for Film and Television	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Practical help for screenwriters	With so many screenwriting guides focusing on broad brush elements such as story structure, plot points, and archetypal journeys, it's great to find a book which begins by teaching you something practical: how to write a scene.  It seems an obvious thing for a screenwriting guide to teach, but 90% neglect it.  And it's something that 90% of aspiring screenwriters desperately need to learn.  So putting the cart firmly back behind the horse, Brady and Lee first help you build some fundamental skills as a dramatist.  Only after the absolute basics of scene writing and dramatic conflict have been mastered do they move on - and because of this, their later chapters on character, crisis, climax, dialogue and theme are infinitely more effective.  They all grow out of what has come before them.  Every step of the way, Brady and Lee provide straightforward writing assignments which are pitched at precisely the right level to build your skills cumulatively.  The text is occasionally a little wordy, and could perhaps be improved by the use of bullet points, diagrams and chapter summaries.  But thankfully, every argument is thoroughly justified with nicely worked examples from Oscar-winning or nominated screenplays such as \\"The Godfather\\", \\"Kramer vs. Kramer\\", \\"Rocky\\", \\"Tootsie\\", \\"On The Waterfront\\", \\"Fanny and Alexander\\", \\"The Graduate\\" and \\"A Streetcar Named Desire\\".  By explaining precisely what it is about these scenes/screenplays which make them work, this book give you the key to making your own do likewise.  So if you're looking for a book to help develop your practical writing skills - rather than just another superficial introduction to three-act structure - then buy this book.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-10-09
US	52231964	R39NJHDZJDHKBK	389508090X	824237132	The Murders in the Rue Morgue: And Other Stories (Konemann Classics)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Pioneering but surpassed	Poe is rightly acknowledged as the granddaddy of detective fiction and collected here is the proof. In these stories he gave us the basic devices of an entire genre: the genius detective and his sidekick, the locked room mystery, cyphers, royal spies, and the rigorous logic of arm-chair detection. However, the problem with pioneering a genre is that, forever after, your pioneering work is going to look rather amateurish. And this, unfortunately, is the case with Poe: his Auguste Dupin stories may well have given birth to modern detective fiction, but alongside the works they inspired they are little more than historically interesting artifacts - and ultimately rather dull ('The Murders in the Rue Morgue' excepted). It is simply not possible for us to experience these stories today with anything like the freshness they would have had for their original readers. So if you're looking for really great stories, look elsewhere. But if, on the other hand, you're seeking the historical origins of detective fiction, then your mystery has just been solved.	2002-10-07
US	52231964	R1TXCVJ20BP7A4	0719052491	124416079	Arguments for a theatre	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thought-provoking, considered and entirely engrossing	For a playwright who has built a career on being controversial and elusive, this collection of essays and fragments is surprisingly articulate. While it's occasionally difficult to distinguish between Barker's moments of self-deprecation and self-promotion, what's easier to recognise is that all of these pieces are thought-provoking, considered and entirely engrossing. Barker is particularly insightful on the reception of his own work by a culture which simply does not know what to do with it. \\"The cult of accessibility and the Theatre of Obscurity\\" discredits the notions of 'accessibility' and 'obscurity', and provides 'a plan for the fortification of an imaginative work' which goes a long way towards explaining why Barker writes the things he does. Similarly, \\"On language in drama\\" explains his strategic use of 'obscene' language in his plays and why it works. Interspersed with such argumentative tracts are many smaller but no less impressive observations on the nature of performance. \\"The anatomy of a sob\\" recounts what Barker considers a key moment in Ian McDiarmid's career. \\"On watching a performance by life prisoners\\" succinctly describes the liberating power of a performance which trusts the text. Love or hate Barker's work, this is a book worth reading. If nothing else, it will have you thinking about drama and questioning your own assumptions - not just about Barker's work, but about theatre and our culture in general. That's never a bad thing.	2002-10-07
US	52231964	RLA5K13BOVBYI	0375756566	316489894	Austerlitz (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Masterpiece	In evaluating this novel it is difficult to set aside what might be a false reverence for its subject matter - the Holocaust - and for its author who recently, and tragically, died. But Sebald's novel is so good those factors don't matter. One might criticize its complex, overlong, perfectly constructed sentences for failing to capture the style of spoken language. But what they do capture is an elegiac tone perfectly appropriate to the subject. Similarly, the emphasis on repetitive narration rather than dramatization, and the disconcerting jumps from one decade to the next with only the barest pause in conversation, will leave some readers feeling disengaged and disorientated. But again this is an effective technique: it creates the impression of a seamless interconnection between past, present and future - a sense that a person's life, (and a world's history), cannot be neatly compartmentalised into specific places and times, but is rather an unfolding story continually being told. Austerlitz is an alienated man, obsessively trying to find a way into a past which he cannot fully recover, forced to live under the oppressive weight of an absence he may never resolve. Sebald's hypnotic narrative style subtly recreates that experience for the reader. It's haunting, compelling, and highly impressive. Readers who appreciate this should also enjoy \\"Fugitive Pieces\\" by Anne Michaels - a similarly impressive meditation on history, memory and loss.	2002-09-28
US	52231964	R1M2J8GUYAS202	0140296387	560053997	The Art of the Story: An International Anthology of Contemporary Short Stories	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Superb sampling of short fiction	Gone are the days when a writer could earn a living publishing short stories in magazines because gone, too, are the days when most people read them. That's a shame, as this anthology demonstrates, because short fiction offers pleasures to the reader, and challenges to the writer, which are unavailable in longer forms.  Like shots of liqueur, they can pack a mighty punch.  \\"Short\\" doesn't mean a story can't be complex or moving, or can't address expansive themes. Indeed, that the better short stories achieve precisely those things is one measure of their greatness. Daniel Halpern's selections here prove it. His anthology not only gives hours of reading pleasure, but also provides an indispensable resource for aspiring writers: these stories display such an amazing range of themes, styles and narrative structures, they make it a veritable showcase of approaches to storytelling. For the student of literature, they offer condensed examples of how writers do their work. Of course, not everything can appeal in a volume of this size, but for me there were some highpoints: \\"Dharma\\", a moving ghost story by Vikram Chandra; the cleverly historical \\"The Green Man\\" by Jeanette Winterson; the almost casually powerful \\"Talking Dog\\" by Francine Prose; \\"Midnight and I'm Not Famous Yet\\", a Vietnam memoir by Barry Hannah; \\"Everything in This Country Must\\", a child's perspective on Northern Ireland, by Colum McCann; \\"The Girl Who Left Her Sock on the Floor\\" by Deborah Eisenberg and \\"The Lifeguard\\" by Mary Morris, both of which deal with death and adolescence; the immensely moving \\"Evermore\\" by Julian Barnes; the domestic suspense of \\"A Family Dinner\\" by Kazuo Ishiguro; and the heartbreaking lament of \\"Intimacy\\" by Hanif Kureishi - which, I assume, is the seed which grew into his novel of the same name. Ironically, Kureishi's story shows precisely what can be achieved in the short form: for my money, it's better than his novel.	2002-09-26
US	52231964	R2EA8JT4899NVA	0679750193	188599514	First Love, Last Rites: Stories	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Compelling	Reading McEwan's first collection of short stories is like stepping into the mind of a pervert, and finding yourself right at home.  In these grim tales, McEwan explores the cusp of sex and death - a zone less adventurous writers might dismiss as pornographic or even sick.  But this isn't pornography; it isn't even erotica.  It's psycho-sexual reconnaissance and, as that, quite impressive.  McEwan's talent here is to make his monsters human - to reveal the pain and suffering and morbid loneliness which drive these characters to do the things they do.  Highly original.	2002-09-04
US	52231964	R29X7SDEM6HPLX	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Masterpiece	McEwan's best book since \\"Black Dogs\\", \\"Atonement\\" is in one way quite similar: this, too, is the story of how another 'story' was written and why.  But \\"Atonement\\" is more ambitious than its predecessor and ultimately more successful.  There is just so much to enjoy here: the social comedy and undercurrent of burgeoning sexuality in a country house in the summer of '34; a rigorously researched and immensely moving account of war told from the twin perspectives of soldiers and nurses; and, of course, a plot full of the terrible menace for which McEwan is deservedly renowned.  Writers will adore this novel, too, for it is ultimately about writing - its limits and its power - in various forms: letters, fiction, testimony.  McEwan explores how what is said (and what is not said) has real influence on human lives.  His characters are brilliantly realised - the developing perspective of Briony from age 13 to 77 is magnificently done - and his prose has never been more beautiful.  \\"Atonement\\" is perfectly timed and structured, too.  When the final section delivers up its heartbreaking conclusion, you'll know it could never have ended any other way.  McEwan has had you in his thrall from the outset, and that's a wonderful place to be.	2002-08-28
US	52231964	RV88QNCIK3O8R	0670030805	476194163	The Idea of Perfection	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Realistic romance	Pitched as a love story set around the replacement of a country bridge, \\"The Idea of Perfection\\" turns out to be more a study of some amusingly imperfect characters.  Harley Savage and Douglas Cheeseman are hilariously unlike your typical romantic leads: physically unattractive, professionally insecure, emotionally tortured.  But Grenville's careful articulation of their social anxiety will have you smiling (or cringing) with recognition.  (Her rendition of Australian male anxiety is particularly well observed.)  For me, this felt more like a collection of fragments than a unified novel, mainly because there was too little focus on the particular plot line I was expecting - the construction of the bridge and the conflict this might create in the country town.  But no matter.  What this book gives us instead is a love story that depicts \\"romance\\" like it often really is - furtive, frightening and funny.  Such frankness is rare, and very refreshing.	2002-08-05
US	52231964	R2TEDHQADWT6RA	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Worth owning for Chapter 1 alone	Blessed with what is perhaps the finest first chapter ever written - in terms of the tension and expectation it creates, and the intellectual ground it covers - it might have been better if McEwan had left it there.  The remainder of this novel is good, but it never quite reaches the same pitch.  Ostensibly this is a thriller about a man pursued by an evangelical Christian with an increasingly violent obsession. That's good enough material for any novel, but this is McEwan so we know it's going to be about more than just that. And in that regard it doesn't disappoint: \\"Enduring Love\\" turns out to be an exploration of science, religion, causation, perception, memory and, of course, love.  The plot escalates at the pace of a thriller, but it doesn't read like one.  It's like a collection of meditations on various topics, played out by the same characters.  It's highly readable, but ultimately it lacks the satisfying sense of unity which distinguishes McEwan's other work.	2002-07-15
US	52231964	R2LGF018D4SJX6	0679750185	147498198	The Cement Garden	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Confronting	Though it lacks the confident mastery of his more recent work, this early McEwan novel still has the power to disturb.  When the parents of four sexually precocious children die in quick succession - the mother's corpse being entombed in a concrete block in the basement in order to stop the family being splintered by the authorities - the children must learn to cope on their own.  In lesser hands this could have been worked up into a straightforward monster-in-the-basement-style thriller, but with McEwan at the helm it more interestingly becomes a study in grief, repression, adolescence, and the dissolution of the family in late twentieth-century Britain.	2002-07-07
US	52231964	RDOV1QMYRBERJ	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unforgettable	In this mesmerizing and elliptical novel, McEwan takes a simple event - a dog attack on a country path - and works it up into a sustained exploration of Nazism, Communism and the existence (or not) of evil and of God. If all that sounds a little deep or abstract for you, fear not. Here, as always, McEwan creates realistic characters and threads his grand themes through a compelling story told on a personal, domestic scale. And that's kind of the point: those forces we tend to think of as impersonal, abstract and world-historical have very human motivations and consequences - something which this book, down to its final chilling words, reminds us we should never forget.	2002-07-01
US	52231964	R3U8EYL9LNMRR	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Short and bittersweet	Deceptively simple and delightfully grim, \\"Amsterdam\\" is, at its best, an autopsy of Thatcherite Britain.  McEwan covers everything from the loss of the Pastoral to the decline in public and private morality.  He's particularly strong on the deluded selfishness which can lie at the heart of both commerce and art - especially as practiced by coddled baby-boomers.  His perfectly structured plot is more than matched by the exquisite rhythm and playfulness of his language.  But what's most impressive here is that McEwan manages to be witty, bitter, yet still quite sincere.  Both comic and deadly serious, this novel is a pleasure on every level.	2002-06-28
US	52231964	R3MTY56NNRAY4E	0679749519	741639462	Remembering Babylon: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magnificent	When abandoned 'British object' Gemmy Fairley sprints away from his Aboriginal protectors and into a white settlement of mid-nineteenth-century Queensland, it's the occasion for both wonder and hostility. For Malouf, it's an opportunity to explore many aspects of language, landscape and Australian identity. In the various reactions of the townsfolk, and Gemmy himself, he elucidates his themes. It's a novel full of complex images, acute observations, and heartbreaking lyricism. Once again, Malouf effortlessly fuses personal moments with grand themes. This is a more complex and elliptical work than his earlier novels, but no more or less satisfying - it's hard to improve on perfection. Shortlisted for the 1993 Booker Prize, 'Remembering Babylon' - from the breadth (and depth) of its scope to the finest details of its execution - leaves the actual winner for dead.	2002-06-17
US	52231964	R1NBPS7DGEDY2M	0679776702	861730671	Fly Away Peter	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of the few books that made me cry	Malouf deals with big themes here: the continuities of nature; the horror of human conflict; our desire to hold onto the past, and the necessity of relinquishing it.  But he handles them in such a personal, beautiful and profoundly moving way that he manages to say it all in under 150 pages.  Some readers might prefer more languorous pacing, but Malouf has no reason to stall.  Unlike many writers, he knows precisely what he's doing.  His precision is utterly astounding.  He can say more, move you more, in a dozen pages than lesser writers seem to manage in whole careers.  Chapter 14, scarcely more than 2000 words, is the most powerful account of the Great War - what it meant, what it can be made to mean - that I have ever read.	2002-06-14
US	52231964	R1JIEJIXV2R1Y	0807614297	301842300	Johnno: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Wonderful	In less than two-hundred pages, Malouf manages to capture the coming-of-age angst of the entire Australian post-war generation. Only Malouf could be telling the story of two youths and, virtually on the same page, effortlessly synthesize the realities of Australian experience with European philosophical themes, and connect them both to the whole tangled mess of our national identity. And yet for all its efficiency and high intent, 'Johnno' still reads like an affectionate and deeply-felt memoir, never shying away from the emotional, physical and sexual confusion of youth, nor from the contradictions inherent in what it means to be an 'Australian man'. But that's the genius of Malouf, and it's something we find him doing again and again: telling an apparently simple story about ordinary people, yet with this richly poetic, philosophical undercurrent which can suddenly reach up and pull you under. For Australian readers, this is a particularly important skill. Not only does Malouf deal with significant human issues, but he brings them home. He takes them out of the realm of abstract philosophy and makes them implicit in this place.  This makes his work at once deeply personal and resolutely public in the best sense: he has something to share with all of us, something important, and he shares it beautifully.	2002-06-12
US	52231964	RLPHVUPCLP5I4	1852426489	320637530	The Missing Piece	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Superb	The jacket blurb invokes the magical names Borges and Calvino - and for once such superlative comparisons are almost justified. Borges and Calvino probably would have admired the audacious concept of Antoine Bello's dazzling first novel and it will delight lovers of metafiction everywhere. Ostensibly a murder mystery set against the background of the imaginary 'International Speed Puzzle Circuit', its forty-eight 'pieces' (letters, articles, meeting minutes) ultimately form a meditation on the nature of puzzles - both literary and otherwise. You'll probably work out 'whodunit' well before the final pages, but don't worry: that only makes the sadistic climax more chilling. Refreshingly intelligent and wonderfully original, Bello has crafted a novel which is not only capable of endlessly delighting its readers, but one which, through its unusual structure, challenges the notion of that what it means to be part of the genre. (My only reservation is the number of typographical errors in the Serpent's Tail paperback edition.)	2002-06-10
US	52231964	R2T4UA9K1QILR7	0801491460	487341270	The Fantastic: A Structural Approach to a Literary Genre	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Structuralist view of 'the fantastic'	Those interested in the structuralist criticism of the 1960s-70s will find the most joy here, with Todorov applying the rigorous structuralist stance to one of literature's most fascinating genres.  His demolition of Northrop Frye's approach to 'genre' in Chapter 1 is still cogent after thirty years (and an amusing read in its own right), but it's Todorov's chapters on the 'themes of the fantastic', and his conclusion on its role in literature generally, which are most compelling.  This is not, however, an easy read.  As Robert Scholes notes in his foreword, \\"neither structuralism itself nor poetics in general is noted for its ability to charm readers.\\"  You don't say.  Fortunately, Todorov uses many examples from well known fantastic texts - such as 'The Arabian Nights' and the works of Edgar Alan Poe - and also from lesser known French works which will have you rushing out to the antiquarian bookstore to hunt them down.  You can accept or reject the structuralist position - but if nothing else, this book will open up a whole new world of 'fantastic' novels for you to enjoy.	2002-05-30
US	52231964	R1IJYWPOBMSAUC	0312291663	148241573	Summerland: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Almost great	\\"Summerland\\" has a strong premise, four interesting characters, and an author with a lot of guts - it takes some nerve for a first-timer to deliberately court comparisons with F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ford Madox Ford. Unfortunately, the gamble doesn't entirely pay off. For me, the enterprise is ultimately undone by the narrator's journalistic tone of detached amusement. It's as if he never really knew these people, never really had these experiences, and is only pretending to care. I sense no real pain in Richard's telling, no real regret, so as the story of a man whose life has been obliterated by treachery it just didn't ring true. The voice fights with itself, wandering into anecdotes and tangential ramblings in a tone suggesting Knox might have been happier writing an essay entitled \\"Reflections on the Ruling Class\\". I think I might have been happier reading it, too: Knox clearly has a good mind and a sharp appreciation for the cant and hypocrisy of Sydney's idle rich. He's an excellent writer, but I think his talent could have made more of this material as an extended sociological essay - much like Lewis Lapham's \\"Money & Class In America\\". No one has exposed the rotten core of Sydney High Society in quite that way, and I reckon Knox is just the man for the job.  It's still an enjoyable read.  But perhaps asking for comparisons with Fitzgerald sets the wrong expectations up front.	2002-05-28
US	52231964	RWQ0CB54FFB0Y	0393036839	543255108	What I Have Written: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant and unforgettable	The Editorial Reviewers seem to have missed the point. \\"What I Have Written\\" is a chilling, elaborate and meticulously worked out presentation of what we see, in the end, is a shocking and simple story. But Scott gives his tale a complex, three-part presentation so that for us, like his characters, the search for verification - for meaning - is constantly frustrated. And that becomes a kind of meaning in itself. What faith can we put in words? In letters? Postcards? Autobiography? Fiction? Scott's subject here is writing, and the meaning we make of it. That, and the notion that art can do violence to the lives it touches by way of appropriation.  Though it is easily one of the most thoughtful, original and fascinating Australian novels of the last thirty years, and deserving winner of 1994 Victorian Premier's Prize for Fiction, \\"What I Have Written\\" is not a happy book. Emotionally bleak and at times sexually explicit (though never unnecessarily), it explores a grim terrain that not all readers will find appealing. But those who do enjoy the dark intelligence which lurks here will certainly appreciate Scott's latest novel, \\"The Architect\\" (2001). There, it is utterly relentless. Those who admire Scott's observations on relationships and the nature of memory will be better served by the equally engrossing \\"Before I Wake\\" (1996).	2002-05-28
US	52231964	R3FWAMFGCF3420	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	10	10	N	N	I cried in the end - with relief	Despite its strong premise and appealing style, 'Open House' has about as much thematic resonance and depth of character as a two-dollar Harlequin romance. If that's what you're into, fine. But why not just read one of those? It starts well enough, with the sudden abandonment of Samantha and her young son. How will she tell him? What will they do? How will they cope on their own? All good questions that suddenly-single parents must face, and surely the basis for a fine and thoughtful book. Unfortunately, 'Open House' isn't it. Berg sidesteps the all-too-real financial and legal ugliness of divorce, and chooses instead to wander through the more picturesque emotional landscape of Samantha's 'spiritual recovery'. In this endeavor she is ably assisted by a phalanx of unrealistic family, friends and lodgers, including a potential new beau: an almost-virginal astrophysicist with a strong sideline in home repair. From there, it's downhill all the way. The novel quickly degenerates into a sappy, middle-aged personal growth fantasy involving everything from moral victory over your ex to developing a better relationship with your mother, and seems over-informed by specious self-help books, vacuous pop philosophy, and most other forms of commercialized American voodoo. No wonder Oprah loved it: it reads just like a story from one of her diabolical 'Remembering Your Spirit' set-pieces.  But what do I know? After all, this book wasn't written for me; I'm a young Australian man, not a middle-aged American woman with 'relationship issues'. But I can't help thinking that a better book could have made me appreciate just what it's like to be that person anyway. Call me crazy, but I kind of thought that's what good writing was all about.	2002-05-27
US	52231964	R1P3YKDDX2GIOB	0141182342	744273601	The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Influential master	Reading a Lovecraft story today, it's hard to suppress the feeling that you've heard this one before.  You probably have, of course - though in a different form and under a different name. While much of his work is plainly unoriginal (the ghosts of Poe and Lord Dunsany whisper a little too loudly in places), it's no overstatement to say his comparatively small corpus has informed most of twentieth-century horror. And though many have tried, no one has quite matched the overblown pitch of his macabre, lugubrious little melodramas, nor rivaled the gloriously monstrous adjectival orgy of his prose.  More interesting, though, than his scenarios or style is the world view which inspired them. \\"Was I tottering on the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear?\\" asks the narrator of 'The Call of Cthulhu' - a sentiment no doubt shared by many tired souls living through the godless pandemonium of the early twentieth century. While more serious writers like T. S. Eliot responded to the apparent end of civilization with a sparse modernism and renewed religiosity, Lovecraft embraced a \\"mechanistic materialism\\" which emphasizes man's ultimate cosmic insignificance. His monsters might not frighten you, but in tale after tale it's his philosophy that's chilling.  Arranged in the order in which they were written - and supplemented by a solid Introduction, suggestions for further reading, and very detailed notes - S. T. Joshi's Penguin edition (like its companion, 'The Thing on the Doorstep') certainly overrates the quality of Lovecraft's work, but it's a useful volume for those wanting to taste Lovecraft's mad genius, witness its development, and learn something about the man and his place in history.	2002-05-25
US	52231964	RUT0PIOLWBDIT	0807843490	299353054	Reading the Romance: Women, Patriarchy, and Popular Literature	Books	5	11	17	N	Y	Enlightening	Despite the growing popularity of cultural studies, it's still surprising to find a literary academic who embraces popular culture. More surprising still is that Janice Radway managed to head down this path almost twenty years ago. Recognizing that a theorist who refuses to engage with popular fiction is ignoring perhaps 90% of what people actually read, Radway does not dismiss romantic fiction as beneath her attention. Rather, she sets out to conduct an empirical study into the genre. In doing so, she addresses some important questions: Why do women read romance? What social and psychological needs does it meet? If there is an \\"ideal\\" romance, what are its components and why? How does the unique language of romance do its work? In answering these, Radway not only manages to define an entire genre. She also draws out some rather chilling and not so obvious conclusions about the role of romantic fiction in preventing the feminist agenda from taking hold. And unlike many criticisms of romance, Radway's is based on observation, experience and facts. Her preference for foregrounding the evidence rather than her own views is mightily refreshing. My only reservation is the ease with which she extrapolates the reading experiences of a small group of women into conclusions about American culture in general. However, her excellent introduction to the second edition recognizes this, positions her study in relation to the emerging discipline of cultural studies, and suggests ways in which her study's insights might be further explored and tested. I strongly recommend this to anyone interested in the romance genre, or in academic approaches to popular fiction in general. Readers, writers, students and critics will all find something to learn here.	2002-04-02
US	52231964	R33SOX7PR1LAD2	0805070583	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Marvellous	Once again Michael Frayn delivers a novel which succeeds on so many levels: as a comical tale of two imaginative youngsters; as a fond memoir of wartime England; as a commentary on growing up and growing older; as a reflection on phenomenology (particularly the way our observations are coloured by our assumptions); and, more simply, as just a cracking good yarn which will have you rapidly turning the pages until way after midnight.  As in his most recent \\"Headlong\\", Frayn draws us into what could be just a delightful little comedy, and then has us closing the book to discover we have been given, instead, an opus on human frailty. An opus so compelling because it is delivered in Frayn's direct and amusing voice - rather than the ponderous, self-important prose favoured by so many novelists. Frayn's genius is to edify while entertaining. Unlike so many of his stodgy contemporaries, Frayn can afford to reject obscurantism for one wonderfully refreshing reason: he knows precisely what he is doing. He knows just how much, or how little, he actually needs to say.	2002-03-22
US	52231964	R2AEGJG16A8GTF	019285383X	830127562	Literary Theory: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	68	69	N	N	A brilliant little book	This is an excellent text for students new to literary theory, but even the more experienced readers should be delighted by it. Rather than simply making an historical tour through various schools of thought, Culler relegates that to a useful appendix and instead focuses on key questions and concepts, beginning with 'What is Theory?' and 'What is Literature?' - two very good questions which are too rarely asked. He then explores various focuses of literary studies, such as meaning, poetics, narrative and identity. Culler's great skill here is to summarize without simplifying; to make refreshingly plain what other writers seem to delight in rendering obscure. (His cogent analysis of the intersection between literature and cultural studies in Chapter 3 is the clearest and most insightful I've ever read.) Intelligently structured, full of useful examples, and often employing a wryly humorous tone, Culler makes literary theory interesting, inspiring and above all accessible - something any student will undoubtedly appreciate.	2002-02-10
US	52231964	R1I61S2UEAHN2C	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Brilliant	I can understand why so many readers of this book say the ending \\"fails to deliver\\", or is somehow \\"confusing\\". But for me, there is one way of reading the ending that makes it powerful and really very simple. Juliana discovers that \\"The Grasshopper Lies Heavy\\" contains Inner Truth, i.e. Abendsen's fictional account is actually true in the sense that Germany and Japan might have won WW2, but their victory will ultimately fail because it is unbalanced. It is against the Way. The world will return to a state of balance, as it must, and this requires their downfall.  This theme is revealed repeatedly. We see it in the actions and experiences of many of the major characters. Each has a small victory over their oppressors: Childan finally breaks out of the Japanese etiquette; \\"Mr Baynes\\" and the Abwehr are plotting to defeat Operation Dandelion; Frank and Ed create a new and original 'wu'-filled jewelry which is the yang to the yin-darkness which lies all around; and Juliana murders the would-be assassin and finally realises the truth in \\"The Grasshopper\\". Throughout this society, a change is occurring - beneath the surface, the victorious are being undermined. As Dick writes: \\"The universe will never be extinguished because just when the darkness seems to have smothered all, to be truly transcendent, the new seeds of light are reborn in the very depths. That is the Way. When the seed falls, it falls into earth, into the soil. And beneath, out of sight, it comes to life.\\" (p.106)  I think there is one ambiguity in the ending, and far from being a weakness, I think it is one the novel's greatest qualities. I don't think Dick is just saying, \\"Even if Germany and Japan had won the war, America would have been victorious eventually because Americans are just so great.\\" I think he's saying something more. If, in the parallel present he describes, the victory of the Axis powers is temporary because their new world is unbalanced, as revealed by a book which posits the opposite outcome, then what does Dick's own book say for our world where the Allies won? That THEIR victory is subject to the same argument, and the same threat: if it is not balanced, if it does not respect the Way, it too will fail. I think that is his real case.outcome, then what does Dick's own book say for our world where the Allies won? That THEIR victory is subject to the same argument, and the same threat: if it is not balanced, if it does not respect the Way, it too will fail. I think that is his real case.	2001-09-02
US	52231964	R3LCRE6Y6R9291	0070389969	564996452	Story Sense: Writing Story and Script for Feature Films and Television	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The only one you need.	Quite simply, this is the best practical guide to screenwriting I have ever read.  Not only does Lucey have the right ideas, his skill and experience as a teacher shine through in everything from the structure of  his chapters to the dozens of useful exercises.  The sections on story  ideas and story structure are incredibly good, helping you to choose, hone  and develop usable story concepts and forcing you to ditch those that  aren't.  Lucey backs up his lessons with plenty of practical examples, a  great glossary and an excellent bibliography - and unlike many  screenwriting texts, this one is well-referenced and researched.  If you're  serious about screenwriting, buy this book.	2000-06-30
