US	52231295	RCFF57T669KH4	0312300824	148345988	Signal & Noise: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A good novel -- but I wonder how much history.	Few things satisfy like a well-written, engrossing, factually dense historical novel.  As a lover of both history and fiction, I find such books scratch two itches simultaneously, making the history far more memorable by being told through clever story, and assuaging one's guilt for reading novels (as opposed to, say, mowing the lawn) with the self-explanation (or is it delusion) that one is really learning something. <BR> <BR> John Griesemer's Signal and Noise, a novel about the laying of the trans-Atlantic cable in the 1850's and 1860's fits the bill nicely.  Greieser nicely sets forth both the technology and finances (much of the plot follows a sort of circus side-show put together to impress prospective investors), while doing so in the context of mesmerism, illicit loves, the American Civil War, and derring-do. Gresemer manages a large, but not overwhelming, cast of characters and an extended scope of both time (twenty years) and distance (both England and North America) in a way that both moves the story briskly and explicates his history. <br /> Where Griesemer falls down - and this is not a small frustration - is his failure to provide any sort of \\"Forward\\" or \\"Author's Note\\" explaining for the reader which characters and events were real, and which were made up for purposes of story and drama.  Such omission in a historical novel is close to unforgivable; I do not know whether only his dates are to be trusted (if even those) , whether the cable failed as many times and for the reasons Greisemer's characters suggest, and whether any (or all) of his characters were \\"real\\" or based on historical personages. Taken on its face, and without taking into account its \\"historical\\" nature, I give Signal and Noise high marks for plot, character and writing. As a purportedly \\"historical\\" novel, however, Griesemer's book frustratingly leaves more questions than answers.	2003-07-05
US	52231295	R3BZEWBPY0U5NK	0151007349	565508282	His Mother's Son	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Compelling but Clunky	Cai Emmons novel His Mother's Son asks the simple question of when is genetic past prologue. In a (literally) former life, physician Jana Thomas was the closest - perhaps too close - companion to her younger brother, Varney.  Varney committed acts of rage one sees most clearly on Fox News, destroying his family and others, and Jana (then known as Cady) changes her name, and begins a new life.  Years later, her own six-year-old son Evan displays some aggressive tendencies, which others in the novel (and at least this reader) attribute to \\"boys will be boys\\" behavior, and Jana's life and new family disintegrate over her concern that Evan will be just like Varney.  Emmons' novel does a fine job in working from the central plot conflict - will history through genetics repeat itself, and what can Jana do to avoid it - and presents believable characters and situations. I would not describe her writing as particularly fluid, viewing her prose as mostly workmanlike.<BR> By far the strongest portions of the novel occur when Jana and her husband separate, and Jana reunites with Varney, now incarcerated and dying of AIDS in a prison hospice.  Jana must here confront how much of her brother she has in herself.  If, as she believes, she and Varney still share much, how can she forgive him when the same act would require her to forgive herself? Is Varney, at this point abandoned to prison for years, with his hundreds of letters to Cady/Jana never opened, even ready to forgive her.  This is a very good novel, prevented from being an excellent book only by the occasional clunkiness of Emmons' prose.	2003-03-19
US	52231295	R2NA15453JSK41	0446601977	383179538	Parable of the Sower	Books	4	37	41	N	N	Frightening future vision	I don't often read science fiction, but the recommendation of several readers and its inclusion on our local public radio \\"Readers and Writers on the Air\\" series caused me to pick up, with some trepidation, Octavia E. Butler's 1993 sci-fi novel Parable of the Sower.  Set just twenty-five years from now, Butler imagines a California beset by severe global warming, with the government virtually collapsed and anarchy run amuck. Written in the first person, Butler's narrator, Lauren, is a young woman who begins the book living in a walled community with her family.  Life outside the walls is total chaos, and much effort is spent keeping the \\"barbarians\\" - people who have been dispossessed of home or property - on the outside.  When her town's security is breached and her entire family murdered, Lauren finds herself on the road, where she eventually gathers a group of people with her, all journeying to the north. Lauren is unique and memorable in a couple of respects: first, a preacher's kid, she sets out to define and found a new religion, which she calls Earthseed, and which takes both the moral precepts of Christianity and the unique creed that \\"God is change.\\" Second, Lauren has \\"hyperempathy syndrome\\", which causes her to feel as her own the pleasure and pain of those around her.  Thus, if she sees someone critically injured and in pain, she will herself feel that person's conscious pain.  Not a good condition to have when living under circumstances where one must fight to survive, and kill or be killed! <br />While I found at times the Earthseed material to be a bit \\"over the top,\\" overall this is a provocative and excellent novel. Butler writes extremely well, and she made the hellish world in which her characters find themselves absolutely believable.  Parts of this novel are not for the squeamish. Although very dark in tone, the novel ends on a ray of hope when Lauren's group, after burying the dead from a recent battle, recall Jesus' Parable of the Sower.  As the reader may recall, although most of the seed ends up dying, some falls on good ground, \\"sprang up, and bore fruit an hundredfold.\\" Highly recommended.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R14S5IPAIQIZGF	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Classic Novel of the Southwest	Every year, I try to read one or two \\"classics\\", whether I need to or not. For 2001, I have chosen Willa Cather's Death Comes for the Archbishop. First published in 1927, this fine, spare novel tells of missionary bishop Jean Marie Latour, assigned by Rome to the new southwestern diocese which includes New Mexico.  While the story centers on Latour and his vicar (later bishop of Colorado) Father Joseph, to Cather the dry, stunning landscape forms as much a character as her priest heros, as do the \\"simple\\" native Indians and Mexicans. In this novel, Cather's writing reminds me a great deal of Harriet Doerr, who wrote of American expatriates in rural Mexico.  The title's focus on Latour's death is somewhat misleading; this novel is very much about his missionary life and accomplishments.  His death takes up but the very end of the book, and is itself oddly peaceful and uplifting. <br />Musing to Father Joseph upon an apparent \\"miracle\\" attested to by a rural monk, Latour comments: \\"Where there is great love there are always miracles.  One might almost say that an apparition is human vision corrected by human love. I do not see you as you really are, Joseph; I see you through my affection for you.  The Miracles of the Church seem to me to rest not so much upon faces or voices or healing power coming suddenly near to us from afar off, but upon our perceptions being made finer, so that a moment our eyes can see and our ears can hear what is about us always.\\"  Although the bishop, Latour's holiness and character comes as much from those times he receives ministry from his flock as when he gives it.  Thus, when praying secretly with  Sada, a servant - - and battered - - woman, Latour experienced again \\"those holy mysteries as he had done in his young manhood\\", and remembered  that \\"this church was Sada's house, and he was a servant in it.\\" Well worth reading and pondering as Lent begins and Easter appears on the horizon.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R1UHG6TF4Z57IN	0425167283	430499125	Election	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Move over, George Bush and Al Gore!!	Tom Perrotta's brief comic novel Election has a truly slight premise: the machinations (and eventual fixing) of a high school election for class president.  Alternating first person narrators between \\"Mr. M\\", the idealistic teacher who persuades a student to run for election, \\"misplaces\\" a ballot to ensure his victory, and ends up a car salesman; Paul Warren, the earnest and somewhat reluctant candidate forwarded by Mr. M; Tracy Flick, the popular girl who was Paul's main opposition; and others, Perrotta captures perfectly the tone and voice of these various characters and the high school setting.   Although primarily a comic novelist, Perrotta is not merely funny; giving us truly funny characters and situation, he never loses sight of their humanity.  Easily readable in a couple of evenings, and certainly not a \\"great\\" book, Perrotta's novel gives much pleasure.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R13A02ZLBU8KZI	0674005368	304599746	The Sun in the Church: Cathedrals as Solar Observatories	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Astronomy and the Church	J.L. Heilbron's The Sun in the Church: Cathedrals as Solar Observatories is a beautifully illustrated, finely written exposition of how the Roman Church used sacred space to perform astronomy.  The most sacred day in the Church calendar is Easter, established as the Sunday after the first full moon after the vernal equinox.  As it turns out, this was an astoundingly difficult day to calculate, especially years in advance.  As a result, in the Middle Ages the celebration of Easter \\"drifted\\" from the true date; the Church found itself commemorating Christ's resurrection on the \\"wrong\\" Sunday, a matter of grave concern.  To solve this problem, astronomers determined that large buildings - most ideally churches themselves - could be made into solar observatories with a light opening at the apex and a meridian line placed on the floor.  By this device, Church-supported scientists could observe the sun's precise position and movement with reference to the meridian line, and thereby make needed Easter (and other) calculations.<br />I confess that I am mathematically challenged, and much of this book is devoted to fairly detailed geometric and trigonometric proofs.  I had no choice but to \\"bleep\\" over these sections.  Heilbron's prose and argument are clear, entertaining, and persuasive, and I felt I lost none of his key points by needing to skip the proofs.  Everything about Church history and astronomy in the Church - except a chapter about the unfortunate treatment of Galileo - was entirely new to me, and I was absolutely enthralled.  For those who have read Dava Sobel's Galileo's Daughter, this is a useful second perspective on the Church and astronomy.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R3RS4T3YEWNQJ5	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Basis for Melville's Moby Dick	Nathiel Philbrick's superb In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex, deservedly nominated for the National Book Award, looks at the true story which forms the backdrop for Melville's Moby Dick.  On November 20, 1820, in the mid-Pacific,  Nantucket whaler Essex was rammed repeatedly by a sperm whale, and sank.  Over the next several months, the survivors attempted to sail 4,500 miles in open boats to South America.  All did not make it, and at least one willingly became food for the others after lots were cast to decide who would be killed to feed the starving remainder.  Philbrick ably describes the work of a whaler, and the backbreaking - - and at times terrifying - - tasks of its crew in harpooning and later processing whales at sea.  Drawing on many original sources, particularly journals of several survivors, Philbrick convincingly describes what happened to the unfortunate men of the Essex, and places the reader at sea with them. .	2001-12-31
US	52231295	RHACW5H52HX34	0671016857	128057121	murder@maggody.com: An Arly Hanks Mystery (Arly Hanks Mysteries)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Small town "comic" murder	Having read favorable reviews, I recently picked up Joan Hess' 2000 mystery .... In the recent, fairly substantial genre of \\"comic\\" mysteries, Hess places her story in the truly hillbilly Arkansas town of Maggody, and follows her heroine, Police Chief Arly Hanks, as she bumbles insightfully to a \\"brutal\\" murder's solution.  I don't read many mysteries, but I suppose this book is fairly good as such novels go.  Hess has a finely tuned ear for comedy, and presents her characters with both affection and irony.  The murder plot itself kept me guessing - although I confess I am not one of these readers who tries to \\"predict\\" the outcome as I go - until the final pages.  I have no disagreement with the favorable reviews, but am equally grateful I pulled this book off the $ 4 remainder table, rather than paid full price.  A worthwhile entertainment.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R8WKR7GMDVF1G	0156005700	890864055	The House of Moses All-Stars	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Peripatetic Jewish Basketball Team	Charley Rosen's The House of Moses All-Stars is a most unusual \\"road trip\\" novel.  Set in the depression, sportswriter Rosen takes a pick-up professional basketball team made up of six Jews and one goy cross-country in a renovated hearse as they play (and occasionally fix) games, run from the mob, and mature from boys to men.  Mostly a comic novel, All-Stars consistently amuses, but is not particularly deep.  To me, one of Rosen's attempts at \\"depth\\" falls particularly flat.  The narrator, Aaron, joins the team essentially in flight from his wife who blames him for their stillborn child.  Aaron, in his heart, can't help but blame itself.  Rosen attempts to make the road trip cathartic, allowing Aaron to reach peace with himself.  I'm sorry, but it just didn't work for me.  Overall, though, this is mostly an entertaining work.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R2KQLS7CO2MWFW	014007659X	247446181	Marie Blythe	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Another super novel of Vermont's Northeast Kingdom	In his eponymous novel Marie Blythe, Howard Frank Mosher proves again why he is one of my favorite writers. French Canadian Marie, the book's heroine, is truly a remarkable woman.  She survives the loss of her parents, life with a clan of gypsies, an unmarried pregnancy and loss of her child, and near death by exposure to change her identity.  Over time, she goes on to learn to read, go to normal school, and become a teacher.  Oh, yes, she is nearly murdered in the end by her crazed ex-lover.  While all of this may sound somewhat melodramatic, it is not; Mosher makes it merely the stuff of a captivating, totally engaging story. Set, as all of Mosher's books are in Vermont's Northeast Kingdom, Blythe vividly evokes both a time (post-Civil war to early twentieth century) and place (Vermont village of Hell's Gate). Above all, though, this is a novel of character, and Marie's combination of bullheadedness, naivete, energy and faith carries the day.  Recalling the French Canadian priest who counseled her as a child, Marie in a time of crisis \\"remembered his advice to maintain a little faith in something, if only in fishing.\\" Mosher, for his part, renews my faith again in great writing.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	RG8QHINUM3MJA	0141001909	948268980	Daniel Plainway: Or The Holiday Haunting of the Moosepath League	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hurray for the Moosepath League!!	Hurray for the Moosepath League!! Maine novelist Van Reid now has published a series of his comic, sweet novels, each more pleasurable than the last, featuring Tobias Walton and his companions Ephram, Eagleton and Thump.  His most recent offering, Daniel Plainway: Or the Holiday Haunting of the Moosepath League, is the perfect Christmastime or winter fireside book.  Woven with so many pleasurable amiable asides and subplots, the main story about a kidnaped boy and ancient Norse writings seems almost an afterthought.  To take one example, Walton, whom Reid describes as \\"himself a pearl, and good things did seem to surround him\\", starts the novel losing his hat in a sudden wind; the peregrinations of that topper itself, and the goodwill it seems to bear from its owner, flow delightfully through the story. In another delightful scene, Reid waxes rhapsodically on the perfect qualities of snow for snowballs, leading to a delightful snowfall fight involving the novel's heros, villains, and local youngsters. A particularly pleasurable turn for me, a former classicist, is that the interpretation of the writings depends on hearing the Greek spoken in a seemingly nonsensical English phrase, \\"she'll bust her feeding.\\" Although always lighthearted, Reid's novel is not without serious purpose, as expressed in the dialogue as to whether \\"there are so many people in the world willing to drive tragedy\\" or whether \\"there are as many, more, really, who are willing to put things right.\\" In Reid's world, those who good-heartedly \\"put things right\\" - most especially the comical Moosepath League - predominate.  I finished his book with a fair certainty that the same prevailed in my own place and time.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R1KC9YIFF9OCOS	077109860X	553512268	The Tin Flute (New Canadian Library)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Canadian Classic	I am consistently impressed with the fiction (mostly) contained in the New Canadian Library series, published by McLelland &amp; Stewart.  Gabriele Roy's 1945 novel The Tin Flute is certainly no exception.  A story of late depression-era Montreal, Tin Flute is almost a laboratory-like setting of individuals beset by grinding poverty, and how they respond.  Very much a novel of characters, Roy continually asks the reader whether, as the novel's eventual hero, Emmanuel,  muses after volunteering for the army after Hitler's invasion of Poland, \\"a guy can help himself sometimes by helping other people,\\" or whether the immediate retort of his comrade, \\"a guy has his work cut out these days looking after himself\\", is more true.  Florentine, the desperately poor waitress who forms the center of Roy's plot, longs for (and eventually becomes impregnated by) the rake Jean, while Emmanuel more chastely pines for her.  Roy gives the perfect one-sentence description of Jean: \\"He could be kind if his kindness caused him no problems.\\" Florentine muses about herself (and I believe Roy asks  the reader): \\"Sweetness brought you nowhere.  That's what had ruined them all.\\" Roy's ending to the novel is wonderfully ambiguous, and leaves open the questions of goodness, opportunism, and purpose she raises throughout.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R3N0QRBQT30PHE	0802116817	381665823	Everyday People	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Contemporary inner-city saga	Stewart O'Nan, a young white man, sets for himself a most ambitious task in his 2001 novel Everyday People: a contemporary story set in the inner city, with mostly or entirely black characters, and dialogue in black dialect.  As for setting, characters, and language, he succeeds.  Where O'Nan came up a bit short was with plot. In large measure, O'Nan follows Chris (\\"Crest\\") Tolbert and his family during one week before the opening of a new expressway which will effectively cut the Tolbert's neighborhood from the rest of the city.  Before the novel began, Crest was rendered a paraplegic when he fell of the half-completed parkway in an accident which also killed his best friend.  How Crest, his family, his girlfriend (and now mother of his son), and others deal with this tragedy is a very promising beginning.  O'Nan's failure, I believe, was in attempting to make his story too true to life, with several minor plot lines or stories that get started and remain unresolved - and unaddressed - by the book's final pages.  Although this is how life often works, as a reader I found myself at the end asking \\"what about this?,\\" and \\"what happened to him?\\"  O'Nan overall seems a very gifted writer, and his characters are outstandingly drawn. Everyday People is certainly well worth reading for these reasons.  However, in my judgment, it could have been better.	2001-12-31
US	52231295	R39L4D4JK0U29D	0719056756	438955493	Betting On Lives: The Culture of Life Insurance in England, 1695-1775 (Politics, Culture and Society in Early Modern Britain)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Kudos from a Friend	When a friend of mine recently earned his PhD (in systematic theology), a party feting his achievement called for oral excerpting from his colleagues' works whose knowledge, from many disciplines, was likewise piled higher and deeper. Geoffrey Clark's Betting on Lives: The Culture of Life Insurance in England, 1695-1775, particularly caught my ear, and the author was kind enough to provide me a copy of the Manchester University Press monograph.  What an interesting study!  Clark manages both to describe the factual development of life insurance societies and companies and - I believe more interestingly - to present the social and literary context that both described and led to this development.  Clark writes very well, and his broad eye takes him beyond narrative fact by including several eighteenth-century illustrations - playing cards, advertisements for \\"Lottery Insurance\\" for both the \\"Elite\\" and \\"Laboring Classes\\" - as well as quotes from contemporary literature.   Although primarily aimed at professional historians like himself, Clark's work both educated and entertained this general reader.  Even were Geoffrey not a personal friend, I would recommend this insightful work.	2001-06-23
US	52231295	R1IOFAMI6Q2N3K	0684813866	2774453	The Hookmen	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good first novel	Timothy Hillmer's novel The Hookmen is a good first novel, and shows promise and potential for the writer.  This is the story of Roy Cruz, a young man, who works for the forest service in California on the Kern  River.  Part of his job is to be a &quot;hookman&quot;, to rescue people  from the river and, more often, to recover the bodies of drowning victims.   Hillmer writes well of the river and the men (and they are all men) who  work it, also throwing in a troubled relationship between Cruz and his  alcoholic father and a love interest between Cruz and a free-spirited  beauty.  I do not consider this a &quot;great&quot; book, because parts of  the writing appear &quot;clunky&quot; and scenes a bit predictable.   Hillmer, though, consistently kept my interest and got me genuinely to care  about Cruz and the other river men.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R5GL7ZRZUQ1IE	0060929863	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A timeless classic	Thornton Wilder's The Bridge of San Luis Rey won the Pulitzer Prize in 1927.  It is easy to see why.  This short (148 pgs) novel begins with the collapse of a footbridge in Peru, where several people die.  Brother  Juniper, a monk who witnesses their deaths, ponders whether their death is  the result of divine providence or merely unseeing fate.  After one  reading, I confess I have not grasped all the meanings and subtleties which  I know are present (This book definitely goes no my re-reading or  &quot;keeper&quot; shelf). I do know that Wilder's prose borders on poetry,  and that this book is a work of beauty and truth.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R11W0L39B9HCQ6	0226092658	314770974	Dream Reaper: The Story of an Old-Fashioned Inventor in the High-Tech, High-Stakes World of Modern Agriculture (Sloan Technology Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Old-fashioned American inventiveness on the farm	My wife and I agree that there is a certain type of non-fiction work that qualifies as a classic &quot;Rick book.&quot;  Such a book focuses on a single, quite narrow, topic well off the beaten path. Craig Canine's Dream  Reaper: The Story of an Old-Fashioned Investor in the High-Tech,  High-Stakes World of Modern Agriculture fits the bill admirably, and is a  great book besides.  Canine tells two stories.  The principal account -  and ostensible subject of the book - is of two Kansans, a farmer-tinkerer  and his cousin salesman, as they design, refine, and attempt to find  investors for a radically new farm machine, a &quot;bi-rotor combine.&quot;  This highlights the difficulties in bringing to market, in the modern world  of restricted markets and a limited number of manufacturers (John Deere,  IH, a few others), a greatly improved but radically different machine.  The  second account, which places the story of the invention in context, is  Canine's excellent overview of mechanized agriculture over the last 150  years.    Canine's writing is consistently excellent, and his accounts  never less than compelling.  As the inventors struggle to meet production  deadlines while tempers fray and financing becomes tight, the tension is  every bit as palpable as any novel.  You really want these guys to succeed  against very high odds.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R1YYU48JFZLI7Z	0425155749	122300775	Bless Me, Father	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A hard-edged coming of age	Mark Kriegel's novel Bless Me Father is a hard-edged chronicle of growing up in the mob, and around the boxing ring, in Little Italy, Manhattan.  Besides being a compulsive page-turner, Kriegel has also given us a fine  work of literature.  Nicky Battaglia, the teenaged protagonist, is the son  of a failed-boxer father and up-and-coming mob lieutenant.  Frank  Battaglia, the father, hides behind his youthful failure as a boxer by  giving the appearance of the prototype mafia &quot;tough guy&quot;;  problems arise when Frank needs to demonstrate his toughness by both  knocking off his boss (&quot;The Fatman&quot;) and turning Nicky into a  boxer.  In the hands of a different or less gifted writer, the plot and  setting here have cliche and &quot;pot-boiler&quot; written all over them.   Kriegel transcends the easy cliches and plot twists which one might expect  and gives a modern morality tale of father, son, and the true meanings and  uses of courage.  Every one of his characters is perfect, from the mob  family to the hangers-on down at the boxing gym.  One can almost smell the  sweat around the boxing ring! As a male, but not particularly athletic or  &quot;macho&quot; reader, but a sports fan, I found this a great book.  I  would be interested in the perspective of  other, particularly female,  readers.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R19G942P2P2144	067973709X	513448067	Mating: A Novel	Books	3	44	56	N	N	Oddly uninteresting	Although it won the 1991 National Book Award and was recipient of many glowing reviews, Norman Rush's novel Mating left me scratching my head and wondering, &quot;what am I missing?&quot; Written in the first person,  Rush's novel tells of the somewhat predatory courtship between a single  anthropologist woman and Nelson, the charismatic founder of a seemingly  utopian community for African woman desert Botswana.  The writing of this  novel is consistently literate and intelligent; I found myself regularly  turning to the dictionary (or wishing the dictionary was nearby) as the  erudition of Rush's narrator poured forth.  Nonetheless, the book as a  whole, although containing many fine parts and much excellent writing, did  not hold my interest.  I think, in essence, that, while well-drawn and  convincing characters, the two lovers did not appeal to me.  I simply did  not like them, and did not enjoy their company.  Given the favorable press  and awards this novel has received, however, many readers must love this  book .  I hope other readers have a more favorable reaction.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R2YI48CRIXSXWE	0375702695	519535131	Our Guys	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A shocking tale of middle class suburbia	Bernard Lefkowitz' Our Guys made me fear for my children, and shudder at bedroom community suburban America.  The story of the Glen Ridge, New Jersey rape and subsequent trial, this book recounts how the seemingly  anointed star male athletes in this upper-class town lured into a basement  then sexually assaulted a retarded teenaged girl.  Above all else,  Leflowitz' book demonstrates the dangers of complacency.  For years before  the rape, the boys involved had been allowed to &quot;get away with&quot;  ever-escalating misbehaviors, including conduct for which, if I knew my  children were involved, would be visited with the most severe consequences.   No such consequences ever befell the star athletes of Glen Ridge, with  everyone turning a blind eye to problems and muttering the mantra,  &quot;boys will be boys.&quot;  This book is extremely explicit in both  descriptions and language, and is not for the prude.  Likewise, I suspect  it may offend (or appear unbalanced) to those of the &quot;athletic  supporter&quot; mindset, including the fathers and sons of star (and  seemingly exemplary) players.  Nonetheless, Leflowitz gives us a story that  must be told, in clear, compelling prose making this book hard to put down.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R1DDSOZGSCGOPL	0805058419	110216616	A Commotion in the Blood: Life, Death, and the Immune System (The Sloan Technology Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A fascinating account of medicine for the general reader	Stephen S. Hall's A Commotion in the Blood: Life, Death, and The Immune System focuses on the development of immunotheraphy, particularly as the immune system has been used to treat cancer.  Although ostensibly a dense,  esoteric subject, Hall makes this all a great read.  Science books for  non-specialist readers carry an unavoidable tension - does the author focus  primarily on the personalities involved, or the science.  In my experience,  a solely biographical approach leaves the science too much a &quot;black  box&quot;, amazing but inexplicable to the reader.  Focus only on the  science leaves the text unavoidably dense and lacking in &quot;human&quot;  interest.  Hall handles this tension perfectly by writing a series of  mini-biographies of the leaders in the field, while leaving ample space to  describe the science itself.  By so doing, the key scientists become real  people, and their quests tales of suspense, with life and death  consequences.  Hall manages ably to make the medicine accessible to the  general reader, and has a fine gift for avoiding jargon or specialists'  language.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R5XTP6FHXQMWZ	0671038184	835489451	Jewel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Remarkable writing of character and place	Oprah Winfrey (or whoever works for her) consistently chooses good books.  Jewel, a novel by Bret Lott, is one of the four or five best novels I've read this decade.  This 1991 novel tells the story of Jewel Hulbert, a  Mississippi &quot;cracker&quot;, and her determination to love and raise a  down syndrome daughter (first diagnosed to her, in the 1950's medical idiom  of the time, as a &quot;Mongoloid idiot&quot;). Jewel realizes, with time,  that Brenda Kay cannot get what she needs in rural Mississippi, so  convinces/forces her husband and family to move to California, where she  has heard of a school for such exceptional children.  First and foremost,  this is a book about family, and what holds this family together.  Jewel  and her husband, Leston, do not agree about many things, and at one point  late in the book, he essentially forces her and Brenda Kay to move back to  Mississippi. Nonetheless, the marriage survives and prospers.    Lott  has the gifts of character and place, and the ability to compel his readers  through seemingly mundane turns of phrase or events.  There is nothing  flashy in his writing, but the results take your breath away.  Quite  frankly, I do not know how he does it.  This novel may be read on a large  canvas - that of the sea change in attitudes toward and opportunities for  handicapped children. (Much of it set in the south, the change in race  relations and attitudes also shadows Lott's story).  A much smaller canvas  also satisfies - that of a remarkable child, mother, and family, and their  working out life under the eyes of an inscrutable but benevolent God.  Much  of his writing in this book reminded me of Stinbeck, a not-unworthy  comparison.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R3FZI8EB0VX0L2	0471194158	42816728	Allan Pinkerton: The First Private Eye	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An interesting biography	I had always heard of the Pinkertons or Pinkerton Detective Agency, but had never really thought about who this &quot;Pinkerton&quot; might be.  James Mackay's Alan Pinkerton: The First Private Eye is a useful biography  of both the man and the firm.  In his introduction, Mackay makes clear that  his most original scholarship - and of which he is most proud - is in  tracing Pinkerton to his youth in Scotland as a Chartist leader.   Unfortunately, this is the dullest part of the book, I think because Mackay  is focused wholly on doing scholarship rather than telling a story.  Once  his subject moves to America, however, Mackay's book gains in interest and  becomes an interesting read.  Here, he shows how Pinkerton, by trade a  cooper, essentially stumbled onto his career as investigator through his  extreme powers of observation and sheer doggedness.  Though these  attributes, his honesty and business acumen, Pinkerton built a business  which remains in existence today.    A particularly interesting section  of this book deals with Pinkerton's actions during the Civil War, and the  allegations that he had become a puppet of General McLellan and disloyal to  Lincoln.  Mackay explores and justifies Pinkerton's loyalty to &quot;Little  Mac&quot;, but argues - convincingly for me - that he did not stray from  the Union (In the process Mackay argues that McLellan has been unfairly  maligned and was a &quot;great&quot; general; this argument, however, is  undeveloped, and perhaps will form another book). This is a useful and  interesting book for readers interested in real-life &quot;private  eyes&quot; and the Civil War.	1999-03-01
US	52231295	R12VC4HST6DRSC	0140250395	657744837	None to Accompany Me	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Thought-provoking but not always compelling	I do not know quite what to make of Nadine Gordimer's 1994 novel None to Accompany Me. Gordimer, past winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature, writes tellingly of her native South Africa, and of the uneasy relations  between blacks and whites during the very recent past.  This book tells the  story of Vera, a middle-aged married white woman who is employed as a  lawyer with a &quot;liberal&quot; organization dedicated to obtaining  housing and land for the black majority.  While Vera has  &quot;relationships&quot; with many in the book, both black and white -  including her current husband (a past lover); former husband; grown  children; and black employees of her organization and political leaders -  ultimately she makes herself  a loner, with only her career and transitory  relationships.  I believe this is the source of the book's title - Vera has  none to accompany her, and the reason for this appears to be her own lack  of commitment to all save her cause.    Gordimer writes with great insight  and intelligence, and I very much wanted to enjoy this book more than I  did.  Her characters are finely drawn, allowing the reader to &quot;get  inside&quot; their thinking; nonetheless, this novel did not always keep my  attention. Because she is such a fine writer in general, and this book has  so many flashes of brilliance and insight, I cannot discourage others from  reading it.  Perhaps I just am not the right reader for this book.  (I  recommend highly and without qualification her earlier novel July's  People).	1999-01-18
US	52231295	R1XEO7HKN7IP3I	0771099584	194153574	Bear	Books	4	40	47	N	N	A disturbing tale finely told	Marian Engel's short novel Bear is an odd book.  Winner of the Governor General's Award (Canada) in 1976, it clearly has attained critical success.  In broad outline, Engel tells the story of a bookish young woman, Lou,  working as an archivist in dusty historical institute, who is given the  field assignment to catalog a nineteenth century library located on a  remote island in Ontario.  The only other inhabitant of the island is the  pet bear of prior the occupants, and a strongly sexual - though not  consummated - relationship develops between them The subject matter of this  book may be very disturbing to some - an afterward in the Canadian edition  to this book notes that many have described the book as  &quot;pornographic&quot;.  I do not agree with this censor's view, but  agree that it is not a book for children or prudes.  <br />The real  &quot;subject&quot; of the book is Lou's growth from retiring recluse to  more confident woman; although the medium of transformation is through  sexual awakening, this is not the sole or even principal end result.  <br />Finally, a word must be added about Engel's wonderful writing.  Her  characters, settings, and descriptions are lively, strongly visual, and at  times amusing.  Take, for example, her musings on historical Canadians:  &quot;The Canadian tradition was, she had found, on the whole, genteel.   Any evidence that an ancestor had performed any acts other than working and  praying was usually destroyed.  Families handily became respectable in  retrospect but it was, as [Lou] and the [Institute Director] often mourned,  hell on history.&quot;  More such fine writing awaits the reader of this  short but non-complacent novel, which I recommend.	1999-01-18
US	52231295	R3O5IUTJZMLR7Z	0684830957	394462263	Worse than Slavery: Parchman Farm and the Ordeal of Jim Crow Justice	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Disturbing yet fascinating southern history	David M. Oshinsky's &quot;Worse than Slavery&quot;: Parchman Farm and the Ordeal of Jim Crow Justice, tells yet another piece of recent, uncomfortable American history which must not be forgotten. Mississippi,  like other southern states after the Civil War, did not deal well with  freed blacks, and developed the system of &quot;Jim Crow justice&quot;  which, in many respects, replicated slavery.  Initially, the state leased  prisoners -- usually blacks -- to private individuals, usually to pick  cotton and do other heavy labor.  As Oshinsky presciently concludes, this  resulted in a more onerous existence for the black contract workers than  when they were slaves.  Owners, at least, had a vested interest in keeping  their slaves fed and clothed, as they represented a substantial investment  of capital.  Persons leasing convict labor had no such capital investment,  and, as a result, had no incentive (other than humanitarian, which,  Oshhinsky notes, usually begged the question in white southern minds as to  whether blacks were &quot;human&quot; at all) to keep workers from starving  or working to death. The system of convict labor, considered  &quot;enlightened&quot; by many at the time - and a great source of profit  for the State - was an exercise in barbarism.<br />Parchman Farm, a huge  cotton plantation in the Mississippi delta, represented an improvement, in  that Mississippi itself owned and operated the farm and tended to feed and  house the convicts.  The system, however, was far from just, in that  prisoners were armed and chosen to guard their fellow inmates, profit was a  main goal and justification of the system, and no effort was made to  rehabilitate the inmates. Only in the last quarter of this century was  Parchman reformed through a series of federal court orders defining the  situation as &quot;cruel and unusual punishment.&quot; <br />Oshinsky writes  extremely well, and both his research and insight are impressive.  If one  wants an example ofhow Reconstruction did not work, and the lives of rural  southern blacks up through the civil rights victories of the last few  decades, I recommend this book highly.	1999-01-18
US	52231295	RGEYQK16GWRNT	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great adventure	As an intelligent college graduate and MA degree holder in a field of literature - albeit Classical Literature - I suppose I should have read Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea with more of an eye toward  symbolism, literary significance, and the like.  Certainly enough has been  said about this book -- and enough book reports cribbed from Cliff's Notes  et al. - that any reviewer who presumes himself intelligent should put  forth high-minded and multi syllabic ruminations.  At this I am a failure.   I just think it is a great adventure!  The story of the old Cuban alone in  the ocean, battling, landing, and ultimately losing to sharks the biggest  fish he has ever encountered, is magnificent.  I found myself mentally in  the boat with him, and endured his selfsame agony as sharks first  decimated, and then destroyed, his remarkable catch. Again, as the scholars  have said, I am sure this all &quot;means&quot; something.  I will content  myself, though, in this fine tale memorably told.	1999-01-18
US	52231295	R3CRV4YL3319TF	0380975289	602853146	Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Fascinating history!	Although ostensibly about a very narrow subject, David Ewing Duncan's Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year tells a much broader story.  This fine book combines both intellectual and  social history with science, with the ultimate issue being &quot;how do we  define and measure a year.&quot;  This is not a simple question  scientifically, and the input of religion makes it more difficult still.  For example, the most holy of days for Christians is Easter, yet the  formula used to determine Easter was based, in part, on the spring equinox.   The calendar in use before Pope Gregory was not quite accurate, with the  result that Easter in the sixteenth century was being celebrated, according  to astronomers, ten days &quot;off.&quot; Science and religion have never  been particularly comfortable bedfellows (one only needs to recall  Galileo), so any &quot;reform&quot; was not as simple as it might seem.   Duncan tells an excellent story, and what he does best is place in full  context the seemingly narrow question of how we set the year.  Although  seemingly about a narrow subject, this is a wide-ranging and insightful  work of history, ably written.	1999-01-18
US	52231295	R3HH9PCAMPL6YR	039470780X	15421751	The Victory Garden Cookbook	Books	3	18	37	N	N	Beware the Calories	Based upon the 5 star rating, I ordered this book because I was looking for healthy recipes using vegetables. (I'm a serious veggie gardener and always have an abundance that needs to be used up.) However, after a quick  perusal I realized that a goodly portion of the recipes use significant  amounts of butter, cream, 1/2 and 1/2, etc. With my efforts to cook more  lower-cholestrol and lower-fat recipes, I realized that many of these  recipes would be &quot;off-limits&quot; and that I would be forever  frustrated by reading great recipes that were not a good idea to feed my  family on a regular basis. And in the introduction, Morash herself even  admits that a lot of her recipes are once a week indulgences. So, sadly, I  ended up sending the book back.	1999-01-09
US	52231295	R2Y1J7VO9N2TFB	0393312941	708508267	The Vicar of Sorrows: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wickedly funny yet infinitely sad story of faithless priest	A.N. Wilson's The Vicar of Sorrows is the wickedly funny, yet infinitely sad, story of an English country rector who has lost his faith. Francis Kreer starts this novel as the &quot;perfect&quot; priest, able to  generally satisfy the various factions in his parish, saying a good mass,  cutting a good figure.  His marriage, however, is loveless, and Francis  makes the unfortunate mistake of falling in love with a young  &quot;hippie&quot; squatting nearby.  From this point, Francis' life  tumbles inexorably into the abyss, and the descent is both mortifying and a  masterpiece of dry wit.  Wilson treats Francis, and other of his  characters, with a certain affection but does not allow this regard to  spare anyone from the most awful of fates. There is no mercy in Francis'  descent, or in Wilson's telling about it. As a member of the Episcopal  Church of America, I saw and enjoyed many of the somewhat precious  characters and stock situations of this book.  I wonder how much of  Wilson's scene would be lost to the unchurched or the Pentecostal.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R21BVDEWZG84NS	0786705639	722586933	Master Georgie (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Spare yet telling portraits	It is amazing how some writers can blather on for hundreds of pages and yet be barren of memorable phrase or image, yet how a select few demonstrate the maxim of &quot;less is more.&quot;  Beryl Bainbridge and  her most recent novel Master Georgie surely fall into this latter category.   Each chapter in this short (190 pages) novel takes its title from a  picture illustrating its contents.  This is an effective technique, as the  photographic image provides both a jumping-off point for Bainbridge's  particular scene and narrator (the novel is given from several points of  view) and a framing device for the scene. I look forward to more of her  fiction.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R2ONQEHJ3F08UF	0679760210	691188631	Engineers of Dreams: Great Bridge Builders and the Spanning of America	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Not up to Petroski's usual high standard	I am a great fan of Henry Petroski, engineering professor and author of such minor classics as The Pencil and The Evolution of Useful Things. Perhaps it is because of these high expectations that I was so disappointed  by Engineer of Dreams: Great Bridge Builders and the Spanning of America.  In the end, Petroski seems much better at writing about engineering  artifacts - pencils, paper clips, or, in this book, bridges - than the  makers of those artifacts.  Much of Petroski's &quot;biography&quot; here  seemed nothing less than mere formula: you could almost see him filling in  his computer template for &quot;name, date and place of birth, school,  mentor, etc.&quot; each time a new engineer was introduced.  Further, he  did not even attempt to vary the template from person to person, so that  the repetitive style becomes unmistakable. This book is worth reading  insofar as it provides a history of the bridges themselves, and the limits  of engineering technique and imagination.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	RB7XNLTTI5KAV	0151001820	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A thinking person's mystery	Arturo Perez-Reverte's margelous literary thriller The Club Dumas combines several great themes - the love of (and lust for) antiquarian books; the discovery (or re-discovery) of an original Dumas manuscript; and a  long-missing satanic tome which, it seems, contains the key to re-conjure  the devil himself.  Perez-Reverte is a wonderful companion and  story-teller: he is both scholarly and erudite in his expositions of the  world of rare books and famous writers; he also writes good (although  sparing) sex and violence.  This is the thinking person's mystery, and a  book which I will soon re-read.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	RSNTIUI836EFG	0060975857	693537792	Mystery Ride	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The ambiguities of marriage, love and family	The &quot;Mystery Ride&quot; in Robert Boswell's 1992 novel of that name is marriage, or perhaps life itself.  Angela and Stephen were married young, had a daughter, Dulcie, then divorced.  Each remarried, and spends  much of this novel examining whether they made the right choices, and  realizing that what's past is prologue.  Stephen remains on his farm in  Iowa, where he struggles with the business and regrets.  Angela, who has  custody of Dulcie, moves to California, where she marries a husband whom  she realizes is adulterous, but whom she still loves dearly.  Dulcie, as a  teenager, is hopelessly screwed up, and her parents hope that some time on  dad's farm might help matters.  Above all else, this is a very good story  about people we can't help but care about.  A very good book.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R1EFPJEXOVGWBT	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	4	67	71	N	N	&quot;Fictional&quot; biography in an amalgam of styles	Carol Shields The Stone Diaries [Pulitzer Prize and National Book Critics Circle Award 1995] is the story of Daisy Stone Goodwill, a Canadian woman whose mother died in childbirth, was raised by her neighbor's relatives,  was widowed twice (the first time on her honeymoon), raised children,  worked in a job she loved until she was fired, moved to Florida, and died.     Daisy is, in one sense, an absolutely &quot;ordinary&quot; woman, who  lives much of her life in the shadow of men. I think that it was for this  reason, and the fact that she ends her life separated from her children,  that my wife (and other women I know who have read this book) found the  novel very depressing.  I was not so struck.  What came across to me was  Daisy's resilience in the face of very difficult circumstances, finding  some satisfaction on the world's terms. Undeniably, Daisy was not a  &quot;success&quot; as we now view women's lives.  However, she formed some  successful relationships, and always seemed to put the pieces together to  move from one part of her life to the next.  The best example of this for  me was her Florida bridge group, &quot;The Flowers&quot; (Daisy, Lilly,  Myrtle and Glad), who became her final community after she was long  widowed, and her childhood friends dead. One can regret that life has  brought her to this final community, a circle of old widows in a retirement  home, or note how Daisy stays on her feet and moving, from one chapter of  life to the end.<br />One cannot read The Stone Diaries without being struck  by the style -- or rather styles -- in which it is written.  While clearly  fiction, Shields gives the appearance of journalism by including  photographs purporting to be of the various characters. The photographs  give one pause -- am I reading a novel trying to be non-fiction, or a  fictionalized &quot;real life&quot; biography?  Shields also changes style,  form, and voice as she goes from chapter to chapter.  For example, the  chapter captioned &quot;work&quot; takes the form of a series of letters by  and about Daisy's work as a newspaper writer.  There is no  &quot;narrator&quot; or chronicler; the story is told by one letter  following the next.  The chapter &quot;Sorrow&quot; takes the form of  first-person opinions, by various persons in Daisy's life, as to why she is  depressed.  Again, Shields has no omniscient narrator.  Other chapters are  told by the more conventional, omniscient third-person narrator. <br />I found  this a wonderful book, and recommend it highly.  My wife, Carol, disagrees:  &quot;I wouldn't say that this is a &quot;bad&quot; book and not worth  reading. It just seems to capture in a very stark way the extreme  ordinariness of the lives of so many women. Admittedly, not all women are  destined to great things, but somehow, even the most mundane of  us--provided we have a jot of self awareness--hope (and pray) that our  lives have some deeper meaning and that somehow our being alive has made a  positive difference. Upon reflection, may be that's what this book is  about. But I can't say that I finished it with the impression that the life  of Daisy Stone was really that important in the grand scheme of things. For  a reader whose life isn't really any more exciting than Daisy's--that was a  frightening and frankly unpleasant conclusion.&quot;	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R3T8ONWFCAB7SX	0684839687	428043661	Hen Frigates: Wives of Merchant Captains Under Sail	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great fun and fascinating history	Joan Druett's Hen Frigates: Wives of Merchant Captains Under Sail is a delightful book.  Profusely illustrated, this largely anecdotal account gives the sense of life at sea during the age of sail from the woman's  perspective. Because, however, so much of the hardships of sail belonged to  the whole crew, Dreutt does not limit her writing to the wives, although  much of her point of view is taken from several journals and diaries of  these intrepid women.  This is not so much a work of interpretative history  or argument as it is a collection of delightful yarns.  I found Druett a  very pleasant and amiable companion.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R3LRNTE86786YP	0316584789	780663169	Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life of Christopher Columbus	Books	5	34	38	N	N	A great sailor's life in a biography which has aged well	Samuel Eliot Morison's Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life of Christopher Columbus won the Pulitzer Prize in 1942, and does not seem the least dated 55 years later.  What sets Morison's biography apart from most is that  Morison himself is a sailor, and he draws on his own knowledge of ships,  currents, and men to bring Columbus to life.  Morison (and, through him,  his reader) is constantly amazed at how good Columbus was at dead reckoning  in unknown waters, and what a superb handler of ships and men he was.   However, this is not a hagiography, and Morison does not shy away from  Columbus' lapses in judgment (to the end, he convinced himself that he had  reached the Indies) and mistakes.    Six years ago, of course, was the  500th anniversary of Columbus' initial voyage, and I remember a deluge of  articles and books -- mostly attacking dead white European males -- being  published to note the event.  I suspect that Morison's biography was  roundly attacked at that time. I would be interested to dig up those books  and articles to see what they say.  For me, however, regardless of the  current fashions or trends of scholarship, Morison's biography remains a  marvelous tale, stunningly told.  I recommend this book highly!	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R3POCKIYAN9I3Z	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful characterizations and evocation of place	&quot;I am a bird artist, and have more or less made a living at it.  Yet I murdered the lighthouse keeper, Botho August, and that is an equal part of how I think of myself.&quot; So the narrator of Howard Norman's  wonderful novel, The Bird Artist, introduces himself.  Norman has a gift  for both language and character, and displays that gift deftly.  He also  has a gift for place - in this instance the desolate Newfoundland village  of Witless Bay. This is, in essence, the story of four skewed  relationships.  The first is the sexually charged relationship between  Fabian, the narrator, and his paramour, Margaret.  Second is the courtship  between Fabian and Cora, a long distance betrothal arranged by their  respective parents.  The final two relationships are between Fabian's  mother and father, the latter cuckolded by his wife's tryst with the  lighthouse keeper. Highly recommended!	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R1LHDOE2J7EMKV	0440217334	98110751	Last Sanctuary	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Formulaic pot-boiler chugs along	Craig Holden's The Last Sanctuary is the good old-fashioned pot-boiling thriller, filled with lots of blood, explosions, and plot twist, but nearly devoid of human characters.  In this story, Joe, while hitchhiking in  Montana becomes involved with members of a radical religious group (like  the Branch Davidians, only this time in Alaska), and is implicated as a  suspect when a gun deal gone bad results in multiple deaths.  A mark of the  contemporary thriller is its political correctness, in this instance making  the crackerjack rebel cop both female and minority - Leanne Red Feather.   Both the genre of police thrillers and our nation having endured  generations of white male rule, it is a good thing in general that both  society and fiction mirror the composition of the modern community.  I only  wish Holden hadn't been so obvious - and, it feels, almost exploitative -  about his choice of hero.  As the genre requires, this book chugs along  nicely, and the drama never flags.  The characters, however, neither make  an impression nor evoke any empathy from the reader. For this reason, I  must consider this book a disappointment.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R4C4MLS2MZTP3	0374216495	358028755	The Museum Guard	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Tragic confusion of art and life	Howard Norman's The Museum Guard tells the relationship between DeFoe, a young museum guard in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Imogen, keeper of the Jewish cemetery who first becomes enraptured by and then literally becomes  Jewess on a Street in Amsterdam, the subject of a painting on exhibit.  As  with Norman's earlier The Bird Artist, this is very much a novel of place  and character.  Particular to this novel, however, is its setting in  history - 1938, a time of Nazi fanaticism and anti-Semitism.  It is this  context which makes Imogen's &quot;madness&quot; particularly horrifying,  because in &quot;becoming&quot; the Jewess in the painting she travels to  Amsterdam when Nazi overrun appeared imminent. Norman manages to write a  novel that is both shocking and humorous, wise and witty.  His use of  language, also, is a marvel.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R2IX8BFB57ZCSH	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	2	2	9	N	N	A real disappointment	Penelope Lively's The Gate of Angels [nominated for the Booker Prize in 1990] was a disappointment.  The basic plot device is a bicycle collision between a fellow at Cambridge's St. Angelicus College and a young woman,  Daisy, of an uncertain past.  I found all of the characters and dialogue a  bit too precious.  Perhaps this is one of those books that only an Oxford  don (who would, perhaps, appreciate the academic setting) could appreciate.   It left me cold.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R27ZW3GL2B77W	0393311562	541292849	Mustang Sally: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Politically incorrect -- and proud of it!	Edward Allen's Mustang Sally is uproariously funny!  English Composition Professor Packard Schmidt, from the faculty of Amherst University (of Indiana) has two weaknesses: first, he likes gambling; and second, he has  an eye for the ladies.  On a gambling trip to Las Vegas, Fred is asked by a  colleague to look up his daughter, who is a student at UNLV, but has of  late become incommunicado.  Fred finds Sally, who has changed careers and  is now a state-licensed hooker at the Mustang Valley Inn.  Fred finances  his second problem, the Amherst administration finds out, Fred discovers  that what he has done is considered very politically incorrect, and he is  fired.  His only hope is to find a job at the Modern Language Association  annual convention -- in Atlantic City -- where he is asked to make a  presentation on the &quot;de-eroticization of love poetry&quot;. Fred's  resulting talk -- featuring in-person input from certain Las Vegas  businesswomen -- becomes the pinnacle of bad taste, bad judgment, and  humor.  In writing this book, Allen does more than tell a funny story.  He  clearly does not like the intellectual (and social) straightjacket which  the doctrine of political correctness imposes upon college campuses. His  point seems to be that childish (and arbitrary) rules are no fun at all,  and cause adults to act like children.  I'm sure this book (and my response  to it) will make certain &quot;P.C.&quot; types angry.  So be it!	1998-12-13
US	52231295	RDVZUZEY9CIGP	0820316326	365619529	The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Poignant coming-of-age story	Chris Fuhrman's short novel The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a slight but poignant coming-of-age story with a truly shocking ending. As the title suggests, the main characters in this novel are a gang of 13 and  14-year-old boys, students in a Savannah Catholic school, and the plot  revolves around their pranks, troubles, and young love.  For me, Fuhrman  artless prose exactly captured the world of boys who were not yet men,  whose female contemporaries suddenly had become (at least developmentally)  women.  The jacket biography says that Fuhrman died in his 30s while  finishing this, his only book, and it was published through the efforts of  a close friend (One is reminded of John Kennedy Toole, whose prize-winning  A Confederacy of Dunces escaped obscurity only because his mother took it  from editor to editor until she found a publisher).  Were he still alive, I  would very much look forward to Furhman's next book.  As it is, Dangerous  Lives is a worthy and worthwhile memorial.	1998-12-13
US	52231295	R2YKZ0CGSIIUGK	0316161837	994425195	The Citadel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An old fashioned good story with a moral	A.J. Cronin's recently reprinted 1937 novel The Citadel is an old fashioned good story with a moral about falling into and being redeeming from the sin of avarice.  Andrew Manson is a young doctor who starts this  novel as an assistant to a disabled physician in a Welsh mining town.  Although his boss -- really his boss' domineering and greedy wife -- make  sure that he earns next to nothing despite doing all of the work of the  practice, Andrew learns the joy of healing and discovers the challenges of  scientific medicine.  While there, he also meets his wife, Christine, who  in many ways is his better self. Andrew's idealism -- or bullheadedness --  causes him to move from this position to the next, at the same time  acquiring impressive credentials, including a MD degree for his thesis  studying the effects of silica dust on miners.  Then he becomes seduced by  money and prestige, buying a down-and-out London practice, becoming a  &quot;pill-pusher&quot; to pay the rent, acquiring a few  &quot;society&quot; patients, and at last practicing in the manner best  suit to maximize income, rather than care for patients.<br />The crisis,  when it comes, involves the tubercular daughter of a good friend, whom  Andrew refers to a non-physician for experimental (and successful)  treatment.  Andrew very nearly loses his license to practice, but in the  process rediscovers what excites him about medicine.  I will not spoil the  ending by recounting here what happens to Andrew and Chris; suffice to say  that this is both a good and noble read, worthy of many reprintings and  readings at the century's end.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R17MJTPV0L88F8	014027281X	800025990	In the Memory of the Forest	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fine novel of post-communist Eastern Europe	Charles T. Powers wrote only one novel, In the Memory of the Forest, published posthumously in 1997. For many years a newspaperman in Warsaw, Powers tells the story of a small Polish village at the end of communism,  still dealing with the ghosts of the holocaust.  The event which sets this  novel in play is the brutal murder of a young distillery worker, Tomek.   The main character, Leszek, a young man, sets out to find out what  happened.  In the process, he discovers official and unofficial corruption,  both within the government and the Catholic Church.  The answer to the  mystery of Tomek's death ultimately is not the final, or even the most  important, mystery, which Powers through Leszek plumbs.  Powers has fine  powers of both description and character, with the result that the reader  is transplanted to a particular time, place, and people.  This is a fine  novel.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R3JBXJ3JHA8LWA	0446604488	656036106	Bordersnakes	Books	4	4	6	N	N	fun beach or fireside reading	James Crumley's 1996 Bordersnakes is an example of the &quot;hard-bitten&quot;, &quot;tough guy&quot; genre, and tells the story of two alcoholic ne'er-do-wells in search of a Mexican drug kingpin and  killer.  Crumley's plot and characters move with great vigor and dead-pan  humor, and I found myself at the end of most chapters convincing myself I  had to read &quot;just one more.&quot;  I do not expect the details of this  book to stay with me for any length of time -- Crumley wrote entertainment,  not literature -- but I will recommend this book to friends as enjoyable  beach or fireside fodder.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R3M3SAFESIZHIM	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A lively and timely account of the Scopes Trial	Like many of my generation, I learned of the Scopes &quot;Monkey&quot; Trial through the Lawrence and Lee play, &quot;Inherit the Wind.&quot;  Edward J. Larson's Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's  Continuing Debate over Science and Religion is a fine and lively historical  account of the trial and its aftermath.  Winner of the 1998 Pulitzer Prize,  Larson's book sets the battle  between fundamentalist religion and the  &quot;modern&quot; science of Darwinism in both an historical and cultural  context.  In the 1920s, several states attempted to pass anti-evolution  laws, and Tennessee finally succeeded in 1925.  Thereafter, the ACLU found  a test plaintiff in teacher John Scopes, and a test venue in the sleepy  town of Dayton, Tennessee, which hoped to use the trial to &quot;get on the  map&quot; and increase tourism.    Using newspaper accounts, memoirs, and  other contemporaneous sources, Larson displays in vivid detail both the  seriousness and naivete of the battle between religion and science, William  Jennings Bryan and Clarence Darrow.  He also argues, convincingly for me,  that the trial did not -- contrary to the Lawrence and Lee depiction --  leave Bryan a broken man (although he died within a week of the verdict).   Going beyond the trial and its immediate aftermath, the final section of  this book examines how later historians and writers -- including Lawrence  and Lee -- have interpreted and often mis-interpreted the trial for later  generations.  In particular, Larson argues that &quot;Inherit the  Wind&quot;, like the Arthur Miller classic &quot;The Crucible&quot;, must  be viewed as both a product of and attack upon the McCarthy era of the  1950's.  This is an insightful and enjoyable account.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R2ZZTI5QLG414B	0140061401	441590930	July's People	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Both topical and timeless	Nadine Gordimer's 1981 novel July's People is both extremely topical and timeless.  Set in the South Africa at the time of a violent overturing of apartheid by black citizens, this novel tracks a family of liberal whites,  the Smales, who are taken to his bush village by their black servant, July.   Although the Smales are unquestionably &quot;liberal&quot; and hate the  apartheid system, their world is nonetheless turned upside down when forced  to live as outsiders (and the only whites) in a world without plumbing,  utilities, or servants such as July. In the end the Smales do not meet the  challenge, although Gordimer does not pass particular judgment upon them.   They, like almost anyone, can only take so much upheaval and role reversal  before losing their bearings.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RSNQ6244T8UK3	0395780330	316866217	Wind: How the Flow of Air Has Shaped Life, Myth, and the Land	Books	4	6	7	N	N	marvelous mix of good science and personal essay	Jan DeBlieu's Wind: How the Flow of Air has Shaped Life, Myth, and the Land is a wonderful combination of scientific discussion and personal essay.  Ms. DeBlieu approaches her subject from numerous angles, from the  affects of wind on history to its role in energy production and her own  moods.  Living on North Carolina's Outer Banks, Ms. DeBlieu regularly  returns to her own, coastal and windy environment, to provide a highly  personal perspective on her subject. I learned a great deal from this lucid  work, but must confess that what I enjoyed most was DeBlieu's personal  observations and writerly voice.  She is a fine companion to spend the  afternoon with on the breezy hill in Northern New York where I live.mar	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RACSCANIJ0CH6	0312135297	361047128	Keeper of the House: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A genuine pleasure	I am always attracted to &quot;southern&quot; fiction, and to writing about the black experience of this century.  Rebecca T. Godwin's 1994 novel Keeper of the House was thus doubly appealing, as it recounts the  forty-year experience of Minyon Manigault, a black woman who begins work as  a maid in a white South Carolina brothel called Hazelhedge, and ends up  inheriting the property when the madam dies.  Minyon is a remarkable  character, as are the many women who pass through Hazelhedge.  As a writer,  Godwin pulls few punches, including in her story rape/incest, the suicide  of a young whore whose attempt at &quot;passing&quot; for white is found  out, and both sadness and humor.  The story rings true, as do all of her  characters.  Her writing is a genuine pleasure.  I strongly recommend this  novel, which I plucked from the remainder table.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RIJ2M6T82DOW	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Oprah again picks a fine book!!	Chris Bohjalian's 1997 novel Midwives was recently chosen for Oprah's book club of the air. Once again, she has shown good judgment.  The premise of this chilling novel is simple: Sibyl, a lay midwife, out to deliver a baby  on a night when a severe blizzard makes roads impassible, believes her  patient has died and performs an emergency C-section with a kitchen knife  to deliver the child. Later, her assistant reports to the police her belief  that the mother was not dead, and homicide charges are brought against  Sibyl. As a trial lawyer, I can say that Bohjalian handled the legal parts  of this courtroom drama very well. He also makes a very wise choice in  telling the story in the first person voice of Sibyl's teenage daughter,  with excerpts from Sibyl's diary interspersed.  The diary itself proves a  decisive piece of evidence at the trial, and the daughter's knowledge of  its contents her dilemma.  This is a fine novel.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R24IG0LVYTR1JB	0380727021	236263513	Come and Go, Molly Snow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bluegrass music and the loss of a child	Come and Go, Molly Snow, by Mary Ann Taylor-Hall, is a novel about bluegrass music, the loss of a child, and the question of whether the &quot;circle will be unbroken, by and by, [is there] a better home  awaiting, in the sky, Lord, in the sky?&quot; Carrie is a gifted bluegrass  fiddler and single mother.  She has everything going for her, fiddle player  in an outstanding band, Hawktown Road with the handsome Cap, when she  daydreams for a moment and her five-year-old daughter, Molly, rides her  tricycle into traffic and is killed.  As Carrie reminisces: &quot;The woman  stood at the clothesline, dreaming, as the child wheeled her trike into the  street.  Nothing will change that.&quot;  While a sad subject, this book is  far from maudlin; Taylor-Hall fills both the characters and the music they  love with light and life.  Much of the book is Carrie's coming to peace  with herself, that bad things happen, and that her daughter's tragic death  is not her fault.  She also must come to grips with the question posed by  the old-timey song of whether, with Molly and with her, the circle will be  unbroken. Carrie is a strong and sympathetic character, and the choices and  actions she takes to regain measure in her own life are truly gratifying.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R2ET8Y7G8NE61Z	0374254281	59726640	Scar Tissue	Books	3	8	8	N	N	The heartbreaking loss of an aging parent	Michael Ignatieff's 1994 novel Scar Tissue is the story of two brothers, one a neurologist and the other a philosophy professor, coming to grips with their aged mother's descent into a wasting neurological disorder  (Alzheimers?).  Neither philosophy or science are able to make sense of the  illness, and the question ultimately becomes how the narrator and his  brother are to carry on in the face of the inexplicable.  This is a  sensitive story, finely told.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RAHGLWCH61OOL	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beguiling	Alan Lightman's fiction Einstein's Dreams is a clever and thought-provoking work. Although captioned a &quot;novel&quot;, it takes the form more of successive ruminations on a common theme - the nature of  time.  At the time he is having his great theoretical insights, Einstein  has a series of dreams, each of which presents a different model of time.   The dreams (and Lightman's book) are not so much about how time works but  how human nature responds to time.  Thus, in one particularly amusing  chapter, the second law of thermodynamics is reversed, and instead of  entropy prevailing everything becomes more ordered through time.  As a  result, in the springtime many people go through their houses making messes  and undoing the order that had developed over the preceding months.  In  other vignettes, time is non-linear or runs backwards; or persons lives  last but a single day.  In each instance, Lightman's interest is not time  itself but how it shapes how we live.  Although a scientist (he is on the  MIT faculty) Lightman writes with the sensitivity and language of a poetry.   This book is beguiling.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RNSZW2FXGLCVQ	020132833X	55167858	Naked To The Bone: Medical Imaging In The Twentieth Century	Books	5	11	11	N	N	superior science writing	I love reading science books geared toward non-scientists such as I.  Bettyann Holtzmann Kelves Naked to the Bone: Medical Imaging in the Twentieth Century exactly fit the bill.  Profusely illustrated and  gracefully written, this fine work of non-fiction tells the story of  x-rays, CT scan, MRI, sonograms, and PET scans.  Kelves writes for the  non-scientist, and does an excellent job of explaining how these various  machines work, how they were perceived at the time, the economics of their  development and marketing (Kelves never forgets that, for better or worse,  medicine and inventing have always been businesses), and their changes in  perception and use over time.  Perhaps most interesting, and unexpected,  are her two chapters addressing how medical imaging -- the ability to see  &quot;bones and all&quot; -- was itself imaged in and influenced the  visual, literary, and fine arts.  Of particular interest to me, as a  lawyer, is her accounts of how x-rays and other imaging devices were first  used, and then later relied upon (or rejected) in courts of law.  The depth  and breadth of her research are truly impressive, as is her fine prose.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R2A4SUL1UM7X8N	0446674931	559910566	Four Letters of Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Every sentence and paragraph a gem	Part of my reading discipline is to keep an ongoing list of titles recommended to me by friends or reviewers, and keeping this list with me at my library and bookstores. Irish writer Niall Williams Four Letters of Love  appeared on this list some time last year, and I somewhat hesitantly  checked it out of my library when it last became available.  Given the  title, I thought it would be too much of a &quot;women's book.&quot;   <br />What a delight!! This is a story of a young man (Nicholas) whose father  is told by God to quit work as a bureaucrat and paint. Off an island of  Ireland, a young boy (Sean) falls mute and lame while playing with his  sister, Isabel, and Isabel goes off to the mainland for school and, it  seems, a loveless marriage.  Through serendipity, Nicholas comes to the  island to recover the painting of his now-dead father given as a poetry  prize to Isabel's father, somehow cures Sean, then falls hopelessly in love  with the now-married Isabel. Although Isabel's mother destroys the love  letters written by the pining Sean to the unhappy Isabel (the &quot;Letters  of Love&quot;), William's vision -- sort of a combined Irish folklore and  magical realism -- makes clear that the love of Isabel and Nicholas is  inevitable, and nothing her mom (or anyone else) might do will keep them  apart.<br />Every sentence and paragraph of this fine book is a gem.   William's powers of description and characterizations are so strong that I  believe he would make a dictionary interesting.  That he applies these  formidable skills to this beautiful story redounds to the reader's great  pleasure.  Savor this book, its language and characters, and its most  satisfying ending!	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R2IJZ3JBU5OLX1	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A fine story	Mitch Albom's Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson is nothing less than an instruction manual on the meanings of life, taught by a truly great instructor.  Morrie Schwartz was a  sociology professor at Brandeis, and the favorite instructor/mentor of  Albom when he was an undergraduate.  Despite promises to &quot;keep in  touch,&quot; Morrie loses track of his mentor until he happens on a Ted  Koppel Nightline episode featuring Morrie, then dying of ALS, Lou Gehrig's  Disease. Over the course of fourteen weeks, the last of Morrie's life,  Album spends a series of Tuesdays with his old friend, learning the lessons  of love, companionship, generosity, and family.  Although set in the midst  of dying, this short and graceful essay is about life.  Morrie celebrates  -- and Albom comes to learn -- what is truly precious about his life; not  surprisingly, it has everything to do with relationships, and nothing to do  with material gain.  This is a fine book.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R3PJ26Y6BHQD6Z	0679747834	449173566	The Wisdom of the Bones: In Search of Human Origins	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent science writing	Alan Walker's and Pat Shipman's entertaining The Wisdom of the Bones: In Search of Human Origins, admirably accomplishes the writers' two objectives.  First, Walker and Shipman describe Walker's own 1984 finding  in Kenya of &quot;Nariokotome boy&quot;, a nearly complete Homo erectus  skeleton, and how that skeleton fit into the history of human paleontology  from the 19th century through the &quot;Piltdown Man&quot; hoax and to the  present.  Second, this book explains how scientists are able to tease out  from the slimmest of evidence great detail about their finds.  For example,  determining the boy's age, diet, and other particulars.  This book should  appeal both to the general reader and those interested in both the  discoveries and marvels of science.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R16TUKSVH691I5	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A weaver of lies, love, and truth	One of the oldest metaphors for telling a story -- and for living a life -- is that of the weaver at her loom.  I know this because weaving as a metaphor, from the most ancient Greek poets through Catullus' remarkable  poem 64 (&quot;at the marriage of Peleus and Thetis&quot;) was the subject  of my masters' thesis in Classics too many years ago. Ninah, the  protagonist of Sherri McReynolds' Oprah-selected novel, The Rapture of  Canaan, is likewise a weaver, both literally and figuratively.  She weaves  rugs, using both twisted fabrics and the real materials of life, including  hair and threads. She also &quot;weaves in lies, in love, and in the end,  it's hard to know if one keeps me warmer than the other.&quot;<br />In broad  outline, Rapture is the story of when Ninah becomes pregnant and gives  birth while a member of a fundamentalist sect, The Church of Fire and  Brimstone and God's Almighty Baptizing Wind.  First tortured for her  &quot;sin&quot;, she is later beatified by the cult when the child is born  with his hands fused together in a prayerful position, and taken to be the  next savior.  I have been consistently impressed with Oprah's choices of  fiction, and agree wholeheartedly with her recommendation here.	1998-11-16
US	52231295	RB7X3QTT51HSI	0140272607	38737877	Below the Convergence: Voyages Toward Antarctica 1699-1839	Books	5	5	5	N	N	scholarly prose which does not read like scholarship	Spritely writing which is scholarly without reading like scholarship gives special pleasure.  For this reason, I give my unqualified recommendation and praise to Alan Gurney's Below the Convergence: Voyages Toward  Antarctica 1699-1839. The short author's biography describes Gurney as a  &quot;yacht designer and photographer living on the Islay of Islay in  Scotland,&quot; but this description either sells him short or demonstrates  convincingly his remarkable book.  That the author is a sailor is obvious.  Gurney begins his book with separate chapters reminding the reader what  sailing (as opposed to steaming) before chronometers entailed -- finding  longitude was an uncertain (and perilous) business, and death and  disability from scurvy were common. With this by way of background, Gurney  goes on to describe the voyages of Edmond Halley, James Cook, and other  lesser-known explorers and merchant sailors in the southern hemisphere.  Gurney ably draws upon both the primary sources (logs, letters) left by the  sailors, and places them in both historical and scientific context for the  modern reader. I learned a great deal here, through pedagogy both  (seemingly) effortless and wise.  (Note: just in case you were wondering,  the &quot;convergence&quot; is a &quot;definite biogeograhical  frontier&quot;, weaving between 50 and 60 degrees S, where two bodies of  water of differing temperature and salinity converge, separating differing  forms of planktonic life and bottom sediment).	1998-11-16
US	52231295	R20APD691KL750	0195038290	481575463	Mutiny on the Amistad: The Saga of a Slave Revolt and Its Impact on American Abolition, Law, and Diplomacy	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Watch the movie instead!!	Steven Spielberg's movie Amistad won high critical acclaim, my wife and I included, for its insightful and inspiring portrayal of a relatively minor yet bellwether event in our history.  Because I wanted to learn more, I  picked up Howard Jones' Mutiny on the Amistad from the remainder table of  my local bookstore.  I must say I was disappointed.  Jones succeeded in  saying in 215 academically-bloated pages what perhaps could be told in half  the length.  As a lawyer, I am interested in and readily follow legal  arguments, which is most of what Jones endeavors to recount.  Each time an  argument is referred to, however, Jones restates it in full rather than  assuming his reader had read the preceding chapter or has some attention  span.  This fills a book already made ponderous by academic style and  language.  This book reads like a PhD dissertation; if, in fact, it was,  I'm sure Jones deserves his degree, but I'm not confident he should win  readers outside the ivory tower.	1998-11-15
US	52231295	R1H71C1749ABNK	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	39	40	N	N	A classic novel	Naguib Mahfouz's wonderful novel Palace Walk was originally published in Arabic in 1956, and not translated to English until 1990.  Why the publisher waited so long to make this beautiful and sad novel available to  a wider audience is beyond me.  At least, better late than never!! In broad  outline, this is the story of Al-Sayyid Ahmad, a shopkeeper in Cairo during  and after World War I, his wife, Amina, and the lives and courtships of  their several children.  The novel offers profound insight into a different  culture and religion.  Al-Sayyid has literally a dual personality -- petty  tyrant at home, with his wife and children; bon vivant and man-about-town  with his friends.  Because of the harsh sexual segregation in his  traditional Arab home, his wife is none the wiser, but his older sons learn  of first hand then come to emulate their father's lifestyle.  Although the  subject matter is &quot;small&quot; -- a middle-class family's domestic  issues -- this is unquestionably a &quot;big&quot; book, raising issues of  religion, class, gender, and integrity.  Mahfouz is also a wonderful  writer, and conveys his characters with humor, insight, and clarity.   Mahfouz won the Nobel Prize for Literature, and it is easy to see why.	1998-11-15
US	52231295	RV8BAP20NAUOZ	0300074484	588208741	Thomas Cranmer: A Life	Books	5	83	88	N	N	A definitive biography	Traditionally, one is to give something up or take something on as a Lenten discipline.  I did the latter, albeit inadvertently.  Around Ash Wednesday of 1998, I began Darmaid MacCulloch's magisterial biography of  Thomas Cranmer (Yale University Press 1996).  I finished this magnificent  tome on Holy Saturday.  As the time passed, I came to realize that this  Lent was for me a time to study a key figure in the Church and compare his  often--to modern Episcopalians-- unorthodox theology against what I have  come to believe. <br />Thomas Cranmer is a pillar of Episcopal history (and  hagiography). One literally cannot participate in a Sunday service without  reciting or hearing his words.  In  1549, he compiled the first Book of  Common Prayer. Many of the collects we say are either his original  compositions or alterations upon existing texts. MacCulloch says of the  Collects:<br />There is little doubt we owe him [Cranmer] the present form of  the sequence of eighty-four seasonal collects and a dozen or so further  examples embedded elsewhere in the 1549 services: no doubt either that  these jewelled miniatures are one of the chief glories of the Anglican  liturgical tradition, a particularly distinguished development of the genre  of brief prayer which is peculiar to the Western Church.  Their concise  expression has not always won unqualified praise, especially from those who  consider that God enjoys extended addresses from his creatures; but they  have proved one of the most enduring vehicles of worship in the Anglican  communion.<br />To me, today, the Collects focus and gather the scripture for  each service.<br />Cranmer's beliefs were distinct, certain, and in some  respects quite different from what I had thought.  He was a strong  predestinarian, and for this reason felt that &quot;good works&quot; had no  effect upon where a soul went after death.  He viewed the Pope as the  Antichrist, and profoundly believed that the Ruler of England was the Head  of the Church. (This led to his profound spiritual disorientation and  crisis when the Catholic Mary succeed Edward VI; suddenly the person whom  he viewed as Head of the Church was allied with evil personified).  <br />Cranmer was decidedly &quot;low church&quot; in his beliefs and liturgy.   The Eucharist, for him, was purely a memorial, and the bread and wine were  not the true Christ.  In his view, Christ was sacrificed once only at  Golgotha; to say that each Eucharist was a new sacrifice was for him  anathema.  (A vestige of Cranmer's clear belief survives in the language of  the Rite One Eucharist--&quot;one oblation of himself once offered.&quot;)  During his time, he had rood screens and images removed from churches,  removed many saints' and holy days from the Church calendar, moved altars  away from the church wall and toward the worshipers (this, at least, agrees  with our modern theology), and changed the language of worship to English.   <br />What made the Cranmer biography a Lenten discipline, and not just  leisure reading, was for me to see again how literally every rite, word and  image in our service comes from serious theological reflection and  humankind's continuing effort, sometimes stumblingly, to find and reflect  God's will in worship.  I do not agree with Cranmer's view on  predestination, although I certainly understand the sincerity with which it  was held, and the struggles which brought him there. I have always found  the Eucharistic language &quot;one oblation of himself once offered&quot;  terribly stilted and prosaic; I now understand that Cranmer and subsequent  Prayer Book compilers said exactly what they meant to say. (One of the  great gifts of the &quot;big tent&quot; of Episcopalianism is that all of  us --both those who view the Eucharist as memorial only and those who see  the true body and blood transformed--may worship at the same table).  While  and since reading this fine biography, I find myself approaching almost  everything we say and do in worship in a different, more reflective,  posture.   Next year for Lent I perhaps will give up chocolate. (I have  tried this in other years, never making it as far as Refreshment Sunday.)   Reflective Christians, however, who do not mind serious scholarship (this  is not light reading) conveyed through lively prose could do worse than to  take up this life and biography of Archbishop Cranmer.	1998-11-15
US	52231295	R1BYSE0NCHD66I	0465005594	887109454	The Physics Of Star Trek	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Fun and enlightening	As both a Star Trek (old series) fan and popular science reader, I was greatly intrigued to see Lawrence Krauss' The Physics of Star Trek at my local bookstore.  Often disappointed by past efforts to connect to the  bandwagon of popular culture, I was delighted at how learned, clear, yet  sprightly Krauss' short book was.  In the first part, Krauss attempts  nothing less than an explanation of Newtonian physics, general and special  relativity, and other physics concepts to explain warp drives, tractor  beams, wormholes, and other Star Trek staples that -- under the laws of  physics as we now understand them -- are probably impossible.  Subsequent  chapters address and deconstruct the transporter beam, warp drive, etc. The  clarity and humor of Krauss' writing is just wonderful. Perhaps the most  amusing chapter is the last, in which Krauss lists his &quot;top ten&quot;  Star Trek scientific bloopers -- events, plot devices, and the like that  just could not occur.  Because he is a trekker, Krauss does not treat these  foibles with contempt or ridicule; as a scientist and writer, he ably  outlines those errors.	1998-11-15
US	52231295	R19N82Z4WC0PTY	0679765557	77357612	First Comes Love	Books	5	8	9	N	N	heartbreakingly honest	Marion Winik's funny, honest, and ultimately gut-wrenching memoir First Comes Love answers, in the end, what true love is.  In clear, unwavering prose, Winik tells of her meeting, marrying, having two children with  Tony Heubach, a gay ice-skater.  Given their differing  sexual orientations --  Winik is straight -- sex never was a big part of  their relationship.  Drugs, however, were, and it is the drugs which first  brought the two together and drove them apart as Tony desperately sought  any respite from the AIDS that killed him (neither Winik nor their two  children ever tested positive).  The most accurate phrase I can come up for  Winik and Tony is that they were &quot;soul mates&quot;, and this  compatibility on levels more intimate than intercourse made their  relationship work.  Involving as it does drug addiction and AIDS, many  parts of this book are sad.  Winik and Tony, however, shared many good  times together, including a number of years when they were off drugs, were  happily married with young children, and before Tony became symptomatic.  This book deserves a wide audience both for its honesty and for Winik's  marvelous writing.	1998-11-15
US	52231295	R3NRPAKW3AS43W	0061096644	861222021	Underboss	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Anthropology of the mob	I usually do not read mass market paperbacks, especially those that purport to be &quot;exposes&quot; of some topic of popular fascination.  It is only because The New York Times so highly praised it that I bought and  read Peter Maas' Underboss: Sammy the Bull Gravano's Story of Life in the  Mafia.<br />Much of the book is not so much Maas' original work as it is a  reorganizing of his recorded interviews with Gravano. Not surprisingly, the  world which Gravano describes is just like The Godfather (Gravano's  favorite movie, and one which he believed accurately described Cosa  Nostra,&quot;our thing&quot;). The machismo culture is overwhelming -- the  world of the Gambino and all crime families is entirely male, ruled by a  skewed view of honor, and brutally violent.  Gravano is not a particularly  savory character -- and he does not try to be.  The account he gives,  however, and the closed society he describes is almost anthropological in  its insights.  Although having lived most of his life in the mob culture,  Gravano has enough self-awareness to describe it accurately and point out  many of its absurdities.  He is enough of a product of that culture,  though, that many of its excesses pass to Gravano as normal (Gravano  himself confesses to involvement in 20 or so murders, but has no more  remorse than if he were describing trips to the mall). <br />This is not a  &quot;great&quot; book, and the writing -- perhaps I should say dictation  -- is far from inspiring.  It is, however, quite interesting and a quick  read.	1998-11-15
