US	52238399	R1G26JZU9QUKCP	0449133060	233283377	The Deathworms of Kratos	Books	1	2	10	N	N	If ever a book needed the MST3K treatment....	Last night, I finally finished reading The Death Worms of Kratos. Good God, that's one awful book, although it's often quite amusing because of its very badness. If ever a book needed the MST3K treatment, it's this one. The premise goes something like this: a team of genius ne'er do wells (the Expendables) are sent to the planet Kratos in order to ascertain whether or not it is suitable for an Earth colony. The captain, obviously written with Captain James T. Kirk in mind, bustles around trying to keep his team organized and having approved regulation sex with one another. The death worms themselves are reminiscent of the sand worms of Dune, and are described as looking like penises. One chapter goes into great detail concerning the erotic adventures of these worms, and the author obviously has great fun describing members (heh!) of the team riding around on these ambulatory phalluses of doom.<br /><br />To give you an idea of the book's tone, I'll quote you an excerpt. This is in reference to Elizabeth James, an Expendable who gets killed by one of those oogly worms. The first town is being built for colonists who are enroute, and the team are discussing what the town should be named:<br /><br />  \\"It will be called Jamestown, in memory of Liz. Someday, I hope, someone will put up a statue of Elizabeth James in the main square. In fact we will require it. And the inscription will read: Elizabeth James, Expendable, who died proving Kratos.\\"<br /><br />  \\"If he doesn't get the [...] right,\\" said Andreas with feeling, \\"I'll come back to this place and stamp all over him. Liz was a great woman. She had magnificent [...].\\"<br /><br />Why wasn't this made into a movie? I'd love to see Crow, Joel, and Tom Servo lambasting it!	2004-11-22
US	52238399	R2XRI5JQSKXBWG	0553273701	607401152	Out on a Limb	Books	3	20	37	N	N	Shirley MacLaine as New Age Catalogue	After reading chapters 18 and 23 from Shirley MacLaine's 1983 Out on a Limb, I've come to the conclusion that Shirley's belief system is some sort of New Age stew. Her belief system appears to be a hearty mix of various philosophies and religious traditions. Within the chapter sampling, Shirley refers to UFOlogy, ancient Mayan religion, Christian apocalyptica, Buddhism, Indian epics, Tibetan writings, Eskimo mythology, and even the popularist science of Carl Sagan. She appears to use different belief systems as a spiritual shopping list.<br /><br />After visiting her website, I see she embraces an numerous other New Age elements including Feng Shui, aromatherapy, chakras, ley lines, colour therapy, holism, astrology, angels, numerology, dream divination, etcetera. It looks like she has all her bases covered, and the end result looks like a big bunch of mumbojambalaya to me!<br /><br />The direction Shirley MacLaine appears to be travelling in these excerpts seems awfully close to my understanding of Erich von D&auml;niken's theories. He believes ancient Earth was visited by extraterrestrial astronauts, and so does Shirley.<br /><br />The excerpts I read are thematically almost identical to the Castaneda excerpts I pored over not too long ago. A reluctant student is shown by a spiritual adept the ways in which that student's views on reality are blinkered. Then, by means of misadventure, knowledge is gained despite initial recalcitrance.<br /><br />I guess this is a pretty common theme.<br /><br />Shirley is a highly entertaining writer. Her prose is smooth and enjoyable to read, and she has a charismatic personality. This goes a long way toward explaining her immense popularity. Nevertheless, I still think she's a crackpot!	2004-11-01
US	52238399	R3DOVBW08167EA	0709056745	43353291	The Humour of Sex: From Aristotle to Mae West and Beyond	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not very humourous	The Humour of Sex is a mistitled book.  It's more like a collection of quotations in general on sexuality.  For instance, I didn't find anything particularly smirk-worthy in the misogynistic snippet from Malleus Maleficarum.<br />Granted, there were some funny bits, but all in all, it looks more like the editors rummaged through their old books and movies and found anything they could that had to do with prurience or gender.(...)	2004-03-27
US	52238399	R3HUWOWUR03IWW	0064405737	505756645	Julie	Books	4	11	13	N	N	An excellent continuation of the Miyax/Julie story	When I was a kid, my favourite sorts of books were adventure stories with animals.  I read a lot of Walter Farley, Jack London, Farley Mowat, and Jean Craighead George.  Julie of the Wolves was one of my favourite books.  Decades later, I still like to dip into my childhood favourites.<br />Last week, I decided to read Julie.  Although Julie of the Wolves is edgier, with its themes of childhood marriage, attempted rape, loss and deprivation, Julie is an excellent follow-up.  She overcomes feelings of betrayal toward her father and racist prejudices toward her stepmother.  She also gets together with her beloved wolves once again.<br />The simplistic writing style makes Julie a very quick read.  It is also very educational, with its conservationalist theme matter, Innu vocabulary, and examinations of life in the far north.  It's a book people of all ages can learn from and enjoy.	2003-07-23
US	52238399	R1KBHKU3FLVFF3	0786013664	158190973	The Other Side Of Paradise	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Magnifique	The Other Side of Paradise is a unique romance, with much akin to the Disney cyberextravaganza Tron.  It's about a man and a woman who are whisked away into a painting by a mad Picasso impersonator.  Once inside the painting, our hapless heroes must battle cubist monsters and an agonized two-dimensional beast straight out of Guernica.  Their greatest challenge happens when they enter the shadow-free, ultra-focused lands of the pre-Raphaelites.<br />Even if the heroes don't find rest, they do find love.	2003-07-23
US	52238399	R2PRGGPSFM2N7D	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just as relevant now as then	When I began reading it, I must admit I expected a certain datedness and heavy-handed writing style. Many literary classics, although thematically fascinating, can be ponderous. Just take a look at the intense verbosity of Victorian authors (who were paid by the word, mind you), and you'll know what I mean. Brave New World isn't like that, though. The prose is light, even airy at times, and engulfed me swiftly. It was only toward the denouement that the words became heavy, but by that time, I'd been inured to the writing style.<br />It's quite amazing how the book is as relevant today as it was when it was written. Perhaps a couple of the futuristic devices seem quaint (and the lack of atomic energy a little odd, yet not offputting), but the science is artfully vague enough that current technology can easily fill the gaps.<br />I can see echos of the book in all sorts of utopian literature and film: from Orwell's 1984 to Zardoz. Good job, Mr. Huxley!	2003-02-06
US	52238399	RIU5ZY2XD9DAY	0394723988	975506599	Winter Season	Books	5	66	70	N	N	Why isn't this still in print?	Winter Season: A Dancer's Journal is the exquisite chronicle of a ballet dancer's experiences with the New York City Ballet.  The dancer, Toni Bentley, claims a certain naivetee, but I don't believe it's innocent ignorance as much as it is simple yearning for experiences she rarely has.<br />She has a delicate flair for words, and her prose couldn't be any less lovely than her pliees and tondus.<br />Dancing with a world-famous ballet company is gruelling.  The dancers are overworked, underfed, and have little understanding of how the &quot;real world&quot; works, yet it would seem they like it that way.  Ballet companies thusly have much in common with military outfits:  soldiers and dancers work brutally hard, but have their concerns looked after by the higher-ups.  Balanchine is the dancers' general.<br />With the incredibly long hours and the accompanying mental and physical exhaustion, how did Toni get the time to write this book?<br />She writes,<br />&quot;We are hairless. We have no leg hairs, no pubic hair, no armpit hair, no facial hair, no neck hair and only a solid little lump at the top of our heads.  Any sign of stubble must be closely watched out for and removed.<br />&quot;That is not all.  We don't eat food, we eat music.  We need artistic sustenance only.  Emotional, inspiring sustenance.  Al our physical energy is the overflow of spiritual feelings.  We live on faith, belief, love, inspiration, vitamins and Tab.&quot;<br />Toni eventually does break free of the NYC Ballet machine, but she's drawn inexorably back.  After all, as she says, &quot;We live only to dance.  If living were not an essential prerequisite, we would abstain.&quot;	2002-09-06
US	52238399	R4YUUZZ4LWX3V	0131087614	318177945	Bust-up: The uplifting tale of Otto Titzling and the development of the bra	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Titillating history spoof	There aren't many people who can definitively say they've started an urban legend, but Walace Reyburn, author of Bust-Up, is one.  It's because of this book that many people erroneously believe the inventor of the bra was a man by the name of Otto Titzling (if you don't get it, say it aloud).<br />Bust-Up is a nice, light, comical read that might make you titter a few times.  The book is overflowing with numerous puns and plays on words.  For example, Otto's assistant was a man named Hans Delving, and his main competition was Philippe de Brassiere.  Go figure.<br />I'm not sure where fantastical conjecture ends and historical facts begin in this little book, but there are more than a few veiled references to actual people and events.  For example, the tale of Helga Lemurr seems inextricably related to Greta Garbo's early career.<br />The book has plenty of interesting line drawings, including some which really set my brain a-whir.  The most interesting drawing, in my opinion, is of a bra designed for trapeze artists.  The support is needed on the top of the bra.  I'd never really thought of that before.<br />I enjoyed reading about the reasons for the relative unpopularity of a front-clasping bra and also the gender differences in names for this piece of apparel.  Women call it a front-clasping bra whereas men call it a front-opening bra.  It all depends on your point of view and what is important for you.	2002-08-26
US	52238399	R2OPF307CQYOGS	0151003076	997856791	The Curious Sofa: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary	Books	5	8	13	N	N	The best dirty book I've ever read	The Curious Sofa is the best dirty book I've ever looked at or read.  It is the tale of a sexual adventure gone wildly out of control.  Ogdred Weary's prose reads rather like an erotic, almost-picaresque retelling of Gosford Park.  It's astonishing, just how proper a fetishistic, sadomasochistic kink session can be when populated by upper-class folk (and a Old English Sheepdog).<br />The book is made even better by the artwork of Edward Gorey, which has more in common with the direction of Alfred Hitchcock than the in-your-face pictorials of Larry Flynt.  But if you're a fan of Gorey, you know that already.	2002-08-14
US	52238399	R10ITLXOTAJ70R	0441008658	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Boring beginning, good middle, and confusing ending	Spindle's End is the first book I've read by Robin McKinley since Deerskin.  I prefer it to Deerskin, but I also prefer The Blue Sword to Spindle's End.  Like Deerskin, Spindle's End is the retelling of a fairy tale.  This time around, it's about Sleeping Beauty.<br />McKinley takes all sorts of liberties with the tale.  All the main elements are there:  a beautiful princess, an evil fairy, a handsome prince, good fairies, magical sleep, and an enchanted castle blocked by thorns.  However, that's about where the similarities end.<br />At the onset, I thought the main plot twist would be the homosexuality of the princess, but it just didn't shape up that way despite the hints of tribadic inclinations.  Nonetheless, the ending isn't as straight as traditional tellings of the tale would have it.<br />I liked the cute little references to other stories and folktales, such as King Arthur and Queen Guinevere, Christianity, and Robin McKinley's The Blue Sword.<br />Plenty of talking animals show up, but this isn't gratuitous anthropomorphics.  It all fits in with a vital plot element: magical abilities possessed by someone who should have none.<br />The book is slow to start (the first chapter or so is mostly scenery), but takes off when the evil fairy Pernicia makes her appearance.  That's when the action begins, and the characters become more engaging.  Near the end, I had a difficult time understanding what was going on, but at least the characters in the book seem to know what they were doing....	2002-08-10
US	52238399	R1IWYLJEQQEP6J	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hello, Dahl-ee!	As soon as I found out Neil Gaiman had a new book coming out, I started wriggling in anticipation.  When I found out it was a kids' book, I wasn't quite so excited.  Although I really like The Day I Swapped My Dad For 2 Goldfish, it was a bit skimpy on words.  I'm a quick reader, and I like my literary delving to take a while.<br />Coraline was a nice compromise.  It doesn't have the bulk of Neverwhere, but it's significantly longer than a short story.<br />The only quibble I have with the book is the portrayal of Miss Spink and Miss Forcible's dogs.  At the onset, they're referred to as Highland Terriers (a white breed of dog), and later on, they're described as something completely different.  The editor missed that.  Ah well.  It's a minor quibble, and I wouldn't have noticed it if my grandmother hadn't had a Highland Terrier.<br />Like in Roald Dahl's books, high self-esteem isn't a typical characteristic of protagonists, and Coraline is no exception.  She's a bit unsure of herself, but comes into her own throughout the course of the book.<br />Dahl isn't the only author I'm reminded of, here.  The cat bears an uncanny similarity to Lewis Carroll's Cheshire Cat in attitude and surreality.  There are also shades of the Addams Family, with a certain perambulatory body part.  The sheer fabulist nature calls to mind scores of fairy tales:  the creepier ones, by authors like the Brothers Grimm and Perrault.<br />With its distorted mirror image world and button-eyed \\"other\\" mother, Coraline is a great book for any creepy kid or grownup.	2002-08-06
US	52238399	RVU6BD0HLH9MH	0553247786	316724573	The Miracle Worker	Books	5	40	57	N	N	A welcome addition to the cyberpunk genre	The Miracle Worker is the astonishing tale of a blind and deaf cypherpunk named Helen who overcomes her disabilities with the help of a chopshop worker-turned-doctor named Anne.  Helen lost her sight and hearing in a hacking session gone horribly wrong.  She flatlines, but Anne brings her back from certain death.<br />After a lot of soul-searching, Helen is able to netrun once again.  Anne develops specialized wetware, turning Helen into a cyborg.<br />Helen's first interactions with Black ICE in this new form are nailbitingly tense.  It's only with the help of Anne that Helen is able to confront her own personal daemons.<br />The Miracle Worker is a welcome addition to the cyberpunk genre, and I highly recommend it.  William Gibson is to be commended.	2002-06-26
US	52238399	R25BT6Y03LCL3B	0393322157	805709963	Glue	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not your typical buddy book	I think one of the reasons Irvine Welsh is one of my favourite authors is because he can get reactions out of me.  Generally speaking, horror books don't frighten me or get under my skin in any way, but Welsh never fails to horrify me with his negative portrayals of human behaviour.<br />Glue contains numerous examples of unconscionable actions, but it also shows that even the most horrid people have glimmers of humanity.  You can detest one of Welsh's foul characters, but at the same time, he has a way of pointing out characteristics which show you're not as far removed from monsters as you might like to be.<br />As a buddy book, Glue traces a group of Scottish friends from childhood to mid-thirties.  At first, I had a bit of difficulty following the action.  I thought it was a collection of unrelated short stories.  It took me a little while to clue in that it was merely changing points of view.  Once I had that straightened out, I was along for the whole manic-depressive ride.<br />Glue is not an easy read.  The almost unpenetrable dialect is about as easy to digest as a cold, greasy plate of fish and chips.  There were one or two parts where I had no idea what was just said, but with patience, I was able to slough it out.<br />If you're a fan of Trainspotting, you'll recognize some of the characters.  Renton, Begbie, Spud, and Sickboy make cameos.  Thematically, Glue isn't too far removed from Trainspotting.  There is plenty in the way of drug culture, shoplifting, and football hooliganism.  Welsh retains his black black sense of humour, and I did catch myself laughing out loud at several points, including what is perhaps the most comical sex scene I've ever read.<br />The book makes me giggle, and then, a few pages later, it makes me want to bawl my eyes out like a wee bairn.  Go figure.  Glue is the perfect cure for those Chicken Soup books.	2002-06-24
US	52238399	RY39IMOZXJX2V	0312863446	956116978	Nazareth Hill	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An atypical haint story	Ramsey Campbell's Nazareth Hill has most of the elements of a Caitlin Kiernan comic book.  A haunted mansion sets the scene for an atypical haint story, where the protagonist is a teenaged punk/goth chick (Amy) who is tragically misunderstood by everyone, including her increasingly-bizarre fundamentalist Christian father (Oswald).  So far, it doesn't sound that atypical, but the differences are in the details and language.<br />The story is rather surreal.  The religious school Amy attends is chock-full of teachers with good moral hygiene and strange grammar.  Odd word choices occur throughout the novel in the conversations between Amy and her boyfriend (they're prone to uttering polysyllabic and biting one-word commentary).  The strangest cadence belongs to Oswald, who speaks in an increasingly stilted and formal manner when he's not desperately reciting simplistic children's prayers.  At first, the word choice made it difficult for me to immerse myself in the book, but after a while, it felt appropriate, although never natural.  I'm certain this unnatural language is wholly intentional.<br />Nazareth Hill is a story of mental illness, asylum history, and a dysfunctional family par excellence.  None of the characters are likeable, but I could feel empathy developing, despite my personal dislike for Amy.  The book has a perfect haunted house story ambience, and gathers creepiness as it goes, something like a woolly spider egg tottering down a dust hill.	2001-11-19
US	52238399	R1N2HF4PTW16R9	0385491034	893718356	The Robber Bride	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A delicious, quick read	The Robber Bride by Margaret Atwood is a page-turner.  It's the story of three very different 50-something women, Roz, Tony, and Charis, who have two things in common:  they went to school with one another, and they were both horribly mistreated by a woman named Zenia.  Zenia is a modern-day Helen of Troy, a woman whose face, breast implants, and devious, callous machinations result in a wave of destruction and man-eating.<br />Much to the women's relief, Zenia ends up dead and buried.  They finally feel safe until one day, while they're at lunch, Zenia appears.<br />The novel traces each woman's explosive history with Zenia, braiding their lives together.  They're the three witches of Macbeth, but they don't wait for thunder, lightning, and rain to get together.  Instead, they hang out at a trendy restaurant called Toxique.  Each woman has a very different personality and past, and each woman has at least one background story on Zenia.  None of these stories match up, of course.<br />This is my one qualm about the book.  We never do learn exactly who Zenia is, or why she's motivated to do those awful things she does so very well.  She is a delicious villain, a Cruella de Ville of the literati, but what drives her?<br />At first glance, the story doesn't sound terribly interesting, and relies upon the stereotype of the poor, promiscuous, dupe of a husband, Margaret Atwood adeptly makes it into a wonderful black comedy.	2001-11-09
US	52238399	R31LSO4O7UL078	0399523723	134432026	A Woman's Book of Power	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Excellent exercises and new agey, girl power filler	Karen Andes has some great ideas in A Woman's Book of Power.  The dance exercises and visualization techniques are superb.  Movements are broken down in flowery right-brain and clinical left-brain fashions, which work well independently or in tandem.  I have already been using some of her techniques in my own dance and fitness classes, and the students love it.<br />However, the exercises are only part of the book.  The rest of the book appears to preach woman power.  As an equalitarian, I find the language of these sections exclusionary.  The book is written specifically with women in mind as an audience, but the materials within are of equal validity for men and children. I'm not sure why she labels right-brain thinking as feminine and left-brain thinking as male, but this seems to be the thesis on which this book is based.  When Karen Andes waxes philosophical about the &quot;feminine&quot; shapes of circles, spirals, and waves, she falls into the same trap as Freud with his phallic imagery.  Even Freud was credited as saying, &quot;Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.&quot;<br />Andes notes, &quot;Young women seem instinctively drawn to a tribal way of life.  They dress alike, travel in packs, love adornment and ceremony.&quot;  Somehow, she seems to be overlooking how young men tend to act in the same way, with their similar clothing, tastes in music, and team sports.<br />When she laments &quot;Would male architects design building not only in blueprints but also with a sensitivity to the ground the building sit on, the curves in a hillside, the angles of then sun?&quot;, she ignores visionary architects like Frank Lloyd Wright.<br />Similar false conclusions are made when she writes, &quot;People will ask, 'What's this Goddess thing?  It sounds so trendy.'  The answer is simple.  No one ever asks if God is a trend.&quot;  As a secular humanist, skeptic, and agnostic, I beg to differ....<br />I could nit-pick other details like this for quite a while, but it wouldn't serve much of a purpose.  If you are the sort of person who likes to read about the aggrandizement of feel-good femininity, you will most likely enjoy the book.  Karen has a lucid, easy-to-follow writing style.  If you're a more &quot;masculine&quot; (read, left-brain) thinker, you will enjoy the exercise breakdowns.  And yes, men can glean practical information from them, too.ouldn't serve much of a purpose.  If you are the sort of person who likes to read about the aggrandizement of feel-good femininity, you will most likely enjoy the book.  Karen has a lucid, easy-to-follow writing style.  If you're a more &quot;masculine&quot; (read, left-brain) thinker, you will enjoy the exercise breakdowns.  And yes, men can glean practical information from them, too.	2001-11-02
US	52238399	R2THTGLJ3NOS6Z	0679724613	669412658	Dictionary of the Khazars: A Lexicon Novel in 100,000 Words (Male Edition)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Ku	Milorad Pavic's Dictionary of the Khazars is a very odd book.  It's written more like an encyclopaedia than a dictionary, and more like a book of mythology/folklore than an encyclopaedia.<br />Perhaps the book can be best described as the ultimate bathroom reading for post-modernists.  The book is divided into three parts: Christian, Jewish, and Muslim.  The entries are generally short, and can be read in any order.  As you read, you'll find crossovers, similarities, and outright contradictions to perplex and tease your mind.  The time periods covered jump from the distant past to the present, with murders, accidental deaths, personification of devils, and dream-hunting.<br />Some parts I found rather dry, but on the whole, the book is filled with moments where I would put the book down to contemplate a sentence.  The Dictionary of the Khazars is full of nice, chewy ideas and insights, and reads a bit like a more user-friendly Umberto Eco.	2001-10-31
US	52238399	R6D0MQDO3WLXA	0886778697	881068875	The Faded Sun Trilogy: Kesrith, Shon'jir, and Kutath	Books	4	33	36	N	N	Slow beginning, excellent middle, and confusing denouement	The Faded Sun is the first book I've read by C. J. Cherryh, and I wouldn't be averse to picking up another of her books.  At the beginning, however, I didn't feel that way.  Faded Sun takes a long time to get going.  The first two hundred or so pages are very dry and very boring.  I was tempted to put the book aside at several points.  The only reason I didn't was because the book had been highly recommended to me, and I wanted to see just what was so good about it.<br />Well, I'm glad I stuck with it, because suddenly it all came together.  The slow beginning sets the stage for the explosive action to follow, and really puts events into perspective.<br />At first, I thought the book was a blatant Dune rip-off.  There are several obvious correlations:  a desert planet, a hero named Duncan,  a mystical nomadic society, and giant sandworm-like creatures that eat everything.  But you could say pecan pie and dumplings are also the same because they both have sugar, flour, and salt.  What Cherryh does with these ingredients is turn out something completely different.<br />The book demonstrates the relationship between three distinct species:  the humans, the mri, and the regul.  Technically, it shows the relationship between four, with the dusei, as well, but the dusei are only semi-sentient, so they can't exactly tell their own side of the story.  Unfortunately, the regul come across as the bad guys in the book.  It would have been nice if they were portrayed a bit more sympathetically, but they really do seem to be a despicable kind of creature.<br />One problem I had with this three-way portrayal is the way it generally portrays each species as being rather homogeneous.  The humans have their disagreements, but still seem to only have one culture.  This could be because we were presented only with a rather militaristic group, but I'm not so sure this is why.  The reminiscences of various humans on their past seems rather similar, despite their coming from different planets.<br />In any case, the book is a fascinating ride until the very end when it all seems to fall apart.  Perhaps I was just overtired, but I had a difficult time understanding what exactly happens at the denouement.  When I read the last sentence of the book, I turned the page, honestly expecting more, but it was over, rather like this review....anets.<br />In any case, the book is a fascinating ride until the very end when it all seems to fall apart.  Perhaps I was just overtired, but I had a difficult time understanding what exactly happens at the denouement.  When I read the last sentence of the book, I turned the page, honestly expecting more, but it was over, rather like this review....	2001-09-05
US	52238399	RBSG3SNHUZTCM	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This is not your usual good vs. evil story.	I don't think I read Neil Gaiman's books as much as I live them.  Although my everynight dreams are invariably odd, American Gods has me dreaming thematically.  Pantheons, wise, animate corpses, and fantastical voyages inhabit my sleepy-time.  Had they not, I would have doubted Neil wrote the book.  His writing has always given my subconscious a sharp poke in the ribs.<br />Although the main plot itself is engrossing, the details are what really win me over.  I've always been a mythology and folklore buff, so the asides about the small lives of gods are particularly delicious.  Who would have thought transplanted efreets become cab-drivers?<br />American Gods is also a roadtrip book.  It takes you around to the little towns, big cities, greasy spoons, and tacky tourist traps that make up the United States.  It's also a tale of immigration, detailing the diaspora of the Europeans and Africans (and their deities).<br />I have the distinct feeling we may be seeing out-takes from this novel surfacing as stand-alone short stories.  If nothing else, American Gods is certainly going to set off an avalanche of fan fiction and trigger the imaginations of many writers.  I know it has my brain brimming with possibilities....	2001-07-20
US	52238399	R3SCGRGDEIYDWB	1568331673	911085039	The Art of Arousal: A Celebration of Erotic Art throughout History	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great entertainment, but non-existent scholarship	This is an excellent cross-selection of international erotic artwork. Although pieces from Western civilization are more heavily-weighted, there are still plenty of sculptures/paintings from Asia, South America, and Africa. The time range runs the gamut from thousands of years ago to modern art. The pieces are chosen well, and the colour reproduction is admirable.<br />Do not expect a meticulously-researched book, though. I don't have a terrific knowledge of general art history, but I do know a bit more about ancient Greek art than the average person. Although the vital statistics are available for each of the pieces shown in the book, the write-ups are occasionally filled with pure conjecture. For example, some of the Greek red-figure artwork is described rather wishfully. One piece, showing an orgy scene, is described as a scene involving men and hetairai (high-class courtesans) at a symposium. In actuality, these women are probably lowly prostitutes, as evidenced by the coarseness of their features and heavyset bodies. Hetairai are depicted as being more refined and beautiful than these particular women.<br />Another red-figure piece is featured, showing a man and a young woman having sex outdoors. Dr. Westheimer writes, &quot;If he is a considerate lover ... he will turn her around and bring her to orgasm with cunnilingus.&quot; Although cunnilingus may have been practiced, it is not represented in ancient Greek art or mentioned in Greek literature. In fact, the Greeks didn't even have a word for it. Since ancient Greece was a very sexist society, and generally speaking, women did not have any rights, I think it's highly unlikely the woman in the red-figure cup ever did receive any sort of oral nookie.<br />Although I believe Dr. Westheimer makes incorrect assumptions about some of the artwork, her artistic interpretations aren't the purpose of the book. The purpose is to offer light entertainment and to provide artistically-motivated lessons in seduction, a goal she achieves quite well.l she achieves quite well.	2001-07-16
US	52238399	R171F843HBU2F8	0380710838	771833517	Fortune's Favorites	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not as good as the earlier books	According to the author's note, Fortune's Favorites is a stand-alone book. However, I think she says this because the novel really doesn't measure up to its predecessors.<br />Fortune's Favorites is not a bad book. However, it pales in comparison to The First Man in Rome and The Grass Crown. It lacks the clever turns of phrase scattered through the preceding two books, and it also lacks a concrete villain.<br />I have yet to read the next books in the series, but it seems to me Fortune's Favorites acts as a bridge between plot changes. Although Caesar kicks lots of pirate butt, and helps put down the Spartacus slave revolt, there really doesn't seem to be a great, climactic moment. I really would like to have read more about the enemies of Rome. The preceding books focused upon foreign threats, like Mithradates and Jugartha, but Fortune's Favorites somehow seems safer, despite the pirate, Spartacus, and ongoing Mithradates problems.<br />What really does work in this novel are the sad bits. Although Sulla is a truly horrid piece of work, I felt great pangs of remorse when he finally died. Colleen McCullough masterfully made me love a wholly unloveable character.	2001-07-16
US	52238399	RJHU2ELIRIB3C	0441007554	170689845	All Tomorrow's Parties	Books	2	3	4	N	N	More than you ever wanted to know about wristwatches	I desperately wanted to like William Gibson's All Tomorrow's Parties, but I just couldn't enjoy it even a little.  Once upon a time, Gibson's tales of net-running were surreal glimpses into the fertile imagination of a master computer geek.  With this book, we get a look into the imagination of a wristwatch fanatic.<br />The book is loosely about the end of the world.  Unfortunately, this world ends not with a bang but a fizzle of river water on burning bridges.  At times, Gibson tries to add a bit of comic relief to lighten the tedium, but the jokes tend to flop like a half-dead trout.<br />If you're looking for interesting technologically-based fiction, try something by Neal Stephenson.	2001-05-27
US	52238399	R32PDCC7WTA7AB	0452273374	775429647	The Father of Frankenstein	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Elegant and poignant story-telling	I have not yet seen Gods and Monsters, but now that I've finally read Father of Frankenstein, I want to see how this elegant and poignant novel translates onto the silver screen.  Christopher Bram really is a master writer.  His writing style is delicate, simple, and strong--a perfect match for the distinct personalities of feature characters James Whale and Clayton Boone.<br />Father of Frankenstein is an elegant and poignant tale about the hidden gay side of Hollywood, war stories, and dementia.  Like the Frankenstein movies of James Whale, the book begins with a dark and stormy night, only not in the cliched terms of 19th-century hack Paul Clifford.  Nonetheless, I drew an instant parallel with Paul Clifford's words: &quot;It was a dark and stormy night . . . and the rain fell in torrents--except at occasional intervals, when it was checked by a violent gust of wind which swept up the streets (for it is in London that our scene lies), rattling along the housetops, and fiercely agitating the scanty flame of the lamps that struggled against the darkness.&quot;<br />In its own way, Father of Frankenstein is based off these words.  James Whale, famous director of the movies he'd rather not be remembered for, had a stormy life beginning somewhere around London.  Somewhere between his inauspicious beginnings as a impoverished child in a factory and his mysterious demise near Hollywood, he lived a full and colourful life.  The book begins at the end, really, after James Whale is an old and shattered man.  He's recovering from a stroke.  Well, he'd like to believe he's recovering, but his worsening mental state disabuses him of that notion rather quickly.  His damaged mind dwells more and more on the past until he can scarcely differentiate between the present and events forty years past.<br />And then there's Clayton Boone.  He's a moody loner, a presager to James Dean, I suppose.  Young, muscular, virile, and not too bright, he's everything James Whale looked for in a monster.  But like Frankenstein's monster, Clayton Boone won't do what his creator wants him to do.monster.  But like Frankenstein's monster, Clayton Boone won't do what his creator wants him to do.	2001-02-09
US	52238399	R36UA6RW6VLIER	1569246874	753402617	Magnificent Corpses: Searching Through Europe for St. Peter's Head, St. Claire's Heart, St. Stephen's Hand, and Other Saints' Relics	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Patchy work, with good and bad	Magnificent Corpses : Searching Through Europe for St. Peter's Head, St. Claire's Heart, St. Stephen's Hand, and Other Saintly Relics is not a bad book.  However, it isn't entirely great, either.  As a travel book, extraneous details were elaborated upon.  In the midst of describing the life of a saint, Anneli S. Rufus may suddenly wax philosophical about a scantily-dressed teenager in satin hotpants.  Althought the dichotomy of prim and proper saint and hot-blooded teenaged vixens does have some merit, I think the author overdoes it.<br />She seems to use these modern interruptions as a kind of comic relief.  Sometimes it works, and sometimes it seems to crush the story-telling flat.  Some of the writing is very strong, very visceral.<br />I can easily understand how fundamentalist Catholics get upset with this book.  Anneli S. Rufus doesn't look at the saints as being holy, but as being people with unique problems and perspectives.  As a result, her portrayals are rather sacrilegious.  She suggests many ascetics may have been masochists, suffered from eating disorders, or were sexually frustrated.  Her theories may be blasphemous, but they make a lot of sense.<br />The masochism and anorexia so prevalent among so many saints is described wonderfully.  These are the descriptions which tie in neatly with modern-day interruptions.<br />The book reads more like a collection of diary excerpts than a book.  You can pick this book up and read it in any order.  Since there is no flow from chapter to chapter, you won't be missing any sense of progression.  The ending of the book was jarring.  It seemed like it should continue, but had been arbitrarily cut off.  I'd like to see this book reworked and expanded upon.  Still, it was a nice introduction to the lives of saints I had never heard of before.	2001-02-08
US	52238399	R2CU2KAZ0DECO7	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Neal Stephenson educates and entertains with a deft touch.	Someone told me Neal Stephenson is working on a sequel to Cryptonomicron.  You can bet I'll be checking it out.  I've only read one other novel as educational as this one, Umberto Eco's _Foucault's Pendulum_, but the difference here is that Neal Stephenson's writing is never obfuscated by pompous writing.  Although the writing contains jargon and highly technical terminology, not to mention mathematical formulae I personally do not understand, the book is fascinating, easy to follow, and absolutely full of story!<br />Although the book is crammed with programmer/mathematician speak, Neal Stephenson is a strong enough writer to keep readers with nontechnical backgrounds engrossed.  There are numerous story lines in this enormous tome, but they can be broken down into two timelines:  WWII and the present.  Personally, I found the 1940s stories more interesting, but watching the past unfold into the present provides its own charm.  Stephenson's depictions of wartime atrocities and torpedoed ships are among some of the most powerful I've ever read.<br />The chapter in which Goto Dengo's ship is destroyed by a skipping torpedo is written with astounding clarity.  As I read it, I was able to visualize everything, the oil-coated ocean, the columns of flame, and the thrashing survivors trying to escape flames, sharks, and strafing bullets.  Why haven't there been any movies about this sort of thing?  It's a sorely neglected theme in war movies.  Many people died in shark attacks after their boats were torpedoed, yet this hasn't become part of the public conscious.<br />Cryptonomicron is about more than just wartime misadventures and cryptography, of course.  Any book this long needs to ramble thematically.  It's also about computer hacking, deep sea diving, sex, heirloom furniture, the death penalty, genocide, classical Greek mythology, haiku, the creative process, and ways in which various countries treat drug dealing.<br />Cryptonomicron both educates and entertains.	2001-01-13
US	52238399	R14NBRQA823WCP	0806514523	458258503	History of Witchcraft	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Intriguing lack of skepticism	Although Summers was a very educated man, he appeared to hold little skepticism for the alleged crimes of accused witches. This is not a good introduction to the history of witchcraft, but does contain many intriguing descriptions of witchcraft. Be prepared to do a lot of rereading. The meaning of passages is sometimes quite elusive.	2001-01-13
US	52238399	R2LL3Z3HRIYDQF	0600600351	997246150	History of Punishment & Torture: A Journey Through the Dark Side of Justice (Hamlyn history)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Creepy coffeetable book	This is a wonderful starting-point for research into the history of crime and punishment. It's chock-full of illustrations. Frankly, it's the illustrations you want to see when reading about a subject like this. There are photos and descriptions of torture implements, woodcuttings of torture chambers, and observers' accounts.	2001-01-02
US	52238399	R1NBDX9R0JSSRH	1569248095	590840887	The James Beard Cookbook	Books	5	73	73	N	N	Standard equipment for every kitchen	Although the cover fell off my copy years ago, I still use the book.  It only makes sense there's no cover.  After all, my cookbook is a first printing from about forty years ago, and was passed on through at least two other families before making its way to me.<br />This book covers the basics of North American/western European cuisine.  I learned how to make killer omelettes (plain, or oven-puffed with cheese sauce) with this, and my terrified-of-the-kitchen hubby learned to make a delicious ham supper.  Whenever I'm sick and can't cook but we're expecting company, he always goes for this particular cookbook.  If he can't find it, he whinges ferociously.  None of my other books are as clear and concise, I guess.<br />The James Beard Cookbook is an excellent book for anyone.  For the absolute novice, it details the best ways to cook bacon and eggs.  For the kitchen maestro, it explains numerous sauce and souffle techniques.  So, if you're looking for a good basic cookbook for yourself or for a lost-in-the-kitchen bachelor(ette), I strongly recommend this book.	2000-12-14
US	52238399	R3HEXOEUUOT9MR	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Recursion and unlikely coincidences	Invisible Monsters is a fun ride.  It's the story of a one-time supermodel who gets the bottom half of her face shot off.  It's the story of opposition; she travels from extreme beauty to extreme ugliness, from extraordinarily social behaviour to complete antisocial behaviour; from being a &quot;normal&quot; person to being a monster.<br />In some ways, the writing reminds me a little bit of Brett Easton Ellis's American Psycho.  In both books, much attention is paid to brand names and clothing details.  Our introduction to the protagonist reads like a skewed write-up in Cosmopolitan magazine:<br />&quot;My gown is a knock-off print of the Shroud of Turin, most of it brown and white, draped and cut so the shiny red buttons will button through the stigmata.  Then I'm wearing yards and yards of black organza veil wrapped around my face and studded with little hand-cut Austrian crystal stars.  You can't tell how I look, face-wise, but that's the whole idea.  The look is elegant and sacrilegious and makes me feel sacred and immoral.&quot;<br />Make note of this description.  If you read the book, you'll see it again.  Palahniuk tends to reuse some of his favourite bits.  The result is literary vertigo--a deja-vu of words.<br />Wholly unrealistic coincidences also keep repeating themselves.  I won't go into any detail that might destroy plot twists, but you may want to keep in mind that sometimes things are more like they seem than you would think conceivable.<br />The recursive writing put me into a bizarre post-modernistic fugue state, whatever that means.  Really, though, reading this book is rather like one of those sick-making rides at the carnival.  After a while, the excitement turns into nausea which turns back into excitement which turns into a &quot;when does this ride stop?&quot; kind of feeling.  But that's the way the best rides always are, right?	2000-12-09
US	52238399	R1L20KR3TEKU3L	0140167188	294881452	The Road to Wellville	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Hilarious satire with a timely message	The Road to Wellville is going on my list of absolute favourite books. This is one of the funniest novels I have ever read, and also one of the most educational. T. Coraghessan Boyle has perfected the art of understatement. One of my favourite parts is when Eleanor Lightbody is receiving her German therapeutic massage: &quot;She sank beneath it, dreaming of those sylvan glades, of men and women alike gamboling through Bavarian meadows, as naked as God made them, and she felt herself moving, too, the gentlest friction of her hips against the leather padding, moving forward and downwards and ever so therapeutically into that firm sure touch.&quot; Trust me, when you get to that part of the book, all will make sense in a most delightful way!<br />This is a chronicle of the scatological misadventures of the spa/health set of the 1890s/1900s. Why do I say scatological? Well, John Kellogg (inventor of corn flakes and peanut butter) was obsessed with the alimentary canal. He believed a strict regimen of no fewer than five enemas per day was necessary for good health. His obsession with defecatory health permeates the novel and gives it its own unique...er...flavour.<br />But the novel is not a coprocentric treatise. It is a hilarious, rollicking journey through the life of a quack who didn't know he was a quack, and through the lives of those he effected.<br />I was first introduced to this tale through the critically-panned film version (which I personally enjoyed very much!). The book shares many common plot elements with the story, but, as is the usual case, is far superior to its film adaptation. It is also a very quick and easy read.<br />It's easy to disassociate myself from the ridiculous treatments included in this book (breathing in radium as a means of treating jaundice is a perfect example), but, I can't help but think T. Coraghessan Boyle may have meant this book to serve also as a cautionary tale. Sure, it's fun to laugh at those silly people of a hundred years ago, but similarly ridiculous and life-threatening &quot;treatments&quot; are being given out now under the guise of holistic healing.s ago, but similarly ridiculous and life-threatening &quot;treatments&quot; are being given out now under the guise of holistic healing.	2000-12-06
US	52238399	R1ZHTL8ANUAAM2	3822894532	577173943	Early Erotic Photography	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nude photography predates Playboy	The text for this is in German, English, and French.  It includes beautiful erotic photographs of female nudes.  Most photos date from the 1850s or so, and follow the popular tradition of harem/slave-girl themes.  Most of these photos are reproduced as full-page plates.  Taschen art books are wonderful!	2000-11-08
US	52238399	R3RX3C1K7P7CVB	0889740399	446030907	Bellydancer: Stories	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Tough-talking, gritty women and men	Reviewer Rita Wong says in Kinesis, &quot;The trilogy of Bellydancer stories presents us with tough-talking, gritty women and men, who know poverty, tragedy and survival first hand. Women who, as one character states, 'are not supposed to live long enough to tell our stories.' The trilogy converges around the mesmerizing figure of Seni, and leads us to revisit 'Pompeii,' a story told by a woman named Dance of the Eternal Spirit. She states, 'I alone, it seems, have chosen not to live in the atrium of my master's house. I don't know if this makes them afraid for me, or afraid of me.' Read together, the bellydancing stories call forth the imperative of our legendary foremothers.&quot;	2000-10-30
US	52238399	R10J2GWO1YPRSY	1551091984	754339554	The Joy of Ginger	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Some great recipes, and a couple of awful ones	A couple of years ago, my friend Kimby bought a copy of The Joy of Ginger.  It is a cookbook filled with recipes based around--duh--ginger.  Ginger is a particularly eastern Canadian spice (although it doesn't grow around here).  For many generations, ginger has been used in comfort foods like old-fashioned ginger snaps and for traditional fixer-uppers.  Flat ginger ale is great for fixing upset stomachs, dontcha know?<br />Anyhow, I picked up Kimby's copy of the book and began browsing through it.  The recipes looked absolutely delicious, so I went out and bought my own copy.  The book has all the old classic recipes, plus a good-sized collection of ethnic fusion recipes.  What else would you call ginger pineapple salsa?  I strongly recommend the Chicken in Ginger Sauce (it tastes like a very pleasant, mild Indian curry) and Fat Archies (fat molasses cookies), but dissuade you from trying the Ginger Lemonade;  it's based on vinegar and tastes absolutely AWFUL!	2000-10-23
US	52238399	R2LQMKPWUSG4WN	0872263215	201318327	Fire Burn	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good introduction to the folklore of the witch trials	Since there appears to be no information about this book listed here whatsoever, I'll give you a quick rundown.  Fire Burn: Tales of Witchery was compiled by Ken Radford.  The dust jacket reads, &quot;Fire Burn is a collection of tales of witchery from all over the world.  The stories come from state and county archives or from the memories of those who recall characters and incidents related by their forebears.  Some of the stories are based on well-recorded historical fact such as the Witches of Salem while others rely on oral history passed from parent to child through the generations.  In the main the tales reflect customs and a way of life long gone but some are as recent as the 1940s showing that belief in the power of witchcraft persists to this day.&quot;<br />The book is copiously-illustrated with period pieces, including woodcuts and black-and-white copies of appropriate paintings.  The book isn't terribly scholastic, but is a good sampler of all things witchy.  It includes anecdotes about particular trials, torture methodology, familiars, personal letters, and assorted folklore.<br />If you are looking for some general information on the burning times, this book is an excellent starting point.  If you're looking for sociological/historical theories, you should look somewhere else.	2000-10-12
US	52238399	RLWPZJ8002O1H	0380710854	540323986	Caesar: Let the Dice Fly  (Masters of Rome, Book 5)	Books	4	51	54	N	N	McCullough puts oomph back into the Masters of Rome series	Just when I was losing faith in the Masters of Rome series, Colleen  McCullough throws in some oomph. Caesar brings the ancient battles to life,  and shows Gaius Julius Caesar at his most powerful.  I think McCullough's  strength is in her battle scenes.  Even when there is little bloodshed, she  does a wonderful job of describing military strategy and tactics.  The book  is worth reading if only for this.<br />Caesar shows the return of a writing  technique McCullough hasn't shown since The Grass Crown:  she includes the  point of view of a  foreign enemy.  In this case, it is Vercingetorix, king  of &quot;united Gaul.&quot;  Although I knew he was doomed from the  beginning, I couldn't help but admire his valour and tenacity.  It would  have been nice if equal attention had been paid to Cathbad, the chief  Druid.<br />The main problem I have with Caesar is the blatant worship of the  title character.  In McCullough's writings, he can do no wrong.  Although  I enjoy reading about his great military achievements, it would be awfully  nice if he was humanized a tad more.  He's just too perfect, and a thin  head of hair isn't nearly enough to bring him down to our level.  I'm  afraid he's become some sort of mortal Superman, and none of the villains  happen to have a vial of Kryptonite.<br />The other problem I have with the  book is related to Caesar's hero-worship.  Where Caesar and his supporters  are portrayed in a in overtly positive ways, his detractors are seen as  peevish, jealous, and frankly, rather dumb.  I have a difficult time  believing the enemies of Caesar were so lacking in positive traits.  By the  end of the novel, Pompeius Magnus, who started out as a likeable and able  general (albeit very temperamental), becomes a whingeing and bullied fool.  I think this is a shame.  It is also a shame that Cato receives so little  personal attention.  I think he could be a very sympathetic character if  only the attention was paid to him.	2000-08-28
US	52238399	R2SVIZ7KN0JA6O	1563896699	548798190	Gon on Safari (Paradox Fiction)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More fun than a miniature Godzilla!	If you've never &quot;read&quot; a Gon book, get thee to a bookstore.  I use the word &quot;read&quot; in quotation marks because the only words in  Gon books are the titles.  Gon is a delightful meticulously-rendered  itty-bitty dinosaur with a bad attitude.  Sometimes, underneath his scaled  tough exterior, he's a big softy.  My favourite tale in Gon on Safari is  &quot;Gon and the Bird Nest on His Head&quot;.  While on a typical rampage,  he knocks a bird nest out of a tree, and somehow ends up with it as a  bizarre hat.  The three baby birds who live in it are terrified, at first.  After a while, they become accustomed to their new &quot;tree,&quot; and  begin to notice some fringe benefits.<br />The story may sound trite and  simplistic, but seeing the art will change your mind.  Masashi Tanaka is a  master cartoonist.  Each  of his drawings must take hours, and sometimes  even days to complete.  He pays careful attention to even the most  miniscule detail, and the end result is pure joy.	2000-08-16
US	52238399	R3HJB1919W15FX	0380710846	482251039	Caesar's Women (Masters of Rome Series)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Masters of Rome series is losing steam	After reading through the life and times of Gaius Marius and Sulla, I  expected to get just as scintillating a read out of Caesar's Women.  Unfortunately, Gaius Julius Caesar doesn't interest me as much as the other  two.  Despite his flaws (he is extraordinarily manipulative and has a  callous disregard for women), he's still somehow too perfect--something of  a Superman.  I don't get a lot of enjoyment in reading about someone who  appears to lack any sort of weakness.  Perhaps I preferred reading about  Gaius Marius and Sulla because their flaws are somehow more tangible and  humanizing.  While reading this book, I couldn't help but wish the focus  had been placed on such characters as Pompey, Cato, and Cicero.  The real  star of this story, I think, is Pompey.  After all, it is he who subjugates  Roman enemies during this time frame.  Besides, battles are inevitably more  exciting to read about than a few hundred pages of political  allocution.<br />Unfortunately, I think Colleen McCullough missed a prime  opportunity for some much-needed exposition.  I felt let down at the demise  of Mithridates.  He'd been plaguing Rome for the last 3,000 pages of her  books or so, and is dispatched second-hand in a letter.  How disappointing!  In earlier books, he is given a voice.  Why is he mute in this  book?<br />Nevertheless, it is good to read about Caesar's growing fame  through the eyes of women.  The cat-and-mouse games the cold-hearted and  vicious Servilia tries to play with Caesar are sardonically amusing.  I  also enjoyed the look at women's sacred religion we are offered.  The  sacrilege against this worship committed by Clodius reads like a  foreshadowing of nasty events to come.  I hope I am not let down when I  read Colleen McCullough's last installment in the Masters of Rome series.	2000-08-15
US	52238399	R1OT594FMUUP7D	1856261565	146309619	Myths of the World: A Thematic Encyclopedia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Terrific cross-selection of world mythology	Mythology is one of my great loves.  Although my forte is in Greek and  Roman studies, I often delve into the lore of other  cultures, as well.  So  far, the most consistently-bizarre mythos I've discovered is that of the  Koryak people of Siberia, a mythos well-represented in Michael Jordan's  Myths of the World.  As in many cultures, the mythology of the Koryak was  carried down through a long oral tradition.  Unfortunately, there seem to  be many missing bits.  What remains of the stories makes certain Ren and  Stimpy episodes look meticulously logical in comparison.<br />There is a broad  wealth of material in this book: Native American, Polynesian, Japanese,  Meso-American, Nordic, Hindu Kush, Hindu, Hittite, Egyptian, Greco-Roman,  Celtic, Chinese, Christian and Gnostic, African, Ancient Near-Eastern, and  Siberian mythology.  Although the stories are generally brief, the writing  does not make for an easy read.  The prose is very dry, and the book  practically screams for illustrations to lighten the mental load.	2000-08-14
US	52238399	R2MYLD0TNPSF9O	1570960046	178127897	Pirate	Books	1	29	36	N	N	Her sails unfurled about his mast	I'm sure they had the best of intentions, but one day, my mother and sister dropped off Fabio's  book for me to read. The next morning, during  breakfast, I started to read Pirate. Guess what? This book is as bad as I  thought it would be.<br />For instance, it is not enough that the hero (a  22-year old beefcake named Marco Glaviano) has his looks spelled out for us  in great detail on the fifth page of the story. Oh no! His looks are  spelled out in great detail for us every single time the heroine (a 12-year  old &quot;innocent&quot; named Christina) chances to cast her eyes in his  direction.<br />Nary a noun goes unadorned with one or more adjectives. In  itself, this may not be a such a huge flaw. However, the adjective choice,  and sometimes even the noun itself, leave much to be desired. As a prime  example, skim to any one of the myriad of sex scenes. By the way, Christina  is 19 now, so we don't have to worry about pedophilia. In the  &quot;plunder&quot; scenes, penises are never called penises. Oh no! They  are always referred to as &quot;manhood,&quot; &quot;masts,&quot;  &quot;members,&quot; or once, in a passionate spurt of inspiration, a  &quot;phallus.&quot; None of these terms are used on their own. They are  always preceded by such modifiers as &quot;swollen,&quot;  &quot;magnificent,&quot; or, my personal favourite, the clinical-sounding  &quot;turgid.&quot; One memorable &quot;plunder&quot; scene went something  like follows: &quot;Her sails unfurled about his mast.&quot; Keen,  eh?<br />Although reading this piece of literature often set off gales of  derisive laughter, I must admit that over all, Pirate is very readable, if  only for its comic effect. All in all the book reminds me of cotton candy.  It looks like a lot, but it only amounts to just the teensiest bit of  sugar. There is absolutely no substance to it, but people buy it anyway for  the sugar rush.	2000-08-08
US	52238399	R1HCPOWBD6EZ5M	038071082X	448407241	The Grass Crown	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Cause for cerebration	When I first picked up a hardcover copy of The Grass Crown a few years ago, I thought it was a novel about the advent of Christianity. The dust jacket illustration shows a blood-stained crown of grass. I thought this  might have been a whimsical interpretation of the crown of thorns motif. I  picked the book up, briefly perused the liner notes, and saw the story  takes place in ancient Rome. Certain it was a historical novel about  Christ, I bought it.<br />The book, of course, is not about Jesus, but about  the political and military goings-on of a pre-Christian Rome. And, much to  my chagrin, it isn't the first book in the series. With some regret, I set  the book aside until I could find its predecessor, The First Man in  Rome.<br />I enjoyed The First Man in Rome more than I did The Grass Crown.  Then again, Colleen McCullough pays more attention to character development  in the first novel. Gaius Marius's insanity is suddenly foisted upon us. I  would like to have read more about his downward spiral. Then again, I get a  kick out of reading about degradations, so go figure.<br />There are also some  apparent jumps of logic in the second novel. For example, in the first  novel, Sulla is portrayed as deeply loving both his children, but in The  Grass Crown, he only loves his son. In addition, Gaius Marius spontaneously  reappears out of exile with a complete army. Where did he pick up this army  of escaped thieves? I don't recall reading anything about their  recruitment. They seem to have burst fullgrown from his skull, like Athena  from the head of Zeus.<br />Still, despite these points, I really enjoyed  reading the novel. I liked watching the inexorable enmity grow between  Sulla and Gaius Marius, and I even had a lump in my throat when well-liked  characters met their timely and untimely demises. And, I especially liked  the letters of Publius Rutilius Rufus. They are particularly well-written,  and exude a wonderful sense of humour.	2000-07-26
US	52238399	R3214L84ANVW8B	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Goody, meaty reading	This is definitely a character-driven novel rather than a plot-driven one.  I really enjoyed getting inside the heads of the various people who made up the creme de la creme of the Roman Empire.  Some of those heads aren't  terribly comfortable to be inside of, as in the case of the rather creepy  Sulla, but it's all most educational and entertaining all at the same  time.<br />I found the political scenes could plod along, but I don't see any  way McCullough could possibly get around that.  If you're going to write a  book about Roman senators, there is going to be a lot of politicking  involved.  However, the character sketches, Sulla's murderous plotting, and  the hurly burly of the battlefield more than make up for the slow  bits.<br />I'd like for there to have been more in-depth characterization for  the minor female characters.  Just when I was starting to really get into  that character, the book would switch to another point of view.  This was a  bit frustrating, and is my only real qualm with the book.	2000-07-18
US	52238399	R19WKXDHLT1DE1	0151327653	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	3	300	481	N	N	You'd better have an unabridged dictionary handy....	Umberto Eco is a major cause of headaches. Well, he was for me, at least.<br />About seven years ago, I bought myself a paperback copy of Foucault's Pendulum at the university book store. It looked like an  engaging plotline, the reviews were excellent, and it had a really neat  cover.<br />I realize now that most of the reviewers were probably  intelligentsia-wannabes who didn't want to admit to the other reviewers  they didn't have a clue what Umberto Eco was going on about. I remember  seeing pictures of movie stars holding copies of Foucault's Pendulum in  order to look brainy.<br />Expecting some sort of smart cyber tale with a  mystical flavour, I started reading. It was the densest prose I'd ever  encountered, even worse than the Webster's unabridged dictionary's  definition for &quot;existentialism.&quot;<br />Foucault's Pendulum is  definitely not a cyber story. A word processor is the only computer, and  there aren't any net-running scenes. Nevertheless, the mystical stuff is  certainly there. Umberto Eco waxes philosophical for pages upon pages about  word processors (and everything else) in a mystical fashion, all the while  going off on Rosicrucian and Greater Key of Solomon tangents in languages  like Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and medieval French.<br />I slaved over Foucault's  Pendulum for about a year, always making sure I had a copy of Webster's  unabridged dictionary on hand. Unfortunately, it didn't help very much.  You see, many of the words in the book are not in the dictionary.<br />I think  that in order to truly comprehend the intricacies of Foucault's Pendulum, a  reader needs to be a polyglot with several PhDs in history, philosophy,  occult studies, and sciences under her/his belt. Oh yes, and the reader  should also have more than a passing familiarity with Sam Spade detective  novels.<br />This makes me wonder what sort of man Umberto Eco really  is.<br />The book proved to be too much for me in my undergrad days. I only  got about a third of the way into the novel before giving up in  consternation.<br />Some time later, my husband made the cocky assertion he  could read any English novel and fully comprehend it. I called his bluff  and handed him my dusty copy of Foucault's Pendulum. I don't think he even  made it as far as I did before he unceremoniously jammed the book back into  its place on the shelf.<br />Then, about a year or two ago, I watched The Name  of the Rose, and the richness of the plot made me want to try reading the  book again.<br />So, I dragged the dusty book out of my bookshelf. I opened to  where the bookmark was, and couldn't remember what the hellwas going on. I  groaned aloud when I realized I would have to start all over from  scratch.<br />Once again, I began struggling my way through heavily obfuscated  prose. The three-volume dictionary did not leave my side. I was determined  to finish the book, and finish it I did in a scant month.<br />Sure, I was  irritable and walked around with a perpetual wrinkle ensconced between my  eyebrows, but I finished it, darn it! And, with plenty of research on the  side, I even understood (most of) it.<br />Never before have I worked so hard  to read a book.<br />Now I have just begun to read Michael Baigent, Richard  Leigh, and Henry Lincoln's The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail. While reading  the forward, I experienced a bit of d&eacute;ja vu. The subject matter is almost  identical to the plotline of Foucault's Pendulum, albeit much easier to  comprehend.<br />A few pages later, I read how Umberto Eco was inspired to  write his migraine of a novel from The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail.<br />Why  couldn't I have read The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail first? It would have  saved me a few brain cells.<br />I guess it's because of the cover. The Holy  Blood and the Holy Grail has a rather vanilla cover, and I'm drawn by shiny  things. Foucault's Pendulum has the coolest foil embossing.....of the way into the novel before giving up in  consternation.<br />Some time later, my husband made the cocky assertion he  could read any English novel and fully comprehend it. I called his bluff  and handed him my dusty copy of Foucault's Pendulum. I don't think he even  made it as far as I did before he unceremoniously jammed the book back into  its place on the shelf.<br />Then, about a year or two ago, I watched The Name  of the Rose, and the richness of the plot made me want to try reading the  book again.<br />So, I dragged the dusty book out of my bookshelf. I opened to  where the bookmark was, and couldn't remember what the hellwas going on. I  groaned aloud when I realized I would have to start all over from  scratch.<br />Once again, I began struggling my way through heavily obfuscated  prose. The three-volume dictionary did not leave my side. I was determined  to finish the book, and finish it I did in a scant month.<br />Sure, I was  irritable and walked around with a perpetual wrinkle ensconced between my  eyebrows, but I finished it, darn it! And, with plenty of research on the  side, I even understood (most of) it.<br />Never before have I worked so hard  to read a book.<br />Now I have just begun to read Michael Baigent, Richard  Leigh, and Henry Lincoln's The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail. While reading  the forward, I experienced a bit of dja vu. The subject matter is almost  identical to the plotline of Foucault's Pendulum, albeit much easier to  comprehend.<br />A few pages later, I read how Umberto Eco was inspired to  write his migraine of a novel from The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail.<br />Why  couldn't I have read The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail first? It would have  saved me a few brain cells.<br />I guess it's because of the cover. The Holy  Blood and the Holy Grail has a rather vanilla cover, and I'm drawn by shiny  things. Foucault's Pendulum has the coolest foil embossing.....	2000-07-07
US	52238399	R3G7D9MC145YWE	0752814133	868804789	The Song of Troy	Books	5	63	63	N	N	Imbued with humanity	Colleen McCullough creates a masterful and compelling retelling of the Trojan War.  She takes an ancient story of heroic betrayal, vengeance, and hate, and imbues it with humanity.  Never have the ramifications of Paris'  and Helen's love affair been so fascinating or comprehensible.  This epic  story is told through the perspectives of the various people involved:  Helen, Odysseus, Priam, Achilles, Agamemmon, Brise, and more.  Although  they do not cease their heroic natures, they lose their demigod standings.  As a result, we become empathetic of each character's motivations.<br />Perhaps one of the reasons we gain empathy for the characters is because  they operate independently of the gods.  That is, although members of the  Olympic pantheon are invoked on numerous occasions, never is an event seen  which may only be defined by supernatural means.  Nevertheless, only  Odysseus has agnostic thoughts.<br />However, the main reasons we gain empathy  for these characters is McCullough's wonderful imaginative talent and the  formiddable strength of her writing.  Her turns of phrase are poetically  inspired.  Only with reluctance could I put this book down.  I did not want  this book to end.	2000-07-07
US	52238399	RGKJN7E1L6Y8Z	0963094424	581090284	Angels and Visitations: A Miscellany	Books	5	1	2	N	N	For that you gotta read the book....	Judge this book by its cover. The cover art by Dave McKean is both whimsical and mysterious, presaging Neil Gaiman's charming works on the printed pages within. Just in case you don't know anything about Neil,  here's a bit of info. Neil is best known for his award-winning comic series  Sandman. Yes, he writes comic books, and he is damned good at  it.<br />However, Neil is also damned good at the more traditional types of  writing. He co-wrote the amazingly funny Good Omens with Terry Pratchett,  and he also wrote the equally funny biography Don't Panic: Douglas Adams  &amp; The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy . His writing has appeared in  anthologies. &quot;Troll-Bridge&quot; appeared in the adult fairy-tale  compilation Snow White, Blood Red. &quot;Murder Mysteries&quot; (set in the  Sandman universe, I do believe) was in the magazine and horror compilation  Midnight Graffiti.<br />Angels and Visitations shows what else he can do. A  miscellany of fiction, humour, non-fiction, poetry, and artwork, Angels and  Visitations journeys from science fiction and fantasy shorts to detective  stories and meticulously-researched literary works. There is a story about  a worldwide shortage of animals--it reads like a cross between C. S.  Lewis's &quot;On Vivisection&quot; and Jonathan Swift's &quot;A Modest  Proposal.&quot; There is a postcard story about the fiendish enforced  slavery of a certain well-loved mythical figure. There's a prologue to  someone else's book, and an odd and timely story on venereal disease.  There's a poem about a computerized hell that reads like a cross between  William Gibson's Neuromancer and Kit Marlowe's Doctor Faustus. There's a  disquieting allegory called &quot;Mouse.&quot; There's a whole lot more,  and it's all poignant, bitter-sweet, or rollickingly funny. It's all good.  But are you going to get something out of Angels and Visitations? To quote  &quot;Prologue,&quot; &quot;For that you gotta read the book.&quot;	2000-07-05
US	52238399	R1FZ42VGQLTNXQ	1563893886	293198727	Dustcovers: The Collected Sandman Covers, 1989-1997	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Gorgeous!	If you are a Neil Gaiman or Dave McKean completist, you need a copy of this book.  This is a collection of all Dave McKean's covers for Neil Gaiman's Sandman series.  The full-colour reproductions are all  comic-sized, minus all the text, UPC codes, etcetera which detract from the  artistic detail.  Neil Gaiman explains the thought processes which went  behind the covers, and lets us in on a few in-jokes.  Dave McKean supplies  additional concept sketches and photos.  Gaiman and McKean make great art  together.  I hope they continue to collaborate.	2000-06-27
US	52238399	R23OXCEK9LWGO1	0441204031	268476672	Elsewhere Vol I	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Marvelous	I love great writing, folktales, fairy tales, and mythology.  This collection mixes all these elements up for some fascinating reading.  If you like Terri Windling and Ellen Datlow's fairy tale retelling anthology  series, you'll love this book, too.  There are at least two more books in  the series, and I can't wait to dive into them!	2000-06-27
US	52238399	R1YHRND01JV9L9	0061054909	231190015	Love in Vein	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Disappointing	Poppy Brite is a better writer than she was an editor.  This book is the proof.  These stories are actually quite lame, and don't do much to stimulate either the intellect or any of the other parts erotica is  supposed to stimulate.  Skip this one.  Her follow-up book Love in Vein II  is vastly superior, with a collection of well-written, and much more  erotic, vampire fiction.	2000-06-23
US	52238399	R2FGAPQMCA0K71	006105657X	894362714	Twice Bitten (Love in Vein II: Eighteen More Tales of Vampire Erotica)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Thought-provoking collection	This collection is vastly superior to its predecessor, with some very strong writing indeed.  You know it's going to be good when the book opens with Neil Gaiman's off-kilter retelling of the Snow White story.  And no,  it's not downhill from there.  The following stories are well-crafted and  fascinating.  My favourite was &quot;The Dripping of Sundered  Wineskins&quot; by Brian Hodge.  It is an imaginative story about a  modern-day wannabe saint, and the pre-Christian trinity he is obsessed  with.  I wish this could be made into a novel.  I was wrapped-up in the  world Hodge created.<br />My only qualm about this book was the lack of an  introduction.  I'd really like to have read how Poppy chose these stories,  and how she was introduced to the various authors.  Ah well....	2000-06-23
US	52238399	R1PM359EX7CJA2	0486409066	655299083	Ancient Egyptian Dances	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Then and now	Excellent resource on the history, mystery and origins of belly dance.  Has sections on purely movemental dance, gymnastic dance, imitative dance, dramatic dance, lyrical dance, funeral dance, religious dance,  accompaniments of the dance, dance with musical instruments, movements of  the legs, arms, and trunk, costumes of the ancient Egyptian women and men  dancers, a note on the historical development of the ancient Egyptian art  of dancing, and a note on the Egyptian dances, as performed by modern women  dancers.	2000-06-18
US	52238399	R172C6IO6NJ7OZ	1565042247	67368063	*OP Montreal by Night (Vampire: The Masquerade Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent source of ideas and characters	Montreal by Night has terrific characters, intrigues, and story ideas.  After reading it, you will want to run a Montreal campaign.<br />What evil lurks under the mountain?  A few folks know, and avoid it to the best of  their abilities.  Not even the Nosferatu dare visit the sewers in Montreal.<br />This is a very graphic book, well-deserving of the Black Dog category.  The Sabbat do some very nasty stuff, but it's often all in fun.  Ever  wonder how they play football?  How they play bobbing for apples?  Here's a  hint:  Montreal entertainment often focuses on a most wonderful  quadripalegic Samedi midget....	2000-01-19
US	52238399	R3OARJ8YBI731R	0765199106	831047461	Dark Justice: The History of Punishment and Torture	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An excellent cross-selection of crime and punishment	This is a wonderful starting-point for research into the history of crime and punishment.  It's a coffee-table sized book, and is chock-full of illustrations.  Frankly, it's the illustrations you want to see when  reading about a subject like this.  There are photos and descriptions of  torture implements, woodcuttings of torture chambers, and observers'  accounts.<br />This is not the stuff of pleasant dreams, but it is what  thousands of people have experienced.	2000-01-19
US	52238399	R3PRHLSMCYWME1	0394751043	464300482	The King Must Die: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A wonderful adaptation	This is the retelling of the legends of Theseus from the obvious point of view.  Mary Renault spins a tale of avarice, love, and hubris, the chief ingredients to any epic story featuring a Greek hero.  Theseus starts off  as a very likable toddler who fancies himself the brother of a sacred bull  and the child of Poseidon.  He remains likable throughout his young years,  developing an astounding modicum of leadership, genius, and tact.  He also  becomes a chauvinistic womanizer, but somehow, we like him, all the  same.<br />Theseus' grasp on feminism is tenuous.  In fact, he almost actively  fights against it, being a harbinger of the end of mother worship and  matriarchy in the area.  Renault does a wonderful job portraying Theseus'  vacillation between equality and misogyny.  It is with utmost determination  that Theseus learns to count on female warriors/athletes as  equals in  stamina and intelligence.  Regardless, he follows tradition in claiming  attractive women as war booty.<br />Theseus does not remain likable throughout  the story.  He becomes irascible and quick to judge later on in the story,  faults which come back to haunt him in his elder years.<br />Although the  pacing occasionally plods, this is an excellent book.  The first half is  the more action-packed and exciting of the two, but the doomed fate  foreshadowing reaches its denouement in the much darker second half.  After  all, we already know the king must die.	2000-01-18
US	52238399	R3BZZ0U8E2XSUH	0804108447	618824478	Druids	Books	3	21	41	N	N	It ought to be a trendy book....	Since neo-pagan beliefs and Celtic history have become trendy, why hasn't this book been a best-seller?  Maybe it's marketing.  Maybe it's the rather new-agey cover art.  Maybe it's just the one-sidedness of this  story.<br />Morgan Llywelyn is not a bad writer.  However, neither is she a  great writer.  Although she can make a hardcore skeptic like me wistfully  sigh in contemplation of a theoretical afterlife and immortal soul, she  can't make the Romans looks like anything but rat bastards.  Although the  Celts exude heroism, humour, and hearty, good living, the Romans ooze out  an oily discharge of bribery, poor sportsmanship, and deceit.<br />I believe  this is the, well, perhaps not fatal, but definitely wounding, flaw of  Druids.  Had the story been a bit less &quot;Ra! Ra! Ra! Celts!&quot; and  more &quot;you know, Romans were just foreign folks,&quot; we would have  had a much more enjoyable read.  After all, an awful lot of people root for  the underdog.  Where's the fun of the villain isn't worthy?	2000-01-18
US	52238399	R2QXXHLX8IKBSM	0590282085	292500272	Nova's Ark	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great gift for kids	Lushly rendered with CGI, the same 3-D technique used in films like Toy Story and A Bug's Life, Nova's Ark is a pleasure to peruse. This book is terrific escapist literature for the kiddies, and a pleasure to read aloud.  It's a rollicking good story about a little boy robot named Nova who goes  through a series of accidental adventures.<br />The book reads something  like Annakin Skywalker meets Robinson Crusoe meets Wesley Crusher meets A  Wrinkle in Time.  Nova is a typical boy robot who goes on a field trip and  wanders off to look at a space ship.  His father, after all, pilots space  craft much like this one, and Nova is tempted to crawl inside.<br />I think  you can guess what happens next.<br />Nova becomes lost in space and crash  lands on a desolate moon.  With no one to talk to, he soon becomes lonely.  Since his space craft has been destroyed, he creates some friends for  himself out of the circuitry and raw materials...	2000-01-16
