US	52240341	R25LGTCWYAB8LJ	0345430425	124922104	Mortalis (The DemonWars Saga)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Fantasy	R.A. Salvatore has written his absolute best book to date.  That is not easy for me to say, because I have read most of his works, and always enjoy them.  Sometimes his novels are full of action but fall a little short on plot.  Sometimes they have mostly strong characterizations but almost always there are one or two who seem out-of-place or need some rounding out.  But his stories always bring enjoyment to my reading eyes.<br /><br />But this time, he has topped all of his previous efforts.  Even his Dark Elf Trilogy suffers when stacked against the developing epic of this Demon Wars saga.<br /><br />I first approached this book with some trepidation.  I had completed the first trilogy of the Demon Wars Saga and I was worried at how he would follow-up the emotionally charged ending of that trilogy.  I also knew there was (and is) a second Demon Wars Trilogy.  This then would appear to be an in-between novel.  Was it just filler?  Would it simply serve to wrap up any loose ends from the first trilogy and set-up the second?<br /><br />The answer was yes...but so much more.  We do, indeed follow Jillseponie (a.k.a. Pony) as she struggles to find her way in the cruel world of Corona.  She has endured much heartache in her life and labors to find her role in the post-Demon world.  As the hero that vanquished the Demon of the first trilogy, as well as the evil it had spawned, Pony is offered her choice of political appointments.  Whether to be baroness of a province or perhaps the mother abbot of the Ambellican Church?  Perhaps she is in line to be queen?  Instead she takes the road that allows her to search for answers.<br /><br />The novel is a bit of a departure for Salvatore.  Instead of a hoard of goblins, or a demon spirit to vanquish, and the resulting sword battles that take place throughout, the enemy this time takes the form of the Rosy Plague.  This extremely contagious disease has swept through Corona in centuries past and has led to thousands of deaths and immeasurable suffering. There is no known cure, even with the powerful magical \\"soul stones\\" of the monks of the Ambellican church.  A truly formidable opponent indeed.<br /><br />We get to see all the characters of previous books in the series, old friends to us now.  We struggle with their decisions, both selfish and noble, as they choose how to best help the plague victims, or how best to avoid them.  These characters are real.  How they act faced with such calamity, may surprise you, just as those in real life may well surprise you when faced with similar circumstances.  And we also get to know new characters, who will undoubtedly have large roles in the follow-on trilogy.<br /><br />There is a great deal of political intrigue in this novel, both for the secular rulers of the region, as well as with the pervasive Ambellican Church.  And how these institutions deal with their responsibilities to the people they serve, is fascinating to watch.  Neither approach is flattering.  And don't worry.  There are a few action scenes as well, which are presented with the amazing Salvatore flare.<br /><br />The best, most satisfying stories, whether fact or fiction, are those that triumph over the most difficult obstacles.  Salvatore, in this book, has created an absolutely immense obstacle to overcome: the Rosy Plague.  And along with it are numerous lesser obstacles, but nevertheless difficult to conquer.  The way in which Jillseponie, addresses these issues is extremely gratifying.  The ending is very satisfying and yet leaves open a yearning to hear more from these people.  So you might want to have the next book on hand just so you won't have to rush out and get it.ths and immeasurable suffering. There is no known cure, even with the powerful magical \\"soul stones\\" of the monks of the Ambellican church.  A truly formidable opponent indeed. <br /> <br />We get to see all the characters of previous books in the series, old friends to us now.  We struggle with their decisions, both selfish and noble, as they choose how to best help the plague victims, or how best to avoid them.  These characters are real.  How they act faced with such calamity, may surprise you, just as those in real life may well surprise you when faced with similar circumstances.  And we also get to know new characters, who will undoubtedly have large roles in the follow-on trilogy.   <br /> <br />There is a great deal of political intrigue in this novel, both for the secular rulers of the region, as well as with the pervasive Ambellican Church.  And how these institutions deal with their responsibilities to the people they serve, is fascinating to watch.  Neither approach is flattering.  And don't worry.  There are a few action scenes as well, which are presented with the amazing Salvatore flare. <br /> <br />The best, most satisfying stories, whether fact or fiction, are those that triumph over the most difficult obstacles.  Salvatore, in this book, has created an absolutely immense obstacle to overcome: the Rosy Plague.  And along with it are numerous lesser obstacles, but nevertheless difficult to conquer.  The way in which Jillseponie, addresses these issues is extremely gratifying.  The ending is very satisfying and yet leaves open a yearning to hear more from these people.  So you might want to have the next book on hand just so you won't have to rush out and get it.	2005-07-01
US	52240341	R1PAVZH9M2KAQL	0345470664	91253765	The Ruins of Dantooine (Star Wars: Galaxies)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Better than typical game-to-book tie-in	This is not Baldur's Gate 1 or 2.  Thank your lucky stars!  For fans of the on-line role playing game, Star Wars Galaxies (SWG), this is a neat little novel.  I found the plot to be interesting, mostly because I have been playing SWG since it went retail and I thought it interesting to see how many of the game devices were woven into the plot.  It's almost as if they developed a list of game characters, planets, professions, and beasts and see how many of them they could get into the book.  They even refer to imperials as &quot;imps&quot;.  I could see my own character in the locations described and felt like &quot;I&quot; was there.<br />If you are not a player or fan of SWG then skip this Star Wars entry as the characters are mostly cardboard and the plot pretty predictable.  I will give kudos to the author(s) for having courage in the ending, however.  Overall, I enjoyed it but wouldn't recommend it to a non SWG player	2004-01-13
US	52240341	REMGSLK747M4L	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	At Last, A Believable Arthur	Some of my earliest memories of the world of fiction and story telling involve tales of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table.  Most have read at least one such story in their childhood while many of us have consumed many versions of this classic and continue to do so to this day.  So it was with a mixture of anticipation and some trepidation that I began this trilogy.  Not having read Cornwell's well-received &quot;Sharpe&quot; novels, but having been inundated with praise for them, I wondered at how he would tackle this tale.  Isn't it a bit presumptuous to re-tell such an oft-told tale?  In fact, Cornwell, himself, says much the same thing.  After all, hasn't it all been said?<br />Not at all!  We catch a quick glimpse of Cornwell's approach, right from the start, with the title. This is &quot;The Warlord Chronicles&quot;.  And, indeed, it is.  Arthur is the son of Uther and therefore not in line to become King. Instead, he is a warlord, assigned as Mordred's protector.  His main goal, however, is to unite all of Briton's divisive tribes against the common enemy: the soon-to-invade Saxons.<br />If you are looking for a traditional approach to the telling of the tale of Arthur, look elsewhere. This rendition is brutal, realistic, and fascinating.  As Cornwell, himself, says, &quot;There is a sword and there is a stone, but one is not in the other.&quot;  In fact, many of the popular elements that we have come to expect are simply not there.  Most of the familial relationships are different than I had assumed, i.e. Mordred, Uther, Morgan, Igraine, Guinivere, Arthur, etc. Cornwell takes them all and comes up with a plausible course for his characters to take.<br />The story is told from the point of view of a young warrior, Derfel, who moves from being under Merlin's protection, to serve with Arthur's army and eventually become friend, confidant, and advisor to Arthur.  He tells the story from a down-to-earth blood and guts perspective.  Cornwell is well known for the historical research that he conducts for his novels and even though the &quot;facts&quot; are elusive for Arthur's tale, the time period and settings are well detailed.  The resulting tapestry is a credible playground for Cornwell's characters to interact upon.  Cornwell uses the plausible and traditional Welsh names for his places and characters, a technique which may make it a bit more difficult for some readers to follow.  I found myself referring often to the lists provided at the beginning of the book, to keep places and people straight in my head.  By the way, don't look for Camelot here, either.  Small portions of the story, I felt, dragged just a little.  And there is a lot of realistic, up close and authentic fighting to wade through.  But there is another battle waging here, as well.  The battle between the old Pagan ways and the burgeoning Christianity frequently takes center stage.<br />All in all, I quite enjoyed this novel.  I have since read the other two volumes in the Warlord Chronicles and believe that they are even slightly better than this one.  This is a true trilogy where one must read all three novels to appreciate the epic.  If you come to this one with an open mind, then I think you'll be happy you did.known for the historical research that he conducts for his novels and even though the &quot;facts&quot; are elusive for Arthur's tale, the time period and settings are well detailed.  The resulting tapestry is a credible playground for Cornwell's characters to interact upon.  Cornwell uses the plausible and traditional Welsh names for his places and characters, a technique which may make it a bit more difficult for some readers to follow.  I found myself referring often to the lists provided at the beginning of the book, to keep places and people straight in my head.  By the way, don't look for Camelot here, either.  Small portions of the story, I felt, dragged just a little.  And there is a lot of realistic, up close and authentic fighting to wade through.  But there is another battle waging here, as well.  The battle between the old Pagan ways and the burgeoning Christianity frequently takes center stage.  <br />All in all, I quite enjoyed this novel.  I have since read the other two volumes in the Warlord Chronicles and believe that they are even slightly better than this one.  This is a true trilogy where one must read all three novels to appreciate the epic.  If you come to this one with an open mind, then I think you'll be happy you did.	2002-12-10
US	52240341	R38RU789BY1GCJ	0698119592	190761387	The Outlaws of Sherwood	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great Rendition of the Classic Tale	I have long been a fan of Robin Hood and his friends, admired their noble purpose, and reveled in their narrow escapes from the Sheriff of Nottingham.  But it seems that every time I pick up a book about their \\"real\\" story, the author is intent upon putting a new spin on the classic tale.  Perhaps Robin is really the sheriff's brother, or maybe Robin and Marion are one and the same, or, heaven forbid, Robin is gay, leading to a completely different version.  But at last, I have found a fine re-telling of the tale I have known and loved since childhood.<br />Robin McKinley is known for her re-telling of classic stories and fairy tales.  But with this novel, she has not only told the tale, she has breathed life into it.  All of our favorite characters are here: Robin, Marion, Little John, Will Scarlet, Much, Friar Tuck, Alan-a Dale, the Sheriff, King Richard, etc.  But there are others as well, lesser known members of Robin's outlaw band, but still having important roles to play in the outcome of the story.  All of the characters come alive, familiar to us in a comforting way, yet new as well.  The result is the author's success at keeping us on the edge of our seat, even though we know the basic plot already.  That, my friends, is quite an achievement.<br />The novel covers the entire spectrum of events in this legend of Robin Hood.  We follow Robin and his friends (and enemies) from the pivotal event in young Robin's life that forces him into his outlaw life, through the early struggles of survival as an outlaw, the growing reputation that the group achieves, all the way through the return of King Richard.  All the familiar elements of the overall story are here.  The bridge scene where Robin first meets John Little and they battle, the archery tournament that the Sheriff organizes as a trap for Robin, etc.  But not all is as we remember, for the author does throw in a few twists as well.  I won't detail them here lest I spoil the adventure for you, but rest assured, they only add to the realism of the day.  The author's note at the end adds a bit of explanation in how she dealt with the anachronistic flaws of the legend; i.e. the fact that longbows weren't used until 150 years after the time of King Richard Lionheart, etc.  But those things are minor to the telling of the tale itself.<br />My only negative comment concerns the ending.  It just takes too long.  When King Richard returns, and is forced to deal with this band of outlaws, he must find suitable \\"punishments\\" for them.  This part seemed anticlimactic to me and should have been wrapped up in 2-3 pages.  As it was it took more than 20 pages, and still seemed incomplete.<br />But in spite of this detail, the book was tremendous.  It is without a doubt the best novel of Robin Hood that I have yet read and will be tough to beat.  Robin McKinley is an elegant writer, witty, humorous, and marvelously descriptive with character interaction. If you are looking for a break from over-the-top fantasy epics or gritty urban drama, you will be pleased to pick up this one.  Sometimes, it is simply pure joy to lose yourself in the re-telling of an old classic., they only add to the realism of the day.  The author's note at the end adds a bit of explanation in how she dealt with the anachronistic flaws of the legend; i.e. the fact that longbows weren't used until 150 years after the time of King Richard Lionheart, etc.  But those things are minor to the telling of the tale itself.<br />My only negative comment concerns the ending.  It just takes too long.  When King Richard returns, and is forced to deal with this band of outlaws, he must find suitable \\"punishments\\" for them.  This part seemed anticlimactic to me and should have been wrapped up in 2-3 pages.  As it was it took more than 20 pages, and still seemed incomplete. <br />But in spite of this detail, the book was tremendous.  It is without a doubt the best novel of Robin Hood that I have yet read and will be tough to beat.  Robin McKinley is an elegant writer, witty, humorous, and marvelously descriptive with character interaction. If you are looking for a break from over-the-top fantasy epics or gritty urban drama, you will be pleased to pick up this one.  Sometimes, it is simply pure joy to lose yourself in the re-telling of an old classic.	2002-11-01
US	52240341	R1OE1LI8XV0YMN	0553575651	331407913	Ship of Destiny (The Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great End to a Fine Trilogy!	Robin Hobb concludes her Liveship Traders trilogy in fine fashion, weaving an incredibly vibrant tapestry of pirates, dragons, romance, danger, and political assignation.  In particular, the second half of this book is packed full of action as the author deftly maneuvers her characters through rough seas, both literally and figuratively, and brings the entire epic to a thoroughly satisfying conclusion.<br />Essentially, the book begins, with bringing us up to speed on the three major plots that had formed from the last book: 1) Althea Vestritt and her drive to reclaim the stolen liveship Vivacia, 2) the pirate, Kennit, and his quest to rid the Pirate Isles of the slave trade, and 3) and the events back in Bingtown and The Rain Wild River where war has broken out and an uneasy alliance is just beginning. There is much ground to cover in this volume and so the pace of the more mundane events picks up a notch from book two, and it is not long before the three individual plots begin to overlap and build upon each other.  Some of the lesser characters from the first two books, including Reyn, of the Rain Wild folk, the Satrap and his companions, and Althea's all-but forgotten sister forge new roles and become instrumental in the plot development.  All of the characters have come a long way since the beginning of the series, and to see their growth as characters is one of the most fascinating aspects of the entire series.  It is fun to watch as they transform from weak-willed adolescents into fulfilling their various roles, whether as full-fledged leaders or as political scapegoats.<br />Thankfully, the author has not kept us in suspense regarding all of the secrets and intrigues of the first two books.  Here we at last discover the true nature of the serpents, the wizard wood, the liveships themselves, and we uncover the mystery surrounding Paragon (the Mad Ship) as well as Kennit's background.  And, yes, the dragons not only finally make their appearance but also take center stage.<br />This book is a \\"10\\".  It combines exactly the right amount of tension, danger, romance, build-up, comic relief, and everything else that makes a great story come to light.  Many novels come close but never quite reach such a pinnacle.  It simply succeeds on so many levels.  Some may read it for the great fantasy adventure it is while others will take away a far subtler but fascinating undertone that provides key insights on human relationships of all forms.  And, truthfully it is, plain and simply, original.  The settings, the characters, the plot, are wholly original. The ability to create such a believable fantasy setting and populate it with such colorful characters is truly a remarkable gift.  And yet Ms Hobb doesn't let this perfection stand in the way of a truly rousing adventure tale.enter stage.<br />This book is a \\"10\\".  It combines exactly the right amount of tension, danger, romance, build-up, comic relief, and everything else that makes a great story come to light.  Many novels come close but never quite reach such a pinnacle.  It simply succeeds on so many levels.  Some may read it for the great fantasy adventure it is while others will take away a far subtler but fascinating undertone that provides key insights on human relationships of all forms.  And, truthfully it is, plain and simply, original.  The settings, the characters, the plot, are wholly original. The ability to create such a believable fantasy setting and populate it with such colorful characters is truly a remarkable gift.  And yet Ms Hobb doesn't let this perfection stand in the way of a truly rousing adventure tale.	2002-09-18
US	52240341	R1DXKWAS3LUVT7	0553575643	714413063	Mad Ship (The Liveship Traders, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Long, but great development for the series	Robin Hobb follows up her successful \\"Ship of Magic\\" with volume 2 in the Liveship Traders Trilogy with the continuing adventures of all the characters introduced in the first volume.  The novel, being part two of a trilogy serves to further the development of the characters while, at the same time, setting us up for the grand finale in book 3.  And indeed it does.  My copy of this book is 850 pages long, obviously quite lengthy for a casual reader.  And when combined with two other volumes, each over 800 pages in length, some people may be scared off.  However, for serious fiction readers such length is no problem and in fact, with a writer of Ms. Hobb's talent, we frequently wish we could spend even more time with the characters.<br />This novel boils down the myriads of plot threads in the first book into three basic parts.  The first involves the crew of the Liveship Vivacia and its new captain, the pirate Kennitt, who continues to be one of the best-written \\"bad guys\\" I have yet encountered.  Perhaps, Ms. Hobb's greatest talent as a writer is the believability of the characters.  The good guys and bad guys aren't always easily recognizable and sometimes change roles as they respond to certain situations.  Just like in real life.  Sometimes the good guys stumble and make bad decisions.  Once again just like in real life.  That goes a long way in suspending our disbelief when we read fantasy stories.<br />The second plot thread centers on Althea Vestrit, and her attempts to get Paragon, the mad derelict liveship, launched in an attempt to rescue Vivacia from Kennitt.  And, finally, the third plot line rests with those members of the Vestrit family that remain behind at Bingtown and are forced to deal with the rising political tensions that threaten to change their way of life forever.  It is here that we see the biggest growth of characters as Malta, Althea's younger sister, transforms from a bratty young girl into a take-charge leader due to numerous events that force her to grow up in a hurry.  All three plot lines relate to one another but have distinctively different approaches.  For example, as much time is devoted to Althea's conflicting romantic feelings for Brashen, her one-time lover, as it is to her approach to launching Paragon.  In fact, romance abounds throughout this book as all major characters struggle with their relationships.<br />In addition, we get to know far more about the sentient sea serpents that inhabit the waters around the ports.  The first book used these creatures as a mere sideshow between major sections of the book and frankly seemed little more than teasers.  But in this volume, they assume a much larger role, even entering into the action itself.  Their future, and just how they relate to the dragons and to the very nature of the magical wizardwood that forms the liveships is more than just hinted at now.  By the end of the book, I felt like I had most of what I needed to piece the puzzle together.  Ms Hobb has left things just right to urge me toward picking up the third book in the trilogy right away.<br />Fundamentally, this novel is terrific.  There are elements of romance, adventure, intrigue, political overtures, spoiled leaders, young love, sacrifice, mysterious magic, and conflicting loyalties.  I found the beginning chapters a bit long and in places I was wishing the action would pick up a bit.  It was almost as if the author were looking for the best way to approach the remainder of the story.  My rating reflects this desire for a tighter editing process and I feel the book could have been done just as well with a hundred less pages or so.  A couple of scenes seemed to simply add girth to the book rather than force the plot along or add depth to the characterization.  But these are small matters and more than compensated for by the epic scope of the story.  Part three, \\"Ship of Destiny\\" should provide a rousing finale.force her to grow up in a hurry.  All three plot lines relate to one another but have distinctively different approaches.  For example, as much time is devoted to Althea's conflicting romantic feelings for Brashen, her one-time lover, as it is to her approach to launching Paragon.  In fact, romance abounds throughout this book as all major characters struggle with their relationships.<br />In addition, we get to know far more about the sentient sea serpents that inhabit the waters around the ports.  The first book used these creatures as a mere sideshow between major sections of the book and frankly seemed little more than teasers.  But in this volume, they assume a much larger role, even entering into the action itself.  Their future, and just how they relate to the dragons and to the very nature of the magical wizardwood that forms the liveships is more than just hinted at now.  By the end of the book, I felt like I had most of what I needed to piece the puzzle together.  Ms Hobb has left things just right to urge me toward picking up the third book in the trilogy right away.<br />Fundamentally, this novel is terrific.  There are elements of romance, adventure, intrigue, political overtures, spoiled leaders, young love, sacrifice, mysterious magic, and conflicting loyalties.  I found the beginning chapters a bit long and in places I was wishing the action would pick up a bit.  It was almost as if the author were looking for the best way to approach the remainder of the story.  My rating reflects this desire for a tighter editing process and I feel the book could have been done just as well with a hundred less pages or so.  A couple of scenes seemed to simply add girth to the book rather than force the plot along or add depth to the characterization.  But these are small matters and more than compensated for by the epic scope of the story.  Part three, \\"Ship of Destiny\\" should provide a rousing finale.	2002-08-19
US	52240341	RWIHVPYQTOTJH	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Start of a fulfilling fantasy series	Having immensely enjoyed Robin Hobbs Farseer Trilogy, I enthusiastically turned to her next fantasy series, the vast Liveship Traders trilogy.  This first novel in the series, Ship of Magic, is set in the same world as the Assassins Apprentice but otherwise has very little to do with it, instead focusing on a whole new and unique fantasy setting.  Liveships are large masted sailing ships made of wizardwood that actually become sentient beings after three generations of their owners families have died on board them.  We follow various members of the Vestritt family, an Old Trader family who is in the unenviable position of trying to increase their trading profits before their creditors take harsh action.  There are several main characters but chief among them is Althea Vestritt, a young lady who has spent most of her life sailing under her fathers captaincy aboard the Vivacia.  Upon her fathers death in the early chapters of the novel, the Vivacia quickens into a full-fledged liveship.  Unfortunately, through a series of circumstances and inner family squabbling, Althea is not allowed to continue to sail on board her, thus launching the main story thread of the series.<br />There are many well-drawn characters in this novel, but I always appreciate a good villain.  Ms Hobb excels once again, with the introduction of Kennitt, an ambitious pirate who has his eye on Vivacia as his prize.  To be able to write a villainous character whom the reader can sympathize with as he pursues his dastardly plots is difficult at best but Ms Hobb does it so well.  And her good characters come across as very real also, not always choosing the wisest or most honest course.  They stumble over bad decisions during their struggles to achieve their goals and we feel for their failures, often seeing ourselves within them.<br />This is, fundamentally, a tale of the sea, albeit in a fantasy setting complete with magic ships and sea serpents.  The ship board activity is well researched and fascinating to experience.  This is a long book and is followed by two more long books in the trilogy.  Where some see extra wording or too much detail or even refer to the doorstop syndrome, I see a richness of character that is essential in understanding these people.  Besides, I just like spending time with them.<br />While Ms Hobb provides splendid detail about some of the characters here, she only hints at others.  We spend a little time with another liveship, Paragon, who is considered mad by the populace due to several incidents involving the deaths of his entire crew.  It seems obvious that we are being set up for much more from Paragon, especially considering the title of the next volume, Mad Ship.  We also get tiny scenes involving what appear to be sentient sea serpents, but, quite frankly, I found them to be confusing and so relegated them to the recesses of my memory in order to dig them out again as they become more relevant in future books of the series.  Ms Hobb also prepares us for a major role by the Rain Wild magicians and their interaction with another headstrong daughter of the Vestritts, Malta.<br />For those readers who prefer their plot lines wrapped up neatly, I would suggest they have all three volumes of this trilogy readily available.  Not one of the major threads is resolved here.  But for those who relish complex relationships that are not convoluted, this novel will be sure to please.  I for one am searching my book shelf even now for number two of this fine trilogy.l researched and fascinating to experience.  This is a long book and is followed by two more long books in the trilogy.  Where some see extra wording or too much detail or even refer to the doorstop syndrome, I see a richness of character that is essential in understanding these people.  Besides, I just like spending time with them.  <br />While Ms Hobb provides splendid detail about some of the characters here, she only hints at others.  We spend a little time with another liveship, Paragon, who is considered mad by the populace due to several incidents involving the deaths of his entire crew.  It seems obvious that we are being set up for much more from Paragon, especially considering the title of the next volume, Mad Ship.  We also get tiny scenes involving what appear to be sentient sea serpents, but, quite frankly, I found them to be confusing and so relegated them to the recesses of my memory in order to dig them out again as they become more relevant in future books of the series.  Ms Hobb also prepares us for a major role by the Rain Wild magicians and their interaction with another headstrong daughter of the Vestritts, Malta.<br />For those readers who prefer their plot lines wrapped up neatly, I would suggest they have all three volumes of this trilogy readily available.  Not one of the major threads is resolved here.  But for those who relish complex relationships that are not convoluted, this novel will be sure to please.  I for one am searching my book shelf even now for number two of this fine trilogy.	2002-08-08
US	52240341	R3QZAVE500GIBH	0399147071	569781050	Line of Vision	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fantastic new talent!	I typically read almost 100 books per year, most of them fiction.  I picked this one up on a lark and am so glad I did.  What a novel!  From page one, I was enthralled in the story.  I held my breath during the fresh approach that Ellis uses as a story-telling technique.  We watch the action unfold through the eyes of the main character and we think we know what has happened.  The murder takes place early on and we &quot;see&quot; it happen.  But did we see everything?  We aren't sure.  In fact we aren't sure until the very last page of the book.<br />I was pleased to read a mystery/crime novel that wasn't all police procedural or all court-room drama.  The story is fleshed out very nicely, and I found the characters to be multi-dimensional.  There are several sub-plots to the story but they all relate to the main theme and serve to push the experience forward.  And most importantly, I really cared what happened to the characters.<br />I am looking forward to Mr. Nellis' next work with great anticipation.  It will be hard to top this one but it will be fun trying.	2001-06-20
US	52240341	R2NI040ZDMIFPI	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A new way to look at a classic tale	Most of us have read at least one story of King Arthur in our lifetimes.  Many of us have read quite a few versions of this classic tale.  So it was with some trepidation that I began this trilogy.  I have not read Cornwell's well-received Sharpe novels but know of them, and so thought it a bit presumptious of him to tackle the story of Arthur.  In fact, Cornwell, himself, says much the same thing.  Afterall, hasn't it all been said?<br />Not at all!  We catch a quick glimpse of Cornwell's approach, right from the start, with the title.  This is \\"The Warlord Chronicles\\".  And, indeed, it is.  Arthur is the son of uther and therefore not in line to become King.  Instead, he is a warlord, assigned as Mordred's protector.  His main goal, however, is to unite all of Briton's divisive tribes against the common enemy: the soon-to-invade saxons.  <br />If you are looking for a traditional approach to the telling of the tale of Arthur, look elsewhere.  This rendition is brutal, realistic, and fascinating.  As Cornwell, himself, says, \\"There is a sword and there is a stone, but one is not in the other.\\"  In fact many of the popular elements that we have come to expect are simply not there.  In fact, most of the familial relationships are different than I had expected.  i.e. Mordered, Uther, Morgan, Igraine, Guinivere, Arthur, etc. Cornwell takes them all and comes up with a plausible course for his characters to take.<br />The story is told from the point of view of a young warrior who moves from Merlin's protection to serve with Arthur's Army.  He tells the story from a down-to-earth blood and guts perspective.  While Arthur is a warlord, (not the King), don't expect Lancelot to ride in on a shining horse to save the day.<br />Cornwell uses the plausible and traditional Welsh names for his places and characters which may make it a bit more difficult for some readers to \\"get into\\" the story.  I found myself often referring to the lists provided at the beginning of the books,to keep places and people straight in my head.  By the way, don't look for Camelot here, either.<br />Small portions of the story, I felt, dragged just a little.  Not enough to bring down my rating though.  And there is a lot of realistic up close and authentic fighting to wade through.  But always, it leads to a better understanding of the numerous character interactions that take place.<br />All in all, I really enjoyed this novel. I have since read the other two volumes in the Warlord Chronicles and firmly believe that they are even better than this one.  If you come to this one with an open mind, then I think you'll be happy you did.	2001-06-01
US	52240341	R39JEOD7PAI4ER	0425172929	33493017	Every Man a Tiger: The Gulf War Air Campaign (Commander Series)	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Engrossing Insider's Look at Air Power during the Gulf War	I just finished this book, and, quite frankly, I feel like I have just been through a war.  As a US Air Force officer who was just starting out during the time of the Gulf War, I had been looking forward to reading this book for a long time.  I had already learned quite a bit about the Gulf War through other sources, but I was looking for a legitimate source of what was actually happening, on the ground and in the air, from a day-to-day perspective, and from somebody who had lived the experience.<br /><br />This was the right book!  The opening chapters introduce us to Gen Chuck Horner in an autobiographical approach.  We learn what motivates him as a pilot, as an officer, and as a human being.  We gain some insights from his experiences during Vietnam, and ultimately learn how that affected his approach to the Gulf War.<br /><br />But the bulk of the book is about the Gulf War, and how the coalition forces made their decisions on the best way to approach the battle situation.  My favorite partsin this book, were the \\"day-in-the-life\\" segments.  We get to follow Gen Horner from the moment he wakes up, through briefings, visits to units, phone calls, problem solving, meetings with coalition partners, etc. to the minute he finally, gets to go to bed.  We see and appreciate the job he does at the most mundane level, and yet understand how those small things lead to the big picture of war fighting.  Gen Horner is generous in spreading the credit for successes and does not hold back in accepting blame when that is appropriate.<br /><br />The only reason I didn't rate this book 5 stars is the lengthy explanations of air power and strategy.  For those who are not familiar with such concepts, this information is vital, and so you should consider my rating to be 5 stars.<br /><br />Finally, I appreciated Gen Horner's essay's on coalition building and the future of air and space power.  I was fortunate enough to be assigned to Space Command for a short time before Gen Horner retired as CINCSPACE and from the US Air Force.  And even though I was but a lowly Lieutenant, and never spoke directly with Gen Horner, I can tell you his impact on all of us was profound.  As Tom Clancy states at the end of the book, \\"Gen Chuck Horner was the right man at the right time.\\"m the US Air Force.  And even though I was but a lowly Lieutenant, and never spoke directly with Gen Horner, I can tell you his impact on all of us was profound.  As Tom Clancy states at the end of the book, \\"Gen Chuck Horner was the right man at the right time.\\"	2001-04-10
US	52240341	R2Y1IV8TNY0R2T	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Superb conclusion to a fabulous fantasy trilogy!	I read an average of 75 or so books every year, many of them in the fantasy genre.  I picked up the first book in this trilogy, Assassin's Apprentice, because of very favorable discussion in various fantasy chat rooms.  I was very glad I did.  After finishing this third novel, I have perhaps found my new number one fantasy series! And I don't say that lightly.  Don't tell my boss but I even skipped work to finish this one!<br />I connected somehow with Fitz, from the very beginning.  Perhaps that is due to the first person narrative that Ms. Hobb uses to such good effect, but perhaps more so, it was her story-telling style.  Yes, this book could have been written with less words but that is like saying Mozart could have composed with less notes.  The characterization is superb.  The plot is intriguing and not-at-all predictable.  The ending, I think, is appropriate, given the development of the major characters.  In fact, I didn't see it as a particularly negative ending.  If you are looking for a sweet, all-loose-ends-tied-up ending, read Eddings.  If you are looking for an outstanding, hi-quality, epic fantasy, that completely suspends your disbelief, read this trilogy.	2001-03-06
US	52240341	R1NIKSK4XNA336	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great start to a Great series!	This was my first book by Robin Hobb but it will definitely not be my last!  I admit to be intigued by the cover art but I decided to give the book a try based on lots of favorable comments from a fantasy book discussion group I belong to.  I'm glad I did!  I found the plot to be well layed out and not at all predictable.  The words that Ms. Hobb uses to tell the story are a cut above many typical fantasy novels so it reads wonderfully.  I found the characters, as well, to be multi-dimensional.  All have strengths and weaknesses and respond to circumstances in their own way.  While the novel will stand on its own, it really is only part 1 of the Farseer trilogy.  Rumor has it that there will be a 4th book coming, due to popular demand.  Take it from a guy who read over 100 books last year, don't pass on this one!	2001-02-08
US	52240341	R5QZ13WS32CJ4	0345428455	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Fantastic Star Wars entry!	I read over 75 novels every year, in many different genres.  I have read a  lot of science-fiction and about 11 of the Star Wars novels.  Just so  you'll know where I'm coming from, I admit to a certain bias for RA  Salvatore.  I regard his fantasy works as among the best of contemporary  authors.  Having said that, I was thrilled when I first learned he would  pen a volume of the SW universe.  Finally I would get to read high quality  SW adventure the way it was meant to be (Timothy Zahn also achieves this in  his SW novels).<br />I was not disappointed.  Salvtore remains true to his  strengths, especially when it comes to action sequences.  The novel is easy  to read, with a plausible, yet exciting plot.  The characters are in-line  with the movies and the story fits in well with the extensive background  already created with all of the other SW novels.  Salvatore is not afraid  to test the boundaries of the SW conventions either, especially when it  comes to the safety of the major characters.  Frankly, before this novel,  most of the SW stories had gotten a little too predictable and I started to  lose interest.  Other authors have let theselves be managed by the  characters but Salvatore makes it clear that the story is primary.<br />In  short, a great addition to the SW line.  I know George Lucas is happy or he  wouldn't have picked Salvatore to do the novelization of Episode II.	2000-08-08
US	52240341	R3NTWLGZTGVMA	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	3	60	76	N	N	Vintage Stephen King?  I think not!	I read more than 75 novels each year and have read most of King's stuff.  Obviously, with so much output from one writer, there are bound to be hits and misses.  This one was a miss, in my opinion but there is still enough  here to make it worth the read.<br />I had already read Desperation, the  companion book to this volume, and came away with the feeling that I had  just experienced a pretty good King novel.  It also was far from his best  but I enjoyed it none-the-less.  So, naturally, I turned to this book, The  Regulators, hoping for a similar experience.  Stephen King is well known  for marketing gimicry, pushing the envelope in the publishing business.  At  first it was through using brand names without permission. Then it was the  alternate ego, Richard Bachman, followed by the serial novel (Green Mile)  and now it is a &quot;dual novel.&quot; Frankly, I don't think it worked  this time.  I just couldn't get the parallel between the two  books/settings.  Same names but different people and places.  What was the  point?  Really, they are two seperate books.<br />In this novel, King  definitely displays his famous talent for scene setting.  The opening  chapter is one of the best I've read, setting the stage for the coming  horror.  The plot was also pretty good, although the evil 'Tak' seemed  somewhat ordinary.  King uses a great mechanism to deliver the horror this  time.  The manifestation of the mind of a small autistic boy.  The horrors  come in the form of all of those things that frighten young children and,  consequently, frighten us.  The text is sprinkled throughout with other  tidbits as well that help to tell the story: letters, postcards, diary  entries, even a script.  Another King tool to attack from all directions.<br />But somehow, it didn't all flow well together.  There were so many  characters that I lost track of who was who and as they started to die off,  I found myself not caring too much who was left.  Perhaps I was a victim of  having read Desperation first.  I guess I was expecting the same characters  to survive.<br />Overall, a middle-of the road King entry.  King purists will  want to read this one but King samplers should pass.aving read Desperation first.  I guess I was expecting the same characters  to survive.<br />Overall, a middle-of the road King entry.  King purists will  want to read this one but King samplers should pass.	2000-06-30
US	52240341	R2SN8NZ1E97RXL	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One notch better than The Regulators, still a tad short	I read more than 75 novels each year and have read most of King's stuff.  Obviously, with so much output from one writer, there are bound to be hits and misses.  This one was a near miss, in my opinion but that means it  still succeeds and is definitely worth the read.<br />I had not yet read The  Regulators, the companion volume, when I picked this one up so I wasn't  sure what to expect.  I came away with the feeling that I had experienced a  pretty good King novel.  It is far from his best but I enjoyed it  none-the-less.  Stephen King is well known for marketing gimicry, pushing  the envelope in the publishing business.  At first it was through using  brand names without permission. Then it was the alternate ego, Richard  Bachman, followed by the serial novel (Green Mile) and now it is a  &quot;dual novel.&quot; Frankly, I don't think it worked this time.  Having  since read The Regulators, I just couldn't get the parallel between the two  books/settings.  Same names but different people and places.  What was the  point?  Really, they are two seperate books.<br />In this one, I enjoyed the  patented realism that King always displays, setting the scene for the  coming horror.  The people that get stranded in the town of Desperation,  Nevada, all become very real, as we read of their personal situations.  Nobody does that better than King.  And the resulting horrific consequences  that follow make this one difficult to put down.  We are kept on the edge  of our seats the whole time.<br />The only reason I didn't give this one 5  stars is because of the nature of the evil itself.  'Tak' remains somewhat  of an undefined evil and we are never satisfied as to what it was/is.  It's  just sort of...there.  Don't get me wrong, the manifestations of it are  cool (and bloody) but it just felt incomplete.<br />Still, an overall solid  King entry.  Just don't expect as much from its companion book.	2000-06-30
US	52240341	R1R7T0Q2ZP758C	055356983X	160233701	Anne Frank's Tales from the Secret Annex	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Amazing Talent and Insights	Having read Anne Frank's famous Diary, I chose to read this volume as well, almost a companion volume to the first.  Her diary mentions her writing efforts and it is fun to read them here in their entirety.  The  quality of the stories increases immensely as we go from one to the next,  proving the old axiom that the only way to improve your writing is to  practice.  But what is really amazing is the insights this young girl was  able to bring to her stories.  Several seem to be quite plain on the  surface yet have an underlying message or theme. Most of them are  understandably coming-of-age stories.  In addition, we get a little more  insight into her life in the attic and those people that surrounded her  during that time.<br />If you enjoyed reading Anne Frank's Diary, then you  will also enjoy this volume of stories.	2000-05-15
US	52240341	R5VFMMW1KMH11	0312970099	937000385	In Honored Glory	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good, solid, but simple story	I read a lot of historical fiction novels and so I feel qualified to classify this one as &quot;historical-light&quot;.  The novel is the very straight-forward depiction of the Spanish American War, as seen through the  eyes of several central characters, including a female journalist, a  recently-graduated West Pointer, and an experienced Buffalo Soldier.  As in  other Robert Vaughn books I've read, the story is set against a  true-to-life backdrop, although the details of the historical aspects are  lightweight.  By that I mean we never dig down into what's happening in the  war itself, the causes, the impact, the life-altering experiences that we  get from other authors.  We stay only on the surface.  The war itself seems  to be more of a picnic outing than a war.  Vaughn does do a good job  showing the interests and the prejudices of the press during that  period.<br />I bought this book because it dealt with a period which is often  glossed over by historical fiction, with the possible exception of the  Rough Riders themselves.  We see them here, as well, but they don't  overshadow the others.  I got what I expected: a straight-forward story,  with bits of romance, action, and historical references.  A good read, as  long as you don't expect to much.	2000-05-11
US	52240341	R2SNAOGMO5LXWR	0553577174	151906149	Untitled: A Booklover's Mystery (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	My first &quot;Un-book&quot;, but definitely not my last!	All right, I admit that I bought this book for the &quot;Booklover&quot; premise, being a true bibliophile myself.  However, I read over 75 novels each year, many of them mysteries and so I have learned never to judge a  book by its cover (or the printed endorsements on the back).  So it was  with some trepidation that I began reading.<br />In short, I was astounded!  I  found the main character to be quite entertaining, bringing a common man's  attitudes to an unusual life situation.  Not only does he know the Prime  Minister by his first name, and is able to carry on an overseas romance  successfully, we find out even more interesting aspects of his ancestors in  this volume.  The other characters are all intersting as well.<br />I always  admire authors who can mix genres together and come up with a great novel.  This book is a perfect example.  Not only are all of the classic mystery  elements here, but she also mixes in a fair amount of thriller action ala  James Bond or Dirk Pitt.  Our hero is even reported to be a mirror image of  Pierce Brosnan.  I admit that some of the action sequences are a little far  fetched, but somehow, that just adds to the enjoyment of the roller coaster  ride.  Contrary to another review below, I did not see any strings left  untied, except for the cliffhanger ending, which is sort of like the Lady  or the Tiger variety.<br />All in all, mystery readers, thriller readers, book  lovers, and just about everybody else will enjoy this installment of the  &quot;Un-books&quot;	2000-05-09
US	52240341	RMGMAE3JQ0EHY	1585670081	69847932	Cities in Flight	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A Classic--in the true sense	Like many people, I first read this collection of four novels when I was in High School.  Long out-of-print I was very happy to see them repackaged for a whole new generation.  This is high-quality science fiction from the  golden age.  I was suprised that so little of the technology is out-of-date  (vacuum tubes excepted) that it reads as fresh now as it did before.<br />But  this is more than just the superficial sci-fi that we sometimes hear about.  Much more than spaceships and aliens, these novels dig deep into our  culture, our sensabilities, our fundamental attitudes.  It is a story of  the human condition, as told by one of the grand masters of science  fiction.  If you enjoy Heinlein, Asimov, and Bradbury, you'll like this  one.  If you aren't into sci-fi, I think you will still find a lot to like  about Cities in Flight.  Give it a try.	2000-05-02
US	52240341	R19N7SA4R7JA48	0553249053	383390851	Kiowa Trail: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Different Sort of Western Novel	Every time I read a novel by Louis L'Amour, I am reminded why he is the King of Westerns.  His novels are not of the &quot;cookie-cutter&quot; variety and this novel is vintage L'Amour.  It is a story of revenge, and  the strength of one woman's resolve to avenge the death of her young  brother.  But it is L'Amour's skillful use of flashback sequences which  defines this book.  The tale is actually told from the point-of-view of a  man whose parents were killed causing him to spend three years living with  Apaches, as well as time in Europe and as a Union Officer in the Civil War.  It is his story as much as hers and it should be obvious that this is a  complicated plot.  But L'Amour successfully pulls it off.  L'Amour's storys  are always &quot;real&quot; in that the locations are real places and many  of the characters are historical.  Few historians are as knowledgable of  this era as L'Amour, and it shows in his novels.  Enjoy reading Kiowa  Trail!	2000-05-02
US	52240341	R1R9MQFXZRV1LH	0451198433	368358403	Bitter Root	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Solid entry in the newer Western style	This book is a sequel but, I believe, firmly stands on it own merits.  But for those who are expecting it to be a second Little Wolf novel, don't.  Little Wolf finally makes his appearance with only 50 pages to go.  But no  matter, his brother is very capable of providing enough adventure for  readers of Westerns.  In fact our protagonist goes from one situation to  another, almost like one short story to another, which is tied up neatly at  the end, bringing the whole novel together.  The only reason I didn't give  this one 5 stars is because some of the characters were quite cliched and  there really was nothing new here.  This was my first Charles West novel  and I may well read more.	2000-05-01
US	52240341	R3AMPH4WT2P1PH	0553576119	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good action SW novel	I really enjoyed reading this novel, not for any literary reasons but because it was full of action and tied a lot of other plots together from other books.  It was a hard book to put down.  The action sequences were  better than most I have experienced in SW novels and seemed much more like  the movies.  I also enjoyed how the author linked events in this book back  to other books and the movies through well-written flashback sequences.  I  had three problems, however.  The first was the single-dimensional  character of Callista; the second was the new superweapon (yet another)  which was doomed to failure from the start and hence, not a real threat;  and the third problem was the chronology.  By this I mean we see adventures  of Luke and Callista occurring over what seems to be a couple of weeks and  yet the new super-weapon, trimmed-down Death Star planet buster weapon was  built from scratch during the same time frame.  Something didn't jive  there.  Still, the overall reading pleasure was quite high.  If you read  only a select few SW novels, read the ones by Timothy Zahn, and Kevin  Anderson (including this one)	2000-05-01
US	52240341	RCCLEMO9JZBK4	0449210928	544373078	Texas	Books	5	44	46	N	N	One of Michener's best!	I have read most of Michener's work, and I rate Texas among the big three, not only in size but in quality.  (The other two are Centennial and Chesapeake).  I particularly like the way Michener presents the entire history of Texas, and yet focuses on the key aspects of change that make  this region so interesting.  We see how cotton, cattle, oil, barbed wire,  football, etc have changed the very culture of the people of Texas.  Each  long chapter is another window from which we can see the evolution of the  landscape and the people.  We see the hearty characters that made Texas  what it is today and examine the very heart of the issues which shape the  modern day Texan.  For all of this, it is a novel, with the sweeping epic  qualities of Gone With the Wind or Michener's other great works.  Don't let  the size stop you.  The novel is as big as the state itself, and worth  every minute of the ride.	2000-04-29
US	52240341	R2YX02NAWCSCTR	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A good read but not quite up to top Stephen King form	A somewhat slow start that speeds up to a whirlwind of a great novel only to drop to a whimper of an ending. I've read most of King's work and really enjoy the innovative ideas as well as the writing techniques he employs to keep his well from drying up. This novel skips around a bit in time but King handles this better than most. I had a problem with the ineptitude of  the government agency known as the Shop. Their inability to track down and  capture a man and his young daughter was stretching things in my mind. Read  Ludlum to see how it can and should be done. The ending seemed to me like  King couldn't decide on how he wanted it done. I am being tough on King here because he is such a talent and this novel, while  very good reading, just doesn't quite make it up to his excellent  standards.	2000-04-29
US	52240341	RTM0SZ5OWJTI6	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Succeeds at all Levels..Incredible story...Already a classic	I read this book aloud to my family (with 2 children) over a period of two weeks.  I have done this many times before with other books but never have they wanted me to keep going and going and not stop.  As soon as we finished, my 11 year-old daughter had to read it for herself.<br />Just why  this book has become such a phenomenon is not hard to see.  The story  appeals to all of us, no matter what our age.  The suspenseful parts have  just the right amount to keep us on the edge of our seats; the humor is  perfectly-timed; the emotional portions are exquisite.  All of the  technical aspects of a fiction novel for older children are here.<br />But  that is not why it is so wonderful.  The character of Harry Potter, I  believe, triumphs over a situation in which we can all see ourselves.  His  background is one we can relate to, even if it exaggerates our own  predicaments (just as our own memories are).  His progress through the  story just makes us want to cheer.  All of the characters are  multi-dimensional and impossible to predict, constantly suprising us, and  yet the whole ensemble merges together like a world class symphony.<br />If  you haven't read this book yet, don't wait any longer.  It is not often  that we get to witness the birth of a classic.	2000-04-29
US	52240341	R2LYUYDFLCZX3K	0061013706	709887248	Shall We Tell the President?	Books	5	51	55	N	N	Updated for current readers	This started out as Jeffrey Archer's second published novel, quite a few years ago, but has now been updated for more current politics. Try to find the original version, because it is vintage early Archer.  In the original version, the novel begins just after Ed Kennedy is sworn in as president  after Jimmy Carter. It was a rough time in American history, and Archer  weaves the mood of the times into the story. The plot revolves around a  junior FBI agent's investigation into an assassination attempt against the  new president. He juggles a new relationship with the daughter of a senator  who just happens to be a prime suspect in the conspiracy. Archer  demonstrates his US political expertise here, despite being an Englishman.  This novel goes behind the scenes of Washington DC, though not nearly to  the extent his later novel, First Among Equals, does in London's  Parliament. My only real complaint with the novel is its lack of major plot  twists which I've come to expect from Archer's works. Pretty straight  forward story. If you enjoy Archer's works, try to locate a copy of this  one too.	2000-04-29
US	52240341	R1FF7CLO9ZS9HH	0812538951	951716918	Fall of Angels (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Very good history for the Recluse Saga	If you're reading this 6th book of the Recluse Saga, you probably know what to expect from this series by now.  For many, however, this is the first book read of the series because, chronologically, it is the first.  (By the way, I have read that the author would prefer us to read them in  the order they were published).  Regardless, I found it to be quite a good  story, quite capable of standing on its own.  Modesitt has flirted with  blending science and fantasy elements together with his magic engineers,  but now he brings that tactic to the forefront with his marooned spacecraft  and crew becoming the leaders of a low-tech culture.  The entire Recluse  series has epic qualities and this novel is essential for the full effect.  I only gave it four stars for the same reason as other novels in this  series.  There are too many times when the plot drags.  Details are very  good to have in a novel, but how many times is it necessary to tell us they  are having dry, crusty bread for dinner?  I like these sorts of mundane  details because it really makes the characters real, but I would prefer  there to be some variety.  Anyway, that is my only real beef and overall, I  think you will enjoy The Fall of Angels.	2000-04-28
US	52240341	R1VBE9X7FVJBJL	0440217768	377010079	The Charles Dickens Murders: A Beth Austin Mystery (Beth Austin Mysteries)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent Murder Mystery	I confess, I was first attracted to this novel because of the title.  I had not read an Edith Skom book before but am interested in Dickens as well as mysteries.  I am very glad I picked it up and can see now I will have to go back and purchase the other two novels by Skom!<br />The narrative skips  about in time some as we spend the first half of the novel living the story  of the past (where/when the murder takes place) and then spend the second  half with the protagonist as she attempts to solve the mystery.  The  skipping around in time was not difficult to follow and was actually a  refreshing approach to telling the tale.<br />The characters were realistic  and the plot was not at all predictable.  At one point, one of the  characters compares their situation with the plot of Agatha Christie's  classic &quot;Ten Little Indians&quot; (also called &quot;And Then There  Were None&quot;).  Coincidentally, I had read that book, as well, only last  month and thought the comparisons valid.<br />Enjoy this book, while I am out  looking for others by the same author!	2000-04-25
US	52240341	RCV1UF3R3W0ON	055356983X	160233701	Anne Frank's Tales from the Secret Annex	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good companion book for the famous diary	Had this been a collection of stories and essays by anybody else, I would  have thought it was nothing special.  But having read the Diary of Anne  Frank first, the stories and essays make so much more sense.  You can just  see her whiling away the dull moments of the life in the secret annex,  honing her writing skills.  It is easy to see her skills as a writer  increase from story to story.  But even more interesting is to read the  messages contained within her works.  The writing skills she displays are  obviously that of a teenager, although much better than most people her  age.  But the real value of these pieces are the insights which she brings  to them; her life experiences and her approach to life's big questions.  The last essay in the collection is entitled, &quot;Why&quot; and seems to  sum up her short life.  Read this book, but only after you read the Diary  so the essays will be meaningful.	2000-04-22
US	52240341	R2V9NCYI905M38	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Scientific Thriller	I had heard of this book for years but never picked it up.After reading a few other Crichton novels, I decided I had to try hisfirst.  I am glad I did because the novel was quite intriguing.  I found it very realistic despite some dated technology, particularly in the medical arena.  Yet that didn't stand in the way of a good plot and strong characters.  Like many others, I found the ending disappointing, which is why I gave it a 4-star rating.  Nevertheless, it is easy to see why Michael Crichton is such a successful novelist today.	2000-04-21
US	52240341	RROYC34FFC01H	0312965788	546505387	All Creatures Great and Small	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb	Rarely will you find a novel which so well captures the essence of real people.  This book goes beyond just talking about the life of a country veterinarian in Yorkshire and his cases with all forms of pets.  It brings  insight into the amazing relationships that people have with their pets,  whether they be dogs or cats, or farm animals.  We see the true grit of  birthing a cow as well as the tender affections that an elderly lady has  for her prissy poodle.  This book also includes biographical accounts of Mr  Herriot's clumsy courting of his future wife and other amusing side  adventures; marvelous truths that we see in ourselves.  Whether you read  this book for the vet's practice, the animals, the people, or all of the  above, you will enjoy what has become a treasure around the world.	2000-04-21
US	52240341	R3Q4EXJREDEHXN	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Superb historical romance	What can I add that has not already been said about this novel?  It truly is one of the best novels ever written.  I read over 75 books every year, many of them historical novels.  I don't know why I waited so long to read  this one, but I'm glad I finally did. And no, I haven't seen the movie.  The characters were multi-dimensional and despite their often-displayed  negative qualities, we keep hoping for them.  They are more real and  probably like ourselves than most of us would care to admit. Perhaps that  is the real beauty of the story.  We can see how selfish actions can lead  to consequences without having to live through the pain ourselves. The  style is easy to read and enjoyable to follow. And the backdrop of the  Civil War and the early reconstruction period (from the South's point of  view) is among the best I've ever run across. Despite its length, the book  keeps you enthralled, every step of the way. This is one of those classics  that you simply must read, not because you should, but because you will be  so glad you did.	2000-04-19
US	52240341	R2W3J8IATWXU22	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A secret look at an extraordinary diary	This book provides excellent insights into the world of a normal 13 year-old girl who was forced to live under extra-ordinary circumstances.  Anne Frank was forced to endure two years of hiding in a secret annex of her father's business during the Nazi hunt for Jews during WWII.  Her  insights into these facts are historically interesting but what fascinated  me was the way she wrote about the everyday things.  How the occupants of  the secret annex squabbled, what they ate from month to month, what she  thought about her friends, etc.  Amazing insights from a young girl.  And  all the while, you already know the end, which makes it all the more  intriguing.  Well worth your time to read.	2000-04-19
US	52240341	RDZPIVFDXEWON	0671039075	839969281	Dragonworld	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Excellent Old-Style Fantasy	I first read this novel about 15 years ago and always wondered why it was never reprinted.  It is a well-told tale, enjoyable to read, and in a style reminiscent of the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings.  The characters interact  well together and there is excellent depth to them.  It is not predictable  nor does it fit into the tight little cliched fantasy that is so prevalent  today. If you want a solid fantasy read, this is the one for you.	2000-04-18
US	52240341	RU2WWK6SOCXH5	0060977108	887109454	The Physics of Star Trek	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intriguing look at possibilities of Star Trek	This book gives a good overview look at each of the major physics-oriented aspects of the Star Trek universe.  Just how likely is it that we will develop transporters, food replicators, or (probably of greatest interest  to most of us) holo suites?  The answers are here in this well written  layman's guide.  This book is best suited for the curious, for those who  wonder if these things will one day be possible.  The authors take us down  each path, sometimes determining that it will be possible, someday, and at  other times, letting us down easy.  I thank the authors for satisfying my  curiosity as well as teaching me some theoretical aspects of physics at the  same time.	2000-04-15
US	52240341	R3AWLJ28RO5GNO	0671528203	362846154	Stillwatch	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good suspense	I enjoyed reading this novel, mainly for the way in which the author intertwined the different subplots.  There is quite a mystery involved, as well, as we try to uncover the background of the protagonist and how it  ties in with the rest of the main plot.  I found myself caring for what  happened to the characters, a definite plus when evaluating a novel.  The  only thing I have to complain about was that the bad guy was more or less  identified quite far from the end, making the ending somewhat  anti-climatic.  Worth the read nevertheless.	2000-04-10
US	52240341	R1H5STPOLP20DC	0425129586	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Five Stars isn't enough!	Absolutely the best mystery novel I have ever read.  The intricacies of the plot were incredible.  The way the ten suspects are eliminated one by one, keeps you guessing.  Even as I tried to outguess the author, I found  myself going down the very path she wanted.  I was trapped.  I was  flabbergasted at the end when the truth was revealed.  Ms Christie has a  superb reputation for creating such masterpieces and, believe me, it is  well-deserved.  I have read at least 15 Agatha Christie novels and this is  the best so far.  Make sure you read the book before reading any potential  spoilers in somebody's review!	2000-04-05
US	52240341	R1SUJ3BC7ZBSSV	0812533666	28406412	Isle of Woman (Geodyssy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	A Masterful Accomplishment	Piers Anthony is known for his long-standing interest in unique puzzles  and has often incorporated interesting puzzles and riddles into his books.  He uses the technique very well in other novels but in this book, he has  gone one step further.  The premise of using one set of characters to live  their lives through all of human history is an incredible idea in the first  place but his masterful execution of it is simply wonderful.  Despite the  complexity of the task, Piers doesn't let that get in the way of the story  itself, and the development of the plot and characters.  The historical  background itself is quite interesting but, true to form, the story itself  is the key, and it works.  I am intensely curious how the other two novels  in the trilogy will be handled since they are reputed to be parallel to  this one.  If you aren't into trilogies, don't worry.  This one stands  alone in its entirety.	2000-04-05
US	52240341	R14V3SN0T4BYPE	0345389409	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles, Book 5)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Tough One to Rate	I have had mixed emotions about the entire Vampire Chronicles.  As in the first four books of the series, I found the language almost poetic, the story fascinating, the characters 3-dimensional, and yet, I wasn't  satisfied.  Most of our old friends make cameo appearances, including  David, Louis and Armand. I was pleased to see that the author did not worry  about negative press regarding Memnoch's views on Christianity, etc.  She  definitely pulled no punches.  At a minimum, this novel serves as a  commentary on the world's religious history and at least should make  readers think about the bloody history of organized religion in our world  society.  I found some parts of the novel a little too poetic in that the  language threw me off track.  But I suppose it is quite difficult to create  believable dialogue when you are using God and the Devil as your  characters.  Occasionally I was lost and found myself daydreaming.  The  threads of the story line were so long though, that I didn't seem to have  missed much.  Still, the book is worth reading, whether for the religious  viewpoint or the continuing story of the Vampires.	2000-03-25
US	52240341	RQ1FWUR84HU7E	0786915579	432976816	Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Forgotten Realms: the Icewind Dale Trilogy)	Books	5	37	40	N	N	The Launching of a Legend	This is the trilogy that launched the career of one of the greatest fantasy characters ever in existence, the Dark Elf, Drizzt Do'Urden.  Such a wonderful character!  (It didn't do too much harm for Salvatore's career  either!) This trilogy is heavy on the action and fighting sequences but  they are balanced with thoughtful character-driven insight and development.  And I can't forget to mention one of the best villain's ever to grace the  written page, Artemis Entreri.  You will rarely see a better written bad  guy.  If you have stayed away from Forgotten Realms books or others based  on games, don't pass this one by.  And don't miss the Dark Elf Trilogy  either, for a wonderful taste of the early life of Drizzt and the world of  the Underdark.  Both volumes have a very special place on my crowded book  shelves.  Good reading!	2000-03-22
US	52240341	R21FOW5R6B1WTX	0061093653	676359318	Twelve Red Herrings	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Fabulous Stories from the Master	The term &quot;Master Storyteller&quot; is perhaps overused but in this case, Jeffrey Archer earns the moniker.  Each of these stories I read between other people's novels, in order to space them out.  It is a  testament to the quality of these stories that I found myself wanting to  get past the particular novel I was reading so I could get to the next  Archer short story.  Some of these stories have twists and some have irony,  but they all have that exceptional phrasing that I have come to expect from  Mr. Archer.  I am suprised at some of the reviews below, giving this book  lower marks, but I think if you are looking for a well-told tale, this is  the book for you.	2000-03-20
US	52240341	RRUYJWK66W24L	0345374061	863558551	The Moon Men	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Good Overall ERB entry	This is actually two books in one.  The first, describing the exploits of Julian 9 was the better of the two, in my opinion, due to the great struggle to lead a downtrodden people up from the dregs of existence and  begin the revolution.  The second book, taking place more than 300 years  after the first book, is more of the typical ERB; i.e. hero gets captured,  makes escape, gets the girl, and wins the war.  There was some character  development here and I found it interesting that the hero's brother was the  &quot;enlightened&quot; one.  The hero makes some progress towards changing  his world view but in the end, remains the action-oriented adventurer.  That doesn't mean its bad, just typical ERB.  When I read ERB I am always  amazed that he wrote his stories so long ago and yet had amazing insight on  problems of today and tomorrow.  An amazing feat.  Enjoy reading the Moon  Men.	2000-03-20
US	52240341	R3022RHYR08KBS	0553253204	683280309	Passin' Through: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A good Western and a good mystery	I have read more than 30 Louis L'Amour books and I rank this one in the top 5.  It is a bit more involved than most, combining the western story with a mystery plot.  And as always, I love to read the descriptions of the  landscape and the people of the South West.  Life is full of choices but  you could do worse than chosing to spend an evening with &quot;Passin'  Through&quot;	2000-03-20
US	52240341	R3DPBH7V0NSQ82	0312051263	318567977	The Mensa Murders	Books	3	6	7	N	N	So-so Run-of-the-mill Murder Mystery	This one was a quick read.  It seemed to be trying to break out of the mold of standard &quot;gimmiky&quot; murder mysteries but failed to do so.  The protagonist detective seemed to want to address personal home-life  problems but this subplot never is developed.  I'm sure it is a continuing  theme throughout a series of books and I confess to not having read any  others so maybe I am not being fair.  Still, each book should stand on its  own and I couldn't help feeling I was missing something.  The identity of  the killer was so obvious that I was sure I must be proven wrong in the  end.  Even the detective had it figured out with at least 40 pages to go.  Perhaps that was the author's intent however, the result was a  less-than-stunning conclusion.	2000-03-18
US	52240341	R1ZB4Y1GLNR32C	0425170055	626650351	Rainbow Six	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Excellent thriller from the master	I have read all of Tom Clancy's fiction so far and have been rarely dissappointed.  I thoroughly enjoyed this entry as well, although it seems to be written at a level one notch below his usual standards.  There is  lots of action and lots of insights into the world of anti-terrorism but I  felt one element was missing.  I never found myself fearful of danger.  All  of the Rainbow organization are supermen with little chance of being  bested.  You knew they were going to win out every time; the interest was  in how they would accomplish each mission.  The only time I was concerned  for the safety of the characters was when a different group of guys was  brought into the main action.  I expected some to die there, and they did.  It was like watching one of the original Star Trek TV shows where the one  guy you've never seen before that beams down to to the planet was the guy  you knew was going to get eaten by the slime monster.  I expect a lot from  Clancy so I am being very critical here.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed  this novel. It was an easy read, despite the number of pages, and the whole  thing flowed together nicely.  Read it for the action, read it for the  familiar characters, read it for the &quot;Good guys win&quot; feeling, but  just read it.	2000-03-15
US	52240341	R1VI8P2BOURH2B	0553265210	220355514	UTAH!	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of the Best Entries in the Series	Utah is the 12th novel in the Wagons West Series.  It continues the soap opera style atmosphere of the Holt family and their many friends and relatives, which have somehow managed to hit every western state during  their experiences.  The big attraction of Utah is the meeting of the  trans-continental railway at Promintory Point, after first getting past a  defensive rancher who feels it is his land and not the governments to take  away.  there is quite a bit of action and even some intrigue to keep the  pages turning.  The novel goes a little deeper then most in the series in  that the characters are a little more three-dimensional.  There is still  some predicatability which is why I gave it only 4 stars but it was an  enjoyable read all in all.  There are a lot of references to prior books  and events in the series so it's best to read them in order.  But since  they are out of print now, that may be difficult (although I found all of  mine in various used book stores around town).  The shear volume of books  in this series (over 20) makes it like returning to old friends every time.  I suggest you try them.	2000-03-06
US	52240341	R3DYV7UDF14JR5	0812534042	192302546	The Order War (Recluce series, Book 4)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good entry in the Recluse Saga	I enjoyed this novel in the Recluse series because it gives further insight into the complex magical system that Modesitt has created.  It is fun to see how Justen changes through the book, and to watch the relationships with his brother, and other characters evolve.  The pacing  was a bit slow, just as in other Modesitt novels, and at times I got tired  of the myriad of details he provides.  Overall, enjoyable, especially the  second half.	2000-03-04
US	52240341	R3POKDIQYJPD4I	0812555392	243381917	Escardy Gap	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Get past the 1st half for a great finish	I found this novel to be very tough to rate.  The first 200 pages were forgetable; too many cliches, too much over-the-top characterization, too many characters, and too many bad guys.  But then, the plot started to take  hold.  We delve down into the major characters and begin to see them grow.  The quirky plot device of getting the &quot;main&quot; character (the  author who is writing this tale) actually into the novel seemed contrived  at first and almost hokey but somehow, they pull it off.  My interest level  definitely perked up and I rode the final pages of the book like a wave.  When I finished the last chapter, I wanted to give it 5 stars but must cut  back to only 4 because of the long drawn-out build-up in the beginning.  The gory parts (and there are a lot of them) are very gory but often  original.  All in all, worth it in the end.	2000-02-28
US	52240341	R3VC23AUCLB6SY	0812534379	324126942	My Lost Mexico	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Good Text on the Writing Process	For fans of Michener's book, &quot;Mexico&quot;, this is an excellent little companion book to read the behind the scenes, &quot;Making of&quot; book.  Lots of photographs, drawings, and copies of hand-written notes,  tell the tale of the tale.  Very interesting to see how even such a  prolific author as Michener struggled to complete his novel of Mexico.	2000-02-22
US	52240341	R1VSAOA5VGO3RZ	0449221873	192151843	Mexico	Books	4	29	31	N	N	The Land of Mexico in a Nutshell	I have read many of Michcner's books and found many style similarities with this one as well.  Unlike Chesapeake, and Centennial, and Texas, and others, we spend more time in the present (1960s) looking at the current  events surrounding the three-day Festival of Flowers and its bull fights,  and a bit less looking at the historical pathways leading up to it.  My  favorite aspect of Michener books is the historical parts which is why I  only gave this book 4 of 5 stars. The characters are definitely  multi-dimensional, however, and Michener ties in all timelines of the novel  well.  I was left with a much greater insight into the psyche of the  Mexican people.  An overall excellent read.	2000-02-20
US	52240341	R3V0Q1OEIOI0D9	0812933036	868779610	Origins of a Catastrophe: Yugoslavia and Its Destroyers- -America's Last Ambassador Tells What Happened an d Why	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Great guide to understanding the downfall of Yugoslavia	I am an active duty Air Force member about to deploy to Sarejevo.  I picked up this book to learn more about the history of the region I would be working in for 4 months.  After I finished, I felt I had gained a  thorough understanding of the forces that brought about the destruction of  Yugoslavia during 1989-1992.  The leaders of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia,  Slovenia, Macedonia, Kosovo, etc. along with numerous other important  players on the stage, are detailed for you.  The relationships are complex  but Mr. Zimmermann does a fine job of presenting the situation for the  layman.	2000-01-25
US	52240341	RSTLQS2GEEDWQ	0786915889	208021139	The Dark Elf Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Homeland / Exile / Sojourn)	Books	5	130	140	N	N	The Best Forgotten Realms Trilogy Yet!	I read at least 75 novels per year, at least 20 of them in the fantasy genre.  I have read most of Salvatore's works already, including the Icewind Dales trilogy.  This trilogy is simply the best.  It follows the  life and times of Drizzt Do'Urden, a dark elf (drow) through his first  years in the underdark to ultimately finding a &quot;home&quot; in the  Icewind Dales.  Drizzt has become one of the most enduring fantasy  characters ever written, and with this volume, it is easy to see why.  Salvatore masterfully tells the story, creating an entire world, rich with  detail and amazing interconnectivity.  The characters, whether good or  evil, are complete, and multi-dimensional.  It is not predictable, yet is  incredibly satisfying.  My hat is off to Mr. Salvatore, TSR, and to Drizzt!	2000-01-25
US	52240341	R16VRY86S4B1L5	0812555112	852103356	Faun & Games (Xanth, No. 21)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too many puns...otherwise good story	I enjoyed the premise of the book, as I almost always do with Piers Anthony's Xanth books.  But there are just getting to be too many puns.  The obvious plot devices (like the comic strip) that serve as simply a way  to work in all of the puns that the fans send in, is just too much.	2000-01-19
US	52240341	R1D87RHBMZ60BG	0345335899	490070527	Ozma of Oz (Wonderful Oz Books)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The Best OZ so far	This is the third OZ book I've read now and I have finally seen a little of what other readers must see in the series.  The story succeeds on several levels.  Children will enjoy the fantasy of it while adults can see  the deeper ironys that abound.  In fact, I have read other books that I  thought were completely original but now I realize the authors had read Oz!  I was happy to read about a couple of new Oz characters teaming up with the  old favorites.  Like other Oz books, this is a quick read but I plan to  read more in the series, just to see what happens.	1999-12-21
US	52240341	R2OLXOEZ1JQ1B	0440222656	691733737	The Horse Whisperer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Don't see the movie...Read the Book	The biggest problem that a &quot;big impact&quot; book like this has, is living up to the hype.  Reviews of this book before the movie came out were incredibly positive.  After the movie and the hype of how good the book was, the reviews started to go downhill.  Presumably, you are reading this  review because you are interested in the book.  Trust me, it is very high  quality.  The characters are multi-dimensional, the story is compelling,  and it is easy to absorb yourself within the pages.  The sex scenes are  certainly not too graphic.  Whoever thought so on other reviews hasn't read  too many books of any genres.  If you are looking for a down-right good  novel, read this one.  It will even compete for the coveted Goochie Award  this year! You won't regret spending time with this one!	1999-12-09
US	52240341	R2S1RS64TS2TE	0441470173	755092091	Land Of Hidden Men	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Good old-fashioned ERB jungle adventure!	If you're looking for good 1930's era pulp fiction, you've come to the right place.  Fans of ERB's Mars, Venus, Pellucidar, or Tarzan books will enjoy this novel.  True, the plot is somewhat predicatable, and the  chapters read like monthly installments (like they were), but its great fun  to read.  You also have to ignore some of the prejudices of the era,  particularly the roles of women and men, but as long as you know that going  in, you'll enjoy a good story.	1999-11-16
US	52240341	R2GVJB4QWIL23	0312956185	536981706	Outlaw Kingdom: Bill Tilghman Was The Man Who Tamed Dodge City. Now He Faced A Lawless Frontier. (Gunfighter Chronicles)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great historical western!	This one was sitting on my shelf for a couple of years while I kept reaching for other, more glamorous titles.  Finally, I picked it up and,  WOW, it turned out to be a great read.  There is plenty of action,  intrigue, and suspense despite it's historical characters.  Most of the  book deals with Bill Tilghman's chase of Bill Doolan, a notorius outlaw and  leader of the Wild Bunch of Oklahoma Territory.  There's even some romance  and soft-heartedness thrown in.  I confess this is my first book by Matt  Braun but will not be my last!	1999-10-26
US	52240341	R3SCMFS8ETXH2P	0449219372	973946737	Murder on the Potomac (Capital Crimes)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Run-of-the-Mill Murder Mystery	Ms. Truman has had a long run of Capital Crime Mysteries now and honestly, I can't really find anything &quot;wrong&quot; with this one.  It just didn't seem to have the pizazz of others in the series, even though we see  the same protagonist.  Mystery lovers will enjoy this book even though it  seemed like some plot elements were after-thoughts.  A bit too predictable,  also, as I had figured out the murderer about 1/3 of the way in to it.  Better than having nothing to read though, I suppose.	1999-10-18
US	52240341	RJB4IN7SCELMP	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Another King Phenomenon	Perhaps the best judge of how much one likes any particular novel, is not whether one can decide if the author has &quot;turned serious&quot; in his fiction writing or whether it &quot;kept you up all night&quot;, but rather, how much do you care for the characters?  I found myself enjoying a  great Stephen King read through 4/5ths of the book when suddenly (no  spoilers) I realized exactly how much I cared for the characters!  Readers  will understand.  So many books these days give me a ho-hum reaction to  character happenstance but Bag of Bones brings it all home.  I recommend  this book to anybody.  A definite competitor for the coveted Goochie Award  this year!	1999-10-12
US	52240341	RCYQSAVJTZPFB	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Too many words for what could be said in one chapter.	After looking over most of the other reviews, they can be divided into two categories.  Those that loved the book and it changed their life, and those that thought it was a textbook on how to be cheap.  I saw very little new  information in this book.  I enjoyed reading it because I enjoy learning  that I am already doing things right.  I felt the book was way too  repetitive though.  How many ways can you tell the reader that the way to  wealth is through frugal living?  Also, way to many tables were included.  Finally, the last chapter seemed to be an afterthought.  Perhaps the  authors should have spent more time on that part of the book, exploring  ways for us to change our habits.	1999-09-20
US	52240341	R2P3XK9BROGYPT	0671001167	206100439	Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A good read but a little disjointed	Having Read Lonesome Dove and Streets of Laredo, I found this book to be also quite good.  I enjoyed the story line and the characters.  The style is vintage McMurtry except for the one weekness I saw.  The plot seems to  be a bit disjointed, with the characters going from one difficulty to the  next without ever really wrapping up anything.  It leaves you with an  unfullfilled feeling at the end.  I guess I just wasn't satisfied.  It  seems a little too obvious that McMurtry is simply setting us up for  another prequel.	1999-09-15
US	52240341	R29WQK7XJO88TT	0880387599	879198567	Waterdeep (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Marvelous Fantasy Novel!	I am a voracious reader of all kinds of books and I must say this one truly suprised me.  A lot of fantasy novels are quite predictable but this one was surely not.  The ending made the entire trilogy worthwhile.  Richard Awlinson, for those that don't know, is a pseudonym for the Avatar  project for TSR.  Troy Denning actually penned this book (published back in  89) setting the standard for the Forgotten Realms novels as well as the  fantasy genre in general.  Most likely, this will win the coveted Goochie  Award for this year in the fantasy category and will be a major competitor  for the big prize!  My hat is off!	1999-08-19
US	52240341	R9CIITA4LWBK2	0449205878	823093063	Poland: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Not a "Top-5" Michener book	Though not of Polish ancestry, I chose to read this book because I marvel at James Michener books, in general.  I found it to be an excellent read, don't let my 4 star rating fool you.  As is the case for most Michener books, we see the entire history of a land and its peoples through windows in time (aka chapters).  It was  not as interesting to me as Centennial or Chesapeake, but it definitely  exposes the reader to some valuable history that is not normally seen in  mainstream fiction.  It is amazing to see how one people can be run over so many times in history and yet rise up to the next challenge. Worth the time to read.	1999-07-27
US	52240341	R3CLZYIPAH5BSV	0880387300	157059446	Shadowdale (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book One)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very entertaining fantasy	I have read several Forgotten Realms novels and I rank this author right up there with Salvatore.  Salvatore is better on the fight scenes but Richard Awlinson ties the whole plot together and develops his characters  nicely too.  This was a fun read and I plan to read the other two in the  trilogy as soon as possible.  Also, this is a great place to start if you  are new to fantasy or to the Forgotten Realms setting.	1999-06-04
US	52240341	R287PLWLQYGJW0	0061092037	26202470	The Fourth Estate	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Prospect but fails somewhere	Jeffrey Archer is a master of the short story with a twist.  This novel seems to be a number of short stories connected together in the guise of a full-length novel.  And thus it loses the elements that could have made it  a classic.  In addition, it seems that most people who have negative  comments on this book, are comparing it to &quot;Kane and Able.&quot;  I  confess to not having read that book (although I plan to soon) but have  read many other Archer stories/novels.  This entry is a good read but Mr.  Archer misses the mark when he fails to keep the reader rooting for the  main characters.  As the novel begins, we are introduced to the two main  characters and come to understand that they each have fatal flaws.  We know  from the beginning that they won't grow up to be likable characters and yet  we hope to understand their view points.  Instead I ended up hoping they  would both drop off the end of the earth.  I would refer uninitiated  readers to Archer's, &quot;As the Crow Flies,&quot; for the ultimate  &quot;good read.&quot;	1999-05-24
US	52240341	RR7V3AM1WRLSM	0380786192	773567797	Rx for Murder	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Straight-forward Murder Mystery	This book has been on my shelf for more than a year.  My mother-in-law had given it to me and I just hadn't gotten around to reading it yet.  But I'm glad I finally did. (I noticed it is out-of-print now). The plot is fairly  straight-forward with the sleuth this time, a practicing pharmacist.  The  pharmacy scenes are very realistic based on my own experience working in  similar settings.  Also, I have spent some time in Scottsdale and Tuscon  and so felt comfortable with the realism.  The mystery itself seemed to me  to be somewhat predictable, though I won't give away any plot points.  Worth the read, especially for the pharmacy angle.	1999-05-01
