US	52249091	R1TDJJ2QR56Y58	0765305631	296932566	Hawkes Harbor	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Should not have been published	With a narrative that randomly jumps around in time, weak dialogue, underdeveloped plot, flat characters and lack of emotional engagement this book could provide a semester's worth of examples on how not to write a novel. Some reviewers have compared it to fan-fiction, but I hesitate to apply that label as there is a great deal of fan fiction out there that is more entertaining then this book. I read this book on the strength of the critical acclaim from professional reviewers, but this is clearly a case of the \\"Emperors New Cloths\\", if I ever saw it. These are the same reviewers who turn up their nose at genre fiction, and yet they have fallen all over themselves to praise this mess simply because it bears the name of S.E. Hinton. I am a voracious reader who enjoys everything from literary books to online fan fiction and am particular fond of virtually anything that contains a vampire. Supposedly this book was rejected for publication as a Dark Shadows novel because of the more mature content, but I think it was rejected because it just plain awful. to right a novel. Some have compared it to fan-fiction, but I hesitate to apply that label as there is a great deal of fan fiction out there that is more entertaining then this book. I read this book on the strength of the critical claim from professional reviewers, but this is clearly a case of the \\"Emperors New Cloths\\", if I ever saw it. These are the same reviewers who turn up their nose at genre fiction, and yet they have fallen all over themselves to praise this mess simply because it bears the name of S.E. Hinton. I am a voracious reader who enjoys everything from literary books to online fan fiction and am particular fond of virtually anything that contains a vampire. Supposedly this book was rejected for publication as a Dark Shadows novel because of the more mature content, but I think it was rejected because it just plain awful.	2005-03-11
US	52249091	RI4KPO14E3ZX6	037540242X	929380735	Spirit and Flesh: Life in a Fundamentalist Baptist Church	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Worth Reading but 15 years late	Those of you reading this book looking for insight into the Born Again movement and why its membership is so successfully directing much of the current political and social discourse in this country with be sorely disappointed. The material in this book is 15 to 20 years old and the author spends little time relating the political aspects of the Born Again movement, but instead covers the daily life of a single small community during the mid to late 80's. This book relates the authors experience of observing a Christian Born again community, in the course of preparing for shooting a documentary. The book begins in 1984 as he first meets with the Minister of a church that had only been in existence for a few years.  It is not clear just how long the author spent with them as for some strange reason most of the material is not dated and when he does supply a date for a section he only provides a month and day, but no year. However the author does mention that he spent two years away from the church while editing the film and then briefly touched based with them again in the 1988, so at best he spent two years with them. <br /> <br />The book is divided into four sections. The first section covers several of the core members backgrounds and how they came to Born Again. The second section deals with the various ministries of the church and how the church is bound up in the daily lives of the members. The third section covers the shooting of the documentary and the fourth section covers events that occurred within the community just after the film's completion. There is also a brief epilogue in which he talks about how his experiences effected his own faith and brief where are they now section for some of the principle subjects. <br /> <br />The author is a son of a Methodist Minister of what he refers to as \\"Mainline\\" or another words liberal church. At the onset of his research the author considered himself a standard liberal professor divorced from his religious upbringing, perplexed by the beliefs of the Born Again. In understanding his subjects, he tries to be as nonjudgmental as possible and ends up creating a very sympathetic portrait of their values and provides a reasonable explanation for why people are attracted to this faith. By the end of the book I felt like I had a much greater understanding for where these people are coming from. However I was sorely disappointed that there was not any current information on the Born Again community he visited, nor was there any attempt to show the political aspects of this movement. In one throw away sentence he mentions his discomfort in accompanying some of the church members to a demonstration in an abortion clinic but he never pursues this topic. In fact, if you missed that sentence you would never know that anyone in this church is involved in the movement to make abortion illegal. Similarly he mentions that the Minister of the church ran for the State house on a Christian Fundamentalist platform, but he does not cover this at all. Instead he chooses to focus on the day to day lives and struggles that are easier for us to relate too, accusing his fellow academics of being too closed minded to appreciate a different lifestyle. It is as if the author is studying the quaint customs of some isolated group, far removed from the everyday concerns of the presumed liberal readership. Lost amidst this sympathetic portrait is the reality that these people are seeking to dramatically change the laws of the US in ways that if they succeed with have very real effects on those who do not share their beliefs. You can almost here the author saying \\"Why can't we all just get along?\\" and he even goes so far as to suggest how the liberals and Born Again should be able to find common ground, seeming to forget the current level of venom that passes for political discourse in the US today. In the end, it is a fairly insightful if incomplete portrait of a young Born Again community. <br />	2005-03-06
US	52249091	R1CQDQBGDCVE8S	0756400996	781885471	Sword-Sworn (Tiger and Del)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Nice to visit with Del &amp; Tiger again but slow &amp; predictable	If you've been following Del &amp; Tiger's story all of this years, then of course you're going to read this one too, but if are new to this series, go start at the beginning, because this one will be meaningless to you. The story itself moves in fits and starts, with a few really amazing sequences strung out between plodding expostition on the details of Del and Tigers day to day life. Pages were actually spent detailing how Tiger cared for his horse. This series sure has come a long way from its roots of fastpaced action packed every chapter ending on a cliffhanger roots. These book was nearly double in size of the early ones and it was clear that Roberson was struggling to fill it. This story concerns Tiger making peace, strongling with his feeling of rejection from the mother he never knew who he was told had abandoned him to a life of slavery and with accepting the magical powers he discovered in the last book. Along the way he has a few dramatic swordfights, visits some old friends, and exchanges banter with Del. A young man half his age who wants to be taught to be a swordfighter by him, follows him and he is convinced that this young man and Del are falling in love for much of the book. Due to numeroue hints, and the cover helpfulling telling you that that there are &quot;warm, personal revelations&quot; it is immidiately obvious to the reader who the young man is. Likewise, Tiger is plagued by dreams from the first chapter of the book regarding a dead women who tells him to find her bones,  and the big mystery of the book is who this women is - like we didn't see that one coming either. The ending expects us to be surprised by these revelations, ends on a sickingly sweet, all too convient set of events, which is out of character for this series and feels all wrong and ultimately doesn't satisfy. A really sad ending to a great series, especially considering how amazing and bold the last book was.	2003-12-04
US	52249091	R10477QOY4ACHH	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	3	14	18	N	N	At times compelling but rarely historical accurate	From the prologue, which is written several years after the events the rest of the book will chronicle, you are warned that 700 pages hence, you will not be arriving at a happy ending, although you may still be surprised at how dismal it all turns out. This slow moving story tracks the unlikely adventures of a turn of the century spinster who is head of a prestigious girl's preparatory school in Buffalo. The general form of the book is to present an interesting bit of plot at the tale end of a chapter and then proceed to spend pages on dry historical information which bares little on the story before she manages to work in the next plot point. Examples of this are noting every single person and what they are wearing wherever she goes and it doesn't help that it seems she runs into every character in the book at each social function she attends. She also likes to explain the family relationships of characters who are never directly met by the heroine and have nothing to do with the story and endlessly detail the workings of power plants, which should have been interesting, but yet somehow she manages to drain all interest from the subject matter.  About half way through the book the pace picks up although the author still can't restrain herself from such things as having her heroine pronounce right in the middle of suspenseful section that she needs a dark chocolate covered marshmallow bar and then has her head straight to the candy shop where she can spend several pages describing the shop and its contents. You get the distinct impression that the author had just read about candy at the turn of the century and had made a note to work it in. <br />But remove all of the unneeded dull description and you are left with an interesting plot that is marred only by its strange and non-historical underpinnings. For some strange reason she presents a world in which power is supposed to be only for the factories and for the most wealthy and her main character actually believeswill never be for the common people. What history books the author read, I have not a clue. Thomas Edison, the father of electricity stated as his public goal in the 1880s \\"to make electric light so cheap that only the rich will be able to burn candles.\\" By 1900 about the time this book takes place there were already 25 million electric incandescent lamps in use and homeowners had been introduced to electric stoves, sewing machines, curling irons, and vacuum cleaners. While it would another 28 years before the nationwide powergrid was set up and a bit longer before electricity reached all of the rural communities, to suggest that turn of the century business men had an interest in withholding power form the masses is ludicrous. And to have the stories hero threatened because he proposed giving electricity away because it was the only way for the poor to ever get is totally outlandish and in fact has no basis in history. But this isn't the only unlikely plot points underpinning this book. One of the heroines suitors and the father of her god-child is so wealthy that he can afford to donate a million dollars and yet he is the employee of other men? Any man with that kind of money in those days would have been involved in his own ventures. And even worse to build a plot around such a wealthy man being threatened strains credibility. America was not Europe. If you had enough money, you were part of society. Most of the great wealth in America was new money and humble upbringing were the norm, not something to be whispered about once you had arrived. Beyond that she portrayed President Cleveland as a rapist and several other historical figures as the kind of monsters who would willing ruin a respectable young lady in order to secure the favor of a powerful man and then neglects to mention in her afterward what sources she used to arrive at these unflattering portrayals. Thankfully for the author, the dead can not sue her for libel .Leaving aside the dubious history youhave a portrait of an unsympathetic women who gave up all of her dreams and goals due to circumstances arranged for her and in the end when she realizes it, she doesn't even care. Oddly satisfying but thoroughly depressing.	2003-08-11
US	52249091	RAGPU8YQ7N9BH	0879307277	583240818	The Piano Handbook: A Complete Guide for Mastering Piano	Books	5	223	227	N	N	A must have reference	Although this book is designed to be a complete keyboard coarse, it is so densely packed with information and moves so fast from one subject to the next, that it would not make a good self-study guide for someone who knows absolutely nothing about playing the piano. The information is all there, but in a no nonsense fashion, not in a more user-friendly, take the time to really make sure anyone can grasp the concepts that are commonly found in beginner courses with much more modest goals. That said, as a comprehensive reference to playing styles, techniques and methology it is unsurpassed. Anyone with a basic grasp of piano playing, will find it most useful. Are you trying to play some Bach or Mozart but can't remember or never knew how to play a trill or mordant? This book will not only show you all of the various ornaments and explain not only how to play them, but offer many examples of what is in stylistic keeping for a given time period for a piece of that tempo. If that is not cool enough, it also explains the reasons for why it was used and relates it to later developments not in that style of music but in current styles of music, so you have a basis of information to make your artistic choices. Want to know how romantic music such as Debusey is traditional pedaled; this book will show you and explain what you are trying to acomplish soundwise. Maybe you studied classical music for year and now want to play a bit of bluegrass or jazz, this book will teach you about that too. Or maybe you want to just pick up some pop sheet music and be able to improvise a bit of additional accompanent, because what is provided sounds so empty. The answers are in this book too. <br />The book is divided up in too many broad chapters that explore a cluster of concepts exploring both musical theorie and practical techniques. Each section has elaborate exercise and several complete pieces of music, all of which can be heard on the accompanying cd. History notes and biographis on relevent composers round out the chapter. In fact there is so much, sidebar information, that you can learn a lot by just flipping around and reading those. There is also a large reference section in the back containing both suggestive listening and music to play and a comprehensive musical dictionarie. The only thing missing is an index, which would make it much quicker to locate the desired information. The only other thing I didn't care for was the fold out table of contents at the beginning of the book that are subject to damage when you fold them back in. They really should have been printed on the inside of the cover.<br />Unless you have a degree in music, it is hard to imagine that anyone could not find something to learn from this amazing book. As I look though it, I am constantly amazed by how much has been packed into this 290 page bundle. The book has a sturdy hard cover and opens to spiral bound pages that make the book a pleasure to prop up on the piano. All in all this book is well worth the price.<br />As a side note, Americans should be aware that the author uses the British names for notes values and time signature (i.e. semibreve rather then whole notes and crotchets instead of quarter notes, duple time for double time). They explain the two sets of names in a chart near the beginning and then ever after use the British terms. As someone use to the American/Northern Eurpean names, I find a bit confusing, but am getting used to it.	2003-03-23
US	52249091	R35DZJFLI1XMQK	1571201629	697690449	Machine Embroidery and More	Books	2	34	37	N	N	Magazine Article Sized Idea	This book continues the trend of little content being present in small (96 pages) books filled with full color photographs of the same idea over and over again.<br />Rather then being called &quot;Machine Embroidery &amp; More&quot;, the title should have been &quot;Embellishing Border stripes with Machine Embroider and Hand Beading.&quot; Most of the projects consist of a Jinny Beyer Border Print that has been mitered around a plain center. Built-in decorative stitches are sewn over and beside the printed pattern on the border and then many tiny beads are hand sewn. The result is a lavish border in which the amount of labor invested can not be appreciated unless you are standing very close to it. Oddly enough these elaborate borders become the whole interest of the work, for they are placed around a plain and in some projects, very large, single center squares. The result looks like a very lovely, but empty picture frame.<br />The technique will only appeal to those who enjoy both machine and hand work. The projects for the most part, look incomplete, since the large center part of the quilt is empty. However, I could see the border treatment being use on a special quilt. I would have enjoyed seeing this technique in a single chapter or magazine article, but as an entire book, it is lacking. <br />Not Recommended.	2002-02-26
US	52249091	R1RTXMDDTZPJBE	0844242497	420186970	Quilting Curves : An Innovative Technique for Machine-Piecing Curves with Incredible Ease	Books	2	132	151	N	N	Not really piecing	I have been quilting for over 10 years and am always looking to try new techniques. I own over 50 quilt books. This book has the distiction of being the first one that I have seriously considered returning. Perhaps if it had not been for the misleading claims that the book makes, namely a QUICK way to PIECE quilts, I might not have been so harsh on it. But since this is what it adverties and not at all what it delievers, I must voice my frustration.<br />I purchased this book on the strength of its claim that it offered a new and quick way of piecing curves. I was extremely disappointed to discover that the method is really a variation of blindstich applique. While her method is techniquely piecing because unlike applique there is no base fabric, it looks like applique because each piece is topstiched to its neighbor with a very visible blindhem. The author's technique uses a matching thread that is always quite noticible and gives her pieces a distictive look that is great for making a name for oneself in the world of quilting competitions, but not so great for someone who thought they were going to learn a shortcut to piecing curves. For some reason it never occurred to her to use invisible thread which would be far less noticble.<br />Beyond the fact that this does not look like picing, quick is not the word to describe this method. It involves many steps and blindhemming is a very painstaking work that is hard on the eyes. I also question the strenth of the seam. I suspect that this technique is only suitable for art quilts and not for anything they would subject to any kind of stress, such as a bed quilt.The instructions are clear, but I found all of samples to be uninspiring. Only a handful of her prize wining quilts are shown, and they are knockouts, but the rest of the stuff are simple studies.<br />The author says she is self taught and that is evident. Like many other self-taught quilt artists, she has pioneered her own look through her vast ignorance of the wealth of technical know  how that already exists. If she has a firm grasp of of the many excellent piecing and applique tecniques, she would not be using this method, which would be a shame, because it is interesting. However, just because an artist has an interesting result, it doesn't mean that her method is worth copying.	2001-12-31
US	52249091	R1PSTJ2YZ4LZID	0688116000	760663256	Mr. Food Cooks Chicken	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Convenience  Food Cooking	Before buying this book you should be aware that Mr Food's favorite ingredient is a can of soup - tomato soup, cream of mushroom soup, and onion soup being his favorites. Most recipes consist of a couple of common prepared items such as soup, soy sauce, canned fruits and vegetables, or bottled dressing combined with the chicken. There are a handful of simple from scratch recipes, but the bulk of these recipes are similar to those found in advertisement to promote the use of a particular convenience item. These are for the most part very good versions of this style of cooking and I enjoy using them every now and them. Some people think this is the only way to cook and others turn up their nose at it. Just be forewarned that while you will get quick and tasty, you are not going to get fresh and healthy or anything remotely authentic.	2001-11-04
US	52249091	R15FZ43L3VZM46	0425144658	406786320	Seneca Falls Inheritance	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Great book for Young Adults	This book is marketed as an adult book and that struck me as odd because it really seems more like a young adult book. This well written story features a 30 year old heroin who despite defying convention by remaining single and supporting herself, comes across as a very young women, for she is often unsure of herself and worried about appearances. The murder's identify and the motive are evident from the start and the final chapter, while not with out a surprise, explains the reasoning behind the mysteries solution in such painful detail, that it seems addressed to a younger audience. In between the beginning and end is an interesting albeit sanitized tale. The heroine has made a radical choice to be single, but we never learn what that means to her. She seems to be totally unaware that physical relations exist. She never ponders what she has sacrificed nor luxuriates in the freedoms she has gained. Instead of emotional and intellectual insight we are giving history lessons that at times are intrusive. All in all it is a light, entertaining read with a fascinating premise that could have been so much more.	2001-09-04
US	52249091	RO3VXYNUY5GAG	0312017928	582656485	Mischief in Maggody: An Ozarks Murder Mystery	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Long on humor, short on surprises	This is not your typical murder mystery. Although the victim, a moonshine making, ginseng picking, illegitimate baby producing mountain woman dies around chapter three, no one will realize that she is dead until about halfway through the book. The first half is taking up with the humorous goings on of the wacky inhabitants of Magoody who seem to include at least one example of every unflattering hillbilly stereotype in existence. When the mountain women goes a missing, her five wild children are dragged into town for their own good. The mystery is as much about who their fathers might be as who is responsible for the booby-trapped dope field that took their ma's life. In the end, or rather long before the end most readers will have figured out the answers to both of these questions. Fortunately, the mystery plays back seat to her large cast of crazed characters. If the authors raunchy sense of humor hits your funny bone you will be turning the pages faster and faster trying to find out what nutty thing will happen next.	2001-08-31
US	52249091	R27PRLUDKO1F63	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Strong Start floats off into la la land	The book began as a realistic murder investigation as told in the first person by the no-nononsense PI heroine. It followed the beloved format of murder-mysteries of the past 100 years or so of having the investigator spend the entire book interviewing one suspect/witness after another. This was well done. The author has a sharp eye for character and setting detail and it an easy and light read. However, somewhere about 3/4 of the way into the book, the PI starts to spin one murder theory scenerio after another, none of which rang true. As this happens her actions become totally unrealistic as she chooses not to let the police know what is going on even as it becomes clear that her silence is costing lives. There is never any reason given for this other then she must be too big of a hotshot to get help. She even tampers with a murder scene for no particuliar reason other then to keep clues to herself. By the end of the story the theories are coming faster and faster and finely it ends so abruptly that I kept thinking I was missing pages. The actions of the murderer are so far out by the end, that this book heads straight of into fantasy land. There were many little loose ends that are never explained and I felt cheated. It was exciting while I was reading it, but I recieved no satifaction at the end. I doubt I will ever pick up another of her books. I am at a total loss as to why she is so highly praised. By the way some will be offended at the authors mean spirited fat jokes aimed at the manager of the hotel she seems to visit often.	2001-08-21
US	52249091	R1A9F21D4YS8FZ	1571201556	78797206	Snowflakes & Quilts	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Six Sided Blue Kaleidiscopes	This book showcases intricately pieced quilts that at a distance appear to be amazingly accurately rendered snowflakes, but upon closer inspections prove to be composed of thousands of carefully chosen bits of fabric cleverly arranged for maximum effect. Each snowflake is actually 6 identical 60 degree triangles, that are each composed of hundreds of tiny slivers of fabric. Paula Nadelstern is an artist extraordinary, who painstakingly will you step you though the time consuming process of pattern drafting, fabric selection, and piecing strategies. It is a tribute to her excellent instructions, that despite the daunting amount of work involved, the look is achievable by a very determined, intermediate quilter. Nadelstern does provide a couple of basic patterns, but it is clear that she really wants you to draft your own, and that is the thrust of the book. This book is recommended for quilters who are comfortable with the basics, ready to  make a truly stunning piece and are willing to invest the time and effort to make it happen. It can also be appreciated by someone who just wants to be wowed by one of the big names in quilting and is interested in  gaining insight into her artistic process. For those of you who already own her previous book on Kaleidoscopes, you will recognize this book is the same subject material, except it only covers blue six-side kaleidoscopes and goes into great detail on how to make it look like a snowflake. The core set of techniques for drafting and construction are essentially the same so if you are not wild about making snowflakes, you won't find much new. Highly recommend.	2001-08-01
US	52249091	R1H7HNUOQ1FZTV	1863512306	154730973	Ribbon Renaissance (Milner Craft Series & Writing on Stone)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Stunning	I spied this at a craft show about 6 months ago and just had to take it home with me, even though I have never done any ribbon embroidery. This book is gorgeous. Large, high gloss, full color page after, full color page clearly showing the most amazing life-like ribbon embroidery floral arrangements. The instructions are clear and detailed patterns are presented for the projects. The artist works mainly with variegated silk ribbons and she explains how to choose and take advantage of their qualities to achieve her results, along with detailed how-to-stitch diagrams. The works is of the highest caliber similar to the types of projects seen in Australian embroidery magazines. Even if you never make a project, you can learn a great deal from her stunning compositions and color usage. Buy it as a pattern book or to enjoy as a luscious coffee table book.	2001-08-01
US	52249091	R1XKS1FJINXBHN	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	Not half bad - but not half good either	With so much going for it, I wanted to believe this book was better then it was. The writing is competent, the characterizations sharp, the future world rang true and the mystery was involved. Yet, after the first couple of chapters, I had to force myself to turn the pages. This is a gritty &quot;real-life&quot; kind of mystery with lots of gorey descriptions and profanity. The romance is very background to the story and has almost no development. The characters actually only meet a handful of times during the story and most of their time together involves sex. The mystery wansn't bad, but I found it hard to get past the unbelievableness of Roarke as a suspect. I mean this guy is the richest man in the Universe which should have made him untouchable, plus he has no real connection to the murders. To make matters worse, we find out at the very beginning of the book that he is not the murder, so the edge that should have been their is missing and our brillant heroine comes off as a giant dope for suspecting him. I guess, I was expecting more tension, with all kinds of subtle clues being dropped that it is him, while the heorine is torn by her attraction to him and her fear that she will be his next victim. Hey that sounds like a good plot, maybe I'll go write it. This is a good book to pick up from the local book trader.	2001-07-24
US	52249091	R3EHROWYZ91B3B	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A pale copy of Rejar	I have to start by saying I liked Night of a Trillion Stars the first book in the series and loved Rejar. This book was not as good. The beginning was boring as very little happens. Kind of reminded me of the barebones minimum plots supplied in x-rated movies to link sex scenes together. The main character is Rejar all over again, but the female heroine is never sharply defined. She just wines about personal freedom throughout the book, despite the fact that she shows not the slightest ability to do anything but be rescued by the hero. I found it totally unrealistic that she would spend the whole book talking about her Mother's people, yet never once mention any interest in going there and trying to find her family. The other books gained richness by showing the political struggles of the Charls, but the drama is lost because the author seemes to assume you just read Rejar yesterday or have perfect recollection of last's year book as she does not summerize key events. Woe to the person who never read the other two books. I would also have like to see more of the previous female characters. I could just imagine that Rajar's Liliac &amp; Jenise would have a pretty interesting conversation about being the mate of a familiar.	2001-07-24
US	52249091	R1U8LFVAYDSLAS	0505524139	939841716	The Star King (Star Series, Book 1)	Books	3	6	21	N	N	Average Furturistic Romance	...I ordered the book hoping to find an exceptional read. What I found was a book with a couple of neat ideas, likeable characters, decent sex/romance scenes, dull superficial plot, bad pacing, and actions so hard to swallow I throw the book down in disgust a couple of time and only reluctantly managed to complete it. In other words, your typical futuristic romance...	2001-07-23
US	52249091	R1ZEJFYMZRDEGW	0060952709	604751011	3-Minute Abs: Achieving the Look You've Always Wanted in Only 3 Minutes a Day	Books	3	109	113	N	N	Solid book - nothing new here folks	I have strong abs and was attracted to this book by all of the testimonals about how others who have being exercising for years found that that could barely complete just part of this intense workout. I thought that this was something totally different and I would learn new ways of quickly and efficiently fatiguing my abs. This was not the case. All of the exercises are standard ab exercise, most of which, if not all, will be familiar to the experienced exerciser. Despite the claims, anyone who has been CORRECTLY performing the sort of ab routines you find at the end of class at the gym or on video tapes will have little difficulty completing these 3 minute routines.<br />This very slim volume spends most of its space on debunking myths about perfect abs and how to get them. It also stresses the importance of focus. A short chapter addresses nutrition, for as the author points out you may have the strongest abs around, but no one will notice it if it is concealed behind a thick layer of fat. There is also some space given to stretching and warming up. Everything the author has to say is accurate and honest. The only real problem with the book is the tiny section on the actual abdominal workout. He provides 3 workouts, one each for lower, side and upper abs. He advocates doing each one on sequential days and then taking the 4th day off and repeating the cycle. This is the only novel idea in the book and it is not a bad one. Of course you didn't need this book to try it. The only real problem is that it will cause the days of the week you do a particuliar routine or rest to shift constantly, thus making it difficult to remember. Also, if you actually follow his advise you will first do a warm-up and stretch, which will turn your 3 minute workout into a 10-15 workout.<br />The first workout is for the lower abs and only provides two exercises. I didn't think this was enough and added a couple of my favorits to it.<br />The second workout for the obliques provides 3 exercise and I also found it lacking, and added some others.<br />The third workout for the upper abs (which is really the center abs that run from below the ribs to the stomach and are the source of the &quot;six packs&quot;) is excellent. It offers six exercises that move from the top to the bottom of abs. I liked this combination a lot and wished that the other routines had been as thoughtful and complete.<br />I would also have liked to see several alternate routines and a discussion of changing tempo, arm position and leg position for changing the difficulty. Some of these exercise will be too difficult for the out-of-shape beginner, but also way too easy for the more advanced exerciser.The advice to do less won't help someone who can't even do one rep. I would also like to have seen a lot more photographs, he only shows one per exercise.<br />If you are new to doing abs or at least new to doing them correctly, you will be likely thrilled with the results if you follow his careful directions but eventually will grow bored or at least hit the end of the road in progress. If you already have strong abs and are looking for new ideas on how to continue to challange yourself, this is not it. The only new idea is split your ab workout in separate lower, upper, and side workouts so that you can really focus in on them. For those who want a complete reference, I recommend Stronger Abs and Back : 165 Exercises to Build Your Center of Power by Greg Brittenham (Contributor)&amp; Dean Brittenham which will provide you with enough exercises and knowledge to keep you challanged for years to come.	2001-06-28
US	52249091	RIBWE80MSH7ZI	0060952709	604751011	3-Minute Abs: Achieving the Look You've Always Wanted in Only 3 Minutes a Day	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Solid book - nothing new here folks	I have strong abs and was attracted to this book by all of the testimonals about how others who have being exercising for years found that that could barely complete just part of this intense workout. I thought that this was something totally different and I would learn new ways of quickly and efficiently fatiguing my abs. This was not the case. All of the exercises are standard ab exercise, most of which, if not all, will be familiar to the experienced exerciser. Despite the claims, anyone who has been CORRECTLY performing the sort of ab routines you find at the end of class at the gym or on video tapes will have little difficulty completing these 3 minute routines.<br />This very slim volume spends most of its space on debunking myths about perfect abs and how to get them. It also stresses the importance of focus. A short chapter addresses nutrition, for as the author points out you may have the strongest abs around, but no one will notice it if it is concealed behind a thick layer of fat. There is also some space given to stretching and warming up. Everything the author has to say is accurate and honest. The only real problem with the book is the tiny section on the actual abdominal workout. He provides 3 workouts, one each for lower, side and upper abs. He advocates doing each one on sequential days and then taking the 4th day off and repeating the cycle. This is the only novel idea in the book and it is not a bad one. Of course you didn't need this book to try it. The only real problem is that it will cause the days of the week you do a particuliar routine or rest to shift constantly, thus making it difficult to remember. Also, if you actually follow his advise you will first do a warm-up and stretch, which will turn your 3 minute workout into a 10-15 workout.<br />The first workout is for the lower abs and only provides two exercises. I didn't think this was enough and added a couple of my favorits to it.<br />The second workout for the obliques provides 3 exercise and I also found it lacking, and added some others.<br />The third workout for the upper abs (which is really the center abs that run from below the ribs to the stomach and are the source of the &quot;six packs&quot;) is excellent. It offers six exercises that move from the top to the bottom of abs. I liked this combination a lot and wished that the other routines had been as thoughtful and complete.<br />I would also have liked to see several alternate routines and a discussion of changing tempo, arm position and leg position for changing the difficulty. Some of these exercise will be too difficult for the out-of-shape beginner, but also way too easy for the more advanced exerciser.The advice to do less won't help someone who can't even do one rep. I would also like to have seen a lot more photographs, he only shows one per exercise.<br />If you are new to doing abs or at least new to doing them correctly, you will be likely thrilled with the results if you follow his careful directions but eventually will grow bored or at least hit the end of the road in progress. If you already have strong abs and are looking for new ideas on how to continue to challange yourself, this is not it. The only new idea is split your ab workout in separate lower, upper, and side workouts so that you can really focus in on them. For those who want a complete reference, I recommend Stronger Abs and Back : 165 Exercises to Build Your Center of Power by Greg Brittenham (Contributor)&amp; Dean Brittenham which will provide you with enough exercises and knowledge to keep you challanged for years to come.	2001-06-28
US	52249091	R1BKV264F81LR	084871945X	421280262	The Complete Cooking Light Cookbook	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Wonderful Receipes	As I sit here munching on a piece of yummy Kalua and Cinnamon Brownie (although it is really more a cake) with only 64 grams of fat in the whole 8 inch square pan, I thought it was time to share my thoughts on this cookbook. The reason I mention the entire pan is that the portion sizes for most of the deserts are unrealistically small in order to come down to a small sounding fat count. This one thinks you can get 16 servings out of an eight inch square cake that is only a half an inch high! I don't know many people who will stop after a 2 inch square of this cake. I suggest you calculate the entire fat content for the pan, and cut up the pieces into more generous sizes that satisfy, rather then ending up eating a huge quantity of bitty pieces. Even a more realistic 4 inch square only has 8 grams of fat and it is good! Aside from this I have few complaints. This book is packed full of  wonderful recipes, all of which taste great and also happen to contain a moderate amount of calories and fat. Most are very quick and easy. Some of the ones I will make again include the Almost Tempura Chicken, Tai Style Pumpkin soup, Mocha Pudding Cake, Raspberry Muffins and Fried Chicken Salad - the buttermilk breaded chicken in it are great by themselves and of course the Brownies. The only disappointment so far was the Microwave Pudding which was not flavorful enough for me. The portion sizes for everything except the deserts are generous. This is NOT the only cookbook you will ever need though. There is no breakfast section or even an entry in the index! This is pretty surprising considering that a good breakfast is a very important part of eating in moderation. There are breakfast like recipes scattered about, smoothies in beverages, pancakes and muffins in breads, and egg dishes under eggs, but no easy way to find them. The section on recipes containing no meat was small. The sweets sections were huge, especially the selection of breads, most of which hardly anyone will have the time to make. I kept thinking why not breadmachine recipes when I stumbled over a couple of them at the end of the chapter. The directions are clear, but do not contain enough information for an inexperienced to cook to prepare with confidence. There are enough photos to stimulate the eye, but not one for every recipe - which I personally don't mind.  All in all a worthwhile and highly recommended addition to any competent cook's bookshelf.	2001-03-15
US	52249091	R3EJ5B4VP277ZA	0786012439	472013170	Blood Secrets (The Vampire Legacy, #1)	Books	2	8	11	N	Y	Dull	I have read many, many books about vampires, so perhaps I am jaded. This book was slow and dull. There is little plot excitement, little character depth and little originality. Parts of the book read well, but other sections read like the worst pulp fiction. It was a short book, so I was able to force myself through the whole thing, but I don't think I would have bothered if it were any longer. If you absolutely love this genre and have run out of everything else to read, you may find it just ok. If you are new to this type of book that start with almost anything else. I'm hard pressed to think of another vampire as hero/with romance book published in the last ten years that is worse.	2001-03-07
US	52249091	R251TJKAS1CN68	014034912X	245463133	The Perilous Gard (Newbery Library, Puffin)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	One of the few books I read and reread	Oh my gosh, it's still in print, lucky you!. I must have checked this book out from the local library about a half a dozen times when I was between the ages of 12 and 16. The mystery, the romance, the truimph of the good plain sister over the selfish beautiful sister - just remembering it, I'm tempted to buy it and reread it again and I'm 36! You'll never forget this one.	2001-02-23
US	52249091	R31M00ZA3W57J3	1574327046	90055118	Magic Stack-N-Whack Quilts	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Original, Clear, Amazing Results	This book should come with a warning lable. Highly addictive, proceed at your own risk. You run the danger of buying endless yards of fabric for future stack 'n whack projects.<br />Every once in a while a book comes a long with an idea so simple and clever, that you think why didn't I think of that? Buy enough yardage of fabric to have the desired number of repeats, stack each of the repeats of fabric precisely on top of each other and whack the pieces to form groups of identical repeats. The beauty of this method is you can quickly make blocks with as little as 12 pieces that are stunning. The instructions are clear and precise with a number of quilts to get you started. The technique adapts easily to other things. The only negative comment I have is that almost all of the quilts pictured were on the loud side and some might assume that it all the method produces. That is not the case. You can make anything from muted, to classy, to wild, depending on your fabric selection.	2001-02-21
US	52249091	RMSWXDWULVG2N	1564772713	467147047	50 Fabulous Paper-Pieced Stars: CD included	Books	4	85	88	N	N	Warning - lots and lots of pieces	The blocks are stunning. The directions are clear. The blocks are very, very time consumming, since they mostly have about 60 + pieces. This was my first paper piecing project and the technique was fun. It does not however produce 100 percent accuracy at first because it takes just as much skill to sew exactly on a line as it does to sew a perfect quarter inch seam. Piecers should know that the authors method of pre-cutting pieces, sewing to a foundation, and then cutting to size, wastes huge amount of fabric since she always gives you a half inch or more to spare on all sides and is very time consuming. After piecing four blocks, I was very pleased with the results but couldn't bring myself to do anymore. I was extremely disappointed that the cd didn't have files to print out of the patterns. The tight binding makes photocopies difficult and I ended up spending a lot of time re-drafting the pattern in Electric Quilt. I understand you can buy some software with the patterns, but didn't think it was worth the extra money.	2001-02-21
US	52249091	R2TCLMTWGU66UJ	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Everything But A Plot	This book contains a unique premise, interesting characters, many scenes that are tense, exciting, hot and even is decently written. BUT, all of the development and plot are missing. If you were to flip through this book and read any couple of pages, chances are good you would be mesmerized and want to read the whole thing. Unfortunately, having read the whole thing, I was left with the sense that I had just spent hours reading pieces here and there from different stories, but never got a complete package. Relationships don't evolve between her characters, they just pop into existence. Plot lines appear, never to be heard from again. And at the end, well it just stops out of the blue for no particular reason. If you read a book for the mood it can set and like to have a new universe to add to your imaginings, then you will probably love this book as much as many do. If you want a well crafted story, with a beginning, middle and end, then like many others you will be terribly disappointed.	2001-01-15
US	52249091	R2BM4L14GEHU1S	1573430226	529678938	Oracle	Books	2	16	19	N	N	So-so	I read both straight sci-fi and furturistic romances and I would not consider this a great example of either. This book is hyped as something that will be a classic, and a must read - pleasssssse! Maybe if the jacket  wasn't so high on itself I would have been less disappointed. The story  starts out in a totally unbelievable world just 12 years from now (and 14  from the published date) in which the heroine takes care of the ONLY public  access computer, there are ray guns, curfews, and the most unbelievable  part, computer people are an underclass. Of course, how any of this came to  pass is never explained and also not relevent to the rest of the story for  in the first few pages an atom bomb explodes and the heroine is sent 200  years into the future where people now speak so differently that she can't  understand them. Again, totally unbelieable. The hero cures her of her  illness through a really neat and original magic system, which saddly is  never revisted. Is the heroine greatful to the hero? No. Is she curiose  about he new magical world she finds herself in? No. All she wants is to  get the hero to do her. (I kid you not.) I think this brings us to around  page 10. Eventually the heroine is led to try to settle the age old  question as to whether or not violence is ever justified. This part is book  is well done. Saddly though she never really answers the question due to  how she chooses to render the bad guys. The book has good ideas, and the  author shows talent, but it looked to me like it still needed a lot more  thought and reworking. It reads like their was originally a much bigger  story, but that parts were edited out, but they missed some of the  references, so they just stayed their as pointless bits. Like she mentions  a few times that her Doctorial thesis was rejected, but we never learn why  or how and it seems to add nothing to her complexity as a character or the  plot. It won some kind of award and all I can say is, if this was the  winner, I pity who ever to read the other contenders.	2000-06-11
US	52249091	R1CPRLG2XXN1A4	0886778700	688416315	Ring of Destiny (Dance of the Rings, Book 3)	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	A great 400 page story got lost in over 700 pages	I laughed when I saw Amazon lists the book as having 'only' 544 pages. I wish. The book weighs in at over 700 pages, of which roughly half should have been cut. The first 200 pages are filled with characters endlessly  remembering events of the last book. At first I was pleased to have my  memory refreshed, but after about 50 pages of this, I was getting really  annoyed. The next 200 pages actually moved the plot along, but at a snails  pace. It wasn't until around page 400 that the story really began and the  remainder of the book was good.  I don't know if the waste in this book is  the result of a self-indulgent writer who can't bare to leave out anything  she has written or if the editor/publisher insisted that the book be this  size - but the results are disappointing. It was odd that the author choose  to focus almost exclusively on Mickel. What made the previous books so  interesting was the many different storylines. Yet in this, the largest  installment, none of the characters have any part at all accept as minor  roles in Mikhel's tale. I have been eargerly awaiting in what was supposed  to be the conclusion of a triology, but the inside of the book lists yet  another book and of course this book in no way concluded much of anything.  Saddly, this book was not worth the wait.	2000-01-16
US	52249091	R1RIAZJANXNG1N	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	3	13	18	N	Y	Not Bad, but not great either	With so much going for it, I wanted to believe this book was better then it was. The writing is competent, the characterizations sharp, the future world rang true and the mystery was involved. Yet, after the first couple  of chapters, I had to force myself to turn the pages. This is a gritty  &quot;real-life&quot; kind of mystery with lots of gorey descriptions and  profanity. The romance is very background to the story and has almost no  development. The characters actually only meet a handful of times during  the story and most of their time together involves sex. The mystery wansn't  bad, but I found it hard to get past the unbelievableness of Roarke as a  suspect. I mean this guy is the richest man in the Universe which should  have made him untouchable, plus he has no real connection to the murders.  To make matters worse, we find out at the very beginning of the book that  he is not the murder, so the edge that should have been their is missing  and our brillant heroine comes off as a giant dope for suspecting him. I  guess, I was expecting more tension, with all kinds of subtle clues being  dropped that it is him, while the heorine is torn by her attraction to him  and her fear that she will be his next victim. Hey that sounds like a good  plot, maybe I'll go write it. This is a good book to pick up from the local  book trader.	1999-12-24
US	52249091	R2BRP776Z92QLR	0505522039	998080572	Golden Temptress	Books	1	13	17	N	N	This is sooooooo bad!	I've read about 80 pages and I think I am going to put an end to my self-torture and toss it. Seldom have I seen such awkward writing. If it was just the writting I could force my way though it but the story reads  like the only sci-fi the author ever came in contact with is Star Trek. And  not the good episodes either. There is the hero, the Captain, and his  trusty first officer who could have had a command of his own but choose to  stay with his captain, and the lovely Cultural Expert with long straight  dark hair who the first officer is in love with and the doctor who tells  the captain to behave himself and argues with the first mate and every crew  member is from a different planet and does this all sound familiar? And did  I mention all of the wonderful descriptions about where the Engineering  room which is of course off-limits is in relationship to the sick-bay? It  doesn't get much worse then this. (I hope.) I can't believe this author has  actually published more then one book.	1999-10-22
US	52249091	R2EXH75R7W3LZH	0505522071	896051407	From the Mist (Futuristic Romance)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Readable but silly over-simplified background	If you expect your furturistic romance to be well thought out and believable, you will have a hard time getting though the first chapter. We are expected to accept that a society that is small enough to have all of  the woman get up and leave and live on one island also is strong enough to  conquer their entire planet and then head out to space and conquer numerous  worlds too. And yes this same space-travelers dudes can't figure out how to  use their space suits to go get their woman from the poisonous mist and are  also reduced to observing only the peak of a moutain with their mist  piercing telescope because nobody thought to put the telescope on one of  their nifty airsleds and fly overhead. The story would have worked better  if they had just been a small non-to advanced species, but I guess some one  told the author furturistics had to have spaceships even though they have  nothing to do with the main story. OK so the background is silly. But the  story is readable. Naive and simplistic, but readable. The characters are  interesting, but their is never any real strife. Everything just falls into  place. Interestingly the hero and heroine don't meet until half way though  the book and actually only have a couple of scenes together. They both  spend time worring about how they will ever get along, but when they get  together their relationship is perfect. Interesting idea, not particuliarly  well done.	1999-10-20
US	52249091	R3KBQ9WC0JIY7E	0505522772	221348912	Heart's Prey (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	17	33	N	Y	Surprises you with just how good it is	First of the author writes well. She writes very well. She writes as well as a real author. OK, I didn't say that - but you know so much of the romance stuff is just soooo badly written and this one is really nice to  read. Now on to the plot. It is very involved and everthing fits together.  Its not perfect, but it is is darn good even by fantasy standards. At first  I thought it was going to be a bodice-ripper 'cause the hero gets the  heroine tied up to the bedposts and she is horrified but then she is  heaving towards him and I thought oh god not a 70's thowback, weren't they  outlawed, but thank goodness it stopped and she didn't like him when he  acted like that so he stopped acting like that. And the story got better  from there. Still, I never did understand why she fell in love with him.  Sure he saved her life, but that was about all he had going for him which  was why it got four instead of five stars. Otherwise, as good as gets for  this genre. Buy it. (p.s I don't know what one of the reviews meant by  horror, it is not at all a horror book.)	1999-10-20
US	52249091	R2PSZM6BMUDZKS	0451404130	717430675	Stardust Dreams (Dreamspun)	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	The usual mediocre fair	Like so many books in the furturistic romance genere this book contains many nicely done originial concepts along with the usual plot holes big enough to fit a mac truck through. The romance was rather dull and although  non-stop sex was alluded to most of the romance scenes consisted of a brief  description to the effect of 'and when hours later they were finly sated  they cuddled'. Not my idea of steamy, that's for sure. All in all, about  average for this kind of book which is really not much of a recommendation.	1999-10-14
US	52249091	R1ZSO7ZH1WW9B	0345424328	569674246	Of Swords and Spells	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Uneven follow-up to her excellent debut	There are some really interesting and unique ideas about magic in this book, but the story is not compelling enough to make this book worthwhile. This book is no where near as good as her first book, Nameless Magery. This  book is missing all of the elements of the first book that made it such a  great read. There is little humor, the writting is uninspired and  characterizations are weak. At times the story was exciting and I could  hardly wait to see what happened next and at other times the writing seemed  irrelevant. Like Namesless Magery this book also got side-tracked on a  romance that came out of the blue and added absolutely nothing to the  story. Not recommended unless you were absolutely in love with the first  book.	1999-09-26
US	52249091	R2EYJWVYKDZDYD	0380731797	328763020	In the Garden of Iden (A Novel of the Company, Book 1)	Books	3	11	15	N	Y	Light-weight Entertainment	Undoubtly this book will spawn a whole series of books dealing with immortal time travlers, hardly the makings of grand fiction. No matter, the sci-fi elements are mere window dressing for the central story of a young  girl's first love in early 16th century England. And thank goodness those  elements are there because all of the giggles help disguise a bare bones,  cliche-ridden love story. Now don't get me wrong - it is a fun read - but  the hardly original observations that mankind is doomed to ever repeat his  mistakes throughout history do not lift this book above the level of pulp  fiction. As seems to be the norm these days - vastly overrated.	1999-09-20
US	52249091	RKE9VXXE1L6C0	0441005748	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	By far the weakest in the serious	I discovered Anita Blake about a month ago and have just finished the series. Hamilton is not much of a wordsmith, but she does an amazing job of holding your attention through her vivid characterizations and the  neverending twists and turn the story takes. Saddly this book was missing  what the author does best. There is very little story, which is odd since  she usually tries to cram too many plots into her books and the characters  were almost indistinguishable from each other. Even the old familiar ones  didn't act like themselves. Another growing problem is that with each book  she is enlarging the details of her world and the contradictions are  mounting at an alarming rate. For instance early in the serious it was  explained that having the first mark protected her from being infected by a  wereanimal, but in this book she is afraid of being infected. Also the  vampires are now very easy to kill, where as in other books it was a lot  tricker. Another put-off was the explaination of S&amp;M terms and the  constant discussion of homosexual vs straight. Does Hamilton really think  that her readers need everything spelled out? Not to mention that it takes  away from the erotic quality of the work to try to define things in such a  mundane fashion. Of course I'll read the next one, I just hope it is a lot  better then this one.	1999-09-07
US	52249091	R34DRND65H1FW2	0446515612	262187285	The American Vegetarian Cookbook from the Fit for Life Kitchen	Books	4	12	25	N	N	Yummy, simple receipes	Don't overlook this book just because of the dopey, disproven food combination garbage. This book is a gem, filled with wonderful, easy to prepare dishs, with lots of great ideas. For example, bet you didn't know  that simply taking pieces of frozen cantalope and throwing them in a  blender produces the most amazingly tasty shake. Yum. If the book didn't  waste so much time with idiotic food theories, I would give it 5 stars.	1999-07-19
US	52249091	R1DGY56X2OUQG	0312069146	289272514	Bread Machine Magic: 139 Exciting New Recipes Created Especially for Use in All Types of Bread Machines	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The best!	The hardest think about this book is deciding which one to make first. When I first got my machine, I started with the first one and made a different one nearly everday. I never made it through the book though,  because there were too many I wanted to make over and over again. I have  made about a third of the breads and they ranged from good to fantastic.	1999-07-19
US	52249091	R1CKF10QIO0VVW	0679405097	659857506	Maida Heatter's Book of Great Desserts	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great Tasting deserts never go out of style	This was my first desert book. I still have the paperback book I bought 15 years ago, and I still love it. Everything is wonderful and with few acceptions very easy. These are the sort of receipes that once you give  them a try you will be making for the rest of your life.	1999-07-19
US	52249091	R9ON7A9GZ226X	0671679902	730087450	Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great receipes when you have lots of time	The few dishs I have cooked from this book have been wonderful and the book itself it good reading. But beware, almost all of the receipes feature very long lists of ingredients. Nice for lazy weekends when you feel like  puttering in the kitchen, but not an everday book for someone on the go.	1999-07-19
US	52249091	R96B1CF9UR4VR	0671021435	567915716	Amaryllis	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Original Concept - But don't expect much else	There are a lot of original and interesting concepts in this book. The idea of people with a psychic ability that need a complimentary psychic to channel their talent is fascinating. Too bad the characters and plot in  this book are not. Riddled with attempts at clever dialog that mostly fall  flat, a hero that talks to the heroine like she is a not too bright child,  and a half-baked mystery this book plods along unevenly. There are many  drawn out scenes full of repetitous dialog that do nothing to advance the  plot, or entertain the reader. Still the book is readable and parts do  sizzle, but not one of the better futuristics I've read.	1999-06-17
US	52249091	R1EBHIBCDA0KRY	0345422384	140729396	Pandora (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Why is this woman still writing?	Another clumsy attempt at a novel by a gifted but immensely lazy writer. Of course there are beautifully worded passages, and wonderful details about ancient Rome - but a story - what story? There is nothing new here.  We have read this story, much better told in her earlier works. Everything  is off, the pacing, what she details and what she skips, all carelessly  thrown on the page. There is nothing more she has to say about her vampires  and she should just have done with it already.	1999-05-30
US	52249091	RI0G2YUFZII77	1579900275	59847348	The New Knitting Stitch Library: Over 300 Traditional and Innovative Stitch Patterns Illustrated in Color and Explained with Easy-to-Follow Charts	Books	2	19	22	N	N	Lacking in varity	Stanfield is no Walker. This book does offer many attractive designs but the variety was lacking. She seems taken with cables and lace. Many of the designs obviously stemmed from the same ideas. I found the charts hard to  follow and was frustrated in my attempts to reproduce her designs. Give me  the classic Treasury of Knitting Books over this anyday.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R2V0858VQ87IFR	0942018168	724858351	A Treasury of Knitting Patterns	Books	5	21	23	N	N	This should never ever go out of print again	This book and it's follow-up are simply the best pattern books ever written. I found them in the library years ago and checked them out repeatedly. I couldn't believe they were out of print and searched  everywhere for a used copy. Well they're back, so get them now before the  dumb publishers decide to retire them again. Nothing has ever come close to  the scope of these books let alone surpassed it. It should be in print as  long as their are knitting needles.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R1POJUUDH0BP3S	1561581984	755016798	The Jean Moss Book of World Knits (Threads)	Books	2	17	18	N	N	What a dudd	I was so in love with Moss's previous books that I scooped this book up without even looking at the contents, wanting a quite place to savor the work of a master. Silly me. These are not the timeless classics of her  previous books. Instead of her trademark texture with subtle motif coupled  with wonderfully detailed styling, we have ugly overbearing designs against  mostly ho-hom sweaters. Did I mention the socks and afgans? Yuck. There are  a couple of nice sweaters, but nothing to motivate me to pluck down $150 in  yarn and spend months knitting. Ironically, Vogue featured an original  pattern that was based on one of the sweaters in the book and it is far  better then the one it is based on and much nicer then anything in this  book. Save your money and hunt down one of her earlier books.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R2208TSYXKATWF	0801983886	335451815	The Complete Book of Machine Quilting (Contemporary Quilting)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Even if you have Hargrave's get this one	This book covers the subject of machine quilting in every form. While many consider Hargrave to be the number one souce, her book Heirloom Machine Quilting is mainly about free motion quilt designed to look like hand  quilting. This book on the other hand covers many, many different way of  machine quilting. A must have reference for machine quilters.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R2SPPU7XJZNTY7	1564770311	611660436	Watercolor Quilts	Books	5	44	44	N	N	If you want to do Watercolors this is the book	If you are keen on the idea of piecing together 1000's of 2 1/2 inch squares then this is the book for you. It is the closest I've seen a book come to an actual class. It guides you every step of the way with plenty of  closeup full color pictures and great explanations. The best resouce on the  subject.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R4AUC5UP2Z5RB	1883010217	42127937	Enchanted Knitting: Charted Motifs for Hand and Machine Knitting	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Hard to read the charts	What were they thinking when they made the contrast so hard to read? What's wrong with black and white? The designs are attractive, but you'll go blind trying to reproduce them. Did I mention that the charts are hard  to read?	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R3SEK4DUEHH12N	1564770702	932302507	The Joy of Quilting	Books	5	25	25	N	N	One of my top recommendation for beginners	This book is perfect for the beginner to interm quilter. Each chapter presents some new key concepts and then incorporates in them an attractive quilt. The book is full color with loads of photographs showing what to do.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R3FB556GJICL9U	0517708531	265860746	Glorious Patchwork:  More Than 25 Glorious Quilt Designs	Books	2	12	20	N	N	Attractive but not original	I adore Fassett's needlepoint and knitting book and like many of his fans couldn't wait to see what he what he do with with a quilt. Saddly, the answer seems to be nothing much. When Fassett stormed the needlepoint and  knitting world, he was totally original. Nobody was doing much new with  these artforms. The novelty of a clasically trained artist using them as  his medium stood him in a class of his own. However the quilting world is a  different beast. There has been an explosion of work in the past 15 years  and many talented artist work exclusively in fabric. So it is not  surprising that a newcommer to the field would produce a bunch of quilts  that are attractive but not in the least bit originial. If his name was  unknown it is doubtful that any of them could have made it into a juried  show, much less launched a career. I suppose it was the height of arrogance  for him to assume that he could just plunge in and do quilts without first  studing and understanding the quilting world. As an instruction book it is  dreadful, but as eyecandy and some insight into an artist's processs it is  decent. It was a big downer to learn that he had only designed them and not  actually made them. Maybe if he had actually gotten involved with the whole  process, like he did with knitting and needlepoint, he would have had much  better results.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	R3FW2808IZ1DB8	0505519011	974875613	Heart of the Wolf	Books	2	11	13	N	Y	Great Idea ruined by lousy story telling .	If you are expecting a shapechanger story - forget this one. Although we learn the hero can change into wolf, he never does! All we have is the heroine upset that he can, but other then that it has nothing to do with  the story. Totally wasted as a concept. Another problem is that there is  almost no dialog in the book. Everything in this book is described and  usually after the fact.There is no drama whatsoever. Even when the  characters talk, most of it is just description as in &quot;What's  that?&quot;, &quot;It's a ... This book is really inferior.	1999-05-28
US	52249091	RUL9C7TDCVXAF	0375406379	241741985	Star Wars, Episode I - The Phantom Menace	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Soooooooo Bad	If you read at a fourth grade level and rarely pick up anything more involved then a menu then by all means lap up this masterpiece. Nobody expects this to be great literature but this is so bad that any editer who  had read the first page of this without knowing what is was would have  thrown it the garbage can. The average stage directions in a script are  better written then this trash. The other Star Wars books are Pulizer prize  winners next to this. Everytime I think the average American is not as dumb  as the media thinks I see the public rushing after the Phantom With No  Cloths and I think that's why they're rich and I'm not. As they say  &quot;no one ever lost money underestimating the public's IQ&quot;	1999-05-24
US	52249091	R1QR9GEZW4CF12	0345424301	463315103	Nameless Magery (Del Rey Discovery)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A wonderful blend of Fantasy &amp; Sci-fi	This slim 231 page book has more ideas and better developed charactors then most of the recent 600 page + tomes that weigh-down the book shelve. However, it is not a quick read. There is a lot to absorb and many of  passages were so well worded that I found myself re-reading sections for  sheer enjoyment. At it's heart this is a coming-of-age story, told in the  first person. My only gripe with the book is that it is the kind of story  in which you don't know what it's about until the end. There is no strong  plot line, but rather a series of events that wind up coming to a close. I  don't think that there enough was put into the early story to make the  events at the end satisfying. They just sort of happened. I also didn't  care for the romantic entanglement at the end, nor the fact that there is  no real ending. Still the writing is compelling enough to keep you turning  the pages. It will interesting to see where the tale goes from here.	1999-05-23
US	52249091	R3MI7I6Z3JCDR3	0451405668	25749975	Prince of the Night (Dreamspun)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	One of the better Vampire Romance Books	I have always been fascinated with Vampire stories and have quite a collection. I actually wrote a term paper (many years ago) entitled &quot;Vampiric Trends in Modern Fiction&quot;. That aside, let me tell you  that this is one of the best Vampire books in the romantic genre that I  have come across. The book is well paced, the theme sophisticated by  romance standards, and of course it is very hot. As to how to weigh my  praise against your taste, I'll add, I love Susan Krinard, but loath Amanda  Ashely.	1999-05-22
US	52249091	R1A7DCG8PY2A7F	0345314018	882323856	Unconquered	Books	1	10	14	N	N	How low can you go?	The popularity of Smith's books give lie to the claim that woman no longer find physical and mental abuse a turn on. In this book she reaches an all time low. It contains a very graphically described sex scene in which a  woman has a climax while she is being murdered. Who need's woman haters  when you have Small?	1999-05-21
US	52249091	R3ONCRO0IHS5CD	0441005349	769238035	When Demons Walk  (Sianim series)	Books	1	11	33	N	Y	One of the worst I've read &amp; I've read some pretty bad ones	I bought this book from Amazon partially due to all of the great reviews it got. Well after forcing myself to finish this book, I'll I can say is all of the high marks came from friends and relatives. The book starts out  ok and is fairly interesting for about the first 70 pages and then its all  down hill from there. Even though it is short by today's fantasy  doorstopper standards it dragged. There was a lot of repetition and the  plot felt like it was being pulled out of a hat. The writing was  uninspired, the magic like someone's bad attempt at describing a D&amp;D  game and the scenes contrived. The resolution came out of the blue and  while potentially interesting was exactly the opposite of what had been  explained thus far. The only bright notes were the strong multi-talented  heroine and the amusing dialogue between the hero and heroine. This book  hints at its potential to be a really good light unsophisticated read. Too  bad the author and worse editor stopped before they got through another  half dozen rewrites. Just stunned and what gets published.	1999-05-19
US	52249091	R38ZHSVFH53MRQ	0380794276	266431133	Fire Angels	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Pleasant but not as compelling as Mage Heart	Dion, the most powerful mage in Moria is back and is as insecure in her self-worth as ever. For those of you expecting round two of Dion resisting Andre/Beddazer, you will be disappointed. The book begins with Dion being  convinced to track down an unknown Necromancer but this battle gets delayed  to the final few chapter of the book. Inbetween is a typical story of   court intrigue as several parties make a bid for the throne. Having rich  political intrigue does not work well when all of the action is told from  one person's view point and as a result the story boggs down in the middle  of the book. While Mage Heart dealt with Dion's very personal struggle with  a demon, the bulk of this book is taken up with Dion's boring romance with  a boring man who saddly appears destined to be the love of her life. This  part of the story would have comfortably fit into any typical romance book.  Interspersed with her many sex scenes with him is a parade of friends,  family and aquintances, too numerous to be fully developed. By the end of  the book many threads were left unresolved and the endings of the  storylines that took up most the book were glossed over. The so called  Epilogue was a shameless setup for the next book in the series. Despite all  of this the book is still very readable. Most commendable was the way  Routly skillfully weaves in summeries of the first book into this one so  that this book stands just fine on its own. This is a rare accomplishment.  Let's hope that the next installment returns to the theme that made the  first book so compelling, Good Girl Mage being tempted by Nasty Old Demon.  And for heavens sake, grow-up Dion!	1999-05-16
US	52249091	R3VSXG4UKH7EF	0451456726	65025730	Heir to the Shadows	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Reads like a First Draft - OK, not great	I am a total loss as to understand why so many people are praising this book so highly. The first book was quite wonderful, but this one is quite dull. Most of the book is the uneventfull telling of Janelle comming of age  under Saetan's guidance. Missing from most of the book are the first book's  most complex and compelling characters, Daemon and Surrreal. The bad guys,  Heckta and Dororthy are laughable in their clumsy attempts to hurt Janelle.  They are too weak to be a proper threat to her. Many of the sections of the  book are disjointed as Janelle out of the blue stumbles into danger, but no  matter because the problem is all cleared up within a few pages. Tons of  characters have a few lines here and there but no character development.  Even the main characters have little depth - they were much better defined  in the first book. When I read Daughter of the Blood, I was impressed with  the world Bishop created and wondered how she would be able to sustain the  story through three books based on what she presented. Well the answer is  she couldn't. Comparing this work to Anne Rice in top form is just silly.  The writing style, plotting, and serious handling of moral issues in Rice's  book are light years beyond Bishop. Bishop still shows talent and luckly  for her there is such a large market for S&amp;M influenced stories no  matter how slopply done, that she will no doubt have ample oppurtunity to  increase her skills. All in all a very disappointing follow up to a  wonderful first book.	1999-05-07
US	52249091	R1MFPEJPJWI6RJ	0446606235	728877182	The Barbed Coil	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Ho Hum - J.V. you can do better	Amazingly little plot spread out over nearly 700 pages. Unlike the Baker Boy triology there is nobody to feel strongly about. The heros are bland and the changes they go though are not believable and the ending is just  plain silly. At times her writting really shines like when she describes  her unique system of magic or shows the connection the two male heros feel  for each other. But most of the book is dull, dull, dull. Counting the  number of times THE SCAR was mentioned was one of my few sources of  amusement. Jones also writes vivid accounts of people being mutilated,  murdered or otherwise abused. Like Baker's Boy she loves to torture her  female characters, especially if they are old. She is very subtle about  sexual relations between her characters unless of course the male is doing  something depraved in which case she describes it in great detail I am  always bewildered by the number of books that get 5 star ratings. Surely  not every book is the best. For a new author I might have giving this 3  stars, my normally rating, but for an author like Jones who showed so much  potential in her first works, this book is a poor follow-up.	1999-04-27
US	52249091	RZ57B0HYD0RJ	0886778298	617247533	Dark Nadir (Sholan Alliance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Very Slow going	Let me start by saying that I prefer character driven books. But for a story that has become one giant soap opera, it is amazing how little I cared about any of the characters in this installment. Trying to figure out  why this might be, I looked carefully at the writting and realized that  Norman almost never tells you what a character is thinking. She writes it  like a play with masses of dialog and some description but no inner  workings of the characters. Brynee was one of my favorit characters and he  is really the star of this book. So much happens to him, and there are so  many dramatic changes in him and yet there is no insight into what he is  feeling or what battles he fought with himself. I didn't come to know him,  nor care about him. Most of the book just dragged. I had a hard time  getting though the first 400 pages in which almost nothing happens. The  last 200 pages are packed full of events and a much better read. I loved  the first three books but this and the last one have not been paced well.  There are many scenes that are repeated from different views, yet rarely do  we get a quick summery of previous events so that we can appreciate the  current storyline. I read the last one when it came out over a year ago and  I can't remember who did what. There is no way someone who had not read the  other books could follow this one.	1999-04-11
US	52249091	R3V2M6MHNWTZY7	0505521601	246939064	Sword of Macleod (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Fast Paced, Strong Heroine, but the hero's a dud	The book is fast paced and the author presents a fully-fleshed out future-world. The heroine is very strong and well drawn. But here's the strange part - the romance seemed intrusive. I got so caught up in the  heroin and her world that I was really jarred when we had the require  gushing about the sex-appeal of the hero and how she couldn't keep her  hands off of him. The sceens between the hero &amp; heroine felt intrusive  and forced. I didn't buy the attraction at all. I never understood what she  saw in him. Some of the strongest parts of the book were towards the end  when the heroine throught about all of the logical reasons why the hero  wasn't for her and I totally agreed. Normally I want them to get together,  but in this book I thought there had to be someone better then this for  her. I'm sure I won't spoil the ending for anyone when I add that of course  they stay together, but the pop-psychological resolution rang false. This  author shows great potential and hopefully next time she will spend more  effort on devising a hero worthy of her heroine.	1999-03-05
US	52249091	R3NLPK8NX6IE79	0886777968	905193898	Eyes of the Empress	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Not like anything else	Evan has got it tough. His dad is a Damon from the Second Sphere where time doesn't exist and his Mom's from the Material Sphere - Earth and that makes hims a monster that's not welcome anywhere. Although the main  plot-line of this book is a mystery, it serves only as a backdrop to the  real story, Evan's relationship with his Daemon dad, Brad and his Daemon  lover, Lily. Evan longs for a family, but the Daemon's just don't get it.  Their totally non-human outlook on life is effectively captured by the  author when Brad, puzzled by why Evan want's him around so badly says to  Lily regarding his son, &quot;He was just . . . interesting, nothing more.  I never told him I liked him&quot;. Of course Daemon's aren't much better  then humans at understanding their emotions and that's the source of much  of the fun. What I like most though, is the unabashed celebration of the  individual. So many books glorify self-sacrifice and heroics for the common  good, by Evan wants to live despite the fact it might be better for all of  creation if he had never been. This is the second book in the serious and  it read better then the first. It can be probably be enjoyed by itself but  will be a lot richer if you have read the firest one. Unlike the first this  book contains no gore and no murders, which suits me just fine. Hopefully  there will be many more books to follow.	1999-02-27
US	52249091	R7YIXT1EPP5AN	0505521091	235510055	Hidden Heart	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Well Crafted but Rather Dull	The first chapter began with an exciting scene of the hero running for his life. He takes refuge in a room that contains a lovely woman who calmly fixes a stunner on him. She is also stark naked. Complex politics and  deceptive appearences are hinted at and I settle myself down for a  delicious read. Saddly the book doesn't deliever. The author spends page  after page rehashing the same internal self-questioning of the hero and  sometimes heroine. Four or five pages go by with nothing but narative and  then a brief snatch of dialog or plot advancement and then we are back to  the same old stuff. The story does feature a very strong heroine and the  development of their relationship is very believable. Most of the story is  told through the heroes eyes, which is unusual. In superman fashion, by day  he poses as a silly vain fool for the benfit of his uncle. His uncle rules  the world when the position of course belongs to the hero. But at night the  hero is leader of the underground faction to overthrough the evil uncle and  a mysterous vistor to the lovely heroin, who of course is engaged to the  bumbling fool version of the hero. She has her own agenda - to kill her  intended. All of this is great stuff and should have made for much drama  and excitement. But the book is dull, dull, dull. I kept waiting for  exciting chases and dramatic revelations when his uncle realizes the hero's  power. But it never came. All of the potential great scenes were ignored  and the background politics never got beyond a paragraph here and there.  The ending while logical was like so much of the book a through away. This  book could have easily lost a 100 pages and been a much better read. When I  was done I felt like I had completed a chore. I try to read every  futuristic-romance book that comes out, but sometimes it ain't easy! Now  that that's done on to something hopefully a bit more interesting.	1999-02-24
US	52249091	R250RI97GG0Y7T	0061054437	206571138	Waking the Moon	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good Writing + Horrible Plot + Poor Editing = Hype	What starts out as an compelling narative filled with moody characters quickly devolves into a story that owes most of its story line to late night B-Movie horror flicks. Would you believe an Archeologist discovers an  ancient body killed in a ritual murder? Would you believe the body wears a  strange bit of jewelery? Would you believe that doning that jewlery causes  the wearer to lure people to bed and kill them? Gasp! How original! This is  the heart of the tale that is dressed up with some post-feminist rant  regarding the absence of Godess worship. It seems that there is this secret  organzation who has had through the ages the mission of wiping out all  Godess worship. But lest the reader think that this is a bad thing, we are  quickly treated to the knowledge that Godess worship involves ritual  murders culminating in no less that the destruction of all life on this  planet. Quick check. Yes this book is written by a woman, not some rabid  misogomist. But its all OK really because the book offer such weighty  insights as nothing is all black and white or my favorit, ritual murder  isn't all bad. Still, despite the poor underpinnings - the author seems  unaware or ignored the fact that godess worship is alive in other cultures  and to some extent in Christiantiy throught the Virgin Mary and the Saints  and faded away under the push of monotheism that got rid of Gods of both  genders - still all in all the book is very readable. Disappointing, yes.  Predictable, yes. Silly, yes. Boring, no. It's not bad if you don't expect  much.	1999-02-23
US	52249091	R3OAN8XH63PAO2	0061057053	97388485	The Changeling Prince	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good read	This story is quite a bit better then The Conjurer Princess. Weiland is a wolf changed into a human, who loathes his wolf's nature. Held captive by the cruel witch who changes him back and forth, he wrestles with the moral  dilemmas of his actions as a wolf and plots to escape. The theme is not  trivial and it is thrown into sharp relief against the simplistic telling  of his story. Well done.	1999-02-08
US	52249091	R3125MLVM5QT1	0061057045	591885108	The Conjurer Princess	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Should be classified as YA not adult	The story is interesting and fast paced and very short. The writting is simplistic and the story reads like the telling of a fairytale since there is no depth. I was not at all surprised to discover that the writer's other  books are all young adult, since that is the level of this book.	1999-02-08
US	52249091	RO1VUVKLHG1XH	0505521849	298483488	Nighthawk (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Fun Read	I always have to re-adjust my standards when I move from reading a bunch of sci-fi books to a futuristic romance. This one is pretty good. Once you get past the unbelievable premise that a space faring race can't come up  with anything better then swords and knives to fight with just because they  don't have fuel for they phasers (like what about guns) and the hero's  totally non-believable Archiles Heal - this book reads well. The author did  a good job at dealing with technology, and the details about computers were  believable - most futuristic romance writers seems to forget the future  part. The characters were well drawn and their relationship believable. The  Heroine was the strongest I'd seen in a long time, and I liked that. The  only thing that annoyed me was that the Heroine physically assaulted the  hero multiple times - something that would have been unacceptable if the  roles were reversed. Also the Hero kept making comments about looking for  the the soft female underneath, as if that was needed for her to be a  desireable woman.	1998-12-12
US	52249091	R1LA4048THH2Y	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not anywhere near as good as Rejar	I have to start by saying I liked Night of a Trillion Stars the first book in the series and loved Rejar. This book was not as good. The beginning was boring as very little happens. Kind of reminded me of the barebones minimum  plots supplied in x-rated movies to link sex scenes together. The main  character is Rejar all over again, but the female heroine is never sharply  defined. She just wines about personal freedom throughout the book, despite  the fact that she shows not the slightest ability to do anything but be  rescued by the hero. I found it totally unrealistic that she would spend  the whole book talking about her Mother's people, yet never once mention  any interest in going there and trying to find her family. The other books  gained richness by showing the political struggles of the Charls, but the  drama is lost because the author seemes to assume you just read Rejar  yesterday or have perfect recollection of last's year book as she does not  summerize key events. Woe to the person who never read the other two books.  I would also have like to see more of the previous female characters. I  could just imagine that Rajar's Liliac &amp; Jenise would have a pretty  interesting conversation about being the mate of a familiar.	1998-10-30
US	52249091	R36B177N94F7OJ	0812562615	893400079	Freedom & Necessity	Books	3	3	8	N	N	An OK Historical billed as great fantasy	The only reason I can think of for having this book described as fantasy  is that the publishers think so little of the genre that they believe  billing a tolerable historical as the greatest fantasy book of the year  will serve to both raise the status of this book and of fantasy books in  general. As a fan of both historical and fantasy books, I'm not impressed.  The most disappointing part of this book is that all of the reviews were  untrue. Without the expectations I would not have been so hard on the book.  There is no magic - only hints of alternative explanations for events. It  is not an epic since there are only four main characters and most of the  events take place in a couple of cities over the course of two months. The  characters are well drawn but their is little tension or drama since most  of the story is told - not shown. Events are often told more then once  through different characters eyes and much of the suspence is drained by  having the climatic moment told in one sentence and then having to spend  pages reading about the events that led up to it. The only exciting parts  were told through the thankfully long journal entries of one of the  characters, Susan, at which time the book read like a great novel and you  could forget the annoyance of all of those letters. This book would  probably have been a great read if the story had been told entirely or  mostly through the journal of Susan whose writting make up the lions  portion of the book anyways, with a few key letters to her from some of the  other characters. Instead the authors choose to stick to their gimmick -  letters, which clearly wasn't working, and ruin good material. Personally,  I don't fall in to the camp that says great books should be hard to get  into, slow going, and frustrating. Suffice it to say, if their is a sequel  planned - and I smelled it at the end of the book - I won't be reading it,  if it is told through letters.	1998-10-27
US	52249091	R10YAYDC9ROUEI	0451456718	81571344	Daughter of the Blood (Black Jewels, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Wonderful after the first 140 pages	The first third of the book plods on and on as Bishop does a brain dump on  every little detail she can think of to describe her world, which is  interesting - but not that interesting. Something kept me going and after  clearing that hurdle I was caught up in an original story with characters  that I finely came to care about since their storylines were no longer  being interuppted every other paragraph with yet more info on the dark  jeweled society. Some will no doubt be offended by having Saetan Lord of  Hell as one of the heros and the growing romance between a 700 year man and  a 12 year girl. The one thing that bugged me about the book was that there  were all of these characters that were hundreds and thousands of years old  and yet they still seemed to react to life as if they were in their 30's.  You would think they would be rather bored by now and perhaps be just the  tiniest bit wiser. But no matter, I am looking forward to the next  installment.	1998-10-13
US	52249091	RX5S5OC3P7LZ8	1564772020	705056423	Threadplay With Libby Lehman: Mastering Machine Embroidery Techniques	Books	3	59	71	N	N	One idea dragged into book form	There seems to be a disturbing trend in the sewing machine embroidery  world of taking a single idea and trying to turn it into a book. The  technique described, while attractive, could easily be covered in a  magazine article or at most a chapter in a book.	1998-10-13
US	52249091	R1UMXY0EMJTET1	1859671535	103736048	Machine Embroidery (New Crafts)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Lots of good ideas	Let's face it. There just aren't many machine embroidery books from which  to choose. For the price, this one is darn good. It is geared towards free  motion embroidery so it is suitable for all models of sewing machines. It  features 25 projects that are well explained and plenty of full color  photographs. The projects include jewelery, accessories, and clothing for  the most part  - all with a very modern look. No heirloom or hand  embroidery look alikes. Everthing very proudly says I am a unique machine  work of art.	1998-09-17
US	52249091	R1EG6IP3L5GKA	0886773768	323945225	Sword-Dancer (Tiger and Del)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fun book - Though dated by the heavy handed anit-sexism	This is a light read, with a single linear plot filled with plenty of old  fashioned cliff hangers of the 'how will our heroes survive now?' ilk. The  story is told in the first person through the voice of a male who at first  believes (as all other males in his culture) that woman are not capable of  fighting and taking care of themselves but quickly comes to respect the  heroine. This heavy handed treatment of sexism was fairly typical of  fantasy and sci-fi book by woman in the 70's, but less so in the 80's, so  this book is a bit of a throwback in this regard. Still the book is  entertaining. The characters are believeable and their relationship is  explored nicely without making it a big deal whether or not they sleep  together. The Sword Dance mythology is interesting as well. If you want a  break from 800 page, cast of 1000s trilogy this is a fine way to take it.	1998-08-23
