US	52241713	R115NIC65T7PGX	0886773849	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair: Book One of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn (Osten Ard)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Pretty solid, enjoyed it, on to Book 2	After having been somewhat disappointed with Williams' \\"Tailchaser's Song\\", I cracked this rather large volume open with, shall we say, not the highest expectations.  But after a couple hundred pages I realized that Williams had matured greatly as an author since his first novel, despite this novel consisting of fairly standard swords & sorcery type material.  Characterization, depth of plot and management of plot threads, the viscerality of battle scenes, and evocation of moods / emotions with descriptions of settings had all improved substantially.  Williams had also refined his attention to physical details, plot pacing, and the general quality and construction of the writing. <br /> <br />I won't go into a synopsis of the plot, there are better places to find that.  It does move slower than in the average fantasy novel, and not a whole lot happens until Simon makes a horrifying discovery in the castle dungeons on page 170 of the Daw 1998 paperback print.  The pace picks up then and remains satisfyingly brisk (with a few lulls) to the end, page 766.  Now some of you may feel that 170 pages is a long time to wade through introductory and \\"setup\\" material.  Well, in my opinion, it doesn't really drag.  It's well written and gives the reader a thorough exposure to the backdrop of Simon's adventure, which knowledge helps the reader to better understand things that happen later.  At least you're not dealing with a couple *thousand* pages of glacially slow plot, as in the last several books in Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series. <br /> <br />The Dragonbone Chair ends rather abruptly and without closure, so it really cannot be considered a novel that could stand on its own.  Book 2 (Stone of Farewell) picks up exactly where Book 1 ends.  I'm actually already nearing the end of Book 2 and it's somewhat slower and has a less compelling plot.  From the Amazon user reviews for Part 3 (actually two books), it appears that the pace picks up again and the story ends in a very satisfying manner.  I'm looking forward to spending the next few months with this series.	2005-10-02
US	52241713	R1DQGOSQMDA3JV	0192834703	175734036	The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Brilliant stream of consciousness style, *extremely* humorous	\\"The Life and Opinions...\\" is perhaps impossible to really classify.  It purports to be a biography of the fictional Tristram Shandy, but I don't think you can call something a biography when it only covers a year or so of the subject's life!  I would say that more than half of the novel actually falls into the \\"Opinions\\" referred to in the title.  The rest consists of short stories on Tristram's father, uncle, and a couple other minor characters.    I have never in my life read so many digressions from the topic at hand, most of which were utterly irrelevant but the charm of it is that Sterne *knows* they're irrelevant, but mockingly expresses his license of authorship in forcing the reader to go off on these sidetracks.  His attitude is: \\"If you can't wait a chapter or two to get back to the story, well, go take a flying leap, I'm the author.\\"  Sometimes the digressions are exasperating.  Very unlike Victor Hugo's signature habit of digressing, say when a certain main character in Notre Dame decides to enter the Paris sewers, Hugo takes thirty or more pages to give a history of the design and construction of the Paris sewer system.  At least Hugo's digressions have *something* to do with the story.    Well, maybe that's the problem.  There isn't a main story in this novel.  It's not a storybook.  There are many short stories nested within the main framework, but there is no real protagonist or overarching theme of any sort.  Indeed, the end comes abruptly and there is absolutely no resolution of any conflict.    It's not trying to teach anything, really.    So what is it?  I'm not sure.  More a comedy than anything else.  Right up there with Dickens' \\"Pickwick Papers\\" in terms of humor, but lacking the story.  Maybe funnier than Dickens and just as clever.  I was rolling in the aisles so many times I lost count.    I read the Penguin edition, edited by Melvyn & Joan New.  The back cover does a better job than I could ever do in providing a sense of what you're getting into when you pick this one up:    \\"No one description will fit this strange, eccentric, endlessly complex masterpiece.  It is a fiction about fiction-writing in which the invented world is as much infused with wit and genius as the theme of inventing it.  It is a joyful celebration of the infinite possibilities of the art of fiction, and a wry demonstration of its limitations.\\"    It's a large work, it will take a while to work through.  It's worth it.  There are passages I want to go back to and make copies of to tape to the walls, they're that brilliant.	2005-07-31
US	52241713	R2TRXP3UJNWYEJ	0345432304	185956189	Winter Warriors (Drenai Tales, Book 8)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good, but so similar to past books	This is my last Gemmell book for a while, that's nine straight!  Not that I'm tired of reading his books (ok, maybe just a bit), but this is the last novel of the Drenai series and it's time for me to move on to other authors.  What do I have to say about this one?    For starters, the story's really good except for the rushed anti-climactic ending (though Bison's final sacrifice was fantastic).  The characterization is good until you realize that the heroes are almost rote from previous books in the series.  Signature Gemmell action scenes, perhaps more than average for him.  A bit of unconvincing sorcery but within reasonable limits.    Overall, I don't have much more to say because it's all been said before in my previous reviews, that's how similar this book is to them.  It's a four star book standalone, but only three if the rating premise includes breaking new ground from previous novels.  Yes I read it and enjoyed it.  Would I do it again in hindsight?  Probably not, this one offers nothing really new.    It's instructive to compare Gemmell's writing style to what I'm reading now, Tad Williams' \\"The Dragonbone Chair\\".  Williams has more interesting and flowery prose, but moves slower and sometimes seems as if he's trying too hard to impress the reader.  Gemmell is more direct and to the point, which works great but eventually ends up sounding monotonous after nine books.	2005-06-30
US	52241713	R2L9X620R2LN7N	0345432258	130373336	Hero in the Shadows (Drenai Tales, Book 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The end of the Waylander saga	Well this is the eighth Gemmell novel I've read so far and definitely one of the better ones.  Many people consider \\"Legend\\" to be Gemmell's best work.  Well, I think it was great for a first novel but I think three others in the Drenai series easily surpass it for quality: \\"Quest For Lost Heroes\\", \\"Waylander\\", and \\"Hero in the Shadows\\".  I would even rate \\"The Legend of Deathwalker\\" higher than \\"Legend\\".  In general, Gemmell has matured into a better storyteller over the years. <br /> <br />I agree with a previous reviewer in that Hero works well perhaps because the story isn't rushed.  It's the longest of the Drenai novels up to this point (>400 pages).  In fact it isn't until about halfway through that the reader learns who the enemy is, and not until much later that even he isn't the real enemy, who when he revealed himself turned out to be far more sinister and hideous than I'd imagined.  The climax comes with a clever twist. <br /> <br />For the most part the characters are really interesting.  There are feuding nobles that care only about their own interests, an unlikely pair of Chiatze warriors, the mysterious Eldicar, and the otherworldly Ustarte and her band.  I was a bit disappointed with the female characters in Hero.  Ustarte has tremendous knowledge and can read minds, but doesn't really end up being as useful and important as she could be, though she does perform one critical action near the end.  Keeva, who has a natural gift for archery and seems to be cast in the beginning as an upcoming central character and perhaps companion to Waylander, is relegated to the background for nearly the whole novel. <br /> <br />In addition to the swordfighting and action, there is a big supernatural element to this novel, with demons being gated in from another world and stuff like that.  This didn't work well at all for me in \\"In The Realm of the Wolf\\", but I had no problem with it here, I think because Gemmell doesn't overdo it.  The ending is quite moving and insome ways similar to the end of the movie Gladiator.  It wraps up the whole Waylander series in a satisfying manner.	2005-04-20
US	52241713	R64H3L7209T68	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A short guidebook on how to retain political power	In The Prince, Machiavelli advises 16th century Italian rulers to let ideals take a back seat when dealing with the sober realities of governing a state.  The author suggests that it is often necessary for the ruler to be ruthless and unjust during both war and peacetime in order to retain power.  In fact, Machiavelli asserts that it's better to gain respect by cowing the citizens into submission rather than being generous and gaining their love.    I found The Prince to be very interesting and enjoyable.  Aside from the stuff dealing with what kinds of soldiers to use in war,the advice in it is still relevant today though perhaps more applicable to corporate management than to running a country.  Human rights in the modern world are generally well protected and any unwarranted cruelties and injustices would be widely publicized and the ruler chastised.  But in the competitive corporate world, putting nice and innocent employees out on the street in order to meet the bottom line is a daily occurrence.  Or when someone makes it to an executive position, he/she frequently demotes rivals.  Of course, when it comes to dealing with competitors, it's take no prisoners.  I'm not saying it's right to do these things, but that's unfortunately how the business world works.    After reading this book, I wondered whether I would be capable of being Machiavelli's ideal prince.  If I had to make certain unpleasant decisions in order to safeguard the state, could I follow through on them in good conscience?  For example, if I uncover a rival's plot to assassinate me and then put him to death, Machiavelli wants me to murder the rival's entire family so that no revengeful action will be forthcoming.  I suppose that I have a difficult time relating to the way people thought about human rights four hundred years ago.    More to the point, since I work in the corporate world I may one day have to make unpleasant decisions.  I think that I just might consult The Prince to help me make those decisions.  It's certainly not *the* authority on these kinds of things, but offers a sound, logical viewpoint that's worth listening to.	2005-04-04
US	52241713	R1VC91ES80ZXBT	0192834118	187016080	The Idiot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Poor Prince	Dostoyevsky renders a brilliant portrait of the hypersensitive Prince Myshkin, the \\"idiot\\" referred to in the title.  It's impossible not to pity the poor guy.  The Prince is intelligent, well-meaning, and honest; certainly not an idiot and in fact seemingly normal much of the time.  But he doesn't fit in with any of the several social circles he encounters because he's overly naive, sensitive, excitable, and serious.  In addition, the Prince has passionate views on religion and politics and espouses them at the most inopportune moments.  What happens is that virtually everyone who meets the prince considers him to be very socially inept and makes fun of him behind his back or sometimes to his face.  What's worse is that the Prince to a large degree understands his own faults but doesn't try to improve himself.    Dostoyevsky does such a marvelous job of characterizing the prince that I found myself thinking of other people I know that are similarly inept when dealing with others.  I also thought about myself and times that I'd said the wrong things in front of others.  Let's face it, conversing with one or two people is completely different from saying something in front of an audience or in a group / party discussion, even if its a group you know very well.  The whole atmosphere changes and you have to be a bit more careful in your choice of words so that everyone understands what you're saying and also so that their attention doesn't wander.  Many of us know someone who never fails to make a fool of himself / herself in these kinds of social situations, from being perhaps too talkative, too nervous, taking friendly jibes seriously, drinking too much, or what have you.  The Prince is one of those people that can be completely likable as a friend, but a total embarrassment at a party or in a group discussion.    I read somewhere that Dostoyevsky was describing himself in many ways while writing about the Prince.  No wonder the Prince is so astonishingly rendered; the author already knew him intimately.  Dostoyevsky does an excellent job with the other characters too, though none are masterpieces like Myshkin.  I particularly enjoyed reading about the hilariously different personalities within the Yepanchin family, level-headed Mr. Radomsky, pathetic Lebedev, the sinister Rogozhin, and others.    The story is great, a real page turner.  A few other reviews state that the narrative starts out well and then bogs down into disappointment.  I didn't think so, I was interested right up to the surprising ending (poor Prince!).  I do think that Dostoyevsky need not have concocted the bizarre love triangle that he did; the novel would have been just as effective with a more conventional plot and some other focus for the Prince's compassion and pity, say a family stricken with poverty.  It's the characterization of the Prince that makes \\"The Idiot\\" what it is.    Btw, I read David Magershack's translation (Penguin Classics).  I can't imagine the translation being much better, it flowed so well that I could easily have been fooled into believing that it was originally written in English.	2005-03-11
US	52241713	R3NY28NC4YYOYD	0345408004	878765136	The Legend of Deathwalker (Drenai Tales, Book 7)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gemmell's back in form	After the very mediocre novels \\"In the Realm of the Wolf\\" and \\"The First Chronicles of Druss the Legend\\", Gemmell turns out a decent work of fantasy action in \\"The Legend of Deathwalker\\".  The events of Deathwalker take place about ten years after First Chronicles.  After having settled down on a farm with his wife Rowena, Druss found himself unable to enjoy the life of a civilian and volunteered several times for service in various military campaigns.  Deathwalker begins between campaigns, with Druss trying to earn money in the Gothir capital Gulgothir by winning a series of high-profile arena fistfights. <br /> <br />For the championship Druss is set to fight the famed warrior Klay, and a few days before the duel they befriend each other.  Then one night, hired assassins make an attempt on Druss's life but Klay arrives and saves him.  However, Klay is critically injured by a crossbow bolt meant for Druss.  So Druss sets out on a quest to find and retrieve the magical healing jewels called the Eyes of Alchazzar.  These also happen to be sacred to the Nadir because their discovery is supposed to herald the arrival of the prophecied uniter of the Nadir tribes. <br /> <br />Interestingly, Druss is not the sole main character in this book; perhaps half of the narrative focuses on the Nadir warrior Talisman.  We also spend a bit of time with Nosta Khan, the sinister Nadir shaman who first made an appearance in \\"Legend\\".  As in the last book, Druss's poet companion Sieben's priorities are on sex and dalliances with women, but this time around he also plays an important role in the plot. <br /> <br />Speaking of plot, it's much better in Deathwalker than in the previous two books.  The connection between the jewels and the supernatural world was very interesting and well done.  The twist at the end was a nice surprise though there was also a bit of a downer that disappointed me a bit.  Coupled with the good plot is the fact that there's a lot of action (that's what Gemmell does best).  Lots of small violent skirmishes kept my interest.  I especially enjoyed the Nadir ploy to lure the Gothir horsemen over the cliff.  The final battle is satisfyingly long and climactic. <br /> <br />So I have to declare that it was worth my time.  Recommended.	2005-02-22
US	52241713	RH0N5Q5V72CQG	052140262X	269039675	Extreme Stars: At the Edge of Creation	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	I ate this one up	The stars are so distant that even at high power through a telescope they look like nothing more than colorful points of light.  In \\"Extreme Stars\\", Kaler shows us that in fact these little luminaries of our night sky come in an astonishing variety of temperatures, sizes, absolute brightnesses, and chemical compositions.  A chapter is devoted to each type of extreme star, e.g. the coolest, brightest, youngest, etc. <br /> <br />To me, the most interesting theme of the book is how a single star can actually change from one extreme type to another over its lifetime.  For example, the brightest stars (accounting for 'unseen' radiation like ultraviolet and infrared) are the blue supergiants.  These inevitably go supernova and often leave behind neutron star cores, which are both the smallest and hottest of stars.  Also, the coolest red giants will form planetary nebulae and leave behind white dwarfs, which comprise one of the hottest types of stars at the outset.  Another example is the faintest stars, which are so frugal with their fuel consumption that they have the longest lifespans and therefore will be the oldest stars.   <br /> <br />The book is written with great enthusiasm and is well illustrated.  I do remember one time that Kaler kind of took it into the deep end with his discussion of electron degeneracy and the Pauli Exclusion Principle, but for the most part the book is easily accessible to the interested layman.  Amateur astronomers like myself would really dig it. <br /> <br />After reading the book, it made me want to get the telescope out and simply stare at some of these extreme stars for a while.  The easiest ones to learn to identify by naked eye are the bright supergiants, like Betelgeuse and Deneb.  But there are plenty of others in the other extreme types that are bright enough to see with the naked eye; these can be located with a decent star atlas. <br /> <br />One minor quibble: I feel that Kaler didn't emphasize enough that the vast majority of stars we see are just regular main sequence stars, ranging from perhaps 0.2 to three or four times the mass of the Sun.  Extreme stars are relatively rare. <br /> <br />Highly recommended.	2005-01-31
US	52241713	R1YGZT0HQRYYZY	0141439726	976358997	Bleak House (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Beautiful prose, a bit lacking in plot	Dickens weaves a wonderfully written tale in Bleak House, with tons of fleshed out characters and memorable scenes throughout its 700+ pages.  The novel is partly a sardonic diatribe against the ponderously slow English legal system of the time, and partly a story of uncovering some unusual family history.  Much of the story is told in first person from the perspective of the young woman Esther Summerson, who is at the heart of the family history intrigue and also somewhat involved in the worthless lawsuit that ruins the lives of a few characters in the novel.<br /><br />As is typical of Dickens's novels that I've read, characterization in Bleak House is masterful, far better than in just about anything I've read.  There are a lot of characters to keep track of, and each one has a very distinct personality.  From boisterous Boythorn to mysterious and aloof Lady Dedlock, from pitiful and helpless Jo to sinister Tulkinghorn, from the careful and wary but well-meaning Snagsby to the oily minister Chadband, Dickens assembles perhaps the most varied set of characters in any of his novels.<br /><br />In addition, the settings are wonderful.  The weather in most of the settings is dark, cold, rainy, and foggy.  This matches well with the title of the novel.  The settings also match the depressing overriding background of the novel, the lawsuit of Jarndyce v. Jarndyce.  From what I hear, the weather in England is actually like this much of the year!<br /><br />After all's said and done, I didn't find the plot itself compelling enough to give it five stars.  It was a good yarn with moments of excitement and a couple twists near the end, but it seemed like there were two parallel stories going on that never really integrated well.  Jarndyce v. Jarndyce didn't have much of a real connection with Esther's family background.  In addition, the ending was a bit weak though it did pretty much wrap everything up.  I never did quite figure out the meaning of George's letter to Esthernear the end though, in Chapter 63.<br /><br />It's a long read, no question.  Took me over four months!  I believe it was worth the time, mainly for the delight of getting to know so many unique characters.  Oh, and there are many humorous moments as well.  I love Snagby's different coughs, Chadband's greasy speeches and mannerisms, old Mr. Turveydrop's deportment, etc.  Splendid!	2004-11-26
US	52241713	R16G6UXJ6QADZY	0345407997	352624226	The First Chronicles of Druss the Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 6)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Barely passable	In my review of the previous book in the Drenai Tales, \\"In the Realm of the Wolf\\", I mentioned that the action scenes were written well but that the plotting was poorer than in previous novels.  In \\"First Chronicles...\\", Gemmell continues this unfortunate trend except that the story is developed even more poorly IMO.  Overall, it was barely passable to me but it may perhaps be decent to someone who hasn't read Gemmell's other works and therefore doesn't know how much better he can be (e.g. Book 3, Quest for Lost Heroes).  Or to someone who just hasn't read some of the other great fantasy that's out there.  Certainly this novel fails to hit the mark of Legend.  It's very average. <br /> <br />In First Chronicles, we learn how Druss earned his reputation for courage and skill in combat that he already had going in to the novel Legend.  He is 17 years old when his home village is attacked by raiders and his wife Rowena abducted, along with the other young women of the village.  Druss inherits the deadly double-headed axe Snaga from his dying father and pursues the raiders to retrieve his wife, with a couple companions along to help. <br /> <br />Unfortunately this simple quest turns into an ordeal that lasts several years.  In order to keep the length of the book reasonable, Gemmell is forced to insert a couple huge gaps of time.  These seriously detract from the flow of the novel.  Gemmell didn't have much choice in the matter, because he had already referred to this long quest several times in Legend.  IMO Gemmell would have been better off just not getting into the quest for Rowena and instead writing stories about Druss's military campaigns and such.  I believe that the book \\"The Legend of Deathwalker\\", which I'm about to read, does just that. <br /> <br />Rowena is a disappointing character in several respects.  She doesn't have a compelling personality, being passive and weak.  She's gifted with the ability to see the future, a really big mistake on Gemmell's part IMO.  Why not leave that kind of sorcery stuff to the magicians where it belongs, not to the wife of the main character!  As a result, her parts of the story were painful to get through because she always knows what's going to happen but makes no attempt to do anything about it.  Even upon her abduction by the raiders in the beginning, she knows exactly what Druss will become and how long it will take to find her. <br /> <br />In addition, Rowena becomes afflicted with a serious heart condition that makes her even more pathetic as a major character.  We knew from Legend that she died early of natural causes, and Gemmell had to explain it somehow, so again he had no choice.  Again, another reason that Gemmell should not have chosen to write about Druss's quest for Rowena. <br /> <br />The retrieval of Rowena takes up the bulk of the book, but the story doesn't end when he rescues her.  Instead,  Gemmell goes on to describe the events at Skeln Pass twenty years later, where Druss really earned the reputation that figures prominently in Legend.  This part of the book is short and focuses on the action, where Gemmell is always solid.  I have no complaints here. <br /> <br />Overall, a solid three stars!  No real reason to read it, stick with Legend and some of the others in the series.  All of these novels are standalone so you don't miss anything by skipping around.	2004-11-15
US	52241713	R3AUOO3PX08W0R	0345407989	520106272	In the Realm of the Wolf (Drenai Tales, Book 5)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not as memorable as Waylander	It's been a month or more since I finished this one, and I'm having trouble remembering the story.  In fact, I remember the highlights of the prequel, Waylander, far better.  Not an encouraging sign for this novel, I guess.  After flipping back through it and scanning the chapters, I realized that the action scenes were well written (typical of Gemmell) and I'd like to give it 3.5 stars if that rating were available.  But I can't quite give it four, due to the poor plotting.  So three it is.<br /><br />The story is pretty much a continuation of Waylander's plot, with a decade or so gap between the two.  Waylander himself is still an expert archer and solid swordsman, and still prefers to make his kills by stealth.  His past deeds have now caught up to him, though, and through most of the book he's on the run from forces bent on revenge.  In addition, evil supernatural powers are after him.  His step-daughter Miriel is now an adult and a warrior as well.  Together with a couple other allies, they try to survive the stacked odds.<br /><br />The first half of the book is good material, with Waylander depending on his wits and skill to outmaneuver the assassins who have been hired to kill him.  The culmination of this phase of the novel occurs when Waylander fights the expert swordsman Morak in single combat.  If the book had merely contained more of the same that was in the first half, it would have turned out great.<br /><br />Instead Waylander, for no real logical reason, takes up a quest to assassinate the evil sorceror Zhu Chao.  Here we get into the disappointing second half of the book, where the story is far less believable due to the introduction of sorcery and demonic forces.  The two climaxes at the end both consist of silly battles against huge seemingly invincible creatures, who of course are defeated against all probability.<br /><br />Gemmell likes his heroes to survive incredible odds with a combination of skill, brains, and luck.  He rarely kills off the unflawed heroes, preferring instead to have close companions with character flaws be the ones to die off.  Because with Gemmell you know the hero will win and live, the story had better be a good one to make the novel enjoyable.  He pulled it off in the prequel Waylander, but not in this one.	2004-11-09
US	52241713	R29AM0PH5S0T8U	0345379071	674907247	Waylander (Drenai Tales, Book 4)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another hit	Waylander is the fourth Gemmell novel I've read, the first three being Legend, The King Beyond the Gate, and Quest For Lost Heroes.  Though none have truly been home runs, all have been enjoyable and Quest For Lost Heroes was a gem.  Waylander slips a bit from Quest, due to a less interesting or believable story. <br /> <br />Nevertheless, the book is certainly worth reading because Gemmell shifts into high gear for the last sixty pages or so and packs a great deal of climactic action into it.  The highlight is perhaps Waylander's big confrontation with the several forces converging on him to get the Armor of Bronze: the Nadir, a pack of werebeasts, and the Brotherhood.  This is where Gemmell's mastery of combat scenes really becomes evident.  Also, the Drenai officer Gellan's tragic last stand is a high point. <br /> <br />The siege at Dros Purdol is a shorter and less intense version of the somewhat overdrawn bloody siege in Legend.  During this battle the general Karnak, one of Gemmell's best creations, takes a big gamble that leads to a parallel climactic moment with Waylander's quest for the Armor of Bronze. <br /> <br />Detractions are few: the contrived and fortuitous appearance of the monstrous giant Kai, the guardians of the Armor of Bronze that should have played a bigger part in the story, the against-all-odds discovery of Karnak within the rubble of the demolished tunnel, and a couple others. <br /> <br />A solid four stars.  What mainly keeps it from five is a general feeling through the first half of the book of similarity to previous novels in the series, as well as the usual unrealistic odds that the heroes are able to win against in hand-to-hand combat.  But the second half contains some of the best action I've read in any fantasy book. <br /> <br />Overall, I have to highly recommend it!	2004-09-06
US	52241713	R1DTOIZC0GG6A2	0387954368	123515229	The Hundred Greatest Stars	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Star overload, but I'm not complaining	This well-written book is a bit of information overload.  Kaler presents a good variety of stars in his top 100 picks, and writes enthusiastically about each one.  In addition, many of the illustrations are excellent.  Though it may be difficult to remember much of the information presented (over one month after reading it, I've retained practically nothing), the overall impression that will stay with you is that there are tremendous differences between stars.  This impression is not entirely accurate; the vast majority of stars are out there are on the main sequence and exhibit very similar characteristics.  But there are quite a few oddballs, or extremes, that have a completely different behavior.  Kaler has chosen most of his hundred out of this group. <br /> <br />This book made good lunchtime reading for me, and my interest never really flagged.  But reading details about a hundred stars is a lot of information to take in, and I think my patience would have worn thin with any more.  Perhaps a better approach would have been to cover only thirty stars, but write more on each one.  Kaler makes his selections based on some outstanding feature of that star: location in the sky, intrinsic brightness, size, peculiar spectral feature, etc. <br /> <br />Recommended for astronomy buffs and for the layman with a bent to science.	2004-08-22
US	52241713	R1X8F15NBR2371	0345379047	573010579	Quest for Lost Heroes (Drenai Tales, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gemmell's writing takes a leap forward	I rate Quest for Lost Heroes a low five, but a five nonetheless.  The previous two books in the series were pretty good, but this one really raises the bar for plotting.  There are a few interesting threads progressing at the same time; Gemmell keeps the reader absorbed in each of them without confusing him with too many characters.  Considering how much is going on this novel, there are relatively few characters, each with distinct personality traits.  A couple of them even seem human, unlike Gemmell's overly heroic creations in the prequels.<br />The main thread concerns a party of Drenai heroes following the trail of a woman kidnapped by a slave caravan.  The leader of the party is also being pursued by henchmen of an arrogant nobleman that he offended.  On the Nadir side, the chief Jungir Khan has a little drama going on with the visiting dignitary Chein-tsu.  The great shaman Asta Khan, a sinister character from the prequel, also plays an important part in the story.  Finally, Jungir's sister Tanaki is at the heart of another subplot.<br />I remember thinking, after the first few chapters: How can an author's storytelling skill improve so much from one book to the next?  Gemmell really must have spent some time sketching this story out.  The excellent story marries well with Gemmell's usual great skill at rendering battle scenes.  Unfortunately, the story seems a bit rushed towards the end, although the ending itself has a couple nice twists.<br />Reading the previous two books is really not necessary to comprehend what's going on in this one.  This book would be great for someone who just wants to get a sample of Gemmell's work.	2004-07-19
US	52241713	R3M9CWQR7H7HY0	0140431950	551289964	Leviathan (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	156	170	N	Y	Hobbes is a lot smarter than I am	I finished reading Leviathan a couple months ago, but cringed every time I thought about writing a review.  The book is large at over 700 pages and covers so much ground, a review would have to be a book in itself to do it justice.  Due to Leviathan's philosophical content and somewhat antiquated language, it's very slow going.  Each page needs time to digest.<br />So I'm not going to bother writing a real review.  I will just say that Leviathan is a 5-star classic and worth your time, if you can deal with reading political philosophy.  Hobbes divides the work into four major sections:<br />Of Man, in which he discusses human nature and why civilized people prefer peace to war.  Here Hobbes establishes the primary reason that people form a government to rule over them: to safeguard them from enemies, both external and internal.<br />Of Common-wealth, in which Hobbes first talks about the several forms of government and the pros and cons of each.  He then explains the rights that a government has over its people; according to Hobbes, the government can do pretty much anything it wants to.  Finally he goes into the things that tend to weaken or dissolve a government.<br />Of a Christian Common-wealth, the longest section, in which Hobbes accepts the Bible as the word of God and quotes from it numerous time to bolster his position in support of a powerful government.<br />Of the Kingdome of Darknesse, the shortest and strangest section, in which Hobbes veers away from the topic of government and instead focuses on religious practices and beliefs of the day that he deems improper and inconsistent with the Bible.<br />It took me months to read this, but I came away with great respect for Hobbes and a better understanding of politics.  I can't say that I agree with everything I read, but I think the majority of his arguments are sound and convincing.<br />Five stars, no doubt in my mind.  But it's a dive into the deep end, so you'll probably only finish it if you really appreciate and enjoy philosophical discussion!ppreciate and enjoy philosophical discussion!	2004-07-05
US	52241713	R1URBCB1IZR5UJ	0425112713	425489468	The King Beyond the Gate	Books	4	0	0	N	N	About on par with Legend	The King Beyond the Gate is the sequel to Legend, although a hundred years or more have elapsed since the events of that novel.  In Legend, though the Nadir hordes were barbaric and bloodthirsty, there wasn't really a struggle between good and evil.  Rather, it was a battle of two peoples with different ways of life.  This time around we have a definite evil antagonist in the form of Ceska.<br />But there's a twist.  The main protagonist, Tenaka Khan, shares his ancestry with both the Drenai and Nadir.  So will he fulfill his Drenai destiny by ridding the land of Ceska's foul presence and becoming a hero, or will he bow down to his Nadir heritage and use the crusade against Ceska as an excuse to conquer the Drenai?  I liked how this part of the story got resolved.<br />As before, the combat scenes are what set Gemmell apart from the pack.  Brutal, gory action keeps the pages turning.  I cringed many times when Gemmell described particularly visual deaths in the battles.  Of course, as usual the heroes overcome incredible (and rather unbelievable) odds.  The author's tendency to make supermen out of his characters is mainly what keeps this from five stars.  I mean, it's written well enough, and the plot's quite good.  With the right characters, it could be worthy of five stars.	2004-05-15
US	52241713	RA1CTISAZ1JZK	0345379063	590264183	Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Simple fantasy, well written	It was refreshing to make my way through a simple fantasy novel like Legend and not have to juggle 13,000 characters like one has to do with Jordan's Wheel of Time series.  Legend works.  The plot is effective, comprising a siege scenario with a relative handful of heroes defending the fortress Dros Delnoch against stupendous odds.  When it becomes clear that the barbarian chief Ulric plans to take Dros Delnoch, the lord of the keep sends a desperate plea to the veteran warrior Druss the Legend to come aid in its defense.  Druss, knowing that it's a lost cause, decides to help out anyway.  He arrives and organizes the defense of the city, in time to meet the assault...<br />The siege begins about halfway through the novel, so there's a lot of buildup beforehand, which serves to heighten the tension.  The pacing of the story and the battle descriptions are excellent.  Tragic moments, like deaths of main characters, are nearly tear-jerkers, a testament to Gemmell's skill.  Characterization is a bit on the weak side; Gemmell fails to make his main characters seem human, they're overly heroic and flawless.  Perhaps the later books in the series will mature in that regard, although the sequel The King Beyond the Gate seems to have the same problem so far.<br />Also, the defenders have the endurance of androids.  It's nearly impossible to fight hand-to-hand for even a few hours, in full armor and wielding heavy weapons, without collapsing from exhaustion.  But these defenders hold the fortress for weeks, as the relentless hordes keep coming!  There are other unrealistic moments.<br />Overall, Legend is a good read and worth the time for fantasy buffs.  There's better fantasy out there (some much better) in the form of multi-volume series, but for a standalone novel Legend works well.	2004-03-21
US	52241713	R1P3TDVQINFWJF	0886779537	361362638	Tailchaser's Song (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Decent fantasy but there's better stuff out there	I had to struggle a bit to rate Tailchaser's Song.  On the one hand it's a fairly well-written fantasy novel with a likable hero, hefty challenges along the way, and a seriously evil foozle to get rid of.  On the flip side the story didn't really grab me and the feline slant on things seemed to merely be a thin veneer on otherwise human characters.  Apparently I'm one of the few readers who failed to be captivated by the novel; the previous reviews are for the most part gushing with praise.  Different strokes for different folks I guess.  Many years ago I read Richard Adams's &quot;Watership Down&quot; and &quot;The Plague Dogs&quot;.  I have very fond memories of those works and even though I was a teen then, my feeling is that they are far superior to Tailchaser's Song w.r.t. adventure books written from animals' perspectives.<br />There were quite a few delightfully humorous moments.  The tales told by the older cats were noteworthy, especially the ones about the origin of man and about the horrific discovery of neutering.  Williams did a nice job describing the unlikely and fragile alliance between the cats and squirrels.  The sad ending surprised me and added some emotion that was generally lacking throughout the story.<br />Characterization was nothing special but not poor either.  I could say the same about the story.  The young and inexperienced Fritti Tailchaser sets out to find his missing beloved and along the way encounters a great menace.  He sets aside his personal quest to tackle the more noble cause and manages to save the animal world.  He doesn't actually do any major fighting, but instead acts as a catalyst for allowing far more powerful forces to take care of the problem.  Then he goes back and finishes his personal love quest.  Yeah, you've seen variations on these themes before in other novels and movies.  Ho hum.<br />Based on other reviews I've got a bunch of Tad Williams's fantasy novels sitting on the bookshelf.  I really hope that they're more mature and involving than this one.  Tailchaser's Song is a good effort for a first major novel and Williams shows promise.  I think it'd be good for young teens.  For adults my overall recommendation is to read something else.more mature and involving than this one.  Tailchaser's Song is a good effort for a first major novel and Williams shows promise.  I think it'd be good for young teens.  For adults my overall recommendation is to read something else.	2004-01-21
US	52241713	R1NYX0O5WDW190	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	This wine turned into vinegar	Heinlein's \\"masterpiece\\" Stranger in a Strange Land starts off brilliantly.  The first 100 pages or so comprise a well-paced absorbing thriller, and even up through the 200-page mark the story remains strong.  And then the protagonist Valentine Michael Smith grows up and takes charge of his own life.  And the whole novel falls flat on its face and remains thus for the remaining 250 pages.<br />You see, in the beginning Michael is innocent and somewhat helpless.  So he's powerless against his enemies and I naturally rooted for him.  Then he slowly began to use his superhuman powers and I became even more absorbed and thrilled, watching him shake off his foes and emerge unscathed.  Then he took asylum in a large secured residence with the evil government of the U.S. bent on capturing him and using him for their own ends.  Could it get any better, I asked?  This was five-star material.<br />Unfortunately, that's the climax of the story and it comes less than halfway through.  The rest is supremely mediocre.  Mike becomes a god on earth due to his invulnerability and wealth.  What does he do with this status?  He basically uses his powers to establish a large harem and teaches others how to do the same thing.  The only interesting character in this whole charade is Jubal Harshaw, who probably represents Heinlein himself and his opinions on various matters of philosophy, sex, religion, etc.  Two stars here.<br />Average: three and a half stars but I'm knocking it down to an even three due to the unsatisfying ending.	2003-11-21
US	52241713	R34TA2XSE1X71S	0691058628	119485578	The Extravagant Universe: Exploding Stars, Dark Energy, and the Accelerating Cosmos (Princeton Science Library)	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	An absorbing story of a recent monumental discovery	In early 1998, scientist Robert Kirshner and his team published the astonishing claim that the universe's expansion was accelerating due to the power of dark energy.  Subsequent research has not been able to disprove the results obtained by Kirshner's &quot;high-z supernova search team.&quot;  This book is Kirshner's discussion of that finding and its importance to cosmology.<br />The first half of the book is essentially a crash course in the basics of cosmology, with many anecdotes and background from earlier research since Einstein or even before.  Kirshner's witty style keeps this section entertaining even for those familiar with the information.  He compares several distance indicators, such as Cepheid variables, redshifts, and supernovae.  We learn how supernovae can be used to measure distances to remote galaxies due to their incredible brightness.  We also become familiar with the pitfalls of using supernovae as standard candles, because there are a few different types.<br />Then the author gets into the real purpose of his book: to describe his research team's methods, results, and road to success with the press.  The subtitle of the book is somewhat misleading; it should have been something like &quot;The Story of the High-Z Supernova Search Team&quot;.  Though the information wasn't presented in quite the way I was expecting, Kirshner gets the job done.  He patiently educates the layman reader in many aspects of astronomy and cosmology.  Towards the end it becomes a race between two supernova search teams using different methods.  Though I found this yarn interesting, I would have preferred a general discourse to the narrative presented here.<br />Overall, this book is probably one of the most well-written and absorbing reads on this specific subject.  Science and astronomy buffs should enjoy it greatly.	2003-11-21
US	52241713	R2TBD6V7GS4S9V	0808520938	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Outstanding post-apocalpytic literature	This one's really thought provoking, as any good science fiction novel should be.  Based on a &quot;what if&quot; scenario of worldwide nuclear devastation (mainly by fallout) and the resultant shift of civilization back to the dark ages, Canticle explores a possible unfolding of events over the next millenium or so.  It contains three novelettes set in widely separated time periods with no common characters (except for a strange one who doesn't age).  All three parts are great; I think the first one is best with respect to the narrative and the last one is best with respect to engaging the mind.<br />All three stories focus on a single monastery, which was founded by Saint Leibowitz to accomplish a primary mission: to collect and preserve as much pre-war printed material as possible in the hopes that one day when technology catches up, people will be able to make use of it.  The monks call this collection the Memorabilia.  In the first story everyone outside the church is extremely hostile to any printed material and to education in general, because education and technology caused the development of weapons of mass destruction.  So the monks have sort of a tough time preserving their Memorabilia.  The story centers on Francis, a monk who when new to the order makes an interesting discovery in a fallout shelter.<br />By the second story, secular education is set to thrive again as the world begins to embrace technology and modernization.  The Memorabilia start to show their worth while at the same time a large empire is rising.  As technology improves, the church is taken less seriously.  In the third story, technology has surpassed ours today and the Memorabilia's usefulness has been exhausted.  However, the people of that time seem not to have learned from their past and the church prepares for a desperation move to start anew.<br />It's clear that Miller was a brilliant author and I wish he'd been more prolific.  His style is casual and easily digestible yet fullof subtleties and wit.  Unfortunately Miller committed suicide before completing the sequel.  It was published anyway in its incomplete form but apparently lacks the polish of Canticle.  Nevertheless, it continues the second of the three stories in Canticle and explores new themes as well.  I hope to get around to it someday.	2003-10-02
US	52241713	RA6EIWEOVZEIY	0140443533	33228693	Notre-Dame of Paris (The Hunchback of Notre Dame)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Beautiful writing, interesting but overrated story	This novel is so well-written that I'm giving it five stars despite the fact that I wasn't greatly impressed with the plot.  Hugo's penchant for digressing from the story and thoroughly engaging the reader in various discourses is perhaps the most brilliant aspect of his style.  In Notre-Dame the educated layman gets convincing arguments in several subjects: philosophy, religion, science, human temperaments, architecture, justice, and others.  On top of all that you get a good deal of humor.  Quasimodo's trial before the deaf judge had me rolling on the floor.<br />You may have seen a play or the Disney movie based on this novel.  These productions are by necessity abridged down to the bare plot.  Unfortunately, the plot is really not what earns this title entry into the annals of the classics.  On its own merits, the story is rather absorbing (and tragic) but replete with random coincidences that are often crucial to the progress of the tale but detract from its believability and by extension the likelihood of total immersion.  For example, Phoebus's appearance near the end of the chapter &quot;The Little Shoe&quot; is a contrived coincidence.  Events like these make the plot itself more suitable for teens than for adults.  Thirty-one years later Hugo would use similar plot devices in the otherwise wonderful Les Miserables.<br />There's really not much else to say.  Notre-Dame is one of the finest classics ever written.  You're surely missing out if you haven't read it!	2003-09-21
US	52241713	RRCCYGPQH10VM	0345348702	268217544	White Gold Wielder (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Covenant finally puts an end to it	White Gold Wielder is the final member of Donaldson's series of six Thomas Covenant novels.  In this one, our hero finally gets around to fighting the Despiser himself.  But first he has to take care of the Banefire burning from out of Revelstone.  So in this book we get two climactic battles and they're both actually quite exciting with unexpected outcomes.  I won't give anything away except to mention that the Sandgorgon Nom from The One Tree is back in fine form.  Nom was possibly the most interesting character from that book.  The One Tree is, in my opinion, the best novel in the second trilogy.  White Gold Wielder, though satisfying, doesn't quite match it nor does it compare to The Illearth War (the second book of the first trilogy).  It is, however, a much better finish than The Power That Preserves was to the first series.<br />Unfortunately, characterization takes somewhat of a nosedive from the previous books in the series (though not near as bad as the atrocious nosedive between the two books of Dan Simmons's Endymion series).  The Giants in this novel are more than ever before like machines: impossibly strong and devoid of character flaws for the most part.  Linden is a headcase and doesn't resemble anyone I know.  The &quot;romance&quot; between Covenant and Linden, if you can call it that, seems ridiculously artificial and contrived.  These two people never lighten up!  They're stone-faced serious at all times and argue with each other more than anything else.  Donaldson doesn't manage to convince the reader that they're actually lovers and I think that he should have abandoned the whole relationship from the start and just focused on the action.<br />The action is done very well and brings this book up to a solid four-star rating.  As in all five previous books, Donaldson's development of the swords and sorcery is excellent.  The first half of the book is somewhat slow, but the tension builds well as the party gets closer to the waiting enemy.  The long sequence under Kiril Threndor will have you turning pages late into the night to find out what happens next.<br />I'm glad I read through this series.  Though not quite as complex as some other offerings in the fantasy genre, the generally dark mood of the prose gives the Covenant novels a unique touch.  I think that those in their late teens would get the most enjoyment out of these books.	2003-08-30
US	52241713	R4VHY7KQWFMB9	0345348699	157482235	The One Tree (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	More first-class fantasy	This one ranks right up there with The Illearth War, the second book of the first trilogy.  Thomas Covenant and his companions sail deep into the Sunbirth Sea on a quest for the One Tree, from which Covenant hopes to fashion a new Staff of Law.  Much of the novel (perhaps half) takes place aboard the huge Giantship Starfare's Gem.  During this time the major characters have nothing to do but walk around on the boat or help with chores, so the pace of the book is clearly slower than that of the others in the series.  Aside from a couple moments of excitement, Donaldson spends the bulk of the ocean sequences in developing the characters.  We learn a lot more about Linden and she begins to understand her capabilities.  Some of the Giants acquire distinct personalities as we spend days with them at sea.  Vain is more perplexing than ever before, especially as we see how he interacts with Findail (a new character in the series).  It becomes evident that these two will play some major role in the sequel &quot;White Gold Wielder&quot;.<br />The story heats up in the second half, when Starfare's Gem is forced to make landfall at a fascinating but sinister port town called Bhrathairain.  Here a plot unfolds to get Covenant to give up his white gold ring.  We also encounter a deadly Sandgorgon, which I'm hoping will make a re-appearance in the sequel.  This part of the story was my favorite.  Also, the climactic events that occur at the objective of the party's quest are exciting and revealing.  We learn why Lord Foul tainted Covenant with venom and get hints of the awesome might of the creature that formed the Earth.<br />The One Tree also has the most deaths of major characters so far in the series.  So there are several tragic moments in the novel, which in my opinion gives it an element of realism and poignancy that the other novels lacked.  This combined with the very good character development during the ocean sequences and the moving backstory related by the Elohim make The One Tree the deepest of the novels in the series up to this point.	2003-07-20
US	52241713	R2C9XXVFSJNOEJ	0521585708	928853032	Stars and their Spectra: An Introduction to the Spectral Sequence	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Very engaging and makes a good reference too	\\"Stars and their Spectra\\" is overall a significantly better read than Kaler's earlier work \\"Stars\\", which touched on many topics but didn't dive into any of them satisfyingly enough.  This book delivers a thorough yet introductory coverage of the science of stellar spectroscopy.  As an added bonus, it's very well-written and is great fun to read cover to cover.  Kaler clearly harbors great enthusiasm for this subject, particularly when he discusses extreme stars like supergiants and white dwarfs.<br />Kaler spends the first eighty pages or so covering the basics of how stars work, spectral theory, and history of the modern scheme of spectral classification (OBAFGKM, easily remembered by the popular mnemonic Oh Be A Fine Girl Kiss Me).  The meat of the book comes next: a chapter devoted to each letter of the sequence, starting from the cool M stars and working up to the ultra-hot O stars.  Here Kaler goes into significant detail on the defining characteristics of each class and how those characteristics manifest themselves physically.  We learn how dwarfs, giants, and supergiants may share a spectral class but are fundamentally different (the giants and supergiants almost always aged into that spectral class from a different one).  A wealth of other information on each class is presented.  We finish up with stars that don't really appear on the regular H-R diagram, such as white dwarfs and neutron stars.  Kaler also gives a nice overview at the end of how stars journey along the H-R diagram, changing spectral classes as they age and their internal fusion engines deplete their fuel.<br />I see stars of a myriad of different colors through my telescope.  A few are stunning and a great many come in attractive pairs or multiples.  Yet visually they're all points of light with little meaning.  It was fascinating to see how much can be learned from analyzing the detailed characteristics of a star's light by dispersing it in a spectrograph.  Due to the advancements in thisscience and the aggregation of data points on the modern H-R diagram, it is often possible to guage a star's size, age, chemical composition, and distance solely from the qualities of its light.<br />I sell most books after I read them but this one's a keeper and has a permanent spot on the shelf!	2003-07-08
US	52241713	R26VO7KKVPCM00	0345348680	75353792	The Wounded Land (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	The Land . . . wasted by Foul!	The Wounded Land is the first book in the Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant.  In the first excellent trilogy, Covenant ultimately triumphed over the evil Lord Foul and brought centuries of peace and prosperity to the Land.  Unfortunately, Foul was not destroyed, only forced to retreat and lick his wounds for a while.  But surprisingly, Foul finds a way to strike at Covenant in his own world.  This leads to Covenant returning to the Land, accompanied by a rather bitter and serious woman named Linden.  Sort of a female version of Covenant I guess, but unlike Covenant her strength stems from a couple tragic childhood events that hardened her to emotion.<br />Covenant returns to the Land (where about four thousand years have passed) to find it shockingly wasted, as if the Apocalypse itself had hit it.  The change was caused by the Sunbane, a sinister creation of Foul's.  Covenant spends half the book just trying to figure out what the heck went wrong and how he can turn things around.  Fortunately he finds that he can unleash the wild magic at will, or at least whenever he's upset (sort of like Nynaeve's channeling block in Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series).<br />Each book of the first trilogy had a major resolution at the end.  The Wounded Land is difficult to evaluate on its own because there is no real resolution or even climax.  About two thirds of the way through the book, Covenant's party embarks on a major quest that clearly will not be completed by the end of the novel.  The ending isn't really climactic, but merely segues nicely into the sequel The One Tree.<br />Donaldson's pace is generally slower in this trilogy than in the first one, but that's not to say that The Wounded Land doesn't contain plenty of action.  Covenant barely escapes death a few times.  The times when he uses the wild magic are exciting moments, and Donaldson is skillful at quickly heightening dramatic tension.  Covenant's stay at Revelstone and his discoveries there are a high point in the novel.  The page-turning trek through the treacherous Sarangrave Flats recalls the similar quest of the Bloodguard in The Illearth War.<br />I haven't read the two sequels yet, but this second trilogy is looking great so far!  Highly recommended for fans of simple fantasy with a dark flavor to it.	2003-06-20
US	52241713	R2G30T1PCDT5I1	0140434062	821153252	Dracula (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Creepy, especially the beginning	Stoker's classic is certainly worth the read. It's tame by today's standards for a horror tale but there are still quite a few moments of strong suspense. The young solicitor Jonathan Harker is sent to Transylvania to help Count Dracula with the paperwork necessary to purchase an estate in London. Dracula initially seems like a nice enough guy, but Harker soon discovers some terrifying details of his lifestyle. This first section of the book contains some of the best horror ever written! The second part of the book takes place in Yorkshire, where the Count has alighted after leaving Transylvania. The action continues as a new bunch of characters put their heads together to finally establish what the Count is. In addition, we see firsthand what happens to a vampire's victim. The rest of the book takes place in London and then eastern Europe.<br />The characters are well-developed but don't really have any flaws, which seemed quite unrealistic to me. Dracula is portrayed very well but only appears in a handful of dramatic scenes. I wish Stoker had made him show up a few more times, perhaps focusing a bit on his character during the day when he isn't out for blood. The story is told entirely in hindsight through journal entries by the major characters. This unique style of narration has its merits (e.g. it's easy to describe the same events with different points of view) and Stoker handles it very well, but on the whole I would have preferred straight single viewpoint narration or perhaps third person omnicient.<br />Dracula is a fairly long book, with the Penguin edition weighing in at nearly 500 pages. Though the story never really dragged for me, I feel that a couple parts of the novel could have been condensed, e.g. the mission in London to find and destroy the Count or the events dealing with Dr. Seward's wacko mental patient. Minor nitpicks aside, Stoker's writing and plotting are first-rate and easily allow this one to attain the status of \\"classic\\". Overall, agem of a novel!	2003-05-26
US	52241713	RDE8S2F9OCIG0	0345348672	150650131	The Power That Preserves (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 3)	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	A satisfying close to the trilogy	The Power That Preserves is the sequel to The Illearth War and the final novel in the first trilogy about Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever.  Just as in the previous two books, Covenant returns to the Land after blacking out in the real world from an injury.  Seven years have passed in the Land while only a couple days have transpired for Covenant.  He finds the Land in the grip of an unnatural winter brought on by Lord Foul, whose forces have overrun most of the Land and nearly defeated all resistance.  The Lords at Revelstone are the only major obstacle left for Foul to defeat, and Foul with his Illearth Stone is much more powerful than they are.  Covenant's wild magic is the only hope to turn things around, but he doesn't even know how to unleash it!<br />I gave the previous novel, The Illearth War, a five-star rating.  It was excellent fantasy from beginning to end.  The sequel is just as good until the ending, which is a tad weaker in comparison.  Don't get me wrong, it's still a great ending: explosive, climactic, and quite satisfying.  But it doesn't quite &quot;jive&quot; with how Covenant and Lord Foul have been portrayed throughout the series.  So it seems a bit contrived or artificial.  You'll probably know what I mean when you get there.  On the other hand, you may love the ending just as much as most of the other reviewers did.  Anyway, though I think the ending is the weakest part of the novel, it's still a fine close to the series and you'll enjoy it.  Solid four-star material, which ain't shabby at all!  I'd rate it four and a half if that rating were available.<br />The siege against Revelstone by Lord Foul's minions is perhaps the best part of the book.  High Lord Mhoram is awesome!  The enemy general and his forces truly inspire dread.  Covenant's long quest in the south is full of adventure too.  You'll finally get to see what's become of Lena, the girl Covenant wronged in the first book.  Triock plays a major role, becoming a tragic hero in one ofthe finest action scenes of the novel.  Dead Elena (the High Lord killed in the last book) makes an appearance, though not in the guise you may expect.  A couple welcome old friends from past books accompany Covenant on his quest.<br />Characters show more variation in personality than in the previous books, in which most of them seemed like they were cast from the same mold.  There are a few quite gory moments in the battles, like one memorable scene where blood is pumping around a knife stuck in somebody's chest (sorry!).  Overall, this series consists of the some of the best fantasy I've ever read.  It doesn't quite rank up there with the Wheel of Time series (at least the first six books of it), but it succeeds admirably for its relatively short length.  Jordan could learn a few pointers from this series, as in how to tie things up neatly.<br />Highly recommended and a must read to wrap up the first trilogy!	2003-04-12
US	52241713	R233QGM050JGKV	0716750333	456813513	Stars (A Scientific American Library Book)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	A solid introduction to stellar theory	Stars is an enthusiastically written guide to modern stellar theory, pared down to the basics for the educated layman.  It was written in the early 1990s so it's quite up to date.  Advances have been made since then (lots of extrasolar planets detected, age of universe determined, etc), but the theories regarding the internal workings of stars have not been significantly modified.  Although few of these theories have actually been proven, the empirical foundation supporting them is voluminous and highly convincing.<br />The first couple chapters of Stars serve as a refresher course in basic astronomical theory and history.  I think it would have been better to jump right into the stars themselves, as there are plenty of other books that do the general astronomy better and presumably the reader would have already learned the basics anyway before getting this book.  Kaler spends a lot of worthwhile time on the HR diagram and on stellar spectra.  It's simply amazing how much has been deduced from points of light that to the naked eye essentially vary only in color and luminosity.  Other major topics include detailed discussions of the births and deaths of stars.  Curiously, he chooses to discuss star birth *after* star death.  But it helps get his point across that star birth is often triggered by pressure waves produced by dying stars.<br />The paperback version is in a somewhat unwieldy large format due to the huge margins, which are used for many of the illustrations.  The quality of the illustrations is generally very good, especially the charts.  Many of the photographs however don't come across too well, because a lot of resolution was lost when the editors shot them down to fit them into the margins.<br />Overall, recommended to all readers wanting to know how stars work!	2003-03-29
US	52241713	R2DT8I29M7F5IE	0345348664	150650131	The Illearth War: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book Two	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Difficult to top	I've read better fantasy but The Illearth War is five-star material nonetheless.  This is the sequel to Lord Foul's Bane, in which Thomas Covenant first discovered the Land and assisted in the recovery of an important magical artifact.  This time around he again gets transported from the &quot;real world&quot; to the Land but while Covenant is only a few weeks older, 40 years have passed in the Land and the struggle against Lord Foul has become desperate.  Foul is about to march against the Lords, who simply aren't prepared for what's coming!<br />The novel is slow to get going and most of the highlights come in the second half.  The first half provides a lot of backstory and character development.  We meet the important woman Elena, who develops a close relationship with Covenant (for good reason too, as you'll learn to your surprise later in the novel).  Hile Troy, a military tactician who claims to also be from Covenant's world, leads the war effort and plays an even more central role in this book than Covenant.  Lord Mhoram is a leading character this time around.  Trell, the former loving gravelingas of Mithil Stonedown, is now a tragic and unpredictable character.  The mysterious creature Amok holds a key to ancient and terrible power.<br />The second half of the book is where the action really hits.  Donaldson gives us three simultaneous plot lines to follow; each is exciting and keeps you turning the pages.  My favorite plot line was the mission to Seareach but all three are excellent!  Just as in the last book, scenes of battle and gore are depicted admirably.  Settings are described in lavish detail but the prose never gets exceedingly verbose unlike some other fantasy out there (*cough* Wheel of Time *cough*).  The ending ties things up nicely, yet leaves the big picture unresolved and hence leads perfectly into the sequel.<br />Though still bitter from his experience as a leper, Covenant seems to have lightened up a bit.  In fact in a couple parts of the book he actually feels genuinely happy, albeit briefly.  Unfortunately, as in Lord Foul's Bane, most of the other characters aren't too unique and their personalities tend to be uniformly strong and heroic.  Troy is an interesting one though.<br />Overall, top notch fantasy and certainly not to be missed after reading Lord Foul's Bane!book he actually feels genuinely happy, albeit briefly.  Unfortunately, as in Lord Foul's Bane, most of the other characters aren't too unique and their personalities tend to be uniformly strong and heroic.  Troy is an interesting one though.<br />Overall, top notch fantasy and certainly not to be missed after reading Lord Foul's Bane!	2003-03-19
US	52241713	R3HEO907CK8K8J	0375757295	569473707	Persuasion (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Jane Austen's good	Though not as well known as the novels that established the author's name (Pride and Prejudice, Emma), Persuasion is certainly worth your time.  It's extremely well-written with superb characterization.  The plot isn't too original by today's standards, but is interesting nonetheless.  Anne Elliot, the smartest and most pleasant by far of three upper class sisters, is 28 and still single.  At 19 she fell in love with and almost married a dashing naval officer named Frederick Wentworth.  However, great pressure from her family and relations &quot;persuaded&quot; her to reject Frederick due to his lower station in society.  Frederick was greatly hurt and promptly went off to engage his energies in naval action.<br />Eight and a half years later, Anne still hasn't met another guy she likes as much as Frederick and remains single.  But now Frederick returns from war, retired, extremely wealthy from privateering with mercenaries, and more mature.  He's ready to settle down and a chance family connection puts him back in the same neighborhood as Anne!  He's still upset with Anne.  And this time, other women are catching his eye too...<br />While not up to the standards of Anne Bronte's outstanding The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, Persuasion is a good classical romance novel.  I think it beats out Thomas Hardy's Far From the Madding Crowd on plot and characterization, though Hardy's prose is generally more powerful.  Nevertheless, Austen can be quite poignant when she wants to be: Wentworth's shocking letter to Anne at the end of the book moved even me, a generally left-brained emotionless creature!<br />A highlight of the novel is the illuminating social commentary that Austen subtly inserts into the prose.  Clearly, she felt that the class system entrenched in British society at the time had its shortcomings.  The endnotes in the Penguin edition do a good job of explaining the finer points of Austen's many jabs at class-conscious folks including Anne's self-absorbed father Walter and hopeless sister Elizabeth.  Anne's other sister Mary is rendered superbly by Austen as a basically good-natured woman unfortunately marred by a touch of vanity.  I personally know a Mary or two.<br />Recommended to all adult readers!	2003-03-15
US	52241713	R3ACCHLF717L8Y	0006388515	806460050	Freedom at Midnight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Well-written, though lengthy and a bit over-dramatized	As an Indian American I figured it was about time I learned some of the basics of India's struggle for independence and the partitioning of the country. Freedom at Midnight describes the 1947 through early 1948 time period, when a couple decades of revolutionary efforts by Gandhi et al finally resulted in Britain's decision to leave India. Alas, the parting wasn't as quick and easy as hoped for. While the struggle for independence had unified the Hindus and Moslems of India to some extent, when it was won their ancient animosity for each other led to tensions that caused the leaders to partition the country and later erupted into some of the most appalling and senseless slaughter of the century.<br />Although the book begins with a few flashbacks into the backgrounds of the major characters, the focus is on 1947. So you won't learn more than the essential history of Gandhi's peaceful revolution or details of the growing distrust between the Hindu and Moslem segments of the population that the British in the 1940s were barely able to keep from exploding into bloodshed. What you will get is a very well-written and moving account of India's final viceroyalty under Lord Mountbatten, the fall of the maharajas, the helplessness of Nehru and Patel in the chaos of late 1947, the agony of the Punjab during the mass migrations between the two countries, Gandhi's assassination, and a few other topics. From the acknowledgments and chapter notes at the end of the book it's evident that the subject matter was thoroughly researched, mostly from primary sources. Certainly, many of the conversations and descriptions must be fictional but the general historical accuracy of the material is highly credible.<br />Freedom at Midnight is a long book considering the relatively short time period covered. Weighing in at around 520 pages (not including the ending notes), I feel that it was a bit much. About 250 pages would have been adequate for solid and well-written coverage of the material. The authors chose to add a lot of \\"color\\" to the story, as in dramatization. Lord Mountbatten is certainly made out to be a superman who can do it all. We are treated to in-depth coverage of the maharajas' excesses. Probably too much is made of Gandhi's Spartan habits. Numerous case studies of unfortunate Hindus and Moslems caught in the bloodshed are interesting but largely unnecessary to the account. Finally, the plot against Gandhi's life is very interesting but, again, told in more detail with more drama than was strictly necessary for enjoyable yet informative reading. I'll say this though: it never gets boring.<br />Overall, recommended to all readers who enjoy history but don't a mind a bit of drama added into the mix! Make sure you get a copy that has photographic plates in it; the photos are well-selected and augment the story well.	2003-02-22
US	52241713	R17E6CJ72AH546	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Is it all a dream?  If so, a darn good one!	I'd heard a lot about this series over the years and finally decided to dive in.  Lord Foul's Bane begins a fantasy trilogy set in a land known simply as, well, The Land.  Actually, the book begins in 20th century America down South somewhere (Louisiana is mentioned as being nearby).  We learn the bitter protagonist Thomas Covenant's background: soon after writing a successful book he contracts leprosy and becomes an outcast of society almost overnight, losing his wife, son, and friends.  In addition, every day becomes a gamble of the disease killing more nerves in his extremities if Covenant doesn't keep a vigilant watch for physical damage and the ensuing infection.  Donaldson depicts Covenant's deplorable situation admirably, and his decision to make a leper the hero of his series certainly makes for a unique start.<br />Though the novel begins in the U.S., a scant 30 pages into it Covenant suffers an accident and is whisked away to The Land, a classic fantasy setting similar to many others in books you may have read.  Covenant soon christens himself The Unbeliever because he thinks he's dreaming.  Is he?  Well that question isn't really answered in this book, but if so it's one heck of  a dream!  I was greatly intrigued by this connection to the \\"real world\\" and hope to see this question resolved by the end of the series.<br />The story is enjoyable but standard good versus evil, swords and sorcery.  With the added twist of Covenant, the stranger from another world with a magic wedding ring that he doesn't know how to wield.  Donaldson's writing is excellent, especially with regard to renditions of settings and battle.  Characterization of Covenant and a couple others is quite good (i.e. Foamfollower), but the majority of the characters all seem to have about the same personality: heroic, strong, somewhat bland.  Covenant himself is frustratingly bitter and negative, not the sort of guy you'd want your kids to hang around with (and they wouldn't want to either).So bitter that it's hard to believe he was a nice guy before the onset of leprosy.  The pacing of the story is perfect for most of the novel but seems a bit rushed for the last 100 pages or so.  Nevertheless, the climactic final battle is a real page turner!<br />I recommend this as an excellent beginning to, by all accounts, one of the best fantasy series around.  I just started the sequel (The Illearth War) and am anxious to see how Lord Foul meets his demise!  Painfully, I hope.	2003-02-11
US	52241713	R3NXYOCAYEOHU4	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	Great, like Catch-22 but shorter	This is the second Vonnegut book I've read, the first being The Sirens of Titan.  Sirens disappointed me overall mainly because it sorely lacked a compelling plot.  S5 in my opinion is superior to Sirens in every way.  Vonnegut delivers a strong message about the senselessness of war by narrating the story of Billy Pilgrim.  Pilgrim is a generally clueless American who takes part in the final offensive actions against Germany in World War 2.  In a POW camp in Dresden he survives the fire-bombing of the city which stupefies him further.  He learns new perspectives on time from aliens who abduct him for no apparent reason.  Vonnegut never makes clear whether the science fiction elements of the novel (aliens, time travel) are all in Billy's mind or if they really happened.  The title page states that schizophrenia is involved, so Billy may simply be re-living his memories instead of actually traveling back in time.  And perhaps he's imagining the aliens.  If you saw the recent movie A Beautiful Mind about the brilliant but schizophrenic mathematician John Nash, you'll be able to relate a bit better to poor Billy.<br />Anyhow, the strange structure of the novel works well for its purpose, which is to convince you that modern warfare has little to do with honor and glory.  A great number of soldiers who fight and die for their country are basically kids of high school age or a bit older.  That's bad enough.  But when thousands of civilians are killed senselessly in order to encourage a country to surrender, the whole thing becomes meaningless.  Vonnegut's satiric style fits this theme like hand and glove.  Characterization isn't too great but the humorous and witty dialogue makes up for it.  The novel moves quickly and is somewhat difficult to put down.  Some sex and quite a bit of violence.<br />Not quite as grand as Joseph Heller's brilliant Catch-22, but shorter and easier to digest.  Recommended!	2003-01-22
US	52241713	RRCW893ALOOXO	006105903X	589672323	Moonseed	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Solid and believable...well, most of it anyway	Moonseed is a SF drama documenting the release on Earth of a planet-devouring nanovirus.  The \\"Moonseed\\" infection starts in Scotland and induces an extremely ancient volcano to erupt again.  Then the Moonseed continues spreading, apparently unstoppable as it heads down through the Earth's crust and towards the mantle where it would wreak complete havoc.  So begins the desperate race to save humanity.<br />The geology and space travel aspects of this novel are thoroughly grounded in research, allowing Baxter to achieve tenability on top of the entertainment, unlike other sci-fi authors who are merely entertaining.  Or even worse, unbelievable AND unentertaining (*cough* The Millennial Project *cough)!  It's a hefty novel at over 650 pages, but it seemed much shorter to me due to the quick and continuous plot development.  Being an engineer and amateur astronomer, my attention didn't wander during the more technical passages.  In fact, I was captivated during Baxter's description of the voyage to the Moon and the sojourn there.  If you're not technically inclined, perhaps 5-10% of the book may be heavy going.  Fortunately, the other 90-95% is easily understood and enjoyed by the layman.<br />Thanks to the novel's level of science, I somewhat believe now that we could return to the Moon for under $2 billion if need be.  I have a much better grasp now of the power of \\"Act of God\\" disasters like volcanoes and earthquakes.  Areas that did not seem convincing to me: politics (funding without adequate explanations), speed of infrastructure failure (far too rapid), harenodynamics (wacky alternate method of landing on the Moon), Henry's solution (I won't spoil it here), and a few others.  Also the Moonseed itself is not satisfactorily researched during the course of the book, although the ending implies that humanity is on its way to discovering its secrets.<br />The overall tone of the novel is somewhat pessimistic.  I think the gloominess adds to the prose and makes it more believable; previous reviewers have construed it as evidence of Baxter's nihilism.  Whether you appreciate the dark mood or not, there certainly are quite a few morbid scenes in the novel that are more for dramatic effect than enriching the plot.  Characterization of the main players is decent (I really got to like Henry!) but there seems to be a bit of unnecessary quarreling.  Geena seems to be in perpetual PMS.  Minor characters are generally flat and underdeveloped.<br />Overall, recommended for sci-fi buffs and readers with an interest in end-of-the-world scenarios.	2002-12-24
US	52241713	RXZICHTPBEEC7	0679601759	901665062	Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for All and None (Modern Library)	Books	2	16	43	N	Y	80% gibberish and riddles, 20% interesting	Thus Spoke Zarathustra (R.J. Hollingdale's translation) is quite simply one of the least enjoyable classics I've ever read.  It was a chore to get through the 330+ pages and what I was constantly hoping would get better, never did.  TSZ attempts to espouse many aspects of Nietzsche's philosophy through, for the most part, meaningless riddles and analogies.  You won't understand even half of what Nietzsche's trying to tell you.  When I read a book I expect to be able to at least understand the plot or message.  TSZ was overall a waste of time.<br />There are a couple of redeeming points to consider.  Nietzsche's &quot;Superman&quot; philosophy is interesting and he goes into some detail on the inadequacies of man today and what the future Superman will be like.  According to Nietzsche, God created everything but then died sometime in the past out of pity for humanity's imperfections.  The Superman race will one day come out of man and be perfection in mind and body.  Also, Nietsche has unique viewpoints on many aspects of life: work, family, friendships, etc.  The fraction of a time that Zarathustra speaks coherently, he's interesting.<br />The problem is, Zarathustra spends the vast majority of his time preaching in gibberish and poor poetry.  80% of the dozens of topics in TSZ are practically unreadable.  I understand that the original work is German and many of Nietzsche's plays on words cannot be translated properly.  However, I can't imagine even the original German prose making much sense to a fluent German speaker.<br />Here's an excerpt typical of the prose found throughout the novel, from the section &quot;On the Blissful Islands&quot;: &quot;Truly, I have gone my way through a hundred souls and through a hundred cradles and birth-pangs.  I have taken many departures, I know the heart-breaking last hours.  But my creative will, my destiny, wants it so.  Or, to speak more honestly: my will wants precisely such a destiny.  All feeling suffers in me and is in prison: but my willing always comes to me as my liberator and bringer of joy.  Willing liberates: that is the true doctrine of will and freedom - thus Zarathustra teaches you.  No more to will and no more to evaluate and no more to create!  ah, that this great lassitude may ever stay far from me!&quot;<br />Hmm, so he wants to will and create, but doesn't want to feel?  What's his point?  He's not making sense here.  Now imagine 80% of the book written in mediocre prose like that and you have an idea of what you're getting into.  It would have been far better if Nietzsche had simply written a clear one-paragraph summary of Zarathustra's point at the end of each section.  Then you could go back and interpret better what Z was talking about.  I've read a whole bunch of classics and have a large library of them.  I consider my reading comprehension skills to be above-average.  Yet this book ranks at or very near the bottom of my list.  NOT recommended!	2002-12-22
US	52241713	R1LNQVDKAZL27Q	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	3	15	22	N	Y	Pales by comparison with the prequels	Well I had high hopes for The Rise of Endymion. I loved Hyperion and enjoyed its sequels The Fall of Hyperion and Endymion. Endymion began a fresh new storyline set a couple hundred years after the events in Fall. The child Aenea emerged from one of the Time Tombs with prophetic knowledge of future events and a tentative understanding of the Void Which Binds and the true nature of the Technocore. Simmons did a nice job characterizing Aenea: still immature but much more than meets the eye. The contrast between her personality and that of the skilled adult protector Raul Endymion helped make the novel a fun read. The novel ended with Raul and Aenea eventually escaping from the Pax and Core. Rise continues and concludes the story begun in Endymion.<br />I dove into Rise with the expectation of a climactic resolution of the struggle between humanity and the Technocore. It started off well. The first half of the novel alternates between the viewpoints of Raul Endymion and the bad guys. The \\"chase\\" that developed the tension in Endymion continues here and gets quite exciting as Core entities eventually catch up to Raul and Aenea. We visit several unusual and interesting worlds. I was thrilled when the Consul's ship appeared unexpectedly at a dramatic point in the story. I rate this part of the novel a solid four stars.<br />But the second half, ugh. This is Aenea's knowledge disemmination phase, where she gets on her soapbox and speaks in completely unnecessary riddles that she promises to explain later. She doesn't keep all her promises and the explanations she does give are largely unsatisfying and some of them contradict what we learned in the first two books. For example, the Technocore is revealed to be entirely different from how Ummon described it in Fall. Even worse, we are only exposed to the evil factions in the Core and never meet the good ones. Wait until you learn where the physical location of the Technocore is. What a letdown! Also, we never meet the mysterious powerful alien beings labeled as \\"lions, tigers, and bears\\". We only get to learn who one of their agents is, and that doesn't help much because he doesn't reveal *anything* about his species and its powerful allies.<br />A couple more negatives: The ending is poor, unimaginative, and unsurprising. The many love scenes are corny and were obviously filler material to add an element of sex to the novel, because they don't fit in well with the plot at all. Characterization of Raul and Aenea was nice in Endymion but took a nosedive in Rise. In fact, I often found myself wanting to skip the adventures of Raul and Aenea so I could go back to reading about the evil characters! This time around Raul barely seems to have a mind of his own; he just goes around and reacts to events the best he can, completely unlike in the prequel where he took charge most of the time. Aenea is now a boring teacher spouting nonsense about Love being the source of virtually limitless energy in the Void Which Binds and other esoteric drivel. Both main characters were extremely shallow in this novel. The only interesting ones are Father de Soya, some of the evil guys like Lourdusamy, and a couple others. Albedo of the Core was interesting until his final scene where he became the stereotypical supremely evil being screaming in rage at defeat.<br />It seems like Simmons is done with this series because he made such a valiant effort to resolve the many loose ends that the previous three books left. Truth be told, the book would likely have been better if Simmons had simply deleted most of Aenea's silly explanations and philosophy (recovering about 200 pages) and left us with the adequate framework we had from the previous three books. Also he should have brought the \\"good\\" Technocore factions and alien species into the plot. The end result would have been a book of about the same length but tremendously enriched and on par with the previous novels. I concur with several other disappointed reviewers that you should stop after reading Hyperion and Fall. The problem with reading the otherwise enjoyable Endymion is that you need to read Rise to finish the story. There are lots of positive comments about Rise on Amazon.com and I can agree with many of them, but the novel ultimately falls well below the standard set by the prequels! Overall three stars: well-written initially but too drawn out and capped off with a disappointing ending.	2002-11-26
US	52241713	R3GVYAP1CDWZ8U	0140434747	532332380	The Tenant of Wildfell Hall (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Far better than I expected	Now this was a surprising gem of a novel! Back in high school we read a couple staples by Anne Bronte's more famous sisters Charlotte and Emily. But you never hear much about Anne so you may expect \\"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\\" to be decidedly inferior to her sisters' work. You would be, umm, wrong. :-)<br />This novel never approached the popularity of Jane Eyre or Wuthering Heights, but believe me that wasn't on account of quality. Rather, Tenant explores themes that went quite against the grain of accepted English cultural norms of the time (early 1800s). Helen Graham (her assumed name in the beginning of the story) not only dares to think herself wiser than her fool of a husband Arthur, she acts upon it and takes drastic steps to protect her child from his influence. The heroine's actions were considered radical at the time and that's probably why the novel didn't do as well as those of her sisters, whose novels were relatively a sight more conventional.<br />The story is told through two devices: (1) a flashback from the viewpoint of the hero Gilbert Markham and (2) a large section of Helen's very detailed diary embedded within Markham's story. The arrangement works well and allows Markham to withhold certain crucial details until later, making the novel quite a page turner. Despite Bronte's many grammatical errors (the editor of the Penguin edition readily points them out in excellent endnotes), her writing is superb. Characterization is phenomenal; you have met some of these people before and you may even find that Bronte describes many elements of your own personality in her creations! During Markham's flashback you'll be just as horrified as he was at discovering \\"evidence\\" of Helen's duplicity. During the diary portion you'll empathize with Helen for her poor choice of a spouse. You'll see Helen's opinion of Arthur spiral downhill as she gets to know him better during married life, showing how falling in love made her blind to the glaring faults in his character early in their relationship.<br />The novel will likely make you examine yourself. If you're single it'll help you understand the criticality of choosing a spouse that won't doom you to a dull (or even worse, unhappy) life. If you're married it'll (hopefully!) make you grateful that you're not stuck with an Arthur or Annabella type. If most men and women were as selfish and shallow as nearly all of the characters in Tenant, the world wouldn't be a pretty place to live in. These people DO exist (I have relatives and their friends who proudly strut the behavior that Arthur and his cronies do), but thankfully not in near the proportions that Bronte paints.<br />Highly recommended for all adult readers!	2002-10-25
US	52241713	R2XFV16UBSITIC	0553572946	629359173	Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Action-packed adventure	Endymion is the first of two sequels to the \\"Hyperion Cantos\\", which consists of the two excellent novels Hyperion and The Fall of Hyperion. Taking place a couple hundred years after the farcasters were shut down by the dying Hegemony, Endymion chronicles the emergence and flight of a young prophet named Aenea and her protector Raul Endymion.<br />In the centuries since the fall of the Hegemony, Christian leaders emerged with the miraculous secret of flawless cruciform resurrection in hand and quickly formed the ruling authority known as the Pax. Billions were converted to the cross and now the Pax is the most powerful human organization in the galaxy. But somehow they determine that Aenea, due to emerge soon from one of Hyperion's time tombs, is a threat of devastating proportions and must be captured. So they provide one of their finest officers, Father Captain Federico de Soya, with thousands of elite troops and order him to lead the capture operation.<br />27-year old Raul Endymion is sent by the poet Martin Silenus (one of the original pilgrims to Hyperion in the first book) to rescue Aenea and flee the Pax against all odds. So begins the adventure. The novel is paced significantly faster than the Hyperion novels. The chapters alternate points of view (works very well) between Raul and the \\"bad guys\\". Raul's side is told in the first person and Simmons impressively alters the style enough that it really does seem as if a different author is telling Raul's story.<br />If you enjoyed the first two books, you'll almost certainly like Endymion. You should know that the story isn't as sweeping as in the Hyperion books. It's a tightly focused adventure story that basically boils down to a long chase through the galaxy. The climax is truly thrilling as the mysterious Shrike suddenly appears for an explosive showdown. Also, some questions left unanswered in the first two novels are resolved. A lot of things that nagged at me before Endymion now make sense or are at least partially addressed, like:  What's the origin of the cruciform parasite?  Why does the fatline medium suddenly disappear at the fall?  What happened to Earth and who's there now?<br />There's no cliffhanger at the end but the story has just begun. The Shrike's mission, the role of the Ousters, and the fate of the Technocore and humanity are all unresolved and beg you to jump right in to The Rise of Endymion. I actually started it on the same day I finished Endymion!<br />Highly recommended for fans of sci-fi and of Simmons's earlier work.	2002-10-16
US	52241713	R3LZCW8TY2XMT5	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The sequel's just as good!	\\"Claudius the God\\" is the second of Graves' two-part story of the Roman Emperor Claudius, told in the form of an autobiography.  It continues right where \\"I, Claudius\\" leaves off, at Claudius's ascendancy to Emperor following Caligula's rather bloody end.  Thanks to Livia, Tiberius, and Caligula, most of the politically prominent citizens of Rome have been poisoned, exiled, or otherwise done away with when Claudius begins his reign.  So things are relatively peaceful for a while.<br />If you've read the other reviews of this book, you may get the impression that it's not near as good as the first and that you wouldn't be missing out on much by skipping it.  And I guess it all comes down to your tastes.  If you're looking for a story packed with intrigue and deception culminating in a triumphant ending, you won't find it in the sequel.  There aren't as many loonies around anymore to laugh at.  And the last few years of Claudius's reign are decidedly sobering.<br />Yet if you like reading about history as much as I do, there's still a ton of fascinating material here to immerse yourself in.  Such as a rich background on Herod Agrippa, the Jewish king who feigns friendship with Claudius while secretly fomenting rebellion.  Or interesting details on the Celtic druids' rituals.  And of course an account of Claudius's successful invasion of Britain.  Back at home Claudius's lovely wife Messalina eventually reveals her shocking true colors, leading to a purge of Rome's corrupt nobility by Claudius.<br />All narration is in the same style that distinguished the first book: witty, humorous, and anything but dry.  At the end of the first book, I simply had to know what happened to Claudius next.  So for me, this book was a necessary read and I'm pleased to say that it far surpassed the expectations I had formed upon reading many of the other reviews here.  Claudius makes a heroic effort to repair the extensive damage that the mad Caligula wreaked on the Empire's finances andgeneral well-being (such as adding ~150 holidays to the year!).  He largely succeeds but only temporarily, then ultimately yields to the Empire's natural entropic tendency to fall into disorder.  You may feel somewhat down after reading it, but you'll have to agree that the ride was fascinating while it lasted!<br />Highly recommended.	2002-09-30
US	52241713	R21081TWXJDI6G	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	A solid sequel	The Fall of Hyperion is the sequel to Hyperion.  Hyperion, which you should read before diving into Fall, is a wonderful novel containing six independent and fantastic novelettes.  After finishing it I knew that it would be difficult for the sequel to even match it and in my opinion Simmons doesn't quite make it.  It's close though.  Fall answers many of the questions you surely had at the end of Hyperion.  You know, all the confusion you felt about the Shrike, the Ousters, the Time Tombs, Rachel and her Merlin's sickness, the Keats cybrid persona, the Templar's erg, etc.  Most of it is explained, though you may find some of the explanations unsatisfactory because they're wacky!<br />The quality of Fall's narrative isn't quite as exquisite as that of some of the stories in Hyperion, but it largely makes up for that by providing the big picture that Hyperion lacked.  Although Hyperion hinted at important political forces such as the three factions within the Technocore or the impact of the Consul's treachery on the Ousters, the novel focused mostly on the planet Hyperion and its enigmas.  In contrast, Fall takes a much wider view of events and about half the novel takes place in other parts of the Web (and even beyond).  Fall's main asset is the riveting story told in the context of this wider setting.  Events on the planet Hyperion itself are often disjointed and unclear; it's the offworld action that saves this book and nearly elevates it to the prequel's level.<br />At the end I still had a few major plot questions (and I'm currently reading the sequel Endymion to hopefully resolve those), but nothing compared to the number of unanswered riddles the first book ends with.  This series would provide great material for lively debate with your sci-fi and fantasy friends, similar to Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series.  Simmons really impressed me with Fall and I hope that Endymion continues the trend of providing a great alternate reality to explore.  Highly recommended!	2002-08-28
US	52241713	R3M9AM0D02BVXS	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A superbly written downer	If you can't stand anything but happy endings, just skip this book and move on to the next aisle. I'm not going to spoil it for you (some other reviewers have inadvertently done it anyway), but you may as well know going in that the plot and main characters of this novel are tragic in nature. In provincial France, Charles Bovary falls in love with and marries the beautiful Emma. But the problem is that he's such a \\"nice guy\\" and Emma wants to have fun, wants to be dominated to some extent. Emma quickly discovers that she's married to a man she doesn't love and never will. In fact she despises him because he dotes on her so much, never gets upset with her, does whatever she wants, etc. She wonders why she ever married him. What's wrong with having fun? Well, there's fun and then there's fun.<br />The solution? Escape into adultery of course. She has secret affairs with a couple men who are more than eager to indulge her wild fantasies. With one she hatches a plan to run away to Italy. To the other she pays weekly visits where they fool around all day in an expensive hotel room. She commits this adultery practically right under her poor husband's nose, yet he suspects nothing because he thinks she returns his love. She buys fancy clothes to make herself irresistible and expensive gifts for her lovers. She continually upgrades the furniture in her house with items well beyond her husband's means.<br />All because she read a few too many romance novels as a teen and wished to be like the women in them. You know: high society, dances, men all over her, reckless lovemaking with abandon, etc. No you won't get explicit descriptions of sex in this book (it was written in the late 1800s). The sex is largely implicit, with only one scene that I recall where she actually rips her clothes off and jumps on her lover.<br />You might come to despise Charles too, like Emma did, because he's so *blind* to what's going on. But you know what's amazing about this novel? You'll actually feel sorry for Emma too. Despite the fact that her actions are to blame for *everything*, you'll still sympathize with her. I'm not exactly sure how Flaubert managed that, but it's the main reason I give Madame Bovary the high rating I do...<br />It's a fairly quick and easy read, only 300 pages or so. Some of the imagery is incredible, I often felt like I was an observer in the setting described. I read the Penguin translation, which is endnoted to explain many of the unfamiliar concepts and to translate the names of French novels or works of art etc that some of the characters refer to. I don't know, maybe the original French version is even more powerful, but the Penguin translation is very potent. And poignant too; the more emotionally pliant of you may actually shed a tear or two.<br />Very highly recommended for fans of classics!feel sorry for Emma too. Despite the fact that her actions are to blame for *everything*, you'll still sympathize with her. I'm not exactly sure how Flaubert managed that, but it's the main reason I give Madame Bovary the high rating I do...<br />It's a fairly quick and easy read, only 300 pages or so. Some of the imagery is incredible, I often felt like I was an observer in the setting described. I read the Penguin translation, which is endnoted to explain many of the unfamiliar concepts and to translate the names of French novels or works of art etc that some of the characters refer to. I don't know, maybe the original French version is even more powerful, but the Penguin translation is very potent. And poignant too; the more emotionally pliant of you may actually shed a tear or two.<br />Very highly recommended for fans of classics!	2002-08-15
US	52241713	R1O8UVB4G21LZL	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	I'm too busy reading the next one to review this	Hyperion is the first in a series of four, the next three being \\"Fall of Hyperion\\", \\"Endymion\\", and \\"Rise of Endymion\\". At this time I've only read Hyperion and it's difficult to review because it ends without any real closure. But after nearly 500 pages of wonderful science fiction, I think it was an appropriate place to break the series. Since I don't know how the story turns out, my rating is based on the quality of the narrative so far.<br />The setting is around a thousand years in the future from our time. Humankind has settled on hundreds of worlds, most of which are part of a powerful empire called the Hegemony. Instantaneous travel between many of the worlds is possible thanks to a technology known as \\"farcasting\\". These portals are developed and controlled by ultra-powerful computers who have formed their own governing entity called the Technocore, which cooperates with the Hegemony but is independent of it. And then there are the Ousters, former human beings who have evolved physically to adapt to zero-g enviroments. The Ousters were originally a faction of humans who refused to be ruled by the Hegemony. The Hegemony allowed them to go settle their own worlds.<br />The strangest planet discovered so far is Hyperion. The Technocore is adamantly against installing a farcaster on Hyperion, due to the enigmatic presence there of structures called Time Tombs that are actually flowing backward in time within anti-entropic fields! Due to the lack of a farcaster, access to Hyperion is limited to expensive conventional space travel. Both the Hegemony and Technocore are completely baffled by these fields around the Time Tombs. Who created them? Why? And what's the nature of the dangerous creature called the Shrike who seems not to be affected by the fields and who takes people's lives for reasons of his own?<br />There is evidence that the Time Tombs may reveal their secrets soon. The Ousters also are very interested in the contents of the mysterious structures andare threatening war with the Hegemony over control of the planet. It's on the eve of this momentous war that seven pilgrims from various parts of the Hegemony set out for Hyperion. Each pilgrim has a compelling reason for visiting the Shrike and carries a desperate hope that his/ her prayers will be answered.<br />The bulk of the novel consists of independent narratives by six of the pilgrims. Each reveals their reasons for coming to Hyperion and it is through their stories that we become familiar with the marvelously imaginative universe that Simmons has constructed. Tons of new concepts and ideas are presented and developed. The quality of the writing is superb. Simmons's pen is versatile: he switches from action to religion to poetry without missing a beat. The pilgrims are a priest, a soldier, a poet, a scholar, a starship captain, a detective, and a diplomat. Also note that this is a mature book for adults: it has a fair amount of sex and violence.<br />Highly recommended for science fiction readers! And for anyone who likes to test their powers of imagination.	2002-08-08
US	52241713	R3K13V14XXL34M	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Those naughty Romans	After you finish \\"I, Claudius\\" you'll probably be sighing in relief that you weren't born into Roman nobility at the end of the first century BC.  Because that would mean you'd have had wealth and political influence during the time of Augustus's scheming wife Livia and the tyrannical reigns of Emperors Tiberius and Caligula, which could have easily meant total loss of wealth and quite possibly death (and the deaths of all members of your family) if you so much as looked at any of them cross-eyed.  Claudius is the nervous stammering weakling in the background, ridiculed by nearly all the royal family but relatively safe on account of those same shortcomings.  He witnesses and lives through the many terrors and murders that the helpless upper crust of Rome suffers at the hands of the Caesars and their families and friends.  The few noble-hearted members of the family are systematically wiped out as well, to prevent them from returning power to the Senate and making Rome a republic again.<br />Graves based this work (and the sequel Claudius the God) on Claudius's actual autobiography.  Clearly many of the details must be fictional (i.e. what was on the menu on such and such night, words said during conversations, etc.), but all major events and many of the minor plot elements are ostensibly substantiated by historical text and hence are probably true to fact.  That's scary.  How can politics within a single city get as ridiculously inane and out of touch with regard for human life as portrayed in this work?  Then again we need to remember that the Roman people condoned the spectacle of people killing each other for sport, so their thought patterns were obviously different from ours today.  The Roman empire was a civilization, certainly.  A *modern* civilization (with regard to Western core values as taught today), no.<br />Replete with wit and humor, \\"I, Claudius\\" is undoubtedly one of last century's masterworks in literature.  Step into Claudius's shoes and warp backtwo thousand years to the epicenter of the largest ancient empire ever created.  Enter the royal palace and be privy to secret plotting of heinous crimes necessary to retain power within the family.  And shudder.  Because you can't do anything about it, you're just a camera and microphone.  You can't help the victims of the plots, even when you know that they could prevent or at least slow the decline of the empire.<br />It's all about power.  Wait until you discover Livia's true purpose in all her scheming!  Or read about how the insane Caligula handles the reins of the empire.  A must read for all fans of history and anyone who just likes a good story.	2002-08-06
US	52241713	R20ZNEE4ZK0HH9	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Card hits a home run	If you read and enjoyed Ender's Game, Ender's Shadow is a must read.  The title refers to Bean, one of Ender's most reliable and competent soldiers in his Dragon Army at Battle School.  Card starts from Bean's earliest childhood during which he nearly starves to death in Rotterdam.  Bean's extraordinary intelligence is soon recognized and after a couple turbulent years in a street gang he winds up in Battle School, where he quickly learns more about the training facility and the teachers' motivations than any other child there.  Eventually Bean meets Ender and the two come to depend on each other for the success of Dragon Army.  From this point on, the story parallels Ender's Game but is told from Bean's viewpoint.  We learn that Bean had a lot more to do with events at Battle School than we previously thought!  Along the way, we learn the disturbing secret of Bean's genius intellect and the terrible price he must one day pay for it.  Bean is not who he seems.<br />Just like Ender's Game, the pace is generally quick and the story quite straightforward.  But Shadow is a more mature work than Game.  This is due both to Card's growth as a writer and to the fact that much of the subject matter deals with Bean's ongoing thoughts, which due to his genius must reflect the insight and experience of a grown adult.<br />There's not much more to say.  If you liked Ender's Game, you've gotta get this one!  Also, it leaves plenty of room for a sequel (Shadow of the Hegemon, already published).	2002-07-11
US	52241713	R3Q3HNQ3F06RR4	037575797X	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	36	41	N	N	It's a romance...	Not my typical fare, whether in classics or in modern literature. The beautiful heroine of this 19th century novel, Bathsheba Everdene (naming of characters evidently isn't one of Hardy's foremost strengths), is pursued by three men. Their personalities remind me of the movie \\"The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly\\". Gabriel Oak is the Good dependable and reticent hero, Francis Troy is the Bad dashing soldier, and you find out towards the end that the handsome Farmer Boldwood is actually quite Ugly inside, though not Bad like Troy. Bathsheba is a somewhat unconventional woman for the time: confident in her ability to deal with men in matters of business, able to endure jarring emotional setbacks, and not afraid of confrontation. Naturally, since this is a romance novel the heroine must also possess some deeply feminine qualities: she's an emotional roller coaster, has a keen yearning to be desired, and feels great empathy for others' sorrows.<br />The characters' personalities and the numerous coincidences and accidental events that drive the plot all smack of \\"soap opera.\\" The story may have been a groundbreaking achievement in its heyday, but today it just feels overused because many dramas, whether in novel or film form, recycle this work's themes and plot devices. However, Hardy displays extraordinary skill with the English language and I was delighted with his word choice numerous times throughout the novel. As an example, Hardy's way of describing a pocket watch whose hour hand is broken: \\"...though the minutes were told with precision, nobody could be quite certain of the hour they belonged to.\\" Now imagine virtually everything in the settings described in witty fashion like that and you'll understand why the prose can be relished on its own merits, quite aside from the generally lackluster plot. The shocking climax did surprise me though.<br />Due to Hardy's formidable descriptive powers, I got a clear picture of all people and events and my attention never wandered. Also, as an avid amateur astronomer I greatly appreciated Hardy's evident knowledge of the night sky. He makes numerous references to actual constellations and asterisms, by which Oak has incidentally learned to tell time at night.<br />We can hardly blame Hardy for writing a romance that was unique and original 100 years ago but not today. But it does keep this novel from rating five stars, in my opinion, for a reader *today*. Nevertheless, it's highly enjoyable and I'm still savoring the many brilliant moments of prose contained in this novel.d. Also, as an avid amateur astronomer I greatly appreciated Hardy's evident knowledge of the night sky. He makes numerous references to actual constellations and asterisms, by which Oak has incidentally learned to tell time at night.<br />We can hardly blame Hardy for writing a romance that was unique and original 100 years ago but not today. But it does keep this novel from rating five stars, in my opinion, for a reader *today*. Nevertheless, it's highly enjoyable and I'm still savoring the many brilliant moments of prose contained in this novel.	2002-07-06
US	52241713	R38UQEJIDZABUI	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Grabs hold and doesn't let go	Speaker for the Dead is more mature than and, in my opinion, superior to the prequel Ender's Game. In order to partially atone for the xenocide he committed in Ender's Game, Ender Wiggin now spends his time traveling to various planets to speak for dead people upon request, usually many years after the death due to the relativistic effects of near light speed travel. Before each speaking, Ender researches and attempts to figure out what the dead person would have said about his or her own life.<br />Well, that's mostly what Ender's been up to since his Battle School days and how he's been able to learn extraordinary empathic skills, but it's not what this book's about despite the title! A new intelligent alien species has been discovered on a planet called Lusitania, where a small Catholic community of Portuguese colonists has established the settlement of Milagre, partly in order to be isolated and safe from non-Catholic influences. The community now includes two scientific posts: a xenologer who studies the aliens (the humans call them piggies due to their appearance) and a xenobiologist who primarily works on improving agricultural productivity on this alien world.<br />One fateful night transforms the colonists' perceptions of the piggies.  The aliens torture and butcher Pipo the xenologer in cold blood, keeping him alive as they open his body with a wooden knife and remove organs. Soon after, Ender is called to speak Pipo's death by Milagre's young xenobiologist named Novinha, who was very fond of Pipo. Novinha is crucial to the story because she has sole access to computer files holding the terrible secret of why the piggies killed Pipo; she has sealed them with multiple layers of security to prevent others from learning the secret and dying the same way Pipo did. Due to relativity, Ender's voyage seems to take about a week for him but when he lands on Lusitania twenty-two years have gone by. Novinha is a widow with a large dysfunctional family. Her late husband Marcao has died of a strange congenital disease. Pipo's son Libo has met the same horrible death as Pipo at the piggies' hands. But otherwise, nothing much has changed. Not much significant progress has been made in learning about the piggies.<br />The real reasons Ender comes out to Lusitania and leaves his beloved sister Valentine behind are to understand the piggies and explain them to humankind and to carry out a promise he made to the one remaining survivor of the species he destroyed at the end of Ender's Game. But he gets more than he bargained for when he encounters this mysterious race whose ways are completely different from our own. Once again, Ender pulls off the impossible by revealing their mysteries. And in doing so, Ender turns the whole town of Milagre upside down!<br />It's a great plot the whole way through and a couple times I had to force myself to put the book down to do other things (minor things like eat, sleep, go to work, etc). I liked Ender's Game but this one definitely surpasses it for adult readers. Very highly recommended!	2002-06-24
US	52241713	R36KKLXZ9BB3IT	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced and simple science fiction	Ender's Game is a quick and easy read. It took me a couple weeks to read, which is faster than usual for me. The Earth has been threatened twice in the recent past by \\"buggers\\", aliens from many light years away, and is preparing for a final decisive war where losing means extermination of the human species. Ever since the bugger threat materialized decades before, the I.F. (Earth's space military) has been identifying bright kids at an early age and selecting some for enrollment in an orbiting training center known as Battle School, in order to become commanders of I.F. forces. But now, with the war expected in only a few years, the I.F. is desperate to find a commander who can take the entire fleet and ensure victory with it.<br />They've found potential in Andrew \\"Ender\\" Wiggin, a genius six-year old kid who seems to have a knack at winning. Ender goes to Battle School and quickly rises to the top. In the simulator games, he and his army can overcome ridiculous odds. But is he good enough to pull the human race through to victory against the buggers?<br />The cast of characters is largely juvenile. Card does well at reminding us that children don't think of themselves as \\"kids\\". They're sentient beings just like adults, in complete control of their thoughts and actions. I dimly remember that as a youngster my priorities were different and that I was ignorant of many things, but I wasn't aware of these facts and resented being controlled by adults, including my parents (heh, some things never change). In the novel, only one or two of the kids we meet truly understand that the purpose of Battle School is to prepare for the bugger threat. To the rest, the games are only a matter of pride and they practice only to improve their team's rank. This is very much how kids think.<br />For science fiction fans a couple interesting ideas are introduced in this book, such as faster-than-light communication and a weapon of extreme destructive power that can be fired from a small ship. At the end we get a glimpse of the conflict from the buggers' viewpoint that makes you wonder if the final war was justified at all and leaves room for the sequel \\"Speaker for the Dead\\".<br />Highly recommended for all readers, but especially teens!	2002-06-14
US	52241713	REUK7DYTMUWPK	0140436111	596871917	The Pickwick Papers (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	147	151	N	Y	Hilarious, delightful	Charles Dickens wrote The Pickwick Papers in his early 20s, but the writing is first rate and as witty as any seasoned author could have done in his place! Like many of Dickens's works, Pickwick was published in monthly installments, or \\"numbers\\" as they were called then. Although Dickens originally intended to end the story at the twentieth number, the popularity of the series (and the resultant income) convinced Dickens to double the length to forty numbers. The end result is a large offering that'll take you a while to get through (~750 pages in the excellent Penguin edition, which I read).<br />Despite its length, Pickwick never tries your patience. It's delightfully humorous from beginning to end. Samuel Pickwick is the bumbling, middle-aged, wealthy namesake of this novel. He's the leader of a small group of single men that gets into all sorts of mischief, both physical and social. Booze is rampant. Apparently liquor back then was much more a part of daily life than today; everywhere these guys go they party and get drunk. They get into trouble with the law, women, unsavory characters, and more.<br />Characterization is superb. This is one of the few novels I've read for which I can actually say that I got to know the characters. In most books I've read, the characters remain two-dimensional and the plot is what carries the story. In Pickwick, the *characters* are the essence of the story and the novel wouldn't be memorable at all if a lesser author were attempting to breathe life into these people.<br />The Penguin edition includes a decent collection of endnotes to help explain unfamiliar portions of the text. Nevertheless, there were still quite a few words and concepts peculiar to early 19th century England that I didn't grasp. This edition also has maps of southern England and a key to the specific locations that the Pickwickians visit. In addition, two appendices reprint some of the announcements and prefaces that Dickens wrote in relation to the work.<br />Highly recommended, particularly if you enjoy classic literature! Dickens's later works overshadow this gem due to their maturity, but Pickwick beats them all in enthusiasm, humor, and wit.	2002-06-05
US	52241713	RHQYSU9EVH0AN	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A tragic and gripping adventure story	Jon Krakauer keeps the suspense high as he methodically unfolds the tragic drama that played out on Mount Everest's South Summit in May 1996.  Krakauer was sent by Outside magazine as one of the clients on a commercial expedition led by the experienced climber Rob Hall.  His purpose was to make the summit and then write an article about the expedition.  Krakauer himself is also a very practiced climber but had little high-altitude experience at the time.<br />Although the author made the summit, a sudden blizzard swept the mountain soon after and caused the deaths of several team members.  Krakauer witnessed these terrible events firsthand and recounts them in vivid detail.  As Krakauer explains in the introduction, he felt that his original article for Outside was too short to do the events of that day proper justice, so he wrote this book to get the full story off his chest.<br />Well, the story is simply a must read.  I dimly remember newspaper headlines about the disaster and you may know all the details from newspapers and magazines, but this book puts you on Mount Everest itself and acutely describes the often horrific conditions up there.  The air is brutally cold and windy.  Frostbite attacks exposed skin instantly and the extremely thin air can cause edemas of the lungs and brain as these organs starve for oxygen.  Basically, climbing above 25,000 feet is a gamble of life at best and all climbers are at the mercy of the elements.  That's Krakauer's point.<br />Time to put on your crampons, shoulder your pack (or let your sherpa do it), and head for the roof of the world.  Umm, actually I advise that you read about it instead, especially if you've got family.  Highly recommended!	2002-06-04
US	52241713	R1DTMCB1JXJRAP	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	3	9	18	N	Y	Interesting but way out there	Sirens of Titan is the first Vonnegut book I've read, just finished it a couple days ago.  It's a wacky story with some mighty strange characters in it.  The story itself is almost nonsensical but Vonnegut has a couple deep messages to get across.  A wealthy but irresponsible man named Malachi Constant loses his business to an economic crash but is given an opportunity to escape impending lawsuits by traveling to Mars to join the Martian Army.  When Constant arrives, his memory is almost completely erased and he doesn't even remember his name, so people start calling him Unk.<br />Thereafter, Unk goes on a romp to Mercury, back to Earth, to Saturn's largest moon Titan, and finally back to Earth again. His wacky adventures during this time are controlled by an omniscient being (who used to be human) named Winston Niles Rumfoord.  Winston in his turn is controlled by another entity who has been controlling the entire human population for millenia.  Near the end we discover who this entity is and what its purpose is in controlling us.  We learn Vonnegut's satiric explanation for a possible meaning of life in a universe where God exists but doesn't intervene in or even give a flip about human affairs.<br />Well, Sirens never bored me so for that I give it three stars, but after I finished it I couldn't help thinking that it was just kind of a pointless novel.  If you're a potential buyer read the many other reviews and you'll see that a lot of people were like Huh?  Why is this book sometimes claimed as Vonnegut's best?  Beats me.  I guess I just prefer a story that goes somewhere and has some kind of concrete conclusion, whether good or bad.  It doesn't matter to me if the good guys win or not, but there needs to be closure to a novel!  I recommend the average reader to get a used copy or something.  I think that only serious fans of dark satire would really enjoy Sirens.	2002-06-02
US	52241713	R2H3WJV02Q2GFM	0060931396	313139072	Alas, Babylon (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Scary, effective	In \\"Alas, Babylon\\", Pat Frank tells us how a small town in Florida named Fort Repose survives the year following a major worldwide nuclear war between the two sides involved in the Cold War that ended in the late 1980s. This book was written in 1959 when fears of nuclear destruction were basically at their peak. The descriptions of post-holocaust life seem quite realistic and plausible.<br />Without giving too much away, the residents of Fort Repose witness the destruction of neighboring cities and discover that they are completely isolated from the rest of the country (what's left of it). With no electricity, communications, or imported goods (the town is surrounded by dangerous radioactive zones), Fort Repose is in big trouble. Fortunately, a couple of the town's residents hang onto hope and struggle to learn the basics of survival in an environment without modern conveniences. Problems which were merely annoying before the war transform into serious impediments. For example, a very near-sighted main character gets his eyeglasses broken and his spare pair stolen. Those of you like myself who can hardly function day to day without corrective lenses will be able to relate to this man's despair at being doomed to many months or more of blurry vision.<br />Frank's experience with the military is evident. The buildup to the ballistic missile launches is suspenseful and climactic. The actual warhead explosions over the Floridian cities (witnessed by Fort Repose residents from a distance) seem realistic and very scary.<br />The novel never really falters, it remains interesting and a page turner right through to the end. But it ends kind of abruptly. I'm not sure if there's any other way to end a novel like this. Recovery from a nuclear holocaust on the scale portrayed would be an excruciatingly slow process due to the near-total loss of manufacturing capacity, intellectual know-how, and mobility due to the impassable radioactive zones. So there can't really be a \\"good\\"ending to nuclear war and I guess that's the message of the book.<br />Highly recommended! By most accounts, better than Nevil Shute's The Beach, which I haven't read. If you want to get an idea of what life in a small town would have been like in the 1950s had things gone drastically wrong between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, look no further.	2002-05-07
US	52241713	RBIJLSCA3CBKZ	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Simple but enchanting, even for adults	The Chronicles of Narnia series consists of seven short books with relatively simple plotlines and settings.  The boxed set available today unfortunately puts them in chronological order, not in the order Lewis wrote them.  This actually doesn't work too well because Lewis sometimes mentions things that happen in books that he wrote earlier but that in the boxed set appear later.  Therefore I recommend that you read them in the order they were written.<br />The most famous of these seven books is undoubtedly the first one: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.  It's the only one I read in middle school and it took me fifteen years to get around to reading the rest of the series.  I just finished book 7 last week and it was a most enjoyable journey!  All seven books are good, but some are better than others (according to your tastes).  My personal favorites are The Silver Chair and The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.  I thought Dawn Treader (book 3) was fantastic as well.  The Last Battle (book 7) made a decent conclusion to the series but wasn't as climactic as I was hoping.<br />The perfect age to read these books is probably somewhere between 9 and 13.  At that age, one really gets swept up in the world of Narnia and gets a lasting impression on the imagination.  As an adult, I found the books fun to read but not as intoxicating as I remember Book 1 being in middle school.  I really want to get back to some more difficult stuff!!<br />If you're not familiar with Narnia, here's a short description:  Narnia is a small nation in a parallel universe and can only be visited through the use of magic.  Although other countries border Narnia, Narnia is special because it's watched over by a God-like lion named Aslan.  Plus, Narnia contains numerous talking animals!  Generally, from our world only children can enter Narnia because most grownups have lost their power of imagination.<br />The seven books describe various evils that visit Narnia and the adventures of the heroes (including a cast of a few children from our world) who come to the Narnians' aid.  The plot is usually simple good vs. evil with little question on which side the major characters stand.  Lewis' descriptions of the setting and situations are outstanding and often humorous.  Of course we all know who's going to win in the end of each book but it's fun to see how it comes about.<br />Highly recommended!heroes (including a cast of a few children from our world) who come to the Narnians' aid.  The plot is usually simple good vs. evil with little question on which side the major characters stand.  Lewis' descriptions of the setting and situations are outstanding and often humorous.  Of course we all know who's going to win in the end of each book but it's fun to see how it comes about.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-04-29
US	52241713	RLVIPBSWREZAY	0140446389	97983792	Herodotus: The Histories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An ancient yet surprisingly readable history text!	The Greek historian Herodotus penned The Histories about 2500 years ago, during the Peloponnesian War. He's known as the \\"Father of History\\" because he was the first major historian to attempt to explain historical events in the context of human politics and economics instead of the whims and fancies of mythological deities. Nevertheless, Herodotus was influenced greatly by his times anyway and puts much faith in oracles of the many gods the Greeks worshipped.<br />The Histories is divided into nine \\"books\\". Herodotus covers ancient Greek and Middle Eastern history from the time of Croesus and Cyrus up through the great Persian Wars during the reigns of Darius and Xerxes. By this time, the Trojan War described in The Iliad is already almost ancient history to the Greeks! In addition, Herodotus goes into tons of delightful digressions on all sorts of topics and legends. He spends nearly 100 pages describing Egyptian history and customs.<br />Surprisingly, this ancient work is immensely readable, thanks to the superb translation by Aubrey de Selincourt! As other reviewers have attested, modern history books are much duller and far too detached. Herodotus states his personal opinions on just about everything he describes, and it's largely those viewpoints that make the work so enjoyable. In addition, the endnotes in the Penguin edition (by John Marincola) are generally greatly illuminating and helpful.<br />Keep in mind that despite the easily digestible prose, the book is hefty at over 600 pages including the endnotes. Also, there are no chapter breaks within the nine sections, so convenient stopping points that don't break the flow of the text aren't that common. So it may take you a while to get through.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-03-19
US	52241713	R2HN88EI6P9XC0	0586071105	834333861	Foundation and Earth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A pretty good ending to a fantastic series	Foundation and Earth is the seventh and final installment of one of science fiction's most auspicious series.  The order of the books, with titles shortened, goes like this: Prelude to F, Forward the F, Foundation, F and Empire, Second F, F's Edge, and F and Earth.  F&amp;E picks up almost immediately after where Foundation's Edge leaves off.  Both make references to characters, places, and concepts discussed only in the Robot series and Empire series.  Therefore, I *highly* recommend that you read those two series (seven books in all) *before* tackling the last two Foundation books.  The big revelation at the end of F&amp;E won't have much meaning to you if you haven't read the Robot series at least.  Also, Prelude to Foundation and Forward the Foundation help with the continuity.<br />Golan Trevize, accompanied by the Gaian Bliss and mythologist Pelorat, goes on a quest to find Earth.  His intuition tells him that something on Earth will allow him to clarify the reasoning behind the critical decision he made at the end of F's Edge.  Golan's essential question is: what is wrong with psychohistory?  So the trio go romping across space, landing on several planets, in their search for the forgotten planet Earth.<br />Many of the reviews of F&amp;E are negative because Asimov casually shatters nearly everything we've come to believe and hold sacred regarding psychohistory and the two Foundations.  But it makes sense: the fundamental flaw in psychohistory that Golan Trevize eventually figures out is very real and cannot be ignored.  I never realized this flaw while reading the previous Foundation novels, but now I wonder how Hari Seldon could have missed something so basic.  In my opinion, Trevize's decision is justified (even though it sacrifices a vital aspect of humanity).<br />Again I must stress, you'll probably be unsatisfied with this novel *unless* you've read the Robot and Empire books first!  I enjoyed F&amp;E; it brought closure to the series and tied it together satisfactorily with his other books.  I don't give it five stars because although it was a fun read with a good ending, it wasn't as exciting as previous Foundation books.  Trevize and Bliss argue *a lot*, like a husband and wife who are tired of living with each other!  The plot moves fairly slowly for most of the novel, but the suspense does build as the trio gets closer to their goal.  Overall, worth the read.	2002-03-12
US	52241713	R89IVA5HCK4X3	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	A new direction for the Foundation series	Foundation's Edge is chronologically the sixth book in the Foundation series. The events here take place about two hundred years after those in the novel Second Foundation. The book introduces a surprising new element into Asimov's fictional universe.<br />Essentially, a couple key people in the First Foundation realize that the Second Foundation survives and is likely still guiding the First Foundation in following the Seldon Plan. Mayor Branno of Terminus sends the young politician Golan Trevize out to attempt to draw the Second Foundation's attention and thus bring them out of hiding.<br />At the same time, Stor Gendibal of the Second Foundation believes that things are going too smoothly and that some third party may be directing humanity's course, even to the extent of controlling the Second Foundation! He is also aware of Trevize's mission (through a secret agent on Terminus) and thinks that Trevize is headed for a rendezvous with this other organization. So Gendibal sets out to pursue Trevize and to hopefully locate this sinister controlling entity.<br />Some very surprising information is revealed in the last couple chapters of the book. To fully appreciate the revelations, you should read the four-book Robot series prior to reading Foundation's Edge. In addition, Asimov makes a couple references to the third Empire novel \\"Pebble In The Sky\\". Therefore, I recommend first reading the Robot series, then the Empire series (three books), and finally the seven Foundation novels. This will give you Asimov's complete vision in chronological order.<br />Overall I enjoyed Foundation's Edge and liked the new characters it introduced. It's a fairly long read but the pace picks up when the plot lines begin converging about two-thirds of the way through. As usual, Asimov is heavy on dialogue and is fond of explaining things through debates or discussions between characters. The ending is a bit weak and doesn't resolve everything but fortunately the novel \\"Foundation andEarth\\" picks up right where Edge leaves off. I'm looking forward to reading the final chapter in this wonderful saga.	2002-02-18
US	52241713	R3TYNM9Z3WVBNT	0300080441	696130173	The Planets	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A captivating introduction to our nearest neighbors in space	For those of you who are very serious about the science and theory behind the formation of our Solar System, go buy &quot;The New Solar System&quot; by Beatty et al.  For the rest of us, there's &quot;The Planets&quot;.  In this book, McNab and Younger have melded science and narrative perfectly and have even made it accessible to the layman.  Only those with no interest whatsoever in astronomy would dislike The Planets.<br />With the exception of the Moon and Sun, the authors do not simply cover each of our neighbors chapter by chapter as do most books on the Solar System.  Rather, The Planets focuses on specific themes and discusses the planets in the context of those themes.  One chapter is devoted to the inner planets and attempts to explain why the Earth turned out so radically different from its rocky neighbors.  Another focuses on the different atmospheres of the planets and the effects they have on surface conditions.  Naturally, the potential for life on the planets is a separate topic as well.<br />Accompanying the text are outstanding photographs taken by the robot spacecraft sent to the planets along with some artists' conceptions of localities that were inaccessible to the robots but perhaps one day will be.  The visuals allow this book to double as a coffee table adornment!  Also, integrated within the narrative are details of the various missions of exploration that taught us virtually everything we know today of the Solar System.  One chapter documents the exciting &quot;space race&quot; between the US and Soviet Union in the 1960s that culminated in the manned lunar landings.<br />I sell most non-reference books after reading them unless they contain outstanding visuals or are otherwise useful.  Can you guess what I'm doing with this one?  My rating should give you a hint!	2002-02-07
US	52241713	R18E7V5S5DYC28	0553293362	834333861	Second Foundation	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Is the Seldon Plan in ruins?	Second Foundation is the conclusion to the original Foundation trilogy and focuses on the events following the Mule's conquest of the First Foundation. Can the Seldon Plan for a peaceful Second Empire recover from the severe damage inflicted by the mutant Mule? The first part of the book takes place soon after the awesome ending of Foundation and Empire and describes how the Mule is finally thwarted. The \\"final battle\\" with the Mule was somewhat anti-climactic but still made a good ending to the first part.<br />The second part takes place a couple decades later and examines the First Foundation's search for the mysterious and hidden Second Foundation. This part comprises most of the novel and takes much more concentration to understand everything that's happening. There are several major twists throughout this second part so you must read carefully if you want to try to figure things out before Asimov reveals the answers!<br />Essentially, the Second Foundation is desperately trying to get the Seldon Plan back on track (after it was bent by the Mule) and is forced to manipulate key individuals, something which was never done before. However, some smart people in the First Foundation figure out that individuals are being manipulated and deduce that the Second Foundation is at fault. So the search is on to find and destroy the Second Foundation before too many people are in their control.<br />Second Foundation ties up virtually all loose ends introduced in the first two books and is a superb read. As with many Asimov novels, the last chapter has a major twist (actually, two) that gets you flipping back to see if it makes sense in the context of what happened before. As usual, it does. :-) I recommend reading Prelude to Foundation and Forward the Foundation before reading the original trilogy. Now it's time for me to read Foundation's Edge and I can't wait!	2002-01-29
US	52241713	R2YXXOMKGWRDDM	0913135143	483681620	Galaxies and the Universe: An Observing Guide from Deep Sky Magazine	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A good compilation of articles for the galaxy-phile	Galaxies and the Universe is a collection of some of the best articles from Deep Sky magazine, which is no longer in publication.  This magazine was popular among amateur astronomers in the 1980s and catered chiefly to those with large telescopes at their disposal.  Hence, many of the galaxies discussed in these articles are too faint to make it into even the NGC!<br />Nevertheless, most of the galaxies described in this book can be seen in dark skies with telescopes in the 8\\"-12\\" aperture range.  The articles cover a diverse array of subject matter: interacting galaxies, galaxy clusters, two articles devoted to M31, overlooked galaxies very near to popular showpiece objects like M51 and M13, and more.<br />This book is designed for planning an observing session, not really for cloudy night pleasure reading.  The object descriptions are similar to those in the superb Night Sky Observer's Guide: a bit dry and clinical but get the job done.  Most of the article introductions are well-written and may be enjoyed casually, but the meat of the book should be used to prepare an observing plan.<br />The photographs and sketches are generally excellent.  There's a nice section in the middle with about fifteen pages of color photos.  Star charts are few and far between so you will definitely need a deep star atlas with you, either paper or computerized.  And I emphasize deep; Sky Atlas 2000.0 just won't do for these faint fuzzies!  The vast majority of the objects here are below the magnitude cutoff for SA2000 and besides, the scale of SA2000 isn't sufficient to easily star hop to these galaxies.<br />This book is out of print but you can get it through Amazon's used book services like I did.  It's easily worth the asking price if you're a deep sky buff.  I only have an 8\\" scope so I'll reserve the use of this book for the future when I have more aperture!	2002-01-29
US	52241713	R3ENMCUIS1P31Z	0933346840	871336980	Millennium Star Atlas: An All-Sky Atlas Comprising One Million Stars to Visual Magnitude Eleven from the Hipparcos and Tycho Catalogues and Ten Thousand Nonstellar Objects	Books	5	33	33	N	N	The deepest readily available paper atlas	I guess I'm old fashioned when it comes to using a telescope, but I prefer a paper atlas to laptops and software star atlases.  And I also prefer star-hopping to using GOTO or setting circles.  If you're like me, you already know you're buying this massive work.  Yes it's expensive.  Yes it weighs about twenty pounds.  But it's the ultimate paper atlas for the star-hopper.  The three volumes (each covering eight hours of RA) together have over one million stars plotted on their pages!<br />The binding and paper are of superb quality, sufficient for this atlas to actually be used out in the field!  Unfortunately, after you see how pretty it is (and remember how much it cost), you'll probably be content to let it sit safely on the shelf to be used as a reference.  Personally, I use an 8&quot; Dob and hence generally observe objects bright enough for Tirion's Sky Atlas 2000.0 to be an adequate atlas.  I have taken the MSA out a couple times but it was overkill.<br />For owners of larger scopes who wish to go after the fainter DSOs, a Mag 11 atlas like the MSA is a bare minimum.  A computer atlas going down to Mag 13 or so would be even better, but if you like paper then the MSA is the way to go.  I eventually do plan to make heavy use of the MSA out in the field, but probably not until I get a larger scope.<br />The closest competition to the MSA is Tirion's Uranometria 2000.0 2nd Edition.  Note that although it doesn't plot anywhere near the number of stars the MSA does, Uranometria plots three times the number of deep sky objects (30,000).  Therefore, owners of very large telescopes may be better served with Uranometria since it plots the very faint DSOs that MSA skips.	2002-01-21
US	52241713	R84KVADGKV6WU	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The continuation of an epic series	Foundation and Empire is the second of the original Foundation trilogy written in the 1950s.  The first book is Foundation and the last is Second Foundation.  I enjoyed Foundation but I liked F&E quite a bit more!  Foundation consists of five disconnected short stories, too short for adequate development of the settings or characters.  F&E is much more focused, containing only two stories, the second of which really impressed me.<br />A quick refresher on the background: The psychohistorian Hari Seldon was able to mathematically foresee the future of human society in the Milky Way.  It wasn't pretty.  Socio-economic forces were to cause the total collapse of the Trantorian Empire and lead to 30,000 years of anarchy and barbarism before a new empire restored peace and order.  However, Seldon saw an \\"alternate path\\" that could reduce the duration of the Dark Ages to a single millennium.  He established two societies (called Foundations) to bring this change about.<br />In Foundation, we learn how the fledgling First Foundation established itself after Seldon's death and how it grew powerful.  In F&E, Seldon is long dead and the First Foundation faces much more serious threats: a war with the dying but still powerful Trantorian Empire and a war with a mutant leader called The Mule who possesses incredible powers.  The part about the war with the Empire is a straightforward narrative with a couple interesting twists.  The second part about The Mule takes place a few decades later and is written in the style of a mystery, sort of like the first two Robot novels.<br />Since The Mule is an individual of extraordinary power, Seldon's psychohistorical predictions for the First Foundation are in jeopardy because they deal only with masses of people and large scale socio-economic forces.  Hence the second part is a more exciting read. :-)  Also, until the end of the second part the Second Foundation is a mysterious society on the other side of the Galaxy about whom we know next to nothing.  Although I guessed the nature of The Mule's powers, I did not guess his identity and it was a great surprise for me when it was revealed at the end.  The events of the last two chapters are stunning and really make you want to rip into the third book.  Yet F&E doesn't end on a cliffhanger and is quite satisfying in and of itself.  This unique blend is a testament to Asimov's genius as an author.  Also, you'll learn why the mutant calls himself The Mule and it's quite enlightening!<br />With novels written later, Asimov tied together three series into one huge one!  I recommend reading the entire 14-book series in the following order: the four Robot novels, the three Empire novels, and the seven Foundation novels (the original trilogy plus two prequels and two sequels).  So far I've yet to read the last three Foundation books (Second Foundation, Foundation's Edge, Foundation and Earth), but so far most have been excellent and all have been well above average.	2002-01-19
US	52241713	R2Q7YKF3MQEWDG	093334693X	287201242	Deep-Sky Wonders	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A superlative addition to the amateur astronomer's library	Deep Sky Wonders is a collection of issues spanning several decades of the late Walter Scott Houston's monthly column in Sky and Telescope magazine.  The noted astronomer and author Stephen James O'Meara organized Houston's writings by subject matter and further by month of optimal viewing for better readability.  O'Meara also only edited the text for consistency in a couple places, so it remains Houston's work.  I think he did an excellent job in the compilation.  A section on any given constellation or deep sky object may contain excerpts from many of Houston's articles, yet O'Meara managed to make the transitions seamless and got the flow right.<br />I read this book over about a month and it was a most enjoyable experience.  Houston's writing is superb, which is not surprising considering he held degrees in English.  Also, his love and enthusiasm for amateur astronomy comes through better than in any work I've read so far barring perhaps Burnham's wonderful Celestial Handbook.  Houston knows the sky and was an active observer right up to his death in 1993.<br />Both beginning and veteran observers will enjoy using this work to plan observing sessions, to check what interesting or challenging objects are up during a session, or to read in a comfortable setting on a night of no observing.  I plan to take this book with me on every observing session.  Highly recommended!	2002-01-13
US	52241713	R15Z5IX2E44M3Q	0553245767	312289163	The Choice: A Surprising New Message of Hope	Books	2	11	36	N	N	Why the glowing reviews?	The Choice is well-written but the story didn't make much sense to me.  The main character (Mark Christopher) leaves a highly successful sales career to become an author.  He catapults to stardom on his first book and later has to make a choice between his own life and that of someone close to him.  It is never revealed what threatens the life of the person close to Mark.  We simply have to believe the words of a mysterious third party who tells Mark that he'll have to make the choice.  The choice he makes didn't surprise or shock me in any way, given who the threatened person is.  So what's the point of &quot;the choice?&quot;  Almost anyone would make the same choice.<br />Also, Christopher makes a long speech near the end of the book on &quot;The Key to a Better Life&quot;.  The content of this speech is Mandino's main message of hope, which I found to be extraordinarily cliched and uninspiring (&quot;you have the power to choose your destiny in life, use it!&quot;).  I suppose I'm naturally skeptical of some random author giving advice on how to live life, especially when the advice consists of rehashed &quot;inspirational self-help&quot; propaganda.<br />I've also read Mandino's &quot;The Greatest Salesman in the World&quot;, which I found similarly chock full of common sense ideas and precepts purportedly found on newly discovered ancient scrolls.  In my opinion, the greatest failing of the published written medium is that readers tend to treat nearly every author as an established authority on whatever he's writing about.  This is especially true of the self-help genre, where authors wildly claim to possess the secrets of success and happiness.  The truth is, there is no absolute authority on this nebulous topic because &quot;success&quot; is extremely difficult to define.<br />Instead of Mandino, read authors like Carnegie and Bettger.  I have two unread Mandino books (&quot;The Greatest Success in the World&quot; and &quot;The Greatest Miracle in the World&quot;) and I've decided to put them up for sale with no intention of reading them.  I don't have time for sub-par books.	2002-01-04
US	52241713	R21QXCJWRJ422G	0553565079	834333861	Forward the Foundation	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A good transitional book in the series	Forward the Foundation is the last book that Asimov wrote. Out of the seven books in the Foundation series it is chronologically the second, following Prelude to Foundation. I recommend reading both the Robot and Empire series prior to starting the Foundation series. Both \\"Prelude ...\\" and \\"Forward ...\\" contain a major character from the Robot series.<br />Forward consists of four novelettes separated by ten years each. Hari Seldon is the main character throughout the work and the description of his aging from 40 to 70 seems to reflect on Asimov's own disillusionment with the aging process. The first three parts each eliminate a major character from Prelude in order to provide a seamless transition into the original Foundation trilogy written in the 1950's. The last part gives details on Seldon's development of the Second Foundation.<br />Forward isn't stellar but is quite engaging and a good read overall. I felt that the individual stories served as more than adequately convincing links betweeen Prelude and Foundation. Part 4 and the Epilogue overlap slightly with the first story in Foundation. I did find the ending to Part 2 to be particularly weak.  I've read the entire Foundation series now and didn't notice any \\"spoilers\\" in Forward that ruined anything for me.  The location of the Second Foundation is fortunately *not* revealed in Forward.  It's worth the read and is a great linking book.	2002-01-04
US	52241713	R2SINEZGOP91UZ	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	The fall of the Galactic Empire begins	Foundation consists of five stories separated by several decades each.  The Trantorian Empire has lost its hold on the outer perimeter of the galaxy.  Hari Seldon, founder of the predictive science of psychohistory, knows that the Empire is doomed to collapse and that thirty millennia of barbarism and anarchy will ensue before a second empire will rise.  But Seldon claims to know a way to shorten the dark ages from 30,000 years to a single millennium.<br />The stories in Foundation chronicle the infancy and development of Seldon's Foundation society initially established on the remote planet Terminus.  Seldon's psychohistory predicts several crises that the Foundation must survive in order to bring about the desired drastic shortening of the dark ages.  Four of the five stories each describe a crisis that confronts the Foundation.<br />So far I've read the Robot series, the Empire series, and the first three books in the Foundation series (Prelude to Foundation, Forward the Foundation, Foundation).  I find the epic story so far to be extremely engaging and imaginative.  The stories in Foundation are a bit disconnected and not fleshed out enough, but nevertheless do a more than adequate job of describing the fall of the Galactic Empire.	2002-01-04
US	52241713	R1UR1J8KBO0SYD	055321392X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	A brilliant effort, difficult to put down	Maugham proves that one doesn't need to write complex or flowery prose to evoke poignant emotions and admiration for the author's brilliance. Although he's evidently extremely knowledgeable in a host of subjects, Maugham's chief genius as I perceived it is in his ability to acutely describe how an individual (in this case a sensitive young man named Philip Carey) emotes and reacts to the influence of other people in his life. How do I know that Maugham's portrayal of emotion is accurate? Because I've been there as most of you have. <br />Growing up we've all had our insecurities (or still do): things about us that we were overly sensitive about and wish we could extinguish. For me one of these was my childhood asthma that gave me a tough time in middle school and early high school because it sometimes inconveniently hampered my athletic performance and made me stand out as abnormal. For you it's something else, unless you're one of the tiny minority that sailed through your formative years with *all* associated events and people bolstering your self esteem. <br />For Philip Carey it's his clubfoot (deformed foot) that is his physical and psychlogical burden. It makes him limp ungracefully and hinders his participation in athletics but doesn't cause him any pain. Carey also becomes acutely conscious of any reference to it by other people.  Of Human Bondage is partly a story of how Philip is cursed by his clubfoot to become an overly sensitive young man but eventually matures and largely conquers the impact of this birth defect on his self image. One turning point near the end of Philip's maturation process is when he realizes that everyone has a failing whether they're aware of it or not. He's almost thankful that his was just a relatively minor physical failing and feels sorry for those who remain unaware of deficiencies in their personalities that are glaringly obvious to himself. <br />Of Human Bondage is a rather sizable fictional account of Philip's life up to about age 30, but I flew through it in next to no time. You probably will too. I'm not sure how absorbed women would get in this book since it's the story of a man's life, but I highly recommend it to everyone! It's simply one of the greatest classics of the 20th century and will undoubtedly be enjoyed for centuries to come.	2001-12-11
US	52241713	R2DNLHSH01MY6O	0553278398	525478656	Prelude to Foundation (Foundation, Book 1)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	A superb page-turner	Prelude to Foundation is chronologically the first novel in Asimov's Foundation series. Hari Seldon has just introduced his theory of psychohistory to the public on Trantor and is now sought after for his potential to one day mathematically predict the future. In this book we learn much about the Imperial home planet of Trantor and the time period of the beginning of the Empire's decline. I haven't yet read the rest of the Foundation series but I'm looking forward to it, the more so after this enjoyable start.<br />Since Prelude was written many years after the original Foundation trilogy, Asimov chose to tie in a few plot elements from the four-book Robot series and the old Empire trilogy. In fact, a major character from the Robot series also shows up here in a marvelous twist at the end of the book! Having recently read both the Robot and Empire series, I feel that Asimov did a wonderful job considering that something like 20,000 years have passed since the time setting of the Robot series. I highly recommend reading the Robot novels before you start Prelude.<br />Prelude describes \\"The Flight\\" period of Seldon's life during which he was hiding from the Emperor Cleon I to prevent psychohistory from falling into the wrong hands (or so he thinks). This book is quite difficult to put down and the 400+ pages flew by for me in less than two weeks, which is unusual given how much time I usually devote to sci-fi. The ending has a couple great surprises in store for you, just make sure you don't peek!	2001-11-26
US	52241713	R1K1YRCXX32D9	038541269X	818953706	Pebble in the Sky	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Decent Asimov but not as good as his others	So far I've read Asimov's four Robot novels and all three Empire novels. I haven't read the Foundation series yet. Pebble in the Sky is the last of the Empire trilogy. It's a good read but I didn't enjoy it as much as the other Empire books or the Robot series. I feel that science fiction is most enjoyable when it's somewhat believable, but Asimov nonchalantly combines three far-fetched concepts in this work: time travel, telepathy/ mind control, and a weapon of extreme mass destruction. It's a bit too much!<br />A man named Joseph Schwartz is for no reason warped in time to the far future when the Trantorian Empire (introduced in The Currents of Space) has conquered and brought general peace to the entire Milky Way galaxy. The novel takes place wholly on Earth but the Earth of the future is a shattered and largely radioactive planet that bears little resemblance to what it is today. There is no space travel in this book.<br />After the random time travel event, Schwartz proceeds to acquire superhuman powers and uncovers a conspiracy that threatens the Empire, helped by a couple people who really just end up being the supporting cast for Schwartz's show. The viewpoint of this book is interesting: the \\"good guys\\" are the vast and powerful galactic Empire and the \\"bad guys\\" are some militant activists on Earth!<br />Overall, this book was a letdown after The Currents of Space, my favorite of the seven Asimov novels I've read so far. Still, it gives you an interesting perspective on the Empire at the peak of its power. From what I've heard, the Foundation series is where the Empire begins to crumble. So read the Empire series if you want to get a better idea of what life in the early Trantorian regime was like!	2001-11-17
US	52241713	RU5D4TZ8HBR3B	0671504398	43490097	Les Miserables (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of the greatest classics of all time	I'm not sure how anyone who's read through this book can rate it at less than five stars, unless he doesn't enjoy classic literature or perhaps read a poor translation.  Hugo's general knowledge and genius are stupendous.  He delivers coherent digressionary essays on all manner of deep topics external to the main plot of the novel: the human psyche and motivation, spirituality, convents and monasteries, human rights, love.  He weaves all this in with his solid grasp of history, warfare and battle tactics, politics, and even sewer construction.  Not to mention an enthralling story that was considered robust enough to make into a recent high-budget Hollywood film.<br />I just finished the Penguin (Denny) translation last night after about two years of working on this ~1250 page beast (I took breaks of, oh, around four months every now and then).  I read 600 pages in the last three months or so in a rather determined effort to finish it up.  I found Denny's translation generally outstanding.  Very readable and never bogged me down.  He moved a couple of the lengthier digressions to separate appendices at the back of the book.  I read those too; they were worth it!<br />The plot itself is intricate but involves a relatively small set of characters considering the length of the book.  Somehow, through various coincidences, the characters' actions affect each other throughout the entire novel.  The hero Jean Valjean, the inflexible Javert, and the evil Thenardier are present through most of the story and their individual aims and goals are what keep the story moving.  Hugo also successfully  superimposes this plot on the turbulent political atmosphere of the time and the characters are each directly affected by events outside their control.<br />Les Miserables is simply one of the greatest works produced by the human mind in all of recorded history.  You owe it to yourself to take the time to work through it at some point in your life.  You'll be a better person for it.And I think that Valjean is a good model for the right and honorable way to try to live our lives.	2001-11-16
US	52241713	R75B9X74UUR8S	0521362997	526910211	The Universe from your Backyard:A Guide to Deep Sky Objects from ASTRONOMY Magazine	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A polished and educational observing guide	This is one of the best introductory observing guides for amateur astronomers that I have seen.  Written for owners of small to medium telescopes, this book contains a diverse selection of objects for virtually every constellation in the sky.  Many of the southern constellations are included as well for those of you lucky enough to live under those spectacular skies.<br />I spent the last month reading through this book during my lunch breaks and used it for a few observing sessions with a 12&quot; scope.  I plan to use it for many more!  The artwork, photographs, and sketches in this work are a pleasure to view.  This is a keeper.<br />The observing notes about each object are very well written.  Some of the science may be slightly off (i.e. distances), since this book was written in the 80's, but this doesn't affect what you see in the eyepiece which is the main focus of Eicher's notes.<br />The book consists of many four-page chapters.  One or two constellations are covered in each chapter.  This consists of a page of outstanding photographs, a nice illustration of the constellation depicted as a mythological figure, discussion and observing notes, a map of the region, eyepiece sketches, and a chart with some basic details on all objects covered in the text (i.e. position, size, magnitude, etc.).<br />The only negative thing I found is that many of the objects that Eicher discusses in the text are outside the boundaries of the included maps!  The maps themselves aren't too detailed so a good star atlas is an absolute must if you use this book during an observing session.  Many of the objects surveyed are quite dim and require a bit of starhopping, which the included maps are inadequate for.	2001-11-13
US	52241713	R1LZ2G9SB46N1S	0449238296	32880242	Currents of Space	Books	5	20	25	N	N	The best Asimov I've read so far!	I just finished this book a couple nights ago. I've also read all four Robot novels and the first Empire book Stars Like Dust. I have to say that out of those books, The Currents of Space drew me in the most and really delivered!<br />The Trantorian Empire is rapidly approaching its full conquest of the galaxy. However, the wealthy planet Sark is one of the relatively few major obstacles remaining to the Trantorians in their mission. Sark is independent and important to the galaxy for its sale of the extremely valuable substance known as kyrt. Kyrt is similar in some ways to cotton but vastly superior in other respects, and it's only available from Sark.<br />However, Sark doesn't produce the kyrt itself. For some unknown reason, kyrt grows *only* on the nearby planet of Florina. Sark basically uses the Florinian natives as cheap slave labor to harvest and process the kyrt. No one has been able to get kyrt to grow elsewhere as anything but plain cotton. Thus, Sark has become wealthy and powerful. In addition, though Trantor could easily subdue Sark militarily, it would face the wrath of the rest of the galaxy for disrupting the supply of kyrt. Naturally, Sark depends entirely on its exploitation of Florina for its wealth.<br />Now enter a man who knows that Florina is doomed and that the immensely important kyrt production may be in jeopardy. This leads to a fantastic tale of political intrigue, murder, and sci-fi that somehow seems to have a lot more substance than the 200 pages it takes up. Read it!<br />If you can get it, that is. All three Empire novels are out of print. I suggest trying online auctions or used book stores.	2001-10-29
US	52241713	R1NR9UR8NBJ45J	0449235955	813706617	The Stars, Like Dust	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Quick and fun sci-fi	Stars Like Dust is the first of Asimov's Empire trilogy. The other two books are The Currents of Space and Pebble in the Sky. In Stars Asimov describes events immediately following the execution of a prominent political figure convicted of treason. His angry son Biron is the main protagonist of this novel. The \\"enemy\\" is a race known as the Tyranni who quickly subdued many formerly independent kingdoms and is taxing the heck out of them.<br />Stars is short at less than 200 pages and easy to read, yet still gives lots to think about. For example, Asimov's portrayal of the vast distances between stars and the utter darkness within a dark nebula are convincing and fire the imagination. There are a couple good twists in the novel and all questions I had were resolved by the end. The ending hints at a rebellion soon to come that will create the Empire. I believe The Currents of Space is set in the new Empire.<br />Stars also has a side plot about a secret document from Earth said to be the ultimate weapon against the Tyranns. We find out what this document is at the very end and I must say it's possibly the cheesiest ending to a sci-fi novel that I've ever read. Apparently Asimov himself hated it but was forced to incorporate this subplot by the editor. It kind of makes sense given that the book was published in the 1950s (read it to see what I mean).<br />I haven't yet read the other two Empire novels or the Foundation series, but I did read the four-book Robot series. The final Robot novel, Robots and Empire, provides a satisfying link between the two series. Also, the first Foundation book (Prelude to Foundation) is chronologically after Pebble in the Sky, so the three series together compose a grand 14-book epic!<br />Unfortunately the entire Empire series is out of print. This is a shame since Stars is definitely worth picking up and so are the other two from what I've heard....	2001-10-03
US	52241713	RPT2PZRHTC2BK	0586062009	548376022	Robots and Empire	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A good ending to the Robot series	I enjoyed this novel! Elijah Baley is long dead (but reappears a couple times in flashbacks) and the heroes in this novel are Daneel, Giskard, and Gladia. It's not a mystery novel like the previous books, just a straightforward novel about a couple Spacers with an evil plot of great destruction. The second half of the book really keeps you glued to the pages as the heroes eventually outwit their enemies. Sort of... Read it to learn what I mean!<br />The book is a bit shorter than The Robots of Dawn and moves pretty quick. The protagonists cover no less than four worlds (Aurora, Solaria, Baleyworld, Earth) in their attempt to foil their opponents' plans. In the process, Daneel deduces the Zeroeth Law of Robotics! Read the book to find out what it is...<br />I haven't read the later Empire or Foundation books yet (I'm going in chronological order), but it was still obvious to me that at the end of R&E Asimov sets in motion the future of Earth and the Settlers (Earthmen who colonize other systems). The far future is still uncertain as there are two major possible outcomes, one desirable and the other not. But at least we know what's bound to happen in the next few hundred years.	2001-09-24
US	52241713	R2BPK57FDCM7AH	0471353841	322960012	Pluto and Charon: Ice Worlds on the Ragged Edge of the Solar System	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	A good introduction to the ninth planet	This book is a well-written and enjoyable summary of what we know about Pluto and its relatively huge moon Charon. However, the fact of the matter is we don't know much because we have yet to send a spacecraft to this fascinating double planet! Stern and Mitton do a great job presenting the timeline of our discoveries about Pluto as well as the latest theories on the compositions and origin of these bodies.<br />I was especially impressed with the discussion of Pluto's atmosphere changing as a result of the planet's greatly elliptical orbit around the Sun.  In addition, the authors give a great detailed breakdown of the discoveries gleaned from the mutual occultations in the late 80s.  Also, this book was written several years ago but we have since indeed found many more Kuiper Belt objects that lend great credibility to the theory of Pluto simply being one of the largest of that family.<br />Too much time was spent on describing the birth and continuing struggles of the Pluto Express project. This discussion would have been more appropriate if the spacecraft had even launched, let alone successfully completed its mission. But the fact is that NASA's funding issues have kept the project grounded for now. Hopefully it'll fly in the next couple years. If it doesn't, much of the mission may be compromised because Pluto is getting farther from the Sun each day and as a result its atmospheric activity is dying.<br />Overall a great effort and worth your time. Don't expect incredible revelations and photographs though, because we still have yet to visit the place!	2001-09-05
US	52241713	R2PMV62WCTA47P	0553299492	659507995	The Robots of Dawn (The Robot Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Engaging and satisfying	The Robots of Dawn is the third novel in the Robot series and substantially longer and more involved than the first two.  This time the setting is the Spacer world of Aurora and Baley has been summoned to help Dr. Fastolfe (Daneel's designer) get out of a political scandal in which he has been accused of &quot;murdering&quot; a robot.  Asimov weaves a coherent plot with plenty of twists, slowly feeding us new information and leads in classic mystery novel form.<br />The ending comes in two parts: the first part gets Fastolfe out of his mess and the far more surprising second part solves the murder.  I thought the first part was a great resolution of all the facts and clues provided throughout the novel.  The second part seemed very artificial to me and quite unbelievable.  I can't comment further without giving away the ending, but apparently Asimov ended the novel this way to serve as a link to later novels.  I can't say since I haven't read the Empire or Foundation novels yet.<br />It's over 400 pages but it's quite a page turner, especially the last 150 pages or so.  Typically I read my science fiction two or three times a week for perhaps an hour at a time, so it takes me awhile to get through a book.  But last night I just had to finish it so I stayed up an extra couple hours to get to the end.  Enjoyable!	2001-08-20
US	52241713	R2G5Y7NT9QDT2Y	0792276140	629472879	Mars: Uncovering the Secrets of the Red Planet	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Wonderful introduction to our cold and dry neighbor	This outstanding book is published by National Geographic and it shows!  Enough colorful pictures to qualify as a coffee table book but plenty of interesting text to work through as well.  The book is written for the &quot;educated layman&quot;, not too technical but at the same time assuming a basic understanding of science.  The ratio of text to pictures is similar to the National Geographic magazine, perhaps a bit heavier on the text.<br />Raeburn begins with a summary of the different beliefs held about Mars before the spacecraft era, including the widely held one initiated by Lowell about canals constructed by intelligent Martians.  Raeburn spends the bulk of the book taking us through NASA's various missions to Mars: Mariner, Viking, Pathfinder, and Global Surveyor.  The book was published in 1998 and hence only provides a &quot;preview&quot; of the Global Surveyor findings.  Today, of course, we have a complete global map of Mars in astonishing detail.<br />Also, Raeburn optimistically looks forward to NASA's continuing &quot;faster, cheaper, better&quot; program of Mars exploration.  We already know that the orbiter and polar lander failed, so let's hope that the craft to be launched this year fare better.  Raeburn also notes that in 2005 a craft will be launched that should bring rocks from Mars back to Earth!<br />Overall, definitely worth the price of entry for the pictures alone.  There are even some neat 3-D pictures inside and the book provides 3-D glasses!	2001-08-17
US	52241713	R19IZPKG0NCNDV	1852333014	299198471	Jupiter Odyssey: The Story of NASA's Galileo Mission (Springer Praxis Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A marvelous story	This book takes you on a ride with the famous robot spacecraft Galileo.  Although the first couple chapters describe the spacecraft and deal briefly with the administrative headaches and unfortunate events that led to the greatly delayed launch, the bulk of the book literally follows the robot around as it makes its 6-year interplanetary journey and subsequent groundbreaking observations of remote Jupiter and the Galilean moons.<br />Despite communications being severely hindered by the early loss of the high-gain antenna, Galileo was still able to send back lots of high-resolution pictures of the Jovian system as well as tons of readings from other instruments.  Many of these pictures are printed in this book.  The previous reviewer was correct in stating that the pictures on the Internet look better due to more dramatic image scale, but this is a paperback book and the pictures had to be shrunk to fit in.  Nevertheless, many of the photographs are stunning, especially of Europa and Io, the two moons closest to Jupiter.<br />The story really sheds light on how much was lost due to the failure of the main antenna, because instead of a few high-resolution shots of selected areas of the surface like we got, all four moons would have been covered in glorious detail.  Anyway, it's still remarkable what the programming team was able to achieve with data compression.<br />Also, the accounting of the numerous radiation-induced glitches and resets suffered by Galileo helps us understand how incredibly hostile Jovian space is.  If a well-shielded electronic device encounters so many problems with radiation out there, how much worse would it be for living creatures??<br />Overall, a fantastic telling of an incredible story, somewhat accessible to the layman but especially so to the amateur astronomer or space science enthusiast.	2001-08-01
US	52241713	R2U8ZBYON09WCZ	0553293397	345876674	The Naked Sun (The Robot Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Very entertaining	This is the second novel in the Robot series and continues the adventures of Elijah Baley and Daneel Olivaw begun in The Caves of Steel.  It's written in much the same style as the first book: engaging, fast-paced, and tough to put down.<br />Baley attempts to solve a mystery on the Outer World of Solaria.  Solarians run what many would consider a Utopian society; they live on massive estates in ease and comfort with tons of robots doing all the labor and necessary menial tasks.  However, due to the extremely low human population, they never see each other and over the generations have even grown to shun physical human presence!  Business is carried out by &quot;viewing&quot; each other through a projection medium.  Asimov makes this unusual stigma quite believable and shows us several interesting facets of Solarian life.<br />I just finished reading this last night!  The plot is well developed, driven mainly by interviews and questioning.  Not as much action as in The Caves of Steel, but there is one tense moment when an attempt is made on Baley's life.  Daneel plays less of a role in this book than in the first one; Baley really does most of the work and makes the decisions.<br />The initial solution to the murder mystery isn't as shocking as in the first book.  But there's a surprising revelation at the very end!  A good read with an obvious hint at a sequel.  That's The Robots of Dawn, the next book on my list.	2001-07-16
US	52241713	R1QVUUGRH24CPY	0553293400	579875460	The Caves of Steel (R. Daneel Olivaw, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A fun read	Despite the fact that this sci-fi novel was written half a century ago, nearly all of the concepts and technologies described are still so far in the future that it might as well have been written yesterday.  This book delivers on all counts: characterization, plot, immersion in the setting, engaging new concepts, questions of morality, and more.  Absolutely worth your time.<br />The story is basically a murder mystery and the identity and motive of the murderer will surprise you!  I believe the Robot novels were written as serial novelettes appearing in a sci-fi magazine in the early 50s, so many of the chapters end on mini-cliffhangers.  This would have been maddening back in the magazine days, but now it merely makes the book difficult to put down!<br />I wish Asimov had fleshed out the logical transition of Earth from our time to the totally different underground city life described in the book.  Also, Earth has more people than all 50 of the Outer Worlds combined.  How is it possible then for the Outer Worlds to have such a political and technological stranglehold on Earth?<br />These minor gripes aside, this novel is a great start to a long series (including Foundation) that I'm looking forward to working through!	2001-07-10
US	52241713	R1MJHYEDLHXNO4	0943396581	954883779	The Night Sky Observer's Guide : Vol. 1	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Simply a must buy for large-scope owners	This is the first volume of an incredible deep sky reference work for amateurs. First of all, the introduction written by Craig Crossen (noted astronomer and author) is the finest overview of basic layman's astronomy theory and observing conventions that I have run across.<br />The rest of the book consists of sketches or photographs and descriptions of hundreds of deep sky objects in all constellations visible from mid-northern latitudes during the Fall and Winter seasons. The second book covers Spring and Summer.  Objects are described as to how they appear with telescopes of different apertures. The majority of objects are for large scope owners, e.g. 12\\"+, but the brighter objects like Messier are even described for 4\\" scopes.<br />The maps and finder charts are adequate but you'll need a good star chart to complement them and confirm that you've got your target. Each constellation chapter begins with a table of interesting double and multiple stars, an excellent and thoughtful inclusion for medium-size scope owners who may not be able to see many of the DSOs or for those in cities where DSOs are wiped out by light pollution.<br />I haven't seen a guide to compare to NSOG in depth of coverage. The two large volumes are enough to keep large scope owners busy for many years. There are nice guides out there with better descriptions of far fewer objects (e.g. The Universe From Your Backyard by Eicher), but for sheer quantity NSOG leaves them all in the dust.	2001-07-10
US	52241713	R2D9ZGA6WLEJVQ	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Overpriced and mediocre	I really didn't get much out of this book and in fact just sold it today! It's extremely short (about an hour's reading) and I guess I thought the author's message was pretty common sense: take charge of your own life and deal with changes pro-actively. These days it's tough to have faith that the company you're working for is going to keep you around for an entire career. Even if you're a good friend of the CEO, that doesn't help much because even CEOs can be fired if the company's not turning a profit!<br />This book is good as a wakeup call for people who still have a false sense of security with companies. A business is unfortunately mainly about profit and loss, and if an employee is no longer profitable the business would prefer to replace him or her with someone who is. Having the \\"cheese\\" taken away is never fun, but at least it forces you to learn new skills or whatever it takes to find a new source of cheese.<br />But overall, [$] for this tiny little tome is asking way too much and you can find far better books on this matter for less. There are tons of PMA type books out there that teach how to always maintain a good attitude no matter what happens and to make the best of what you have. Some of the classic authors like Dale Carnegie, J. Paul Getty, Frank Bettger, etc. will teach you how to have an adaptable attitude and a whole lot more besides.	2001-07-07
US	52241713	R3DQYKUMZG7I8G	0201328399	26703575	Venus Revealed: A New Look Below The Clouds Of Our Mysterious Twin Planet	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A greeaat read!	I really enjoyed this overview of our sister planet!  Despite his background as a planetologist and university professor, Grinspoon writes for the layman with a freshness and spirit that is rare in non-fiction astronomy books.  He first takes us through an extensive history of our discoveries and past theories on Venus, then reveals the major findings of the Magellan mission which laid bare the planet's high-level topography.  Towards the end Grinspoon presents a couple bold suggestions as food for thought, e.g. the possibility that life currently exists on Venus and also ideas for terraforming the planet!<br />I especially enjoyed the virtual tour of Venus as well as the descriptions of what it would be like to spend a day and night on Venus, assuming you could survive the extreme heat and crushing pressure.  Did you know that it never gets totally dark on the ground, because even at night the rocks are so hot that they glow red??!<br />The footnotes didn't bother me too much; in fact, I rather appreciated Grinspoon's sense of humor and chuckled at a few of them.  One thing that did annoy me was Grinspoon's repeated pessimistic assertions that we humans are wreaking havoc on Earth through global warming, ozone depletion, acid rain, pollution, blah blah.  The fact is, it's kind of ludicrous to suggest that the Earth's overall &quot;health&quot; is being affected at all by us.  There is no proof of this whatsoever.  We may be making things worse for ourselves in the long run, but the Earth is so massive that there's really nothing we can do to hurt it.<br />Anyway, I've read a few books on the planets and this is the best so far!  Just the right blend of science and non-technical discussion to appeal to the layman and the amateur astronomer both.	2001-07-06
US	52241713	RLTZ6CK8WB93X	0131553593	503449977	A Complete Manual of Amateur Astronomy: Tools and Techniques for Astronomical Observations	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	A good collection of projects for the amateur astronomer	This book was written in the early 80s but is still useful today as a guide to how an amateur astronomer can contribute to the science.  It covers many observing topics in-depth and explains how to document findings: variable stars, double star orbits, sunspots, asteroid light curves, comets.  The book also contains a section on photography and the use of a couple handy instruments that are now probably outdated.<br />I read the book but haven't actually begun any of the projects covered in it, mainly because I just like to observe with my telescope and not get mired in the science.  However, the book did help me become more familiar with the use of telescopes as scientific instruments and not just as windows on the universe.	2001-07-06
US	52241713	R3KMUL6NB315Y	0316771635	93729948	The Millennial Project: Colonizing the Galaxy in Eight Easy Steps	Books	2	9	19	N	Y	Just not worth it	Savage has vision and thinks big, but unfortunately his book starts out bad and gets worse as he elaborates on a fantastically absurd plan for colonizing the entire Solar System in the next thousand years or so! The book gets better towards the end when Savage describes the colonization of the rest of the galaxy, because he brings up interesting points like why we're the only intelligent life in the universe (an argument I agree with) and how near-lightspeed travel would affect human timescales.<br />The main reason the first 75% of the book is a chore to get through is because Savage attempts to establish credibility with his audience by assertively providing all sorts of details on engineering design and economics with only sketchy references to a few pages of works in his huge bibliography.<br />And some of his technical ideas are simply ludicrous. As a sensible alternative to fuel-hungry rockets, he wants to send payload to space on gigantic ice cubes riding on high-powered lasers!! Also, as a remedy for human loss of bone and muscle in zero-gravity space, Savage suggests applying electric stimulation to ourselves on a daily basis and while we sleep! Finally, Savage lost all technical credibility with me when he vastly misjudged the distances in a scale model of Earth, the Moon, and Venus. If Earth is the size of a grapefruit, he claims Venus is something like 40 miles away. If he had done the simple math, he would have discovered that the farthest Venus gets on that scale is something like a couple miles away, and it gets as close as 1/3 mile away at inferior conjunction. He made a similar huge error on the Moon. Did anyone proofread this book?<br />Also, the Utopian economics of Savage's step-by-step plan are vastly underestimated. Each of his eight steps would consume the entire American work force for years. Add to this the fact that Savage is quite a poor writer (even though he majored in English) and you have a near-disaster on your hands. He makes all sorts of cliched remarks and tries to sound eloquent as if he's writing an epic poem or something (he even calls himself a bard at one point), but fails miserably in this regard. Just read the introduction for a fine example of this. I can't see why Arthur Clarke put his &quot;seal of approval&quot; on this work since it only lowers his credibility.<br />The one saving grace for this book is the last 25%, which makes for interesting hypothetical reading. Colonizing the galaxy is a topic likely to fire the imagination and Savage does an adequate job of making this part interesting. But the meat of the book, Savage's &quot;plan&quot; for escaping the &quot;multiplying yeast in a bottle&quot; that is people on Earth, is simply not worth your time.	2001-07-06
US	52241713	R4BMSIZ5MO2BF	006097687X	491490254	Secrets of the Night Sky: Most Amazing Things in the Universe You Can See with the Naked Eye, The	Books	3	13	18	N	Y	Mediocre but maybe it's just me	I really wasn't too impressed with this work with respect to either content or quality of writing.  I would recommend this as good introductory material to people who don't pursue stargazing or amateur astronomy at all.  But for those of you with at least a good appreciation for the night sky: you've likely read or heard most of this stuff before.  It seemed to me like a book version of a Discovery channel TV show about space: diluted for mass consumption, overly dramatic in some parts, containing mostly basic information that enthusiasts of the hobby already know, and in general leaving a lot to be desired.<br />I don't intend to make this review come across as scathingly negative.  After all, I did give it three stars.  There were a few interesting bits of information, e.g. speculation on the African Dogon tribe's knowledge of Sirius' companion.  I was simply expecting more from a book that got great reviews otherwise, and what I read was decidedly &quot;average&quot;!<br />Your money is better spent elsewhere.  For the amateur or even very-interested layman, I would recommend Burnham's Celestial Handbook as a near-perfect melding of technical data on celestial objects and wonderfully descriptive notes.  That three-volume work is simply a requirement for every stargazer's library.	2001-04-30
US	52241713	R32CD6I6409QPT	0913135313	7437591	The Photographic Atlas of the Stars (UK edition)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A new perspective on star atlases	There are no errors in the plotting of any of the objects shown in this star atlas.  Why?  Because all the maps are photographs!  Each map consists of an unmarked photograph, a black and white copy of the photograph marked with star names and other useful landmarks, and a text description of many of the interesting objects on the map.<br />The authors have made a supreme and largely successful effort to calibrate the colors and scale to match human perception of the night sky.  A few notable nebulae and stars appear different in the atlas than what we would actually see due to the differing sensitivities of film and human eyes to certain wavelengths of light.  Also, the limiting magnitude of the maps correlates closely with what binoculars can see, not what the human eye can see.  Consequently, sometimes the sheer overload of stars and objects visible on the map can be confusing.<br />All 88 constellations are covered, some on several photographs.  Because each map covers such a large area of the sky, many of the deep sky objects noted in the text are difficult to pick out.  Also, it seems that for some maps the text was written for earlier or later exposures than what was actually published.  This is evident after looking for variable stars mentioned as &quot;bright&quot; in the text that are not even present on the photograph!<br />Overall, a great work but no substitute for a &quot;real&quot; star atlas like Sky Atlas 2000.  A bit expensive for its usefulness, but obviously a labor of love for the authors and great for casual naked-eye or binocular stargazing.	2001-04-30
US	52241713	R2A9JA6Z1JCMM6	0684845946	193295017	Magnificent Universe	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Fascinating jaw-dropping photographs	This is THE astronomy book for the coffee table.  The photos are truly awe-inspiring and will have house guests thinking about getting into astronomy!  For amateur astronomers, this book makes for great cloudy-night browsing.  All photographs have brief but well-written captions explaining what you're looking at.  The gorgeous colors and large format pages allow for great dramatic impact.<br />It is an expensive book.  However, it is (to my knowledge) the best of its kind.  Admittedly, I went through it a couple times and now it just sits on my bookshelf!  But it's always fun to show it to other people.  I think every amateur astronomer would want a book like this to let the imagination run free once in a while.  The various galaxies pictured in the book seem so close and detailed that it's easy to start dreaming of journeying there in a spaceship.  We forget how incredibly far off these behemoth &quot;island universes&quot; are.	2001-04-30
US	52241713	RHRDEW8CDZXFB	0521598893	96837768	Star-Hopping: Your Visa to Viewing the Universe	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	Some great tours of the sky!	This is a thick book heavy on content and true to its purpose: to help the novice amateur astromoner learn how to navigate the sky without the aid of motorized GOTO computers or setting circles.  The work contains about 24 starhops, most of which are fairly lengthy and take two hours or longer to complete if observing leisurely.<br />Although the text is a bit dry and not as enjoyable to work through as in MacRoberts' wonderfully descriptive and similar work &quot;Star-Hopping for Backyard Astronomers&quot;, the emphasis in this book is on *empirical star-hopping practice*.  Once you complete the exercises in this book you *will* have gained a subconscious feel for navigating the skies with your scope.  Traditional star-hopping becomes second nature and loses its daunting aspect.<br />I feel that all amateur astronomers should have this skill down pat.  It makes your observing immeasurably easier because you have an intuitive &quot;feel&quot; for which direction and how far to move your scope.<br />The maps are well done but do not completely reflect the text.  Sometimes objects are discussed in the text but don't appear on the map.  Also, the maps are not at near a large enough scale to make the star-hops fully straightforward.  For the dimmer DSOs in his tours (and there are many of them), I highly advise the reader to purchase a solid Mag 8.5 or deeper star atlas to accompany this book, such as Tirion's Sky Atlas 2000.0 2nd Ed.<br />Overall, recommended over MacRoberts' book for serious training and experience in this skill.  Rank beginners will want to start with something easier, like MacRoberts or the excellent Turn Left at Orion.	2001-04-16
US	52241713	R17P8K76PNEU2M	0521781906	98352532	Turn Left at Orion: A Hundred Night Sky Objects to See in a Small Telescope - and How to Find Them	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	One of the best guides around for small telescope owners	I have an 8&quot; Dob and admittedly I found Turn Left at Orion somewhat less than challenging to use.  It's really designed for 4&quot; scopes or even smaller.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed every page.  The viewing guides for the moon and planets are outstanding!  The scale and depth of the maps is perfectly suited for the difficulty level of this book.<br />I went through many of the tours presented in this book and enjoyed them thoroughly.  In my opinion, it's the best tour of the &quot;showpiece&quot; objects around for small telescope owners.  I was delighted to find the &quot;Winter Albireo&quot; mapped and described on one of the tours.  The book even has a section on objects best viewed from the Southern Hemisphere, so those of you in Australia aren't ignored.<br />Highly recommended!!  Once you've &quot;graduated&quot; from this work, you can try Garfinkle's &quot;Star-Hopping: Your Visa to the Universe&quot; or MacRobert's &quot;Star-Hopping for Backyard Astronomers&quot;.  Both are well-done, with my personal preference for bang-for-the-buck going to Garfinkle.	2001-03-28
US	52241713	R1HVD1M2JS31GG	0933346689	314085836	Star-Hopping for Backyard Astronomers	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Well done but overpriced	I read through and used this book a couple months ago.  I've also had the opportunity to do the same with Garfinkle's &quot;Star-Hopping: Your Visa to Viewing the Universe&quot;.  MacRobert's book is prettier, with much better maps (adapted from Tirion's works) and more colorful descriptions of the objects.<br />But it's short!  Only 13 telescope starhops, and short ones at that!  Each starhop can be leisurely completed in about an hour.  Garfinkle's starhops are each about twice the length, sometimes even longer, and feature a much more varied selection of objects.  Plus, Garfinkle includes nearly twice as many starhops in his book, so there's about four times as much total content.  It's a 300-page book including the appendices.<br />MacRobert's book is great for novices with small telescopes.  Owners of 6&quot;+ scopes will not be challenged at all by most of the objects in these hops.  They're just too easy, except when a gibbous or full moon is out!<br />I would rate this book a 3 based on value: time spent using book vs. cost.  However, I'll bump it up to a 4 for the outstanding quality of the maps and for MacRobert's enjoyable descriptions to accompany each item of the starhops.  If you want a great introductory star-hopping book worth the asking price, look into Garfinkle's &quot;Star-Hopping&quot; or Consolmagno's &quot;Turn Left at Orion&quot;.	2001-03-28
US	52241713	R3BP5GWUCX58PU	0441102670	337219306	Chapterhouse: Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 6)	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	More sci-fi excellence	Just finished this a couple days ago and I'm still stunned at the scope of the series. In a mere six books, Herbert fleshes out an epic tale that stretched my mind far beyond any sci-fi I'd read before. Several characters from past books still live on in my imagination!<br />Chapterhouse closes the series. Sort of. Taken as a novel it's outstanding. Here are a couple things that really stood out for me:<br />1. The description of Murbella's experience with the Agony and her resultant loyalty to the Bene Gesserit is wholly believable and we gain a better understanding of why the \\"witches\\" behave the way they do.<br />2. Outstanding descriptions of the transformation of a lush world into a desert planet: \\"anti-terraforming\\".<br />3. If you've read Book 4, it totally makes sense when you discover where the Honored Matres come from!<br />4. Quite a dramatic shock when the Matres use their secret weapon!<br />As an ending to a series Chapterhouse is generally satisfying but doesn't really serve as a substitute for the sequel Herbert would surely have written if he hadn't passed away the following year. Clearly the book can't be rated lower for circumstances beyond Herbert's control. A few obvious loose ends to be cleared up that a sequel may have taken care of:<br />1. Scytale and the Bene Tleilax<br />2. consequences of the new generation of worms<br />3. destination of Leto II's Golden Path?<br />4. What's chasing the Honored Matres?<br />Chapterhouse is a fantastic read and I recommend it highly! The ending of the book kind of baffles me and I'm not sure what to make of it. Very unexpected!	2001-02-27
US	52241713	R3LU3FZV5QAGY6	0521645875	974053117	The New Solar System	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A thoroughly enjoyable tour of our neighborhood!	This is a gorgeous and complete treatment of our solar system supported by very recent spacecraft data (Galileo, Pathfinder) in addition to the seminal Voyager flybys and Viking landings. The next edition will likely include Mars Global Surveyor data as well as findings from the Saturnian Cassini mission in 2004. The prose is much more readable than that of most college textbooks, yet coverage of the subject matter is thorough on an amateur level. The artwork and choice of photographs is exquisite and complements the text perfectly, in full color.<br />When I ordered this book I was hoping for a tour of the solar system in the context of the question: \\"What would it be like to be there?\\" Well, this book only partially fits that bill but to be fair, it's not designed to! It's more a technical summary of theories scientists are confident in the verity of or have evidence to support. The New Solar System is the best example I've seen of this specific type of text. And there are many others out there, most of which are either too basic or too detailed for the serious amateur astronomer.<br />I'm still looking for the \\"overactive imagination\\" version of this book though! :)	2001-02-12
US	52241713	R13MCDDDACEZ2P	0521789818	493235406	The Planet Observer's Handbook	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A must-have for the dedicated planet observer!	This book is a good read for the general amateur astronomer and a required text for the dedicated planet observer.  I fall in the &quot;general amateur&quot; category and do not have the patience nor inclination to devote my observing time to sketching the planets night after night.  Yet I enjoyed the book anyway and it gave me a sound appreciation for the dynamic nature of our neighbors in the solar system as well as the numerous ways in which the serious amateur can contribute to the science.<br />This book is replete with details on the numerous features visible on the planets through amateur telescopes.  It also gives advice on what type of telescope to use and what magnifications to employ.  Basic scientific data on each planet (rotation rate, mass, distance, etc.) is included for reference as well as a lengthy history of observation for each planet, but the emphasis of this book is on *amateur observation*, as implied by the title.  You won't find theories on Saturn's cloud decks or the origins of Mars' surface features.  What you will find are detailed tips and advice on how to look for and draw the spokes in Saturn's rings, festoons between Jupiter's cloud belts, the &quot;purple haze&quot; on Mars, filters to employ, etc.<br />A necessary work at a great price for the hardcore planet observer!  For the casual amateur, a bit expensive and over-the-top but still a useful addition to the library.  I give it five stars because it adheres to its stated purpose faithfully and with style.	2001-02-12
US	52241713	R96RZ53O2OWCZ	048623567X	157610977	Burnham's Celestial Handbook: An Observer's Guide to the Universe Beyond the Solar System, Vol. 1	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Just get it!	Since getting into astronomy about a year ago I've been reading like crazy!  I read all three volumes of Burnham's cover to cover and I thoroughly enjoyed practically every page of descriptive text.  Due to Earth's precession as well as the motions of nearby stars, the position and double star data is not completely accurate but close enough to not be a big deal to amateurs.  The object descriptions are the main reason to purchase all three volumes.  Just buy them, you won't regret it!	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R3J75EAFGOBQYZ	1552093026	283225065	NightWatch: A Practical Guide to Viewing the Universe	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Good for the beginner but quickly outgrown	I read this book after about four months or so of actively observing with a telescope and found it very well-written but also quite basic.  It's great if you're a rank beginner but you will likely outgrow it quickly.  Once you get a firm handle on the basic concepts of amateur astronomy, I don't see why you would need this book except for lending it to others to familiarize them with what you're doing!<br />Intermediate or experienced amateurs looking to learn more need not apply.	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R3JOX8Y0JR371X	0441328008	580553453	Heretics of Dune	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	great sci-fi	I'm currently reading Book 6 so Heretics is still fresh on my mind!  I was initially disappointed that the story basically started fresh many centuries after Book 4, with only Leto II's lingering &quot;Golden Path&quot; still haunting the Bene Gesserit and no other characters present from that time except Duncan Idaho.  BTW, this book and the next focus entirely on the Bene Gesserit.<br />After a couple chapters, however, I was hooked into the story and intrigued by the nature of the violently destructive Honored Matres returned from The Scattering.  What are they after?  I'm about halfway through Book 6 and that question still hasn't been answered.  Duncan is a child for most of this novel, so the main male &quot;hero&quot; is the veteran general Miles Teg.  There are a few Bene Gesserit protagonists, but since they're all so crafty and cunning it's hard to call them heroines.  Let's just call them &quot;the good side&quot; while the Honored Matres are most definitely evil.  <br />Herbert does a wonderful job endowing each Bene Gesserit with a unique personality yet also that infernal arrogance.  There isn't a single Bene Gesserit that doesn't feel a sense of superiority to all non-sisters and complete control of almost any situation.  Herbert chalks this attitude up to the countless memories of Other Lives and it is very believable.<br />An excellent read with an awesome ending.  Several scenes of intense action and classic Herbert descriptions of combat and the &quot;prana-bindu&quot; reflexes.  Go Miles!	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R212GKOUHAPCVH	0452270510	78071324	Compassionate Capitalism	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A successful entrepreneur shares the secrets to true wealth	There are lots of wealthy people out there but most aren't truly happy.  This is largely because they aren't fulfilling a higher purpose with their businesses, they're simply out there trying to survive in the often cutthroat business world.  DeVos explains what it takes to make your business a positive force in the world; &quot;positive&quot; by virtually any standard.  <br />Contrary to a lot of advice you may have heard out there on how to successfully build a prosperous business, DeVos claims that integrating compassion for your fellow man with lucrative opportunities is the real secret to security and happiness.  It's the knowledge that what you're doing is making a difference that makes you feel worthy of the privilege and comfort of wealth.  And even before the wealth comes, having a compassionate attitude along with sound business acumen (which can be learned) goes a long way towards increasing your chances of attaining wealth and influence.<br />A great book written in a language anyone can understand.  I don't have any complaints, but I refrain from giving it five stars because it didn't &quot;knock my socks off!&quot;  Highly recommended reading for anyone looking to understand the attitudes and principles necessary for *true* success.	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R1SN3ZN1P6Z2MI	0441104029	357442714	Children of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book Three)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The dynasty lives on	Leto II takes over where Paul failed.  This book is about his and Ghanima's maturation and assumption of the power and legacy that Paul has left them: leadership of the Fremen, an increasingly powerful force in the galaxy due to their control of the spice.  As they're growing up, Paul's sister Alia is in charge and succumbs to evil (you'll be shocked to find out who takes over her mind).<br />However, enemies and conspirators are hard at work to eliminate the twins.  A great novel with a dynamite plot and dialogue.  Plenty of action!	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R1SLVOD1ZJXAEC	0840714475	73867277	The Nelson Study Bible: New King James Version	Books	5	49	52	N	Y	Excellent work	I'm not a Christian but decided to purchase a bible to get this classic work under my belt.  I wanted a study version though so I could get through the tougher parts without being baffled at the language or meanings.  I purchased the Nelson version after reading many positive reviews and feel I made a great choice!  Understandably, you need to be careful with study bibles in case you begin to adopt the editors' slant on things, but from what I can tell the Nelson team has done a fine job of retaining the integrity of the NKJV translation in their commentaries.<br />I'm still on the Old Testament (2 Kings right now) and I've throughly enjoyed most every single chapter so far.  Thanks to the well-written and not-too-long commentaries on many verses it's easy to comprehend the significance of the passages and understand some of the ancient practices prevalent at the time.<br />Great maps in-text and at the back, helpful tables of dates and events, thorough cross-referencing, definitions of especially meaningful words in the Hebrew context, as well as in-text discussions of major concepts make this a definitive study bible for any NKJV reader and also as a reference work.	2001-01-29
US	52241713	RCHPBUOXFMA6N	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Excellent sequel	I'm currently reading Book 6.  I've thoroughly enjoyed every book in the series so far.  Dune Messiah is top-notch classic sci-fi.  In this novel, Paul develops and matures as the prescient leader of a people in a religious fervor.  <br />Herbert masterfully portrays the various forces at work attempting to stop Paul and his immensely powerful following.  There's a lot of action in the book but not as much as in Dune.  Messiah focuses more on Paul's personal struggles with knowing the future and being trapped in his vision, with only a handful of critical &quot;junctions&quot; available where he can change course.  The ending is highly satisfying and emotional.	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R27BPIO3PKONR9	0441294677	274386890	God Emperor of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	DEEP	Easily the slowest of the Dune novels, yet profoundly deep and satisfying.  Leto II is basically a god and the novel steps inside his head and convincingly explains to us what it might be like to be a god who can see the future.  The ending is sad but explosive and leaves hope for the future of the Golden Path.<br />The quality and depth of the dialogue and thoughts spoken aloud in this book are simply unbelievable.  Herbert covers religion, philosophy, human nature, government, and a whole host of other controversial topics.  Tthe vast majority of other sci-fi authors can't even touch, let alone match, Herbert's genius in these topics.	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R133KLGBULNGYU	0521627621	850713735	Sky Atlas 2000.0 2ed Deluxe Edition	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Perfect for its purpose	Make no mistake, this is not a &quot;star hopper's&quot; atlas for the faint DSOs.  It doesn't have the scale or magnitude limit of the Millenium Star Atlas for example.  But for a Mag 8.5 atlas it's highly portable and very well organized.  The scale is large enough to easily find the brighter objects (e.g. Messier).  Double stars are accurately identified with Hipparcos satellite data.  The ideal star atlas for serious beginners.  Even experienced amateurs should own a copy, because for its size it's perfect!	2001-01-29
US	52241713	R2I5396RA41H3Y	0812550285	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	did anything happen in this book?	After finishing this book, I wondered how Jordan managed to pack 100-150 pages of plot into 600 pages of text!   What happened to the other 500 pages?<br />Well, most of that 500 pages, unfortunately, was pointless  discussion about things that simply don't matter, like why Nynaeve is  starting to dress more revealingly (I guess to make Lan happy, but who  cares?).  Why does it take the entire book for Elaine and Nynaeve to find  the Bowl of the Winds, when they were in the same area the whole  time?<br />The conversations that DO matter are written in Jordan's usual  suspenseful style that keeps the reader guessing as to the intentions of  the speakers (Forsaken, Aes Sedai, etc.).  Very few loose ends are tied in  this novel and in fact, many more are brought up.  The ultra-powerful and  mysterious Moridin is introduced, as is the True Power which even the  Forsaken don't dare to wield.  What is the relationship between Moridin and  Shaidar Haran, who was introduced in Lord of Chaos?  What about Slayer,  what happened to him?  What happened to Mat?  Still no word on Moiraine and  Lanfear.<br />Yet for all the disappointments, it's a must read because it  DOES progress the story.  You can't really skip it because several  important new characters are introduced (Moridin, Cadsuane, etc.).  If  you're hooked on the series, buy it but be prepared for disappoint relative  to the previous books.	2000-07-24
US	52241713	R92JT0W1HZM9I	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	epic	I read this book twice a couple years ago.  I loved it; it's my second-favorite of the series (after Lord of Chaos).  This is a VITAL book in the series, it answers many questions about Rand's background and the  Forsaken.  In fact, for the first time in this series, a book manages to  tie up more loose ends than it leaves!<br />There are a couple parallel  threads in this novel (Rand/the Aiel, Nynaeve/Egwene, and Perrin/Faile).   All threads are independently resolved nicely at the end with no major  cliffhangers, although the protagonists remain in different parts of the  world throughout the book and at the end.  The Rand/Asmodean and  Nynaeve/Moghedien conflicts in particular were very well written, with  outstanding portrayal of these characters' distinct personalities coming  alive in their struggles.<br />The Two Rivers part with Perrin/Faile vs. the  Whitecloaks was in my opinion weak compared to the adventures elsewhere.   However, this narrative takes up so much of the book that it's impossible  to ignore, and interesting questions are brought up (i.e. Who is Slayer?   What is the significance of the Manetheren heritage in the Emond's  Fielders?).	2000-07-24
US	52241713	R6I8RDMJP0GV3	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very satisfying!	A fantastic page turner, this book will keep you up for several nights to see what happens next!  I've read 'em all through Path of Daggers, and I went back and basically re-read this one a couple years ago.  TEotW has a  somewhat different style than the others, simpler and much more linear with  no more than two or three different threads at once!<br />Jordan truly does an  awesome job of bringing his new world to life.  Each unique location in the  novel, from Shadar Logoth to the Tua'than camp to the Eye of the World  itself, is described in great detail and immerses the reader in the  characters' reality.  The viewpoint is third person omniscient, but the  reader is left nearly as much in the dark as the characters, hence the  page-turning nature of the work.<br />Also, TEotW serves as a standalone novel  in addition to being the first in a great series that still has no end in  sight!  The climax is satisfying and there is no real cliffhanger like the  later books in the series.<br />Recommended.	2000-07-24
US	52241713	RQ199GRQJF7KT	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	WOW	Three fantastic novels in a row, this is very special!  Lord of Chaos is my personal favorite in the series so far (I've read through Path of Daggers)!  In this book, Rand becomes a SERIOUS force to be reckoned with  politically due to his Black Tower and his budding domination over the Aes  Sedai!<br />Sure, Rand's a blabbering paranoid freak, but he's still got  enough wits to hold his growing empire together.  Perrin returns to  prominence.  The three lads from Emond's Field seem to no longer be the  best of friends, their lives have separated to a great degree.  The Aes  Sedai who fled the White Tower upon Elaida's ascendancy are regrouping in  Salidar and plotting a return to power.<br />This book is very long, but the  first 75% is basically a build-up to the last 25%.  This last couple  hundred pages of the book is where Jordan delivers some of the best fantasy  action I've ever read, masterfully tying together a couple threads into a  brilliant culmination of events that leaves the reader gaping in awe.  The  ending is pretty sudden and although only a few Aes Sedai are sworn to him,  the precedent is set and there is a sense of overwhelming (though bloody)  victory.<br />Most of the concepts in this book won't make sense unless the  reader has completed the previous novels.  The first three books are great,  but to me books 4-6 are the best.  Just read them ALL!  Unfortunately, the  pace set in this book is dramatically altered (for the worse) in the next  two books.	2000-07-24
US	52241713	R1TLZMH5MBBKHZ	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	excellent, if a bit drawn out	This is a great book, but moves somewhat slower than the first two.  I read it first a couple years ago, and now I'm kind of re-reading it and am about halfway through it.  Unlike the first two in the series, the focus  lifts off Rand as well as giving us a somewhat clearer view of events  outside the knowledge of the protagonists.<br />The scheming of the Forsaken  becomes less muddled, although the reader is still very much in the dark as  to what alliances have formed among the Forsaken.  It becomes obvious for  the first time that the Aiel will play a MAJOR role in Rand's destiny and  he will need their help.<br />As far as the main characters are concerned,  Rand himself is in flight practically the entire book and Jordan doesn't  spend much time on him.  The pacing seems a bit off; Rand should be  out-distancing the rest of the companions (because they have several  adventures along the way, i.e. Perrin and Faile, the wolf-man, etc.), yet  Moiraine manages to end up in Tear at about the same time as Rand!  Maybe I  need to finish re-reading it to understand how that worked.<br />As usual,  Jordan shows his mastery of immersing the reader in the setting.  The  descriptions of the Stone of Tear and the final battle within are  outstanding.  The conclusion is very satisfying and henceforth Rand begins  a widely recognized ascendancy as the Dragon Reborn, with promises of a  gripping saga ahead!	2000-07-24
US	52241713	R2QYX3JSJEWF4K	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	17	21	N	N	the epic begins	I consider the Eye of the World to be more of a prelude to the Wheel of Time series and indeed can serve as a standalone novel.  With The Great Hunt, the story becomes more complex as the true multiple threads begin,  the Forsaken become more active, and the Seanchan arrive.  Also, Rand's  true ancestry is strongly hinted at for the first time, which adds new  dimensions to the breadth of the storyline.<br />The novel maintains the fast  pace of the first book, although the story isn't quite as linear anymore!   It's hard to put the book down, especially as some characters' loyalties  become questionable (i.e. Lord Barthanes in Cairhien and the Shienaran  warrior behind the escape of Padan Fain).  The ending brings the story to a  satisfying close with plenty of loose ends to be tied in the next book.  A  great read!<br />I give this book a 4 not 5 because the childish behavior of  some of the characters annoys more than in the first book.  Aren't these  people supposed to be in their 20's?  Why do they act like they're 13 years  old?  Jordan could have portrayed the characters as innocent adults instead  of stubborn kids!  <br />And the length of time Jordan spends on some of these  immature confrontations is over the top.  For example, an entire two  chapters or so is devoted to the three girls (Nynaeve, Elayne, Egwene)  frustrating themselves in not being able to &quot;sweet-talk&quot; Mat into  delivering a letter to Morgase, with Elayne batting her big brown eyes at  Mat and Mat complaining to himself that when women are nice they want  something.  The failed effort at moving a &quot;mulish man&quot; enrages  the girls and puts them in a rotten mood, from which they grudgingly decide  to give Mat one of Siuan's notes of authority.<br />Anyway, the book is good,  read it!  Start with the first one, of course...	2000-07-24
