US	52241478	R1TRJGOKVAMRXF	0446520942	234309172	Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Become Visibile with a not so Visible Service	There are several hundred books available on the market about selling. Most of these books are based on tangible products, something the consumer can see, feel and recieve an almost immediate satisfaction after the purchase. <BR>     This books is one of the few available about selling services. When a consumer purchases a service from you or your company, they are paying for your promise to deliver someting in the future. This is especially true in the world of finance and insurance industry. A financial advisor sells a fund and the buyer expects to recieve x amount of interest on his in vestment at a later date. In the insurance industry, a client buys an automobile insurance policy but will probably never see the benefits of the sinsurance policy until he or she has an accident. How do you sell something that has no immediate benefit to the client? Read &quot;Selling the Invisible&quot;.<BR>There are twelve very easy to read chapters with many short examples (lacking a little bit on the proof side). I do believe it is an excellent book but it is too North American oriented to be carried over one to one for european, asian or middle-eastern markets. There will have to be a few cosmetic adjsutments made to be able to adapt to other makets but it is still a catalyst to start doing things differently.<BR>The chapters and some of the main messages of those I recieved from the author Harry Beckwith:<br />Planning - 1.) Accept the limititations of planning 2.) Don't value planning for its result;the plan 3.)Don't plan your future plan your people. 4.)Do it now. The business obituary pages are filled with planners who waited. 5.)Beware of focus groups; they focus on today and planning is about tomorrow. 6.)Don't let the perfect ruin good. 7.)Don't look to experts for all your answers. Ther are no answers, only informed opinions.<br />How Prospects Think - 1.) Appeal only to a prospects reason, and you may have no appeal at all 2.) Familiarity breeds business; spread yourword however you can. 3.)Take advantage of the recovery effect. Follow-up brilliantly.<br />Pointing and Focus - 1.)Stand for one distinctive thing that will give you a competative edge. 2.)To broaden your appeal, narrow your position. 3.)No company can position itself as anything, your prospects and customers put you there. Positioning is something the market does to you. You can only try and influence your position. 4.) Your position is all in the peoples minds. Find out what that position is. 5.)Focus. In everything from campaign for peanuts to campaign for presidents, focus wins.<br />Pricing - 1.)Don't assume that logical pricing is smart pricing. Maybe your price which makes you look like a good value, actually makes you look second rate. 2.)Setting your price is like setting a screw. A little resistance is a good sign. The reason 10% of the population are chronic complainers of price. 3.)Beware of the deadly middle in pricing. You communicate that as well... We are average. 4.)Beware of the rock bottom in pricing...you communicate we are substandard. 5.)Value is not a position.<br />Naming and Branding - 1.)Give your service a name, not an abbreviation 2.)Generic names encourage generic business. 3.)In service marketing almost nothing beats a brand. 4.)Building a brand doesn't take millions. It takes imagination.<br />Communicating and Selling - 1.)Make the service and the prospect feel compfortable 2.)Saying many things usually communicats nothing. 3.)Good basic communicating is good basic marketing. 4.)If you think your promotional idea might seem silly or unprofessional, it is. 5.)Prospects do not buy how good you are at what you do. They buy how good you are at who you are. 6.)Far better to say to little than too much. 7.)People hear what they see. Watch what you show. 8.)Give your marketing a human face.<br />Nurturing and Keeping Clients - 1.) Watch your relationship balance sheet, assume it is worse than it appears and fix it. 2.)Don't raise expectations you cannot meet. 3.)To manage satisfaction, you manage your customers expectations. 4.)Out of sight is out of mind. If you are not meeting regularly, you are not in their mind.<br />Overall an excellent book that contains a lot of reasons as to why service marketing is different and how to keep yourself visible amongst the competition.	2003-11-11
US	52241478	RTDC1XLSDVINA	0195126858	439541917	Building Trust: In Business, Politics, Relationships, and Life	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Establish or Re-establishing Trust in Work and Life	A decent book that needs to be read carefully. The author explores the ways that we view trust from all angles. Trust itself is sometimes a hard word to define. People have different definitions of trust and the authors bring clairity into this subject.<br />Basic trust - we are all born with this trait, as infants we are dependent on our parents for feeding and caring for us. We establish a foundation for trust at a very young age.<br />Simple trust - unconscious form of trust better known as our default trust. A lot of times we trust people we don't even know because we have to, like it or not. When you go to the super market and the person at the register tells you it cost xxx, you trust that they have calculated the amount correctly. When we ask directions to a location when in an unfamiliar town, we trust a person we don't even know to give us correct directions. People who have been betrayed at one time or another refer to this trust as the \\"naive trust\\".<br />Blind trust - is a trust in denial. When somebody has been presented with facts showing their trust has been taken advantage of but continue not to believe the facts that are contrary to a one's personal beliefs, the person turns to a state of denial not accepting the facts. Blind trust is not critical and unquestioning.<br />Conditional trust - rarely does any trust exsist without some type of condition attached to it. A business person trusts that his fellow colleagues will do their work but would you trust a work colleague to do perform a medical operation on one of your family members? We trust somebody to do something and once this person has completed the action we will proceed to do something in return for that person. We see this type of trust in politics quite often or between parents and children sometimes.<br />We do not think very deeply with simple trust, with blind trust we are fooling ourselves into deception. As the author states, \\"Authentic trust is both reflective and honest with itselfand others.\\" Corporations and democratic societies that have authentic trust are usually more productive and profitable than those without it. Employees who are very cynical and parinoid have experienced some type of mistrust which is a good sign of a disconnect between employees and management. The ways to start to re-establish trust is to bring it out in the open with dailogue and define what trust really is. There mere fact of talking about it helps a group of people establish some type of base to start from.	2003-10-18
US	52241478	R14CEOTB917O2P	0933201540	932629951	Bicycling Fuel: Nutrition for Bicycle Riders	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Eating Right for the Right Ride	Most cyclists I know have a standard diet for racing and riding irregardless of the distance and intensity. I belonged to the \\"One diet fits all group\\" as well. I was more interested in learning how to loose weight by cycling than pre- and post racing diet habits. Nevertheless it was very intersting to learn about proper nutrition to boost performance.<br />The book starts off dealing mainly with basic education about nutrition, such as what are fats, protiens, carbohydrates etc., The authors thuroughly explain how the body creats energy, metabolism and which foods should be eaten for immeadiate energy boost or foods the body digests slowly for long distance racing. Do the energy bars really give you the added kick to stimulate your performance? Well not really and they provide the same amount of energy as any normal carbohydrate snack such as cookies etc.,<br />The book is divided into 4 specific sections of nutrition for:<BR>1.) the recreational cyclists<BR>2.) the endurance cyclists<BR>3.) the elite cyclists<BR>4.) the mountain bikers<br />It is overall a good book, it goes into detail wtihout being flooded with specific occupational dieticians jargon. I was looking for a book that would give more insight into \\"How to lose weight by cyclying\\" which this wasn't but it did bring up several facts and nutritional habits that I was not aware about.	2003-09-21
US	52241478	R2XZX0E2LUIG43	0130289221	627188666	Becoming a Critical Thinker: A User Friendly Manual (3rd Edition)	Books	5	57	61	N	N	Arsenal For Attacking Flawed Presentations	A presentor is usually happy when people pose questions, as long as they are not critical questions. Most of the time the audience doesn't pose any questions because they simply don't know what questions to ask or how to formulate those questions.<br />The prinicipal points of this book:<br />Establishing the issue and the conclusion.<BR>- Knowing and agreeing with the counterpart on the issue prevents us from veering off away from the subject of discussion. People like chaning the issue when they feel trapped.<BR>- Listening to the person's conclusion about the mentioned issue which will indicate the person's opinion.<br />What are the reasons for their arguments on a certain suject?<BR>- Reasoning takes many roads but often we don't know how to counter weak reasoning. Key words that give way to faulty reasoning with no substance to back up the argument.<br />Finding words that are ambiguous<BR>- Counterparts discussing a subject, saying the same thing with several key words but some words have many meanings. Make sure you are talking about the same thing.<br />What are the value conflicts and assumptions?<BR>- Value conflicts are explosive because of different political, religous and moral beliefs. A speaker who is devoutly religious will try and bring biblical arguments in to reasoning which for someobdy who is an athiest, would mean absolutely nothing. <br />How good is the evidence: Appeals to authority and testamonials.<BR>- Probably one of the most abused factors in supporting an argument. How often have you heard, &quot;Experts on the subject state 70% of medical doctors say x,y and z habits are great for your health&quot;. Don't forget to ask who the authority is. The more general authority and testamonials are the weaker the argument. The authors of many surveys make them biased. e.g. If scientific study has proven that smoking is good for your health and the author of the article is a lobbyist for the tobbaco industry, could it be possible that the authorhas something to gain from the study? If so ask what other authors or experts say about the subject. The so called industry specific gurus who give their testamonials are in most cases biased, because they have something to gain with the report.<br />Deceptive statistics are also factors that need to be examined closely. When a presentor starts talking about averages and percentages, ask which average and how large the sampeling was on people who took the survey. You would be surprised about how many presentors do not know anything about the facts they are presenting.<br />The author does not only wirte about critical thinking but has included many exercises to acitvate the reader to look for faulty reasoning and how to build up questions to counter evidence being presented. It is a great introduction text to critical thinking.	2003-09-21
US	52241478	R3EB2F6HNW2S3R	1564142140	693281169	Master Math: Basic Math and Pre-Algebra (Master Math Series)	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Good But Not Great For Basic Math and Pre-Algebra	I was sitting down at work one day and tried to work out a math problem. I couldn't believe that I had forgotten how to do certain math calculations. I am fourty years old and figured that I was in need of a mathematical review. I was able to whiz through the book and pausing after each chapter, saying to myself, \\"O.K. I understand this now, I haven't really lost it all. I just needed a quick refresher.\\" The book starts out from the very very basic, explaining the theory and terminology however when it came to chapter 8 and the explanation of logarithms things start to become fuzzy. The author should have asked normal everyday students if they understood what she was talking about. I recommend Forgotten Algebra from Barron's over this book.	2003-02-23
US	52241478	RGMDTOANU767W	0787957852	182808796	Driven: How Human Nature Shapes our Choices	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Who Is In Your Driver's Seat?	At first glance this book seems to be leaning too much toward the scientific/academic side. I was actually dreading to read the book, however the authors have done a magnificant job of livening up each academic part with real world case studies. The main theme of this text is how we base our decision making on four psychological drives that every person is born with regardless of religion, race or other factors:<br />1.) The Drive to Acquire (D1) - We all have it, it is normal but some have too much of it. Those who have an overdose of D1 tend to teeter on the edge of self-destruction and those around them. <BR>2.) The Drive to Bond (D2) - Everybody likes to feel wanted and belong to some type of organisation (family, cultural, religion, hobby, etc., When a person engages in decicion making, they will usually decided positive for the person who has something in common with them. <BR>3.) The Drive to Learn (D3) - Learning is a part of life and when this drive is not satisfied in people they become aggressive and restless. Have you ever seen a highly intelligent well-paid co-worker leave a job although this person never had any problems with peer or superiors? Chances are that this person was in dire need of a cerebal orgasam i.e. The person was somebody who needed to be mentally challenged. <BR>4.) The Drive to Defend (D4) - We have learned certain beliefs and take them to be true until proven otherwise. When somebody attacks or tries to show us otherwise we become agitated, angry or beligerent because deep down in our subconscious we have a defense mechanism that does not want to be proven wrong.<br />This is an excellent book for markets, negotiators and employers. What makes us tick inside our crainium. The authors have excellent examples taken from Hewlett-Packard and how they created a bond between employees and the company. Other scenarios show why some companies work extremely well with labour unions and some companies never seem to have any peace between management and unions. Why do we prefer a product over another? All of these answers are in this text.	2003-02-23
US	52241478	R17F4U4TRILFPF	0887306667	381720534	The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing:  Violate Them at Your Own Risk!	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Has Your Marketing Plan Failed?	If your marketing plan has failed, then the chances are that you have not adhered to several of the 22 laws which are described in the clear and concise wording on 132 pages in this book. Each law or chapter is usually about five pages long, which requires only a short attention span to read it quickly. I do not recommend reading the book in one evening but to read a chapter and then reflect how these laws effect your company or products.<br />I will only list those laws that I found most important for me:<br />Law 3.) The Law of the Mind - It is better to be first in the mind than to be first in the marketplace. Examples of this are the personal computer market with MITS Alistair 800 being the first in the marketplace; Apple was the second in the marketplace but first in the mind of the people. The same example is shown with  different companies such as Remington Rand and IBM.<br />Law 4.) The Law of Perception - Marketing is not a battle of products, it's a battle of perceptions. You can have a much better product than your competitor but perception wins out most of the time over product. A great example of this is the battle of the imported japanese car market of Honda, Toyota and Nissan as well as the soft drink war between Coca-Cola and Pepsi.<br />Law 12.) The Law of Line Extension - There is an irresistable pressure to extend the equity of the brand. One of the best chapters of this book explains how a winning product is turned into a loser by creating a spin-off version of the original product. Marketing managers continue to make this fatal mistake today of taking a successful brank like Coke, then creating Cherry Coke, Coke Classic, Caffine Free Coke etc., Engaging in line extension dilutes the original successful brand and the new version will never recoup the market share lost by the leading product. In the end there is an overall market share drop for the entire brand. Other examples of this is IBM's flirtation with the personal computer market, which was already dominated by the Apples, Commodores and Ataris. <br />The book is very condensed and I am sure a lot of the business scenarios depicted are more complex than they appear. Yes the book is rather old but a lot of these theories still have held true through the internet boom and bust cycle experienced over the last several years. <br />All people in the field of marketing should have these laws chiseled into their crainium somewhere.	2002-10-05
US	52241478	R1WTI9T8YN7YSP	0380799006	834404613	Siblings Without Rivalry: How to Help Your Children Live Together So You Can Live Too	Books	5	6	7	N	N	In Need of a Peace Treaty For Your Siblings?	Are you tired of your children fighting over everything big or small? Are your nerves frayed at their ends? Are you spending too much time setteling your childrens' agruments? This excellent book teaches parents all these different techniques to help children help themselves solve their sibling problems without violence and parental intervention.<BR>When investigating the problem of sibling rivalry, the culprit and the root of the problem comes from parents' attitudes toward their children. Are you a parent that has labeled your children? Sometimes parents attach a label to their children without realising it and the consequences are creating excesive pressure on the children to play a certain roll that they have no desire to but continue to act it out in order not to hurt the parent.<BR>Children want to be heard and adults must first learn to listen and acknowledge the childrens' feelings. When children are mad or angry, it is important that we help the describe what they are feeling and let them know that it is alright to be mad, sad, angry or disappointed, however it is not acceptable to hurt the person with whom they are having conflict. The whole idea of this solution sounds like it was concieved in some fairy tale but it works about 90 percent of the time to reduce the tension between the fighting children in our family. After the tensions have subsided between the siblings, the parents suggest the children find a solution to their problem and they actually come up with some creative things.<BR>The authors have integrated numerous real live scenarios they have encountered from parents who have participated in their seminars over several years.<BR>Two years ago I purchased a book from the same authors, \\"How to Talk so Kids Will Listen and How to Listen so Kids Will Talk\\" which brought a lot of peace and sanity between parents and children. As our family expanded, the conflicts and bickingering between siblings started to increase and with the help of this bookthey are now on the decline. <BR>An excellent book that all parents should read.	2002-09-21
US	52241478	R3VB83ZTP2KLC8	038549369X	914462112	The One to One Fieldbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How to Treat Different Customers Differently	What a fantastic book for every marketing professional to read. The authors have invested a lot of time and effort to make this book very informative and practical. It deals with the real business world and not some theoritical formula that works only in closed conditions. There are many examples of successes as well as failures of companies that have switched over to the 1 to 1 Marketing concept.<BR>The book consists of 15 chapters to help one build the system of 1to1 marketing. The main highlights for me in this book were the following:<BR>1.) Learning to treat different customers differently, separating them into three catagories<BR> Most valuable Customer (MVC)<BR> Most Growth Customer (MGC)<BR> Below Zero (BZ)<BR>and concentrating most of your companies effort and budget on the MVC and MGC clients.<BR>2.)Gathering detailed information about the most profitable clients and maintaing a data bank to help all areas and product line to interact with the client on a profitable basis.<BR>3.)Generating feed-back and interacting with the client based on the feed-back. Junking the typical model of customer help lines that do more damage than good for a company.<BR>4.) Getting high-level management participating and to be prepared for the costs incurred when implementing the 1to1 marketing concept for the company. <BR>One of my own important experiences is that management conceives the idea without asking the advice and input from the sales force. This can be disastrous for the 1to1 Marketing concept. Everybody and I mean everybody has to informed of why they are preforming a certain task and what effect it has on the entire company. Tell your employess what you are doing from the beginning, if you wish to avoid the pitfalls of internal conflicts and bickering. <BR>At the end of each chapter there is a summary and a check list of items that should be done in order to implement the points discussed in the respective chapter. Don't forget... all companies are different andone will have to figure out which strategy to pursue for his or her industry. <BR>This excllent book will definitely help your profits SKYROCKET to the moon. Do it before your competitor does.	2002-09-07
US	52241478	R2HHUZMNHTCJ2B	0671899082	111315246	One To Ten Pop-Up Surprises!	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mind Ticklers for Children as Well as Adults	Chuck Murphy's creative way to stimulate and educate a child. The book consists of 10 colorful pop-ups which encourage children to ask questions about the things they are seeing in the pop-ups as well as to count. <BR>Our two young boys, ages 2 and 4, take these books everywhere with them. During long automobile voyages or flights each book keeps the child's mind entertained for at least 30 minutes but not more than 1 hour and 20 minutes during any given trip. <BR>We have already purchased the above book three times since it has sustained a lot of wear and tear from the mountains to the beaches. Chuck Murphy's books are tops with our kids.	2002-09-07
US	52241478	R2YQ0UNH26HXCL	0307115232	168948013	The New Potty (Look-Look)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Worried That Your Child Will Never Use the Toilett?	We bought this book as well as several other books, when we noticed our child wasn't buying into our advice about how convenient it is for him as well as his parents that he use the toilett, we resorted to this method and it seemed to work all by itself with little influence from the adults. We simply sat down and read it to him and voila.. it worked. I have no idea which book hat the most influence but this was one of them.	2002-09-07
US	52241478	R3JQQEG2J6MUPU	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Strategies For Whom?	The &quot;Book of Five Rings&quot; is an ancient text from the renowned Japanese samurai teacher, which was written in 1645. The introduction, which is necessary to read to understand the environment and the political state of japan during the period when the author wrote the book, will put anybody to sleep. <br />The text consists of five individual books:<br />1.) Ground<BR>2.) Water<BR>3.) Fire<BR>4.) Wind<BR>5.) Void<br />Each book goes into a specific type of combat for various situations and weapons, which can be brought over into every life of business people. To understand all of the five books, one meeds to read them at least five times.<br />I was expecting a lot more from this book but it left me more dissapointed than anything. If you are looking for an understandable book on strategy that can be applied to business, I would highly recommend reading Sun Tzu's &quot;The Art of War&quot;.	2002-09-01
US	52241478	R3UCQJPVPD4I6U	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	3	10	21	N	N	Strategies For Whom?	The &quot;Book of Five Rings&quot; is an ancient text from the renowned Japanese samurai teacher, which was written in 1645. The introduction, which is necessary to read to understand the environment and the political state of japan during the period when the author wrote the book, will put anybody to sleep. <br />The text consists of five individual books:<br />1.) Ground<BR>2.) Water<BR>3.) Fire<BR>4.) Wind<BR>5.) Void<br />Each book goes into a specific type of combat for various situations and weapons, which can be brought over into every life of business people. To understand all of the five books, one meeds to read them at least five times.<br />I was expecting a lot more from this book but it left me more dissapointed than anything. If you are looking for an understandable book on strategy that can be applied to business, I would highly recommend reading Sun Tzu's &quot;The Art of War&quot;.	2002-09-01
US	52241478	R3RSAPWH74NY7M	1583487670	63801544	How to Lie with Charts	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Want to Learn How to Recognize a Deceptive Presentation?	Are you tired of watching managements', employees' or politicians' deceptive presentation with graphs? Do you want to call their bluff? \\"How to Lie with Charts\\" is your secret weapon. This book along side with Darrell Huff's \\"How to Lie with Statistics\\" gives you all the amunition you need to cut through those presentations that create optical illusions.<br />The author explains all of the various charts available, their characteristics and how people alter their graphic works of art to influence the audience to buy into whatever the presentor wishes.<br />Not only does the author talk about the graphs but he explores the area of our subconcious and how this strongly influence our positive or negative perception of a chart.<br />The book goes into great detail and is quite humorous. The only cirticism that I have about this book is located in chapter 10. The author talks about the importance of color and how it influences the audience but he explains all of this in black and white. If you are going to encourge people to use color presentations and graphs, stop being such a tight wad and use color in your own book. Explaining tones, shades, etc., in fuzzy gray color doesn't do the job. Practice what you preach. Use color to explain color.	2002-08-18
US	52241478	R1ED4XX51TF71K	0393310728	302322388	How to Lie with Statistics	Books	5	8	8	N	N	More Important Than Fifty Years Ago	In today's high tech world where everything is explained with &quot;Corel Presents&quot; or &quot;Power Point&quot; graphic presentations, this text has become much more important than ever before.<br />How often have you went into a presentation, saw the colourful graphics and accepted the information being portrayed to you as realistic? You might have had suspicions about several things but did not have enough back bone to speak up or contest those figures because you simply did not know what questions to ask.<br />This book guides one through the maze of statistics, their misuse through wrong calculations and unconcious optial illusions of graphs to influence our perception of the way we view a situation.<br />When management, a salesperson or a politician starts talking about averages on a graph; Ask them which average are they actually talking about. Are they talking about the average mean, average mode or average median? I actually started inquiring with authors of previous presentations that I have received in the past. Some of the experts presenting these facts and figures did not know the calaculations used to atttain their results because they had acquired them from 3rd or 4th sources. It shows how many clueless presentors we have in this world. <br />Sampeling is another one of those statistics some of us forget to ask about. When we see figures indicating 30 percent &quot;YES&quot; verses 70 percent &quot;NO&quot; from any given survey. Seventy percent of how many people said &quot;NO&quot;? Did they ask 100, 200, 600 or 1,000 people? Did they interview men, women, children, dogs or snails? Were the questions biased toward one group or the other? All of these questions are very important and the majority of the people fail to ask these questions when being presented with statisics.<br />Some of the language is old and outdated but it is exactly this which makes it a charm to read. Excellent, Excellent.....	2002-07-06
US	52241478	R2BA2SVGV16S8L	0967450608	303906502	The Brand Called You for Financial Advisors	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Market Yourself Before Your Services	The authors Peter Montoya and Tim Vandehey have written a book that is aimed at a wide spectrum of financial advisors; experienced, entry-level, old, young, investment bankers, private bankers and the independent financial advisor. Their methods are made to help you stand out amongst the many.<br />     They start of with urging the reader to create a small one to two page personal brochure which contains an abridged version of the client advisor's personal history, accomplishments, hobbies, several photos as well as anecdotes. Above all this brochure should not contain products or sell anything.<br />     According to one of their interviewees, most clients base their decision on trust when choosing a financial advisor. Product range is not the first point they examine. It is easier for a prospective client to trust an advisor if he has something in comman with him i.e. specializing in an area of common interest with the furture client. &quot;Retirement Planning for Dental Professionals&quot; or &quot;Financial Planning for Commercial Airline Pilots&quot; etc...The personal brochure gives the client a chance to attach a personality to the advisor. <br />     There are suggestions of creating a one year marketing plan with a combination of personal postcards, sales letters, direct mail, creating a personal logo as well as involving public relations and advertising agencies in your work.<br />     It is a good book but if you are a client advisor working for any global financial institution, you will have to go through proper channels to attain approval to execute some of these ideas. Some of these concepts might work well in the U.S. and would need a little adjustment to adapt to local market cultures in Europe and Asia.	2002-06-23
US	52241478	R3E44E76Z68FSN	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Old World Strategies For New World Bussiness	I was looking forward to reading this book so much that I fell asleep while trying to read the first 90 pages of Sino history during the time of Sun Tzu. That is the only reason I gave it a four, instead of five stars. The author has openly not taken into account that very few of us have a fraction of his knowledge of these interesting events. I understand these to be of great importance to the reader but the author needed to simplfy it a bit.<br />Some people have criticised this book because they were not able see how these passages correspond to modern day business relationships. It is up to the reader to interpret this for himself. One of my favorites is the following quote from page 128-129, passage 19-20<br />19. And therefore the general who is advancing does not seek personal fame, and in withdrawing is not concerned with avoiding punishment, but whose only purpose is to protect people and promote the best interests of his sovereign, is the precious jewel of the state.<br />My translation: A boss must not have fear of his superior and make decisions that are in the best interests of the people he manages which sometime clash with those of highly political senior management.<br />20. Because such a general regards his men as infants they will march with him into the deepest valleys. He treats them as his own beloved sons and they will die with him. Tu Mu... During the Warring States when Wu Ch'i was a general he took the same food and wore the same clothes as the lowliest of his troops. On his bed there was no mat; on the march he did not mount his horse; he himself carried his reserve rations. He shared exhaustion and bitter toil with his troops.<br />My translation: Bosses who spend time helping their employees solve problems, pitching in a hand with anybody in the team who is behind a project deadline etc. Employees who witness such actions are willing to spend any amount of overtime to help a team reach a goal. The boss can depend on their subordinates when push comes to shove.<br />This book also unlocks the secrets to the Sino and Japanese business mentality.<br />This book is a great read for any business person	2002-06-09
US	52241478	R3L0LZP77USCM3	0471642355	527268390	Harness the Future: The 9 Keys to Emerging Consumer Behaviour	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Consumer Behavior For Entry Level Marketers	The concepts and indicators Shirley Roberts mentioned in this book are nothing new to me since I have been working the last two decades at an investment bank that already follows these trends quite closely. <BR>Most of the first two chapters seemed to be elementry knowledge, however starting with chapter 3 the text begins to look a little bit more into the detail of the \\"Hows and Whys\\" of her beliefs. Numerous examples of failure and success stories of companies that have recognised trend changes help the reader fully understand the concepts she is talking about.<BR>The author comes from a food and beverage background which is very evident in her examples but she does use other business sector cases as well.<BR>In the book she really pushes the theme of globalisation of the world's markets and their effects on consumer behavior. However, there are only a few very limited number of non-North American case studies.<BR>The occupation of a \\"Marketing Professional\\" will become much more difficult as consumer market becomes extremely non-homogeneous, destroying the \\"Mass Marketing\\" philosophy.. hurray hurray... this means more marketing jobs... ha ha ha ..<BR>Although I have been in an occupation tracking these trends and statistics over the last 20 years, I was able to learn a few new and interesting things but I would say this book is an excellent read for the college graduate/entry level employee for a marketing/market analyst type occupation.	2002-02-28
US	52241478	R25BXWYRRF2KKJ	0787909521	130265451	Emotional Intelligence at Work	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Intelligently Listen To Your Own and The Emotions Of Others	Emotional Intelligence at Work is an excellent book that teaches people to learn how to take step back, take a deep breath, listen to yourself and listen to others. Techniques to difuse volatile situations between you and your work colleagues. Turn an aggressive confontation into a useful fact gathering session to get to the real source of the problem. Do you know what words to use and sentence structure to apply in order to be direct without attacking or creating a threatning situation with your counterpart? Do you want people to listen to you when you talk? All of these fantastic techniques are found here.<br />One has to really concentrate and use these techniques daily in order for them to work. I was actually surprised to see the majority of them work &quot;live in action&quot;. This text should be mandatory from grade school to the university level.<br />The author Ph.D. Hendrie Weisinger is a psychologist who uses many different work place examples from his numerous seminars. In many of these situations it is possible for people to see themselves in the characters and the situations that are being portrayed. It is an excellent book for anybody.	2002-02-11
US	52241478	R1B8VUUGP8DDPV	0609608207	107157698	The Myth of Excellence: Why Great Companies Never Try to Be the Best at Everything	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Myths Of Conquering Markets	No matter how simple the author's theory and logic is, many highly paid intellilgent business executives still have no comprehension of the themes covered in this book. So many companies are so out of tune to what their customers really want. <br />This book revolves around the theme of &quot;Consumer Relevancy&quot;, which described by the authors as the process of aligning business operations and offering to new and targeted markets and moves them forward over time. In my own words it means actually asking the client what they really want and expect from a company in order to retain the consumer over a long period of time. <br />The book has many real case studies taken from a wide spectrum of companies in the Anglo-Saxon world but felt they could have used more non-US case studies. Actually understanding how these select businesses have come to seek out and really understand their customer base to improve the process and profits gives one inspiration to think about their own business or company.<br />Fred Crawford and Ryan Mathews evalute a company on a scale of 1-5 (5 is the highest)in five select catagories:access,experience, price, product and service. An enterprise should strive to have a rating of &quot;5&quot; in just one catagory, while trying for &quot;4&quot; in another and not letting the rest of the go below a &quot;3&quot;. This study has shown that it is a waste of energy and resources trying to have a &quot;5&quot; in every catagory. <br />Toward the end of the book they discuss the future and predicting future trends, which they conceed is almost impossible but it is a necessary process to dream and imagine how you think this could be or should be to concieve new ideas.<br />This is a great book for any business person to read, regardless of their department or rank.	2002-02-03
US	52241478	RRIUCJ9SN4W0C	1572240229	999974400	Messages: The Communication Skills Book	Books	5	105	109	N	N	Communication Skills Everybody Should Have	The authors have created a very in depth but easy to read psycho analysis of poor communication skills and ways for individuals to help themselves change their attitude and methods of communicating with others.<br />Listening is probably the most important skill of communication that most of people lack. Many do not even think of listening as communication. I was guilty of trying to ancticipate or guess what the other person was going to say, already working out my reactive answer and therefore not hearing the last half of the conversation. It takes a bit of self control and discipline to be able to really listen.<br />People have a habit of not coming to the point for fear of being rejected or hurting the other persons feelings. The person giving the message learns how to take the sting out of the message by not blaming or accusing but still being direct. It is a different way of wording your sentences but I was amazed at the way this technique can defuse a tense situation.<br />If you find that you are sometimes missunderstood or fear of the reaction from telling your boss, wife, girlfriend or work colleague what you really think, then I would highly recommend purchasing this book. It is a great book for everybody.	2002-01-30
US	52241478	R1TGUD9D291UCP	0671620991	24530937	Solve Your Child's Sleep Problems	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Tension In Your Family From Child's Sleep Patern?	Is it curtain time for your child's sleep patern? We, like most other parents have encountered the nightly wining, crying and batteling that our child stays all night in his/her own bed. Does your child constantly make the 3:00 in the morning trek from his bed to yours? Are you tired of the crying, when trying to take the little one back to his room? Is your child's cointnual presence in your bedroom creating tension between you and your spouse? We answered yes to all of these questions and decided there had to be a way to manage this situation. Before going to a child sleep specialist, we decided to buy this book. <br />The author explains in a very professional and understandable text, the so called &quot;normal sleep cycles&quot; and how to determine if it is something that can be corrected by the parents should be done by a specialist. Dr. Md. Richard Ferber uses many examples of problems he has incurred with baby's, infants and teens during his career which help the parent better understand the causes of sleep disturbances.<br />I would adivse any person purchasing this book to read it in its entirety before making any judgement about it. Our child was causing a lot friction in the family and we as parents kept giving in to him, unwittingly encouraging his behavior. A child can be scared but it is how the parents behave in explaining these things which causes fear in infants. Although the method of sending the child back to bed each time became a little bit tiresome, not to speak of the parent guilt syndrome for doing so, our son has finally slept all night in his own bed for two weeks after two weeks of following one of his solutions to the problem. You have to be very vigilant and not give in to child's wishes if you wish to succeed in this particular program. It might sound a bit hard on the child but in fact you are helping your child gain self-esteem and confidence.<br />The tensions in our family has subisded and slowly returning to what used to be called&quot;normal&quot;. I am sure reading this text will bring clarity to the causes and cures of sleep disturbances in children for any parent.	2002-01-06
US	52241478	R3TYQJRDF0YS68	0844234486	471800847	High Visibility: The Making and Marketing of Professionals into Celebrities	Books	4	4	4	N	N	High Visibility In The Making .....For Novice PR Persons	&quot;High Visibility&quot; sheds light in to the sometimes opaque world of publicists and celebrity marketing. Case studies from many different people from all walks of life (atheletes to porn stars)who sought to be in the lime-light are examined throught this book. Why are certain personalities still being sought after since 20 years while others fade away from our memories after only one week? There are many answers but not detailed enough. <br />I found the most interesting part to be &quot;The Technique of Transformation&quot;. Here the authors discuss and show different examples of how a &quot;dying star&quot; made a comeback by redefining their personality and what they represent. Some people are forced to change after a scandle or a peak in performance and must exploit the media in order to thrust their client back on center stage. How the publicist propaganda machine works to take advantage of both print and visual media is explained but I feel it should have been much more detailed. They stopped right when it was becoming very interesting. Then again, maybe this was part of the marketing plan to create more demand for the &quot;High Visibility II&quot;.... just joking. <br />It is a book that all marketing people should read as almost all of the concepts from marketing personalities can be transfered to all products in any industry.	2001-12-22
US	52241478	RHACERUZ8MHCW	0205262589	846500525	Creative Interviewing: The Writer's Guide to Gathering Information by Asking Questions (3rd Edition)	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Tactics And Strategies To Make The Most Out Of An Interview	I am not a writer nor journalist but a person in the field of marketing. Since journalists are the experts at extracting information from people they are interviewing, I thought this could help me in my field. In marketing, it is necessary for me to understand why people buy or have an affinity with a certain product or person. I interview people in the same manner journalists do but with a slightly different objective in mind. I explore the person's mind to find an unkown reason for buying a certain product just as journalist wants to discover something never revealed before to the public about an actor or politician. This book provided me with many new insights about the person being interviewed, their reasons for opening up to the interviewer and how to conduct the interview in an organised manner while also being flexible when things start to lead astray from my original plans. This book has helped me in many ways. I highly recommend it to business people to read as well.	2001-12-02
US	52241478	R29JA7V9BC19QK	0924486961	53879935	Yachtsman's Ten Language Dictionary	Books	4	4	4	N	N	No Clue, In A Foreign Port And  A Foreign Language	I have been cruising in many different areas around this beautiful globe and I find this dictionary to be one of the few available on the market. The book is divided up in to catagories such as the hull, deck, navigation, commands, refrigeration, engine etc., although I am fluent in French and German, this book aids me immensely to navigate through the seaman's language in 10 different toungues. Sailor's terminology can be rather  intimdating to some people in their own language, let alone in another foreign language. I you are planning a cruise around the Caribbean, Mediterranean, South America or Africa buy this dictionary. The only negative part about this book, is that it contains no middle eastern or far eastern languages such as Arabic, Persian, Thai, Chinese, Fiji or Indonesian. If they would have added these languages to the book, it would have been too combursome to use hold the dictionary.	2001-12-02
US	52241478	R34YCEISA6NFOY	0898798612	849459142	Word Painting: A Guide to Writing More Descriptively	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Make Words Jump Up From The Pages And Watch Them Dance	I am not an aspiring author nor any intention of becoming one. I was just searching for help to make my writing stand up from the pages, climb into the memory cavities of my friends' and colleagues' brian and remain anchored there until eternity. Rebecca McClanahan explains in a very humorous manner with many examples how to use verbs, tone, distance, setting and smell to liven up our writing. I read this book while making my daily train commute to work. I found myself bursting out in laughter several times, attracting the stares of fellow commuters as if I had added some type of hallucinogenic drugs in my coffee. On three occassions, I was so involved in the book that I missed my station stop. This book exercised some type of hypnotical powers over my descriptive starved brain.<BR>Why did this book have such an effect on me? Is it because I am not a writer and all of this is new to me? If my high school creative writing teacher would have taught only 10 percent of the techniques as she does, I would have probably been motivated to chose a writing career.	2001-12-02
US	52241478	R1WKK7I7JMNDWS	0590452347	867695808	Weather (First Discovery Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Papa..Why does it rain?	Our 4 year old son started asking why we have rain, snow, cloudy and sunny weather. As an active sailor, I am constatnly confronted with the forces of nature and I explain a lot of the mysteries of weather to many adults. I tried to unveil the magic of weather to my son but he did not quite comprehend what I was talking about. After recieving this book he took great interest in looking at the pictures and playing with the transparencies on each page to better understand the environment around him. The author has created a small, informative and entertaining book with illistrations that allow children to remember through pictures. This is a great book for young children and adults to read together.	2001-12-01
US	52241478	RAYX5XWX1LPFG	1579540090	567019644	Bicycling Magazine's Complete Guide to Bicycle Maintenance and Repair for Road and Mountain Bikes	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Bicycle Repair Manual Lacking Detail In Some Places	I was looking for a very detailed manual for bicycle repair. This is a general book for maintenance but it fails to explore into the nitty-gritty of indiviual components. <BR>It does show how to repair and adjust various brake sets but I feel it did not depict this very well for the Shimano V brake series. Removing the freewheel and rear derailleur adjustments sections are very good.<BR>It probably could have been an excellent manual, had the authors take a little more time and went into more detail.	2001-11-18
US	52241478	RJXQQMWU81VSE	1884737803	322438579	The Heart Rate Monitor Book for Outdoor or Indoor Cyclists (Heart Zone Training Program Series)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Increase Your Preformance Substantially	If you are serious about reading and following this program, buy yourself a heart monitor for the cyclist with features for cadence, altitutde and Watt output (HAC4 from ciclosport was most price efficient for me with all the features) learn how to use it then read this book. <br />In this excellent publication she explains the 5 heart training zones and what each zone does for the heart. She stresses training a certain amount of time or percentage of the work out in each zone. <br />I have kept a diary as the author has highly recommended to every athelete and this has helped me plan my work out accordingly and effectively raising my preformance substantially. <br />Since I cycle to work every second day, I read the chapters about outdoor training first.Afterwards I read the chapters on indoor cylcing, which encourage me to go to spinning classes from time to time to alter my training routine. I found riding on a stationairy bicycle so booooring until I was in a spinning group.<br />You must be disciplined; It worked for me and I am sure it will work for you.	2001-11-18
US	52241478	R1PXO8CPSKYL2J	0471549088	355583729	The Complete Guide to Special Event Management	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Excellent For The Novice Special Event Manager	I was actually looking for a book about the organising of events with small groups of clients, up to 10 and at most 20 people. This was not what I was looking for....However it instilled a lot of new ideas in my crainium that I was able to carry over into my daily line of work when organising presentations to clients and events with clients.<BR>This book was definately written for the novice special event manager in mind. It deals mainly with the staging of large events such as concerts, olympics, and charity events. They introduce the main stages of special events, problems that can occur, risk involved in taking on a special event, making sure you do your demographics homework to estimate the success of the event, chosing the venue, using television and radio for publicity to increase visitation, making a profit, security before, during after the event, the finale, closing down the event. <BR>Even if you are organising events for a small number of participants, I highly recommend reading this book.	2001-11-18
US	52241478	R1YLVY00BHLDE6	1579541992	740882783	The Complete Book of Long-Distance Cycling: Build the Strength, Skills, and Confidence to Ride as Far as You Want	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Easily Increase Your Performace  At Least 20 Percent	Veteran RAAM cyclists Dr. Ed Burke and Ed Pavelka didn't leave anything out. <br />If you only read one chapter in this book then the first chapter &quot;Start Smart&quot; is the most important for increasing your performance without over extending yourself. The authors pay special attention to using a heart monitor, which is probably the key in being able to significantly augment your cycling abilities. I would also recommend reading &quot;The Heart Rate Monitor Book For In/Outdoor Cyclists&quot; by Sally Eduards afterwards. The combination of these two books helped me increase my speed and strength on hill climbing by 25 percent.<br />Mental preparedness is a chapter that was very valuable to me, as I continued riding through the autum and now find my self still motivated although winter has blown in with its shorter daylight hours and freezing temperatures. The authors also give tips on coordinating your activities if you have limited time, like myself with a wife and two children. I log in 30 to 40 miles every second day while riding to and from work with one long weekend ride of 85 - 120 miles.<br />The rest of the book talks about the experience of riding 100 miles, 200 miles and more. Health issues such as rigimortis of the ass and stiff muscles, which we all experience riding great distances. <br />Women's issues are also discussed throughout the book, which is the fault of many other publications. My wife enjoyed reading it as well for this reason.	2001-11-18
US	52241478	RO7AHXVX0KPJ7	1880092484	165138345	Casual Power: How to Power Up Your Nonverbal Communication & Dress Down for Success	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Defining Casual Dress... Most HR And CEOs Have No Clue	The book is very well organized into chapters for both men and women. She defines the different areas of casual dress and gives colored illustrated examples of each, highlighting those radiating in personal power. Even if you are on a very limited budget, she gives excellent examples of using two standard suits and how to maximize the use of these resources. <br />I do believe dressing well helps a bit in the area of &quot;confidence building&quot;, however, I believe she exaggerated greatly the cases of how dressing up turned peoples' lives around. If a person freezes at the thought of giving presentation in front of a group, the change of wardrobe is not going to work the miracle of creating an excellent communicator or presenter overnight. We call it a well-dressed presenter with am empty package. I didn't buy that example nor the one of a some loser finding the love of his life after changing his work attire. To much sales hype for her own seminars. <br />The best points of this book were in the detail of what type of shirt, accessories and shoes to wear with a double- or single-breasted jacket. <br />This book not only educated me about men's casual wear but at the same time enlightened me on the subject of women's business fashion. I, like most men detested going clothes shopping with my wife. After reading this book, I really enjoy going out and helping my wife select various outfits.	2001-11-03
US	52241478	R1QGTX7W5J355B	089815913X	278858023	Cracking Creativity: The Secrets of Creative Genius	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Cerebal Orgasm	What comman characteristics do most geniuses have? The ability to combine things without prejudices based on previous experiments or laws of a field assumed to be true. Different combinations promote and provoke our minds, leading us to see what no one else is able to.      After reading this book, the whole process of learning we acquired as children is turned upside down. Mapping the mind is not a difficult process, if one takes the time to break everything down into individual components and make as many  combinations possible with each of these pieces.      It may not turn you into a genius but it will help you to diagnos problems and find creative solutions that were always there but never automatically occured in the thinking process.	2001-06-02
US	52241478	R2GNFUAZ09BGJO	0446670642	337028138	10 Natural Laws of Successful Time and Life Management	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Get Your Act Together	I was very skeptical about reading another book on time management. Sometimes I have the feeling that many authors who write time management aids have spent their last several years living on the planet Mars. Hyrum W. Smith is an exception to the rest of them. His book unfolds like a story with many dramatic and funny episodes that have occurred throughout his life which seduce the reading into continuing until they reach the very end of the book. <br />The whole system is based on your own values but also helps you in determining what is the most important thing in your life, which is the base for his whole system. Once you have discovered your values, it is easy to start prioritizing events and work related matters in your life. At the same time, he creates one of the most beautiful formulas for keeping appointments and \\"things to do list\\".<br />I found several of the sales pitches for his \\"Franklin Day Planner\\" a bit negative, however all of the things that he talks about are also achievable without this planner. I have been able to integrate most of the conceptions of this book's time management on the Microsoft Outlook. At the beginning when he started mentioning religion, I became annoyed by this but as he writes in the book; These are his values and it is for everybody to discover their own.<br />Before reading this book, my time management consisted of writing one line messages on those nice yellow stick-it notes and hoping I would not forget them. I would only find myself accomplishing a small fraction of what I set out to do. <br />I have had a backlog of many things I wanted to do with my family and projects to accomplish at work. I was never able to sort out the good from the bad and ugly until I read this book. I have my act together and am plan on visiting one of their seminars in London this fall to reinforce the written material.	2001-02-24
US	52241478	R1E8KZIFJ1RMNO	0813527805	647791177	Cuban Miami	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Excellent Cultural History of the Cuban Factor in Miami-Dade	The Authors Asis and Levine have created an excellent documentary of the Cuban immigration to Miami-Dade county. The book takes one from the 1930s to the present. It explains ins and outs the Cuban life in Miami. It is a very neutral book which neither glorifies nor demeans the Cuban immigration to Miami and Florida. It simply explains the reasons of Cuban behavior which might seem somewhat confusing to a non-Cuban as well as other races and nationalities from Latin America. <br />  Miami and Cuba had a long relationship way before the revolution came to the island nation. Many of the wealthy sugar barons, rum distillers and tobacco kings kept their cash in South Florida. Miami was the playground for the rich and famous of Cuba usually occupying more hotel space than the rather well known northern snow birds of today. <BR> <BR>The politics of dislocation is discussed indepth to help one understand the often hostile position of Cuban-Americans toward Castro and Cuba today. Something of a surprise for me was the way the first wave of exiles often viewed the newcommers of the second wave commanly known as the Marielitos with suspicion.<BR> <BR> The influence of wealthy Cuban businessmen of yesterday and today are felt in many places of the US in Finance, Educational Scholars, Politics and Government. They superficially touch base on this without going into a lot of detail but it still one understand from where they have come from to where they are going.<br /> The Catholic church plays a very important role in almost all Cubans' lifes. Many of the cultural and religious specific traditions are explained in great detail. All of the refugees from the first wave and operation Pedro Pan were mainly cared for by Catholic charaties, which also reinforces their beliefs and support for the church.<br /> Gloria Estefan, Willy Chirino, Silvio Fontanellas and other Cuban-Americans who have contributed to Cuban culture in the area of music and arts is only briefly discussed on several pages. As a passionate listner of Cuban music, I thought it would have been great if they would have introduced other Cuban musicians in South Florida but then again, this is not a publication about Cuban music.<br /> Exiles love to dream about the Island but I think this chapter is a little bit niave as most of the Cubans think that once Castro is gone they will all return home. I have been in Europe during the fall of the wall and many of the former East Germans dreamt about going back to their former country and rebuilding their homes and reuniting their families. This all turned out to be falacy. Those that tried to come back and claim their property were detested by their families who remained in the Communist part and saw their relatives from West with a lot of suspicion. Many family reunions didn't last long and the their dreams were shattered. Things will be different when Castro is gone but it will not be like most Cuban exiles think. Family members who have stayed in Cuba the entire time will want to have their property as well, citing the suffering they have endured under Castro as their rights to the deeds. More important is that exile Cubans understand what caused the revolution and that they try to avoid the pitfalls of their predecessors.<br /> Most companies prepare a business plan and if it is not bearing fruit after a certain amount of time they decide to try something else. Perhaps the Cuban exile community should try and persue a dialogue with Cuba. Fourty years of isolation hasn't worked guys.	2001-02-13
US	52241478	R3SZ10BZJ28AS2	0684857421	647535218	Whining: 3 Steps to Stop It Before the Tears and Tantrums Start	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Do You Want To Reduce Your Child's Whining and Tantrums?	Children are more intelligent than you think. They know how to get results by whining and adults even encourage them to do this. When a child whines, it is not about a toy which they canot have nor the things they have been forbidden to do. It is about being able to show mother and father how much power they posses. Our first child is nearing his 3rd birthday and the whining had increased to intolerable levels. We have found a great amount of success in using the exercises in this book. It has taken several weeks for our child to finally come around but it has worked well. It doesn't work all the time but the tantrums and the commanding have subsided dramatically. I do not believe there is any one particular authority on child behavior because all children are able to learn but all children learn differently...  Understanding why children whine makes it much easier to implement these solutions which sometime can appear to be somewhat harsh if one hasn't read the whole book.	2001-01-28
US	52241478	R9QUMGQ1N63BY	0789415143	342772516	My First Word Board Book (My First Word Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Children Learn Faster With Images	Our 2 1/2 year old son increaed his vocabulary quite quickly with this book. My wife's mother tounge is French, so during the day he is usually accustomed to speaking French. His ability to express himself in English was lacking far behind of his French. After the first two or three times of reading the book together, he now picks up the book, points to items and says what they are. Of course there are certain items that he has troubles with and that is where the parental help comes in. It is also a great book for parents to see how fast children learn.	2000-11-04
US	52241478	R2ZX30SZX0U8DR	0073034150	871147142	Creating Online Media: A Guide to Research, Writing, and Design on the Internet	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Web Content For The Novice Online Journalist	If you are looking for a book on how to create fantastic websites, this is not the book for you. This text books deals mainly with the written content of a website. It is all from the angle of a journalist's point of view for  writing serious content on the web. The author has understood that  technology would almost make the book obsolete the day it was published, so  she has links at the end of each chapter to her own website which keeps the  text up-to-date. This is a great source for novice webjournalists. If you  are already a professional webjournalist, I would think that you already  familiar with most of the content but it is still a great reference.	2000-07-30
US	52241478	RCQXAWMZSY87E	0071364080	67539390	Digital Transformation: The Essentials of e-Business Leadership	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Understanding How To Create Your Own E-Vision?	A lot of people have have made negative comments about this book because it does not give new ideas. This book is not going to provide you with any technical solutions to develope your e-business but it was also not meant  to do that. It gives the non-experiened         e-businessperson the rules  and how to formulate your own vision to how your company should function.  It also explains what has changed in business cycle due to the e-commerce  factor. I found it was explained very clearly for anybody to understand.  The target audience for this book is somebody who is new to e-commerce.	2000-07-27
US	52241478	R4EIDV04P8C9W	0071345604	580295804	The Cruiser's Handbook of Fishing	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Curising In Isolated Parts Of The World? Don't Forget It	I have done quite a bit of crusing, fishing and diving but I always wanted to learn how to clean and prepare the fish myself. The book gave some very good insight into this but I didn't think it was detailed enough. The books  starts out with the basics of fishing while crusing and then on to every  theme possible: 1.) Fishing under power or sail 2.) Gear and Tackle  (excellent drawings for knot tying) 3.)Offshore Trolling 4.)Adrift or  Anchored 5.)Dingy Techniques 6.) Walking, Wading and Diving 7.) Tools and  Nets 8.) Arranging your vessel for fishing 9.) Processing your catch 10.)  Medical Considerations for the Crusing Fisher 11.) Getting the most from  your new crusing skill 12.) A guide to Edible Fish and Invertebrates (  would be much better in color as I have not seen many fish come up black  and white) 13.) Seafood recepies<br />If you are planning any type of crusing  for a longer period of time. This is an absolute must have. A transatlantic  or gulf stream crossing can sometimes get boring and knowing these skills  take out a lot of the intimidation a lot of us have about fishing and  cleaing our own catch.	2000-07-14
US	52241478	R265ZBXVRYHA3W	1558216502	336590553	Paasch's Illustrated Marine Dictionary (Maritime Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Historical Martime Dictionairy For Square Riggers	This is one of the most detailed and complete maritime dictionairies that I have seen. If you are interested in square riggers then this is your most complete source. Every little nook and crany of these vessels are defined  in great detail in English, German and French. Not a single item is left  out in this old publication. If you are looking for something for modern  yachts then I would recommend you purchase the Yachtmen's Ten Language  Dictionary.	2000-07-01
US	52241478	R47TOQZ5273ZJ	1558216502	336590553	Paasch's Illustrated Marine Dictionary (Maritime Classics)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Detailed Historian's Guide To Disecting A Square-Rigger	If you are a maritime historian, this book is definitely for you. Detail, detail and more detail of every nook and cranny of square- riggers and early steamers. I was looking more for a dictionary for bluewater crusing.  If this is the case, you would be better off buying the &quot; Yachtman's  Ten Language Dictionary&quot;     <br />For  the historian this is packed from front to back with reproduced  illistrations from its original publication in 1885. Many of my French and  German speaking friends were quite impressed with the detail. There are  only diagrams and the respective words translated into German or French.  The bad thing about this dictionary is that if a word is not shown on the  illistrated diagram and you do not know what the term is referring to, you  will never know what it is. Overall it is an entertaining book for the  modern day cruiser but it is not a necessity on a crusing vessel. Not  recommended for a novice sailor.	2000-05-14
US	52241478	RD4WJ2V3P1V74	0762403802	437907291	The Essential Thai Cookery: 50 Classic Recipes, With Step-By-Step Photographs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Best Book For Learning To Cook Thai	I love to visit countries and then try to replicate the dishes once I am back home. I found it difficult to obtain that real Thai taste in the food I was cooking until I read this book from Heather Thomas. She knows how to explain cooking in a very easy and understandable manner. She explains what  ingredients to use and substitutes for those if they are not readily  availiable in your area. Detailed photographs help you through all the  sequences in a step by step manner. How easy it is to cook Thai with  Heather Thomas. If you are already experienced in the siamise cuisine, I  would also highly recommend The Original Thai Cookbook by Jennifer Brennan.	2000-05-12
US	52241478	R2WDEWUCT58KKI	1885073267	594055639	Passport Thailand: Your Pocket Guide to Thai Business, Customs & Etiquette ("Passport to the World)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Don't Go To Thailand Without This Reading This Book	I have visited Thailand many times for both business and pleasure. I didn't read this book until I my fourth visit. It is very important to understand the do's and dont's in Thailand, which many Westerners tend to  ignore. It opens the door of understanding for those new to the Thai  mentality and way of life. It also has a very small section but good  section explaining the influence of Buddism on daily life in Thailand.  Definately buy this book if going there. If you are more business oriented  I would suggest also reading &quot;Doing Business With Thailand&quot;  (Global Business Series).	2000-05-12
US	52241478	RFNXYFTV5JXH5	1885073259	452001609	Passport Vietnam: Your Pocket Guide to Vietnamese Business, Customs & Etiquette ("Passport to the World)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Very Small But Informative Book	Since Vietnam has opened its doors to the West, many business are moving their production sites and facilities to this fascinating country. If you happen to be a businessperson in this situation or just a tourist, this  book will help you understand your hosts mentality and their way of life. A  &quot;Must Read&quot; before you leave, if you do not have a lot of time to  read other books which go much more in-depth on the subject.	2000-05-12
US	52241478	R3H0F75NG6QL04	1561385999	44678219	The Essential Mexican Cookbook: 50 Classic Recipes, with Step-by-Step Photographs	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Easy To Follow And Easy To Prepare	I have purchased several cookbooks from Heather Thomas. She simply has the skill to explain cooking in a non intimidating way. Every publication of Heather Thomas that I have purchased is excellently illustrated with  photos, which help make it easier to understand the whole process from  start to finsih. This has brought my guests and me a lot of pleasure. If  you have previously been a failure in the area of cuisine mexique, you will  gain selfconfidence after reading and cooking with this book. I highly  recommend it.	2000-05-12
US	52241478	R1BLWN8LK4167X	0887305377	5116828	The Atlas of Economic Indicators: A Visual Guide to Market Forces, and the Federal Reserve	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Great And Easy Reference Guide	I first purchased this book about 10 years ago and have done so about once a year since then. It is of great help for those just fresh from the university and to the seasoned financial guru. When data has been made  public from the FED, this book helps one to diagnose and better comprehend  those economic figures.	2000-05-12
US	52241478	R27L3IZAAAD1ML	0380811960	867225344	How to Talk So Kids Will Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mastermind of Psychological Warfare For Anybody	This book is not only applicable for adult to child but also excellent for adult to adult. I am always sceptical of child pyschologist and thier pure theoretical pyscological behavior models. This has proven to be our savior.  Try it with your child after you have read the first 25 pages. Believe it  or not, our child has responded positively to our (adults) changed  behavior. It does not work all the time but I would say in seventy percent  of the cases where our child went into a temper tantrum, they lasted no  longer than 1 to 2 minutes. What a relief this book has brought to the  atmosphere in our family. Thank you very much.	2000-05-06
US	52241478	R279GCG0LTFQX7	0684854201	6592934	The Annapolis Book of Seamanship, 3rd Completely Revised, Expanded and Updated Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Want To Have More Detailed Information On A Sailing Topic?	Have you forgotten some of the terminology or manovers you learned in a sailing course last year? Are you an experienced sailor but would like more detailed information on a subject?This book has all the answers to the questions many novice sailors have; from parts of the boat, commands, moanovering in a harbour to sailor terminology. Themes also go into great detail on the subject matter accompanied with excellent illustrations to re-enforce your learning of a subject. It doesn't matter if your are a seasoned salt or new to the world of cruising. It belongs on every sailors book shelf.	2000-05-01
US	52241478	R2LG6KBRNEKC40	0688094155	372532249	Knots (Chapman's nautical guides)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	There Are Better Books For Learning Knots	A lot of people lay the claim that &quot;Chapman's Book of Knots&quot; is the sailor bible for knots. It is a good book but not for beginners. If you are new to sailing I would recommend &quot;The Klutz Book of Knots&quot;  first, then Chapmans's.	2000-05-01
US	52241478	R14F04Y639OMYT	0684856360	866488091	Permission Marketing: Turning Strangers into Friends and Friends into Customers	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Must For Any Marketing Professional	In Europe, internet-phobia is still well alive among many employees for fear of loosing their jobs. I would recommend most business managers to read this regardless if they are pro or con for doing business over the  internet. I have loaned my book and tape to many colleagues that were  (notice past tense) only seeing doom and gloom in the online sector. There  was a rather significant change in attitude and latitude. The book/tape  start out in talking using general terms and slowly progress in terminology  and complexity of each case. I highly recommend this for the entry level  marketer to the expert marketer.	2000-05-01
US	52241478	R3JMU5L74KCGY6	0316781975	70127032	The Pop-Up Book of Big Trucks	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Chuck Murphy's Childrens Books Are Usually Entertaining	I have purchased a number of Chuck Murphy's books for our child over the last 12 months. My son is usually amazed with all of the shapes and colors that are used in Chuck's books. This is an exception to those books which are always educational and entertaining. I would recommend you to examine  and purchase some of the other books this author has published as the  &quot;Big Trucks&quot; book is not of his usual standards.	2000-04-30
US	52241478	R155OG4PKWAF5E	067104642X	866488091	Permission Marketing: Turning Strangers Into Friends And Friends Into Customers	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Intellectual Internet Stimulation For Idiots to Experts	Seth Godin has a fantastic way of starting out with the basics and slowly creating a more and more complex formula for using permission marketing. This should be mandatory for anybody who has anything to do with marketing.	2000-04-28
US	52241478	R2E22CGMC5S935	0764100327	269023477	Colors = Les Couleurs (Bilingual First Books) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Book For Children In a Bi-Lingual Family	My wife is French and myself English speaking. This books is easily understood by our child. The book helps the child to understand the name of each color in the respective language. Simple but very effective.	2000-04-28
US	52241478	R1V9WXTVWOTJ7R	0671899082	111315246	One To Ten Pop-Up Surprises!	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another Fanastic, Entertaining and Educational Book	Chuck Murphy has that special talent to keep children occupied with entertaining and educational books. Although I find these books wear out fast, they are well worth the price. The colorful pop-outs and designs are  excellent. Our son is two and a half years old and just doesn't quite yet  posses the ability push and pull all of the props without tearing them.	2000-04-28
US	52241478	R1RRYU852FFVAN	0689822650	51681286	Bow Wow : A Pop-Up Book of Shapes (Pop Up Book)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Chuck Murphy's Talent For Children	I have purchased several of Chuck Murphy's books for our 2 year old. Although the books are made for 4-8 years old, our son can play with it for hours. Since smaller children such as ours do not realize how easy things  are torn, we are on our 3rd copy of the book. It is great.	2000-04-28
US	52241478	R267B6LT1G103Z	1893162052	839926244	Eat Yourself Slim	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Most inexpensive health club in the world	This book was highly recommend to me from a colleague who lost 35 pounds in 3 months. I was very sceptical and doubtfull about this diet. I am 38 years old with 40 pounds of extra baggage. I have lost 12 pounds in the  first two weeks without radically changing my eating habits. I have to  entertain clients often and this was the biggest challenge of the whole  thing for which advice is also given. I never suffer from hunger feelings  and feel great.	2000-04-21
US	52241478	R183WSVG877CJK	0689815042	936714609	Color Surprises	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Chuck Murphy's Color Surprises	An excellent book that keeps toddlers occupied for long periods of time. Our son is 19 months old and picks it up at least two to three times a day for us to read it to him. My wife is a native French and myself English  speaker. Of course this book is not written for bi-lingual purposes but we  find our child being able to repeat the colors in each language, depending  on which parents converses with him. I highly recommend this book.	2000-01-02
