US	52258715	RRL9AZJNWMAKJ	0743437810	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	1	9	13	N	N	The Vanished Plot	I'm so disappointed in this book -- Deaver can do much better (read Stone Monkey or some earlier works).  This book is TERRIBLE.  The plot involves an insane magician whose wife is killed by a risky illusion -- or does it really?  Just when you &quot;think&quot; you know who did it, the plot twists and turns in the most unbelievable ways possible.  Illusions abound -- new consultants are brought in to help, but apparently only as a plot device to give the story more twists and turns than is necessary or tolerable.  Once again, the villain breaks into Rhyme's apartment to put the criminalist in danger -- or does he?  Again, another unnecessary plot twist and it stretches the bounds of disbelief -- how many times have we read about some villian slipping into Rhyme's bedroom to do him harm?  This is the most at-risk homebound quadriplegic in all the world, certainly in all the literary world.<br />Amelia is back, too -- still griping about her arthritic knees, still fending off advances from every heterosexual male in the entire state of New York, and still driving her &quot;yellow Corvette with a RACING HARNESS&quot; through the streets of New York City at 90 miles an hour.  And that's an exact quote from the book.  <br />Overall the plot is too confusing, too long, too implausible.  Deaver needs to go back to what made these stories interesting, the relationship between Sachs and Rhyme, but even that is becoming cliched.  I think it might be time to either give Rhyme back his legs and have him &quot;walking the grid&quot; with Sachs or retire them both.  <br />If you're interested in good fiction, check out Robert Crais.	2004-07-14
US	52258715	R2OIYI5FC00L96	0743474325	989514363	Judgment of the Witch (Speaks the Nightbird, Vol. 1)	Books	2	11	20	N	Y	Hugely Disappointing!!!	I've been a fan of Robert McCammon since the beginning -- I even liked his clinkers like Baal and Nightboat.  He's a terrific writer.  Unfortunately, this latest effort is sub par for him.<br />I don't know if he's just rusty or if he's trying to stretch too hard to break into a new genre (since there was tremendous resistance from his editors and the publishing world in general to having him write anything other than horror) but Speaks the Nightbird is just awful!  The author tries to use the vernacular of the time, but he fails in some spots and it's distracting to the narrative. But more than that, the plot creeps along at a snail's pace -- I was horrified at the end of the book to find out that there was actually a SECOND novel to read to complete the story!!  That wouldn't have actually been a bad thing if the first volume ended with some sort of cliffhanger or climax -- no such luck.  It just meanders along aimlessly and then the reader is surprised with an end note encouraging them to buy the second volume to find out what happens!  If the book was originally meant to be 1100 pages, then it should have been published as such.  What a disappointment -- I can't believe I waited 10 years for this.  <br />Just terribly disappointing in every aspect.	2004-04-08
US	52258715	R2EBYT3LV45B6Q	0515135356	152215045	Crime School (A Mallory Novel)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	I don't get it...	Maybe I've read a different book than other reviewers, but this book is just plain awful!  The cliches are waist deep, the characters are about as deep as a puddle, and the writing is trite and contrived.  And this isn't the first book I've read featuring this character...there's been no improvement at all in the series as far as I can tell.  <br />This book is supposed to draw the reader into the childhood of Mallory -- but the character is so unlikeable that by the first 100 pages, I'd lost all interest in what shaped her psyche.  Are the readers supposed to believe that the police force wouldn't have forced her to go through some sort of psychological testing before hiring her?  Or that after so many problems with supervisors she hasn't been canned yet?  She's always right, always aloof, rude, mean, manipulative, insulting...I could go on and on but I hate to waste any more time on this book than I already have.<br />Aside from the utter lack of character development, the writing is simply horrendous.  Hundreds of mentions of &quot;Mallory's green eyes....cat like eyes...drowsy slanted eyes...never blinking eyes...&quot;  and &quot;...where does she get her money...she's clad in custom made designer jeans...silk designer jackets...designer shades...$200 haircuts...manicures...&quot;  ENOUGH!!  We get it already, she's a rich gorgeous psycho who just happens to be a cop.  And these ridiculous, over the top descriptions not only apply to the adult Mallory, but the child Mallory as well.  <br />This book is terrible!  The characters kill any chance at plot development and I don't think I've ever read a book with so many unlikeable characters in it as this one.  Save your money and pick something else to read!!	2004-03-11
US	52258715	R2VD7JJYFJ88I3	0345452569	330974377	A Cold Heart (Alex Delaware)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	A Cold Read -- Zero Stars!!	I've been a long time fan of Kellerman although his last few books have been lagging; this one is clearly the worst.  There were great opportunities to spice things up with the addition of Petra and the mix of first-person and third-person narrative, but it fell flat.  The addition of Eric Stahl too is troublesome -- he's clearly a poor man's Joe Pike from the Elvis Cole series by Robert Crais.  <br />The plot is preposterous and the connections made by Delaware are ridiculous...we're supposed to believe that RC written in some guy's calendar refers to Robin, the ex?  Quite a leap.  I've always been a little stupefied that Milo has to rely on Delaware to solve all his cases for him and this book is no exception.  When Milo asks Delaware which flights he should check out and how to go about it, I threw in the towel on the series.  Milo must be the most inept cop in all of California, which is probably supposed to be a nice balance with the most sexy, most attractive, most libidinous psychologist pal of his -- Dr. Delaware.  After awhile, I started skimming over the mentions of Delaware's good looks, money, and instant erections.<br />Kellerman mailed this one in and it shows, complete with typos throughout.  Petra states in one of the chapters, \\"This is getting seriously weird...\\"  Well this book is seriously awful.  It was terrible.  Don't waste your time.	2004-01-08
US	52258715	R299EK2QJ2P899	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Funny, Insightful & Frightening!!!	I've never been a huge Franken fan -- my only prior exposure to him was on SNL where I found him amusing, but not particularly funny.  Then I picked up this book.  It absolutely made me laugh out loud!!  It also shed some light on how the media has a bias toward conservatism and outright lying -- and it's terrifying when you realize that this entire country is at the mercy of one nasty boob from Texas and the interests that line his pockets.<br />Unlike Ann Coulter and Sean Hannity, Al backs up his information with a series of detailed footnotes and references.  When he makes a mistake, he tells you -- he even has the decency to admit when he's gone too far and you feel his genuine remorse for these instances.<br />And unlike other reviewers of this book, I actually READ THE WHOLE THING!!  I'm not a knee-jerk liberal, but I am someone who realizes that it's about time those of us who believe in taking care of each other, the environment and telling the truth to stand up and be heard.  I would recommend this book to liberals and conservatives alike -- in fact, there's much to be learned for both sides.  Keep an open mind and you just might learn a thing or two!!<br />Excellent read!!!  Keep up the good work, Al!!	2003-10-09
US	52258715	R19PRUI7KUIC9S	0446611239	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	1	24	38	N	N	Was I Reading the Same Book as Other Reviewers??	Cabinet of Curiosities, the latest in a string of works by Child &amp; Preston, involves the discovery of a mass grave in present day NYC -- the charnel house of a mad scientist on a quest for the secret of eternal life.  Excellent premise, I'll give the authors that much credit.  Also intriguing is the background of New York in the 1800's and the various &quot;cabinets of curiosities&quot; housed there -- lots of excellent resources for the authors.  Unfortunately, the material could not prop up the bad writing and the poor characterizations of this novel.<br />After reading this novel, I have to wonder if I've actually read the same book that other reviewers are crowing about.  I found the pacing of the novel extremely slow and the characters to be wooden and one-dimensional.  Archaeologist Nora Kelly was mildly interesting, Smithback was atrocious!  What newspaper would hire a guy like that?  He was bumbling in every sense of the word, and not charmingly so.  And Agent Pendergast?  Despite his extraordinary gift of &quot;memory crossing&quot; (much too unbelievable, even for a story like this) I found him to be the most singularly dull character in the entire book.  There was nothing original about this character whatsoever -- in fact, once the reader has finished with the first description of the man pulling up in his Rolls Royce, it's easy to predict every nuance of the character...his mannerisms, his dress, his living accomodations (at the Dakota, no less!), I found myself rolling my eyes and thinking, &quot;Of course.&quot; And if he does possess the gift of &quot;memory crossing,&quot; then why is there an investigation at all?  It seems as though he could simply &quot;cross&quot; to the scene of the crime, and if he can affect people during that time period (as evidenced by him tossing a handful of coins to Mary Greene's little sister), then he should have easily been able to stop the killer before he actually murdered anyone. <br />Even the writing, at times, was painful and amateurish. Overall, this book is a waste of time to plow through -- the authors had an excellent resource and base for a story, but they blew it.  Perhaps mixing characters from several previous books (as mentioned by other reviewers) was their downfall...I can't be sure, but I can be sure that I won't be going back to read any of their other work.<br />For an excellent historical mystery set in 1800's NYC, check out Caleb Carr's Alienist series.  Excellent stories, superb characterizations, and solid writing technique.	2003-07-14
US	52258715	R2RGV7GEZX5MKL	0451204298	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Plodding, Not Worth the Effort to Read!	I'm a big fan of Jeffrey Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme series and eagerly picked up A Maiden's Grave.  Unfortunately, this novel simply isn't the same calibre of the Rhyme books.<br />The plot involves the kidnapping of several young deaf girls who are held hostage at an old slaughterhouse in Kansas.  The main character in the book is Arthur Potter, an FBI hostage negotiator; he's accompanied by the standard techno-geek, the mousey assistant who faithfully logs info on the bad guys, and the stunningly gorgeous ex-model assistant Angie.  For fans of the Rhyme series, you'll recognize this Amelia Sachs-clone  immediately...the only change is the hair color.<br />The villains are interesting, but not enough is shared about them to keep this reader interested.  Most of the book is spent slogging through countless scenes of tech-talk, political in-fighting, and the developing &quot;relationship&quot; between one of the deaf women and the hostage negotiator.  This plotline alone strains the credibility of the book.<br />All in all, it appears that Deaver has done his research, but the plot is hackneyed and too drawn out -- I've even lost count of the number of times the hostage negotiation team &quot;bursts into applause&quot; at the slightest &quot;accomplishment&quot; of the hero, Potter.  <br />If you like police procedurals, read A Maiden's Grave.  If you want an engaging novel, you'd be better off reading the Lincoln Rhyme series.  And for the ultimate hostage negotiation novel, check out Robert Crais' &quot;Hostage&quot; -- that was a phenomenal read!	2003-06-23
US	52258715	RI9TX1ZWJA8ME	0451209044	637759864	Tribune: A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	1	10	21	N	N	Not Great	Just finished reading this novel and it was not great.  It wasn't really bad, but it was far from good.  The novel concerns a newly promoted Prefect investigating the murder of the emperor's crony in a town called Nazara.  <br />The story had potential, but the characters were painfully stereotypical -- the honest and honorable Prefect of the Roman Cavalry (described as a knight countless times in the novel, just in case you couldn't figure out he was the good guy); the smart-talking young boy who accompanies him in his travels and somehow manages to nudge the main character in the right directon while annoying him (how many times has this old chestnut been tossed into a novel?); the old Greek physician who happens to be a long-time friend of the main character (also happens to be an [almost] exact replica of Asklepios from the Decius novels by John Maddox Roberts...the surly centurion trying to block the main character at every turn, etc., etc., etc.<br />The book follows Valens through his investigation of the murders and introduces the reader to the poor carpenter from Nazara -- yes, you guessed it! -- who features prominently in the plotting of the book.  While it had great potential, it falls painfully short.<br />If you're interested in an excellent Roman historical novel, try the Steven Saylor novels (Roman Blood, Catalina's Riddle, etc.); or the Collen McCullough series (First Man in Rome, Grass Crown, Caesar's Women); or even the John Maddox Roberts series.  They are all more accurately researched with characters that leap off the pages.<br />Tribune fell flat.	2003-06-16
US	52258715	R377V1R0JURZLE	0743456378	607521541	The Killing Kind: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	What a great book!!	As a fan of John Connolly since his first novel, I was excited to read The Killing Kind, his latest effort involving a murdered girl, smarmy, swindling preachers, and a missing religious cult in Maine -- the Aroostook Baptists.  Charlie Parker, as always, was wonderfully written as were Angel and Louis, despite a few disappointing stereotypical lines of dialogue from these two.  I don't recall from the first couple of books Louis speaking the way he did in the Killing Kind and it was a bit distracting...other than that, they were great.  The character of Pudd was just plain creepy and a wonderful creation.<br />The book starts off at a quick pace, but then slows a bit in the middle -- so much so that I was beginning to feel a bit disappointed which is why I rank it at 4 stars and not the full 5  -- but the ending was out of this world!!!  When Charlie finds what everyone was looking for, I was literally open mouthed with surprise (and disgust!).  It was GREAT!!  It really makes me wonder where John Connolly comes up with such gruesome stuff -- I hope he's getting the psychiatric help he needs.  He puts Barker and King to shame.<br />Also, the ending shows a touching side of Charlie as he's called upon to try to rescue Angel...it was a nice touch and not overdone.  All in all, this book was terrific and I can't wait to get the next in the series!<br />Excellent read!!	2003-06-16
US	52258715	R21GYML7C2LWXG	0743417593	748893986	Devil's Knot: The True Story of the West Memphis Three	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fabulous Addition to the Series	This book is terrific -- where the HBO documentaries come across as &quot;one-sided,&quot; this book explains the back story, the previous relationship between the law enforcement officials and the teens, and also offers a much more detailed account of what happened at Robin Hood Hills.  <br />The author is a native of the area and reports on the events that transpired as an unbiased journalist.  This book fills in any gaps in the story of Paradise Lost I &amp; II.  <br />This book will make the reader think and consider exactly how much power law enforcement departments have over those who are uneducated and impoverished.  It's a frightening tale, not just because of the butchering of those small boys, but also because of the miscarriage of justice that still keeps Damien, Jesse, and Jason behind bars.<br />An excellent read!	2003-06-03
US	52258715	RJRT8C179OODN	0671026011	430524886	The Empty Chair (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Simply Too Much	I'm a new fan of the Lincoln Rhyme series and started with The Stone Monkey -- a terrific book which had me at the book store within 24 hours to pick up the other Rhyme novels.  I have to say that The Empty Chair is not very good -- nowhere near the calibre of The Bone Collector or Coffin Dancer.  There are simply too many plot twists and the basic premise of the novel (town becomes toxic waste dump) has been done to death.  This part of the plot can be figured out in the first 100 pages.  <br />The interaction between Sachs & Rhyme is still good - even Thom gets to be involved a little more - but the story is simply over the top in terms of who the villains actually are and how the heroes save the day.  The reader is also expected to believe that charges against Amelia for manslaughter are dropped because the victim was dirty?  Implausible to say the least.  Also, the author's technique of having a \\"personal crisis\\" in the relationship between Sachs & Rhyme end one chapter and then begin the next chapter with the villain's actions is getting a little tired.  The author should have more faith that his work is intriguing enough to get the reader to actually want to finish the book without resorting to gimmicks and chapter-ending cliffhangers.<br />This book is a disappointment and clearly the weakest in the series...not bad enough to ruin the entire series, however.  I'll still read the Rhyme novels -- overall, the series is very, very good!	2003-06-03
US	52258715	RE5XMJJXG762K	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wormily Good!  Cringey & Fantastic!	I encountered this series only recently and Stone Monkey was the first one I read...after reading that, I ran right out to my local used book store and picked up the other Lincoln Rhyme novels.  Coffin Dancer was a wonderful surprise and possibly the best in the series to date.  This novel deals with the hunt for a hired assassin and the manners in which Rhyme & Sachs stay one step ahead of him...or try to.  This book wasn't afraid of having Rhyme be wrong, or of having his foolproof traps foiled.  It's nice to see that the man is fallible after all.  <br />The character of Steven Krall is fabulous!  I laughed out loud at his twisted thought processes, of \\"Lincoln, King of Worms!\\", how he dealt with others around him, including the wacky cat lady and Jodie.  What a great character...I only wish there could be more of him.  <br />The twist at the end is unpredictable, maybe even a little far-fetched, but still great.  I went back and re-read several passages to see if the author might have been just a bit too clever with his plot line and slip up...but he didn't.  The villainous characters were seamlessly interwoven.  Add to this mixture the growing affection between Rhyme and Sachs and you've got it all!<br />What a terrific, terrific book!	2003-06-02
US	52258715	R2BKWPEMNRXESA	0399150439	893493496	Naked Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So close to great...	I swore after the last Prey book that I would never again buy another one in hardcover but temptation got the best of me and I purchased Naked Prey a few days after it came out.  I'm glad I did!  Naked Prey has a number of plots and subplots and twists and turns...it's terrific!  <br />And Lucas is almost back to the old Lucas we know and love -- not the watered down, neutered version we got in the last couple of Prey books.  He's tough talking, doing actual cop work with partner Del, and he even got to fire his weapon in this one!  I would have liked to see him get more physical...when was the last time Lucas got his hands dirty in a Prey book??  It's been awhile and it's been sorely missed.  <br />This latest book involves a lynching, a drug operation, a chop shop, a psychotic killer, a tough-talking orphan...what's not to love about it?  The addition of Letty to the novel and to Lucas' life is wonderful, Weather is just too bland to be a good foil for Lucas' stubborness...I think he may have met his match in Letty.  She's a great character.<br />I eagerly await his next entry in the series to see what happens with Letty and to see if Lucas turns back to his old ways which made him such a compelling character in the first several entries in the series.  Overall, a very good book!	2003-05-27
US	52258715	R1XVU4CV5DHKHG	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Dennis &quot;Hollywood&quot; Lehane	Just finished reading Shutter Island, the latest Dennis Lehane novel for which I've waited two years and scooped up in hardcover -- I won't be doing that again!  His latest novel has a terrific pretense...two federal marshals are summoned to an insane asylum on a fortress island during a hurricane -- what could be better for chills and thrills, right?  Wrong.  The fact that I waited two years for a novel which could be finished in three hours (325 pages with lots of dialogue) seems more like a novella than an actual novel.<br />BUT that aside, the story was okay at best.  I know that the author is spending much of his time working on the movie adaptation of Mystic River, as well as trying to buy back the movie rights to the first Kenzie/Gennaro novel, so perhaps that explains why so little effort (apparently) went into this latest story.  While it had unlimited potential, the story came across as farfetched -- extremely farfetched -- with holes you could drive Sean Penn's trailer through.  The ending was the best part of the book, but still it had a cliched ring to it.  It just didn't jibe.  The story meanders along for the first half and then the reader is taken along for a twisting ride which culminates in a dead end -- with a handful of implausible scenarios thrown in for good measure.  I won't ruin the ending, but when you get there, you'll know what I mean.<br />Dennis Lehane should go back to the characters that made him great -- Kenzie &amp; Gennaro -- and concentrate on his &quot;art,&quot; not his Hollywood hype.	2003-05-01
US	52258715	R2AHBVHEVJCE8U	038550098X	591346591	Last of the Amazons: A Novel	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Mediocre At Best	As a fan of Gates of Fire, I eagerly snatched up Last of the Amazons when it came out.  To say I was disappointed is an understatement!  This novel covers the love triangle of Amazon Warrioresses, the Greeks that tempted them (and eventually brought about their downfall), and their Amazon lovers.  <br />The narrative is painfully slow and dry with pieces of over-the-top dialogue that could only have been written by a man.  An example, \\"You reek of mare-stink from between your thighs...\\"  Puh-leez!<br />What could have been a great book exploring the Amazon culture turned into a boring treatise on horsemanship in ancient times.  If you like historical novels, treat yourself to the Roma Sub Rosa series by Steven Saylor or even Colleen McCullough's Masters of Rome series.  Pressfield, while a great scholar, just doesn't have the narrative prowess to pull off a novel.	2002-06-25
US	52258715	R2ME9VX7C3XTVG	0312980140	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Plum AWFUL!!!	As a (former) fan of the Plum series, I'm finally throwing in the towel -- it's time for this series to end.  The first couple of books were good, the next were okay, the last few were just plain bad.  It's as if the author uses a computer program with an \\"insert name here\\" feature to write her books.<br />This latest effort again has Stephanie bumbling her way through another attempt to capture a supposedly helpless fugitive who somehow (wait, you guessed it!) continuously eludes her.  This particular plot involves the Jersey mob, a psychotic wife, missing body parts, her druggie friends Mooner & Dougie, and  more mentions of erections than a Viagra brochure.  Enough already!  What could have been an interesting plot is mired down in the bog of cliches that the Plum series has become.<br />Let's watch Grandma Mazur act whacky, let's watch Grandma Mazur be crude, let's watch Mom get flustered and freak out, let's watch Dad ignore the entire situation!  Let's see Stephanie get shot at and do a Three Stooges impression!  And let's not forget the sexual tension brewing between Ranger & Steph...it's only been brewing for 8 books now!  That never gets tired, does it?  <yawn>  And of course, what would a Plum novel be without the requisite cliff-hanger ending?  Will she or won't she?  Will he or won't he?  Who cares anymore?<br />If you want to enjoy the series, read books one and two.  After that, make up your own character's names and write them over the names in books one and two.  It's all the same.  And in this case, less would have definitely been more.  What a disappointment.	2002-06-21
US	52258715	R3STHYJF16AN3P	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	3	2	5	N	N	What happened to Lucas??	As a huge fan of the Prey series I was sorely disappointed in this latest effort.  While most of Sandford's books have been 5 stars or better (with maybe one or two exceptions), this latest novel featuring Lucas Davenport is but a mere shadow of the former books.  Clara Rinker is back and terrific -- in fact, she's a stronger character in this novel than Davenport is.  As she begins her quest for vengeance on those who've harmed her, Lucas unfortunately takes a back seat, even as he's outsmarting the FBI and returning to the streets to find clues with good old-fashioned police work and networking.<br />But even that small portion of the book cannot save it from its dreariness.  Lucas Davenport discussing men's fashions?  Davenport fussing over house plans?  Wedding plans?  Playing MATCHMAKER?  Characters mature, they evolve, but I still want to know what happened to the Lucas Davenport that would back a criminal into a corner and squeeze the soft fleshy part of the bad guy's nose between his thumbnail and forefinger?  The Davenport who would demolish a brothel with a baseball bat just to get their attention?  The cold, calculating Davenport who would unhesitatingly frame a known serial killer and have no remorse whatsoever?  Where is Davenport?  What has John Sandford done with him?<br />Out of respect for the series as a whole, I give this book three stars.  It probably only deserves two. ...	2002-05-28
US	52258715	RQ61J2PMPMI1T	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Weakest Link in the Series	Having been hooked by Outlander, I anxiously awaited each sequel, and despite my vow not to purchase The Fiery Cross when it came out after waiting 2 years and suffering through Diana's Outlandish Cookbook, I broke down and purchased the new novel. <br />I should have trusted my first instincts and waited for paperback! I finished the book in three days and not because it was a page-turner...I was just waiting for SOMETHING to happen! This book is about 700 pages too long and the reader is forced to suffer through the menses of each character, more breast-feeding passages than a baby-rearing text, and countless (and I DO mean COUNTLESS) descriptions of Jamie's \\"flowing molten tresses.\\" Although the central theme of the novels is the love story between Jamie and Claire, it seems as though the first 300 pages of this book was simply there to re-establish just HOW MUCH they STILL love one another. Ditto Roger & Brianna. <br />There's a vague plot about the Revolutionary War coming on, also some other secondary plot involving Stephen Bonnet where Claire turns into Miss Marple...but mostly the author resorts to flogging the reader with vignettes of Jamie & Claire and Roger & Bree's homelife. This novel made me wonder if Diana is being paid per written word. <br />So -- if you're a rabid fan of the series, invest the (money) for the book. Or if (like me) you're tired of the author trying to turn spoiled Brianna and dull Roger into the exciting Jamie & Claire of Outlander just to stretch out the series, wait for the paperback. Overall, a disappointing entry in an otherwise decent series.	2001-11-14
US	52258715	R27WAJ2LY1LXJA	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	2	70	93	N	N	An Average Entry in the Saga	Having been hooked by Outlander, I anxiously awaited the sequels, and despite my vow not to purchase The Fiery Cross when it came out after waiting 2(?) years and suffering through Diana's Outlandish Cookbook (read: money-making scheme!), I broke down and purchased the new novel.<br />I should have trusted my first instincts and waited for paperback!  I finished the book in three days and not because it was a page-turner...I was just waiting for SOMETHING to happen!  This book is about 700 pages too long and the reader is forced to suffer through the menses of each character, more breast-feeding passages than a baby-rearing text, and countless (and I DO mean COUNTLESS) descriptions of Jamie's \\"flowing molten tresses.\\"  Although the central theme of the novels is the love story between Jamie and Claire, it seems as though the first 300 pages of this book was simply there to re-establish just HOW MUCH they STILL love one another.  Ditto Roger & Brianna.  By page 250, the author had established that Claire & Jamie and Roger & Bree would STILL sleep together...and that's IT!  There's a vague plot about the Revolutionary War coming on, also some other kind of plot involving Stephen Bonnet...but mostly the author resorts to flogging the reader with vignettes of Jamie & Claire and Roger & Bree's homelife.  I have a home life with the every day banalities of kids and dishes and laundry and menses, etc.  -- I don't want to spend my time reading about it too!  This novel made me wonder if Diana is being paid per written word.<br />So -- if you're a rabid fan of the series, invest the (price) for the book.  Or if (like me) you're tired of the author trying to turn spoiled Brianna and dull Roger into the exciting Jamie & Claire of Outlander, wait for the paperback.  Overall, a disappointing entry in an otherwise good series.	2001-11-10
US	52258715	R2V6BLFLBRKRZS	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	2	16	20	N	N	River of Tears	Mystic River is the first Lehane book to NOT feature Patrick and Angie -- but I won't hold that against it.  Like most Lehane fans, I eagerly awaited his newest novel only to be disturbed and fairly disappointed by it.  Mystic River should have been titled River of Misery -- there is not one single happy character or happy incident in the book which makes for very tough reading.  To be fair, the pretense of three childhood friends growing up on different sides of the tracks, complicated by the fact that one of them was molested, is not necessarily a cheery idea for a novel.  But unfortunately, the characters seem to mire themselves in unhappiness throughout their lives -- one goes to prison (his wife dies of cancer while he's inside), one marries (and develops a split personality), and one becomes a state cop (whose wife leaves him after she has an affair and becomes pregnant).  When one of the three's daugther is murdered (she was lucky to escape such a life of misery), the perceptions in the neighborhood change about the three main characters and their possible involvement in the murder.<br />Dennis Lehane is skilled writer, but in an effort to be &quot;literary&quot; he falls into the trap of trying too hard -- a Greek tragedy has more laughs than this novel, and what becomes of one of the main characters is telegraphed long before it ever happens.  That scene alone made me want to put the book down and not finish it.  So much misery crammed into 400 pages....  It's funny that Dennis Lehane says publicly that he wanted to take a break from misery and death to give Patrick and Angie a rest from it (which is why he wrote Mystic River with new characters) -- too bad he didn't feel the same compassion for his readers.<br />On a positive note, the mystery is fine and the ending is a pleasing twist.  But on the flip side of the ending, the sudden shift in personality of one of the main characters is disturbing and leaves the reader feeling cheated for ever rooting for him at all.<br />Overall, the story is fine, if a bit mired in despair and melodrama.  Ultimately, however, this latest novel left me not caring what happens to the characters, so much so that I wouldn't read a sequel (which has been clearly set up by the author).  If the characters didn't start out as unsympathetic, they certainly became unsypathetic as the story progressed.  Mystic River is a huge disappointment.r him at all.  <br />Overall, the story is fine, if a bit mired in despair and melodrama.  Ultimately, however, this latest novel left me not caring what happens to the characters, so much so that I wouldn't read a sequel (which has been clearly set up by the author).  If the characters didn't start out as unsympathetic, they certainly became unsypathetic as the story progressed.  Mystic River is a huge disappointment.	2001-02-18
US	52258715	R30STQ3V23ZZ61	0679459618	621917476	Dr. Death	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Dr. Death Is Deadly Dull	As a big fan of Jonathan Kellerman, I eagerly awaited his next Delaware novel after Billy Straight (a nice change of pace and surprisingly captivating book).  Unfortunately, the author's latest offering lacks inspiration.  Dr. Mate, a fictional Dr. Kevorkian, is butchered in a van; who did it?  Family or friends of one of his dead patients?  His estranged and abandoned son?  His ex-wife?  His sleazy lawyer, his co-hort Alice Zoghbie, a psychotic follower, an anti-euthanasia zealot, an obsessed FBI agent?  These are just SOME of the characters that Kellerman tosses into the stew in an effort to build suspense.  By the end of the book, I couldn't muster enough enthusiasm to care.  The end, in fact, turns into a twist that will leave most readers shaking their heads in utter disbelief. ...Kellerman's disinterest is perhaps most noticeable with the far too numerous mentions of Billy Straight, the character from his last non-Delaware novel.  Dr. Death was supposed to be about the characters readers have grown to know and love over the past 10+ years...not about a teenage boy from a different series.  <br />All in all, this outing was disappointing and failed to keep me turning the pages.  In fact, if I wasn't stuck on a commuter train for 3 hours a day, I probably wouldn't have finished it at all.  I hope that Kellerman's next novel (whether a Delaware novel or something new) is a better reflection of the author's true talent.	2001-01-12
US	52258715	RX1E5L2WMCTUK	0451408756	208328776	The Piper's Sons	Books	1	2	3	N	N	PREPOSTEROUS AND OVER THE TOP	For a debut novel, I suppose it's not too bad -- we all have to start somewhere!  The story was good for the first thirty pages, but then completely falls apart as the main character makes a series of foolish and unbelievable errors (not notifying the police after an attempted abduction is simply one example).  Although it's billed as a suspense novel and a thriller, it actually turns out to be neither as the main character's history is developed and we discover that his family has met with a series of preposterous events (I won't divulge what actually happens to them, but suffice it to say that I was alternately rolling my eyes and laughing out loud!).  The villain is completely over the top -- and obviously omnipotent in order to accomplish everything he could possibly have done in his lifetime.  Any chapters involving The Cage are simply too ridiculous and over-the-top evil to mention.<br />Aside from the character development, the writing style is okay...the alternating chapters between the Sinclair's and the Cage did nothing but stress exactly how ridiculous the villain was -- in fact, I cringed whenever I turned the page to find the italicized writing!  Also, entirely too much time was spent on needless description, causing me to skip entire pages in order to move the story forward.  Despite skipping these sections, it was an effort to finish this book.  Perhaps his next one will be better, but I'm not willing to invest the money to buy it!	2000-10-04
US	52258715	RZ65MBNVECRY3	0451186648	185361524	Silent Snow	Books	1	4	6	N	N	DISAPPOINTING	Clearly Silent Snow is a shameless attempt to boost sales for Steve  Thayer's first novel SAINT MUDD, a book that 40 publishers rejected before  the author took to selling it from the trunk of his car after publishing it  on his own.  The blending of stories/characters/timelines is a distracting  plot device and I found myself groaning as the book switched from present  day to 1932 and then back again.  Even though the author tries to draw  parallels between the protagonists of SAINT MUDD and THE WEATHERMAN (Rick  Beanblossom), the effort proves too much for the storyline and the writing  suffers for it -- there are only so many times an author can use the phrase  &quot;the wounded Marine&quot; in the same novel before it gets tiring.  If  Steve Thayer wanted to utilize the characters from SAINT MUDD, then perhaps  he should have written another novel set in that era.  <br />Most people will  have purchased this book because of the compelling Rick Beanblossom  character and the tight storyline of THE WEATHERMAN -- unfortunately in  this latest effort, Rick is a watered down Dad who is forced through a  series of contrived situations -- if you've seen the movie Ransom, you can  skip most of this book; even attempts to make his wife a more dynamic and  stronger heroine fall flat.  Overall, this book is not nearly as good as  its predecessor.  Extremely disappointing.	2000-09-12
US	52258715	R1QOK5ZYCXD6Y8	0446608270	367594357	The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Readers of this book are the Last Victims!	As an avid reader of true-crime books, I was extremely disappointed in The Last Victim -- I feel the readers of this book are the true Last Victims!  While the cover of this book and Amazon.com hyped this as a breakthrough,  riveting true-crime story that allows you to understand the  &quot;real&quot; people behind Richard Ramirez, Gacy, etc., I found that it  was a bland book report on how Jeff Moss spent his college years.  The book  dwells on his family life, his &quot;intellectual superiority&quot; over  his family/friends (which became very tiring very quickly), and issues he  has with his mother.  Very little, in fact, is revealed about any of the  murderers mentioned in the book.  Perhaps most disturbing about this book  (aside from the price and the hype) is the ludicrous climax with Gacy -- it  was thoroughly unbelievable and most likely a work of journalistic license.  Let's face it -- Gacy isn't around anymore to dispute or verify that it  ever happened.  Overall, readers interested in true crime stories should  stick with the classics like In Cold Blood -- The Last Victim has nothing  to do with the crimes, the investigations, or any of the murderers.	2000-04-03
US	52258715	R3MQGJRQ82IWW1	0684856816	800344209	A Twist at the End : A Novel of O. Henry	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good Book -- Not As Good as The Alienist	Saylor's best known for his Roma Sub Rosa Series, detailing the fictional life of Gordianus The Finder; this latest work is a bit of a departure for him and for most of his readers.  The book starts off a little slowly but  is a good read once you start understanding the numerous subplots.  The  topic of the book is fascinating and any fan of good historical fiction  should enjoy this -- it's not as good as The Alienist by Caleb Carr but  better than the sequel to that book.  All in all this book doesn't  disappoint and tells a good story.  Fans of ancient historical fiction  should pick up Saylor's Roma Sub Rosa series -- they were outstanding.	2000-03-29
US	52258715	R100KDKSA99HGF	0812545273	992395733	Justinian	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Not a very appealing character or story.	Setting aside the fact that Justinian was not a good person to begin with, this story makes it impossible to root for him EVER -- in fact, I spent  most of the book wishing he'd be done away with sooner!  Another  disappointing and distracting plot device was the asides by Myakes -- to  have a character supposedly &quot;discuss&quot; Justinian's autobiography  wouldn't be bad if the other character to whom he's supposedly speaking is  actually represented in writing.  It's a device that simply doesn't play  well -- this is a novel, not a play where characters are allowed to have  asides to move the plot along.  Perhaps the author didn't feel up to  writing about the character of Brother Elpidios -- which is probably a  shame since none of the other characters were even remotely  likeable.<br />Overall, this book was disappointing.  It lacked any sort of  creative spark whatsoever -- if you have an interest in Justinian, buy a  historical work.	1999-10-27
US	52258715	R2QEM3H67Q6ZTH	0671025341	899138358	A Rage To Kill and Other True Cases: Anne Rule's Crime Files, Vol. 6	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Expected better.	Read a lot of Ann Rule's books ... this was her dullest by far.  The stories seemed shallow and what depth there seemed to be was only because the author used the same phrases over and over again in several stories.   How many ways can you say the same thing?  Also, the stories were great if  you're from Seattle or that area...they would have a broader appeal if she  picked some areas outside of Washington.  But overall, the writing was not  up to her usual par and despite the interesting subject matter, they fell  flat.<br />Maybe Number 7 will be better?	1999-09-29
US	52258715	RXVU36YYATDM2	0515125024	845546119	Die Trying (Jack Reacher, No. 2)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Decent book -- a lot of fun.	Didn't read the first book and spent the first fifty pages or so rolling my eyes at Jack Reacher's invulnerability and/or machismo -- but once you get past that, you actually find yourself rooting for the guy and cheering  when he finishes off the villains one by one -- who couldn't root for a  hero who uses a lit cigarette and a wooden chair to wipe out a room full of  bad guys?  Some of the writing is a little dry and the character of Holly  seems thin, but overall it's still better than most others in this genre.   The descriptions of the technology and military gear can be a bit boring,  but overall pretty informative -- Childs obviously did his homework.  If  you like techno-thrillers with he-men heroes rescuing damsels in distress  (okay...a brainy, well-trained damsel but a damsel nonetheless), then  you'll enjoy the book.	1999-09-27
US	52258715	R3SLDJ6IRL5L0N	068815333X	240949428	Prayers for Rain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	TERRIFIC  SERIES -- GREAT BOOK	Couldn't put this one down -- it was almost as good as the first four in the series!  Patrick Lehane has a dry wit and it comes through in the characters' reactions to things.  His knowledge of Boston is wonderful and  right on the money.  I was a little disappointed in some of the cliched  interaction between Bubba and Kenzie, but overall the book was wonderful.   One of only two series I would read again -- the Prey series by Sandford is  the other and he used to be my favorite author.  Lehane now tops my list!   Well worth buying in hardcover -- Lehane is a gem!	1999-09-09
US	52258715	R3V77S5GPTRVJ	0345423615	279350331	The Silver Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 1)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	ZERO STARS!!	It's a shame that you can't pick zero stars from the menu -- one was the lowest I could give.  This book was terrible -- the plot was weak, the history shoddily researched, and the characters were cardboard and  completely unappealing.  Even the author's attempt at homo-erotica in the  book fell flat -- apparently she was trying to cash in on her sister's  writing style.  Not a very good book -- and it's a little sleazy to have  Anne Rice give a wonderful review of the book (she's the author's sister!)  --  apparently Anne never actually read Silver Wolf.  Just terrible!!	1999-08-10
US	52258715	RIDAHOO8R53ZC	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Only thing Left Behind was the author's writing skills!	The first 50 pages caught my attention -- the next 50 lost it!  The concept is good (despite the author's own religious zealotry) but the lack of writing talent is clear from page one.  This could have been overlooked,  but the characters were paper thin and predictable.  Anyone who read this  book knew from the first that Nicolae Carpathia was the villain -- the name  alone sounds like it belongs in a Harlequin Romance novel.  Unfortunately  even the good premise of the books won't convince me to buy the rest of the  series.  What a waste of a good concept -- if you want real talent and an  end of the world story, read Robert McCammon's Swan Song.  It outshines  Left Behind.	1999-08-10
