US	52254727	R38OUF6D84HAM	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Believable Story, Molasses Pace	I have to give the author credit for writing believable characters, most of whom managed not to make me cringe from being drawn from a pool of cliches. He does a good job with the teenaged daughter. The father's relationship with her, however, starts out sappy and gets sappier. Not my experience of family life.<br />My main objection is that I, an avid reader, took six weeks to get through this book, and not because I was savoring the delicious prose. The prose is pedestrian. I know the author wanted to recreate the stultifying slow pace of small town life, but he goes too far. A scene in the grill that would have happened beginning to end in 30 seconds took me a half hour to read. Now multiply that by 30 or 40 and you'll understand why I was glad when the book finished, despite its satisfying, nineteenth century-type plot resolution. The book could have benefitted greatly from jump cuts, juxtaposition, leaving information out and letting the reader put it together. Instead we were hit over with things over and over again until we were groaning -- come one! Get on with the story!<br />I am especially critical of this as I am a novelist myself, and in marketing my work, am aware that a book has to pull you in from the first pages, and hold you. Wherever the author uses summary -- as in the first few pages, or the backstory flashbacks, which are all italicized -- the story moves. Otherwise the tedious unvarying technique is to plod through detailed scene after scene.<br />Honestly, I don't know how this author got away with writing something double the length it should have been. On the other hand -- he is free of the gimmicky tricks of the &quot;workshop&quot; crowd, and seems to know his characters.	2004-06-17
US	52254727	R20RZBN2N3AH1I	0944934234	522169219	Sweet Grapes: How to Stop Being Infertile and Start Living Again	Books	4	47	62	N	Y	A Positive Spin on Bad Luck	This book presents rules that worked for the authors, but may not work for everyone. They certainly don't work for me.<br /><br />This is meant to be a comforting, positive book for those who lost out in the fertility sweepstakes. It is often Pollyanna-ish -- the authors suggest \\"helping\\" careers such as social work and teaching, pets, gardening and hobbies as substitutes for having children, which seems rather bizarre. I don't experience these things as remotely comparable.<br /><br />They fail to address the knotty issues, the real reasons why people couldn't try to have children until it was too late. While the authors seem to assume that all parents and in-laws want grandchildren, my husband and I were hesitant because we grew up in stressed-out families, both of which (especially his, who disapproved of our interfaith marriage)discouraged us from having children. They don't address the common scenario of boyfriends dragging their feet to the altar, and husbands wanting to put off and put off having children until the wives are too old, and so the infertility heartbreak begins.<br /><br />The authors made their childfree decision in their early thirties -- which seems ludicrously early to give up hope. I don't buy their recommendation that it's bad to \\"drift\\" -- leave things up to fate. They started using birth control again, instead of leaving it to chance that they might be blessed with a late, surprise baby. I know one couple who did the fertility treatment route, resigned themselves fairly happily to childlessness, and then the wife got accidentally pregnant at 45, and they are the happiest parents in the world.<br /><br />I tried to embrace \\"childfree\\" in my late thirties, after fertility treatments dramatically worsened a chronic illness, which brought additional money worries into the picture.  The authors don't cover a situation like mine -- where adoption turns out not to be an option. I really had no choice, so why should I say I chose child free? The authors only define three scenarios -- biological children, adoptive children, and happily child free. Those who experience themselves as childless, they say, are doing something wrong.<br /><br />These authors have a very close marriage, and happy, fulfilling careers. Not everyone is so lucky to have that strong bond to fill the void of childlessness.<br /><br />The authors oversimplify a complex situation that is subject to each person's experience.  I can't agree that all their recommendations will lead to resolution. Life is never fully resolved. Despite my efforts to embrace \\"child free\\" the hand fate has dealt me periodically casts a shadow over my life. Some days my life is so challenging that I thank God I'm not subjecting innocent children to it. But most days it's society that makes me feel child-less. Other times, I genuinely experience life that way. It's wrong of the authors to deny my or anyone else their truth. There are no absolutes in life, no one size fits all formulas.Some things you never get over.rios -- biological children, adoptive children, and happily child free. Those who experience themselves as childless, they say, are doing something wrong.     These authors have a very close marriage, and happy, fulfilling careers. Not everyone is so lucky to have that strong bond to fill the void of childlessness.    The authors oversimplify a complex situation that is subject to each person's experience.  I can't agree that all their recommendations will lead to resolution. Life is never fully resolved. Despite my efforts to embrace \\"child free\\" the hand fate has dealt me periodically casts a shadow over my life. Some days my life is so challenging that I thank God I'm not subjecting innocent children to it. But most days it's society that makes me feel child-less. Other times, I genuinely experience life that way. It's wrong of the authors to deny my or anyone else their truth. There are no absolutes in life, no one size fits all formulas.Some things you never get over.	2004-05-09
US	52254727	RWEDC2NXT1XTW	1573222631	795188046	Aloft	Books	1	16	27	N	N	Emperor's New Clothes	I really don't know where to begin. The clumsy writing? The unconvincing characterizations? The fact that this upper middle class Korean-American has not one jot of insight into the Italian American experience?<br />Maybe Mr. Lee talked to an Italian-American once. His underlying agenda seems to be -- these immigrants have it easy, they are assimilated. Well guess what? Italians don't assimilate. They certainly don't change their names, like the lead character here -- they have too much ethnic pride, and in a place like the New York metropolitan area, where there are millions of Italians, there is no need. That is just one glaring example of Mr. Lee's inability to understand ethnic groups other than his own.<br />Mr. Lee, who spent most of his adult life in creative writing programs, could have done a little research into the landscaping and contracting businesses that were supposed to have been the protagonist's life work. He presents them as a walk in the park, something the narrator inherited after his own father established them. Well, anyone can tell you that owning and running such a business is and always has been absolute hell. There is no reflection of the reality of work life here.<br />There is not one spark of storytelling magic. He hits all the diversity notes in an unrealistic and groaningly PC way -- Korean dead wife, Puerto Rican girlfriend -- without contextualizing these cross-ethnic experiences in a way appropriate to a sixty-year old man.<br />Because of all these misfires, I could not believe the narrator, or a single line of the book. The suburban scene he  describes in laundry-list yawning detail has been done before and better by many other writers -- there's nothing new here.<br />The universal kudos heaped on this book just seems to be a reflection of the &quot;minority mafia&quot; dominating so-called literary fiction. No one has the guts to say that the critic's darling of yesterday, writing his own ethic group's story, is incapable of writing convincingly outside of his own experience.  It is a case of the emperor's new clothes -- no one has the guts to say that this writer is lame.writing convincingly outside of his own experience.  It is a case of the emperor's new clothes -- no one has the guts to say that this writer is lame.	2004-05-03
US	52254727	RVYR5ZEG8SVBA	0609802240	455366142	Why People Don't Heal and How They Can	Books	2	33	59	N	Y	Not Completely Useless, But ...	We all know people with legitimate illnesses who seem to wallow in their misfortune. However, we all suffer from illnesses, and we all age -- some of us dwell on our ailments, others are stoic to the point of self-neglect. The author is obviously a charlatan, who has positioned herself as the Camille Paglia of New Age Healers.<br /><br />As others have pointed out,she has no credentials, and isn't even a healer -- she is a professional busy body, telling others where to get off, and it is sad that people have actually gone to her in their desperation. There are plenty of New Age healers who aren't charlatans, who have a genuine gift of love and will to help others.<br /><br />She basically says that some people need their illnesses for attention or whatever, and that others experience spiritual growth through their physical travails. None of this is exactly news. I just worry that people who come down with cancer or whatever will think it's their own fault if they don't heal, as she seems to think.<br /><br />This book isn't really a waste of time -- but it is mean spirited, reduces a complex topic to a formula, and is completely lacking in a spiritual element. Which is ironic, because she is preaching spirituality. Scary.	2003-09-11
US	52254727	RVUV44WFOTKH3	0803242972	469873863	In the Shadow of Memory (American Lives)	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Wonderful Family Memoir	I value this book most as a wonderful family memoir -- of the Skloots 1950s working-to-middle class immigrant experience. I wish everyone could write about their dysfunctional families with the kind of compassion and forgiveness found here.<br />Skloot never flies the victim banner with his physical condition -- on the contrary, it seems to have given him a greater understanding of others. In his forties, he was hit with a virus that left him with some of the same brain malfunctions as his Alzheimers-afflicted mother.  The story of his recovered relationship with his brother -- a compulsively over-eating, severe diabetic, and his once terrifying mother, are healing for anyone to read.<br />This is real soul food.	2003-09-09
US	52254727	R158T8NGFKAF4E	0452275350	755189919	Too Good to Leave, Too Bad to Stay: A Step-by-Step Guide to Help You Decide Whether to Stay In or Get Out of Your Relationship	Books	3	38	44	N	N	Still On the Fence	It's good to see this topic honestly explored in print -- but impossible to reduce it to an often confusing formula, as the author does -- no doubt at the behest of the publisher, who follows the ubiquitious belief that people crave pat solutions.<br />I am in one of those marriages where every time a major crisis hits -- and there have been many -- I think I should have left at the earlier one. This book is honest about the compromises people make, and doesn't present any solution as happily ever after, which is a relief.  But the magazine quiz-style formula just doesn't do the topic justice.<br />I give the author credit for being realistic -- for example, acknowledging that money might have a lot to do with staying or going. Someone with a financially supportive family of origin might help a distressed spouse out of an abusive or deeply unhappy marriage -- someone with no such help will have to find other ways of dealing with it. She doesn't pretend, as so many books do, that divorce not an extremely complicated business on a practical level.<br />However, at the end of this book I was frustrated -- becauase my case didn't follow the formulas. I was still on the fence.	2003-09-09
US	52254727	RV8FPIE28IB0A	0151007403	247897327	The Seven Sisters	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Strong Return to Form	The Seven Sisters marks a return to the deep characterizations that made Drabble's early to mid-period novels such good, deep reads.  Candida Wilton strikes me as a woman who is ubiquitious in real life, but seldom taken as a novelistic subject: a woman in very late middle age, with no distinguished career, and a less than happy family life whose recent impolosion nonetheless came as a shattering blow.  She shouldn't be a particularly likeable character, because she is rather cold -- bringing to mind Emma Evans in Drabble's sixties novel, The Garrick Year.<br />But as with Emma, the deepness of the characterization brings us to empathize with this woman for whom simple gestures and human interactions take tremendous effort and courage. She cannot help being the way she is -- that is her character. Yet by the book's end, she seems to be entering the final leg of her life with renewed hope and connection.<br />This is a grownup book, for intelligent people.  I wish there were more being written like it.	2002-12-04
US	52254727	R186JETZH01JEI	0743211960	185350462	The Normal One: Life with a Difficult or Damaged Sibling	Books	3	27	45	N	N	New and True, Yet Incomplete	As a sibling of a sister who was both chronically ill AND obnoxious, I appreciated the author's honesty in smashing the myth that all disabled children are saints.  Having close friends with mentally ill an nonfunctional siblings, the profiles ring true.<br /><br />But I have a little trouble with her value system. She repeatedly holds up as the normal, successful sibling the one with the conventional career and most money or worldly success. I wonder where this would leave my uncle, who as a priest was poor all his life, in ill health, and often needed to depend on siblings, but who exuded such warmth and spirituality that no one ever felt the least bit resentful? Perhaps it's that I come from a deeply Christian family, where someone like this is not considered a failure simply because he was poor and ill.<br /><br />For all her over-analyzing, the author's bourgeoise, Jewish background that held material success and achievement above all other areas of success in life, made me wonder if, in some of these cases, it wasn't all just a matter of point of view. The tone gets strident and hysterical, and because she never interviews her patients' siblings, you never get their take on the situation. It felt very one-sided.<br /><br />Towards the end, the case histories blurred -- it often wasn't clear who was the really more screwed up or affected sibling. A lot of the siblings she identifies as \\"normal\\" probably appear narcissistic to those who were merely under-achieving (which again brings up the question, who is to label who underachieving?  The money grubbing investment banker is superior to the marginally employed \\"damaged\\" sibling?)<br /><br />I know many counterparts to the families here. The \\"normal\\" high achieving person can often be delusional, manipulative and destructive. They often exacerbate damage, by grabbing control of family finances and bad mouthing the sibling identified as \\"damaged\\".  But being the \\"golden child\\" herself, the author  is blind to the pattern.	2002-11-21
US	52254727	RLX4H3YEGOG8U	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	5	9	N	N	The Goddess of Cliche	This book got better as its conclusion neared, but it was a long slog. It took me a month to get through it.  Despite the lovely descriptions, the book offerred little reading pleasure. The story is a dark one we've all heard before -- rich woman, poor man, racial taboos, punishment.<br />While I finally accepted the &quot;whimsical&quot; (whimsy with an anvil) language in which the author got across the children's point of view -- I felt all of the characters lacked depth. Everyone is given a thumbnail sketch history, which doesn't really work for me. Later, actions and inner thoughts get a some play, which was an improvement.<br />I was just not engaged in the children's story, though I know I'm supposed to care. The foreshadowing and suspense, practically in every sentence, made what happened at the end anti-climactic. Later on in the book, the author gives us six or seven pages of the brief marriage of Chacko, the children's uncle, and Margaret, his English wife. I could have spent a whole book with these two in their mismatched marriage --because for once cliches were subverted. He (like all the other characters in the family here) is a spoiled Indian of an upper caste, Margaret a solid working class English girl.<br />We are supposed to believe that the traumatic incidents that happened in the book destroyed both twins for life, but I know that things just don't happen that way. They just come off as rich and spoiled. Early on we get a familiar whine -- Rahel's family paid her school fees, but offered no love -- she is so depressed it took her eight years to get through college, when she goes to the U.S., she sits dully in a parking ticket booth. If she'd had to pay her own fees, you can bet she would have made something better with her life.<br />I'm sorry, but these books of the Indian upper class are starting to make me hate that society. Snobs are no more attractive if they are dark skinned than if they are white and Anglo. One older aunt here comes in for a skewering -- but I wonder what the book says about the younger generation, which is so weak and solipsistic here, as represented by the grown up, depressed twins, who seem to lack all bravery and vision. You wonder what you're supposed to be taking away from this book. The after effects of the tragedy are just plain overdone. In the end, it's a sad, soap opera that we've read before from English authors.a skewering -- but I wonder what the book says about the younger generation, which is so weak and solipsistic here, as represented by the grown up, depressed twins, who seem to lack all bravery and vision. You wonder what you're supposed to be taking away from this book. The after effects of the tragedy are just plain overdone. In the end, it's a sad, soap opera that we've read before from English authors.	2002-11-07
US	52254727	R1WI8DAG510ZVT	0375414053	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother	Books	1	32	43	N	N	I Don't Know How I Got Through It!	As a woman financial professional, I have to throw my lot in with the reviewer who works in international finance -- good concept, poor execution. The story is implausible and the lead character unsympathetic. The book is a gimmicky string of would-be bon mots and cliches, the author clearly has no deep understanding of what goes into a financial career, and simply pasted her \\"ditzy female columnist married to a successful man\\" sensibility onto a poorly thought out character.<br />Someone like Kate Reddy, who spends half her day writing emails to her female colleague, wouldn't last a day as a mutual fund manager -- and shouldn't. And unfortunately, the book makes a great case that women with children ought to stay in low key careers.<br />I have seen business screech to a grinding halt, and underlings get dumped with work that is never rewarded, when working mothers take their maternity leaves, and come back, like this character, after however long a leave, unable to do their jobs because they spend half their day on the phone to the nanny, the other half complaining about their double burden.  Is it business's fault to want to put people whose minds are on their work in key positions?<br />The character seems to want to work in finance because of the perks of luxury travel.  She presents a narrow view of City/Wall Street life -- constantly harping on the prep school, upper crust nature (while buying right into it with her nanny lifestyle), when anyone who has worked there knows it is probably less elitist than most other fields, and full of colorful characters.<br />The real economics of the character's life never come into focus -- most people who work in finance do so because they desperately need the money, for one reason or another. The way this character bails out into an insecure future just doesn't ring true.<br />This book is about working mothers and will flatter their sensibility, but even so is all surface and no substance.<br />It is not about women working in finance.  If you want to read an intelligent take on what it's like to be a woman in finance with a complicated personal life, read Kate Jennings' Moral Hazard. It's a real book, whereas this one is a fake.men working in finance.  If you want to read an intelligent take on what it's like to be a woman in finance with a complicated personal life, read Kate Jennings' Moral Hazard. It's a real book, whereas this one is a fake.	2002-11-01
US	52254727	R2M5FFPQ2UY95Z	0007141076	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	2	10	23	N	N	Who Are These People?	I don't mind the loose plot -- I'm a big fan of internal stream of consciousness, books where nothing happens for quite a while, a la Margaret Drabble, Eudora Welty. But there are serious credibility issues here. This woman is just a few years older than me -- about to turn 44 -- and for a woman who thinks so deeply about so many things, she seems to have missed the upheavals of the 1960s and 1970s altogether.<br />Carol Sheilds is a woman in her seventies, but apparently  thinks she's not allowed to write about the experience of the elderly, which I would have enjoyed much more, as I'm sure she would have done it with great insight. But here is the heroine, Reta, smack in the middle of the generation of women who put off having children till it was almost too late (think of all the ripe-for-fiction accompanying anxieties that go with that), who seems to have started her family, like proper wives of the 1940s and 1950s, by her mid-twenties, no explanation offered.<br />She therefore misses the essential experience of my post-hippie generation -- the promiscuity, experienced or merely observed, the committment-phobia of women who grew up sexually free, their eventual ups and downs in marriage, their disillusionment with real, full-time paying work (as opposed to at-my-leisure, academic writing, as here) and the inevitable toll it all takes on marriage, itself an amorphous institution. She has that old fictional stand-by, the nice husband who never resents her self-indulgent work and never loses his temper, who never has a mid-life crisis of his own. Does Carol Sheilds know any women who are married to doctors? They tend to be very difficult, arrogant men, who rarely stick with their first wife. Another chance for real life conflict missed.<br />Also -- feminism? Don't most husbands of my generation demand that their wives earn a good living? The protagonist Reta seems to have done exactly as she liked, professionally, piggy-backing on her husband's income, without a single stint as a waitress or secretary, like most struggling writers. The very lack of financial and marital stress posits this book far out in the reaches of la-la land.<br />At one point, the writer-protagonist says \\"I believe passionately that my characters work\\" -- but clearly both the real author and the created one know little of actual, rent-paying work themselves. The novelist heroine creates a character that's a saxophonist,and ruminates on the imagined characteristics of a player of this instrument versus another. No concept whatever of the real struggle classical musicians have actually making a living at their art. They are usually so busy, juggling teaching jobs, appearances and marketing -- they are the furthest thing from a garret artist imaginable. They are never whimsical, as the idle housewife-novelist imagines them. Likewise, this academic creates a magazine journalist with her own philosophical/literary interests -- when anyone who has worked in the glossy magazine world knows a person like this wouldn't last a day.<br />The inability to imagine a realistic picture of work life is a continual problem of the paid-in-full housewife novelist, and Sheilds is by no means alone in her complete ignorance of the working world.<br />I'm afraid this basic getting the facts of my generation wrong stops me from considering this a real novel, and I am shocked that no literary critics called the author on these very glaring faults.<br />That said, I very much enjoyed the philosophical ramblings.a single stint as a waitress or secretary, like most struggling writers. The very lack of financial and marital stress posits this book far out in the reaches of la-la land. <br />At one point, the writer-protagonist says \\"I believe passionately that my characters work\\" -- but clearly both the real author and the created one know little of actual, rent-paying work themselves. The novelist heroine creates a character that's a saxophonist,and ruminates on the imagined characteristics of a player of this instrument versus another. No concept whatever of the real struggle classical musicians have actually making a living at their art. They are usually so busy, juggling teaching jobs, appearances and marketing -- they are the furthest thing from a garret artist imaginable. They are never whimsical, as the idle housewife-novelist imagines them. Likewise, this academic creates a magazine journalist with her own philosophical/literary interests -- when anyone who has worked in the glossy magazine world knows a person like this wouldn't last a day. <br />The inability to imagine a realistic picture of work life is a continual problem of the paid-in-full housewife novelist, and Sheilds is by no means alone in her complete ignorance of the working world.<br />I'm afraid this basic getting the facts of my generation wrong stops me from considering this a real novel, and I am shocked that no literary critics called the author on these very glaring faults.<br />That said, I very much enjoyed the philosophical ramblings.	2002-10-08
US	52254727	R2MPG7SFQ6GB0W	0786862181	452570984	Surrendering to Marriage: Husbands, Wives, and Other Imperfections	Books	2	34	44	N	N	Piercing Glimpse into the Obvious	This book is really just an extended glossy magazine article. The overall message is: \\"We baby boomers were spoiled by casual sex and must buckled down to the job of being married and raising kids. Duh. Her view of \\"we\\" is pretty narrow. The circle of friends she draws heavily from for her research seems to consist of women from upper middle class white families who never had to struggle, married well -- i.e., didn't have to work through their childbearing years -- and still they find things to complain about!<br />Only a few times in the entire book did you hear a voice of reason that transcended the yuppy malaise. Early on, she quotes her babysitter, a single mother of three kids by two men, who tells the ever complaining Krasnow (for whom making her childrens' lunches equates with convict labor) -- that Krasnow's husband is a good man, because he's at least around, which is more than she can say of her kids' fathers. Also later, the graceful voice of a man who, in partner with his wife, devotes his life to the care of two handicapped sons.<br />Most of the rest is yuppy whining. She both envies and criticizes friends who bolted from stable but boring marriages to rekindle the hot sex of youth. But she doesn't come near discussing more common and ambiguous reasons women consider leaving marriages -- addictive problems, work and money problems. Many of the women in her circle appeared to have married simply to be supported, or only to have children, and then miss the \\"soul mate\\" aspect in their union. Krasnow never takes these women to task for their mercenary motives in the first place.<br />Over and over, she holds up marriage and child rearing as the only ways to become an adult. This may be true in her case, but isn't for everyone. Not all singles are promiscuous committment- phobes, and most childless couples actually do practice the kind of \\"lots of quality time together\\" routine she proscribes. She doesn't confront the fact that yuppy desires, for lots of money and lots of kids (she has four, and a big career) make a soul mate, quality marital bond almost impossible.<br />By age twenty, and without even being married yet, I already knew the things Krasnow seems to have discovered only after forty five years, four kids and twelve years of marriage.<br />Krasnow herself seems to be a very difficult and demanding woman. It got very wearisome hearing her talk about her mommy routine as if it were a burden. If I heard \\"my four perfect sons\\" one more time I think I was going to throw the book across the room. Her husband, on the other hand, she calls \\"imperfect\\" though his biggest sin seems to be leaving his boxer shorts on the bathroom floor.oney and lots of kids (she has four, and a big career) make a soul mate, quality marital bond almost impossible.<br />By age twenty, and without even being married yet, I already knew the things Krasnow seems to have discovered only after forty five years, four kids and twelve years of marriage. <br />Krasnow herself seems to be a very difficult and demanding woman. It got very wearisome hearing her talk about her mommy routine as if it were a burden. If I heard \\"my four perfect sons\\" one more time I think I was going to throw the book across the room. Her husband, on the other hand, she calls \\"imperfect\\" though his biggest sin seems to be leaving his boxer shorts on the bathroom floor.	2002-04-06
US	52254727	R16518S520C6FW	0312420234	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Breath of Fresh Air	If Tom Wolfe weren't already famous, he probably couldn't have found mainstream publication for many of these pieces. That is a compliment. In a world where the word &quot;diversity&quot; has become a  catch phrase narrowly applied to a very select number of ethnic groups and political viewpoints, Wolfe has the cachet to put across opinions that would be unacceptable from an unknown, no matter how talented.<br />This eclectic collection is an excellent value -- pulling together new pieces, old gems and fiction. Most valuable in his rerun Tribune pieces lampooning the New Yorker was its context -- the original mission of its founder back in 1925 was to mimic a certain type of British literary periodical. It is hard to believe that this fairly harmless parody caused such a fuss back then -- but evidence that political correctness under another name was already alive and kicking. I would have welcome a P.S.  Under Tina Brown, the New Yorker did change radically -- I would have liked to see Wolfe's comment.<br />Leftist academia, touched on in &quot;The Land of the Roccoco Marxists&quot; is an easy and popular target among conservative commentators. Here Wolfe likewise borders just a bit on a rant -- I would have liked to see him expand on the topic even more. I dabbled in Marxist/feminist literary theory in graduate school and am still utterly perplexed by the experience, being otherwise a citizen of the nonacademic, real world.<br />Several years back I remember Wolfe saying his next big book was going to be about the world of higher education. More please.	2002-02-22
US	52254727	R334F2CJPGVGH3	085119334X	756542204	Jill (New Portway Books)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Great War Reading	Phillip Larkin is known as perhaps the greatest British pPoet of the second half of the twentieth century. This book, of a northern, working class boy's first term at Oxford in the grim fall of 1940, offers unparalelled reading pleasure.<br />Larkin wrote this book in his early twenties, when the war was still very much in progress, and its outcome uncertain. That is only one of the reason I'd recommend it over the many romanticized WW II stories written afterwards, especially in the last decade, when revisionist history takes over, and we sketch characters of the forties as if they had the insights of the nineties.<br />Here you get the real thing. The war is a presence in the gritty little details of life -- the privations, the routine of putting up the blackout in defense of bombing raids. Towards the end of the book, the hero returns to his northern town to find it devastated.<br />I found Jill, and Larkin's second and final novel, A Girl in Winter, also set during war-time, bracing, even comforting reading during the first months of the current war. We see that, despite being shadowed by larger events, the inner workings of personality -- love, identity, pride -- carry on, in spite of all.<br />I wish Larkin had written more novels, or more novelists could write like him.	2001-11-04
US	52254727	R3H8U4ENBFZYDS	9995184044	398508373	Girl in Winter	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Wonderful Period Piece	In the middle of World War II, 22-year old Katherine Lind, a refugee from Europe is frozen in time and tragedy. Her past is gone -- family, friends, college life -- and she is living moment by moment, in a humiliating temporary library job, among the unfriendly aliens, somewhere in England.<br />Six years before it was summer, and the world was at peace. On a lark, she's decided to take up her British pen pal's invitation to a three week stay in the Oxfordshire countryside. Robin Fennel puzzles and fasicinates her. The middle part of the book takes us back six years, to that idyllic time. Katherine and Robin's relationship does not fit into any standard romantic paradigm. It is all too subtle for that, and I'd love to see this exquisitely written novel turned into one of those wonderfully atmospheric films the British excell at.<br />Once again, it is good to read a World War II story, free of latter day cliches, and the teary-eyed romanticism typical of its own period. This book is rather more rewarding than Larkin's first effort, Jill, in that the lead character -- he does a wonderful job with a woman, by the way -- is more complex, mature and knowing than the hapless John Kemp of Jill.<br />There is also a hint towards a happy ending, though the ultimate outcome would depend on both characters surviving the war. A beautiful book and a pleasure.	2001-11-04
US	52254727	R3FHPNH1SYNH0S	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	2	28	53	N	N	Maudlin navel-gazing	I read this book to battle insomnia after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Towers, fomerly visible 20 miles south of me. Maybe that's why it seemed even more irrelevent than it normally would -- downright pointless. This story of a spoiled upper middle class white girl, the daughter of another, grandaughter of another, will not resonate with anyone who's ever had to take hard knocks in life.<br />If the girl had ever been made to do a minimum wage job, like other adolescents,she wouldn't have had time to obsess about anyone in her family. As it is, it's hard to relate to someone whose every whim is met by overindulgent grandparents. She moves to New York after college, living on family donations. If she'd had to scramble for an entry level job like the rest of us, she'd have been too busy to run around, obsessing about herself and her father. To me, it's no less self-indulgent or more worthy of recording than a drug habit.<br />Later she lives off Daddy, all the while sleeping with him, for a year out in the midwest. Then her mother and grandfather die (remember, this never ever happened to anyone else before, right?) and then she's off to grad school, funded by who?<br />This whole book reinforces the sense you get that literature is so bad now because it's limited to the endeavors of spoiled rich kids like this. Oh, the prose, by the way -- the same you'd get in any college creative writing workshop -- tearful, gimmicky, generic, cliched all the way.	2001-09-16
US	52254727	R2UZCVCCKVN37D	080213825X	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Flat Champagne	I so wanted to like this book. At first I did. Like the supermarket tabloids that detail the downfalls of the rich and famous, you can relish feeling superior to the shallow model of the first story, Janey Wilcox, who will endure any humiliation in the interest of mooching a Hamptons summer. As someone who hates the Hamptons and everything they stand for, this story was at first gratifying. However, here, as in two of the other stories, the writer fails to provide a believable resolution -- things happen, but the character doesn't really change, or if she does, superficially, it's only in a way she should have figured out long before her age of nearly 35 -- don't be dependent on a man. Duh. Not exactly a stunning insight.<br />I also relished, at first, the portrait of the phony upper west side liberal couple, Winnie and James. [...]-- snobbish, judgmental, \\"for\\" poor people and blacks, though they know none outside their Jamaican nanny. Hoping for a Tom Wolf-like skewering of these typical elitists, I thought, I could read a whole book on these people. Unfortunately, the author does not pursue the more interesting theme of their essential political hypocracy, but drags the story down to the level of not very believable sex. James \\"happens\\" to have a former roommate who is now a movie star. Winnie has an affair with him, for vague revenge for her husband's wimpiness. James likewise has an affair with a young vixen who turns out to be rather a gross-out. At least the woman had the better time, but the story failed to resonate, because, well, wouldn't these people have cheated on each other long ago? And in Candace Bushnell's world, does adultery even matter? An interesting premise that went nowhere.<br />The third piece, which I took to be a take off on Caroline Bisset and JFK Jr., was so badly written I can't even believe an editor didn't take it in hand and redo it herself. It just rambles on aimlessly, dropping designer label names, cigarettes, drugs. No characterization at all. Read like a really early rough draft. Again -- no consistency to the characters, an interesting idea that wasn't developed into anything.<br />The last piece was more like her old newspaper column than an actual story -- funny little tidbits on British men, vs. Americans. You could take it at it's own level, which was light, and at least you had the gratification of her hooking up with a romance at the end.<br />Overall, the existence of this book is a reflection on how greedy the publishing industry is to capitalize on temporary fame. They should have demanded the author write a real book. I really wish Bushnell had the talent and patience to be this century's Edith Wharton. [....]ization at all. Read like a really early rough draft. Again -- no consistency to the characters, an interesting idea that wasn't developed into anything.<br />The last piece was more like her old newspaper column than an actual story -- funny little tidbits on British men, vs. Americans. You could take it at it's own level, which was light, and at least you had the gratification of her hooking up with a romance at the end. <br />Overall, the existence of this book is a reflection on how greedy the publishing industry is to capitalize on temporary fame. They should have demanded the author write a real book. I really wish Bushnell had the talent and patience to be this century's Edith Wharton. [....]	2001-09-14
US	52254727	R14FHGUVAZ7K08	0679442081	496507015	My Sister Life : The Story of My Sister's Disappearance	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Generation Gap Revisited	O.K. -- This is not a &quot;feel good&quot; read, but it does tell the story of the 1960s collision between the underworld/counter-culture and post-World War II bourgeoisie in the microcosm of this family in a compelling way, which is more than I can say of &quot;The Liar's Club,&quot; another dysfunctional family drama.<br />This book is interesting and important because I think a lot of people don't know, or have forgotten how strange things were back in the sixties. The author seldom analyzes or reflects on the past events from an adult perspective -- the memoir tends to be a reconstructed laundry list of things that happen. Yet I wonder how honest it is, in a way -- the author presents herself as a fearless, daring, self-preserving survivor -- I wonder if this is more how the adult would like to paint herself, rather than how she really was.<br />Am I the only one who thought that the mother, Veronica, was not only the most interesting character in the memoir, but perhaps the sanest? An early proponent of &quot;tough love&quot;, survivor of  abandonment in a previous, early marriage, Veronica has no intention of letting her out of control teenage girls upend the life she has struggled to bring to order.  To me the girls' behavior has less to do with withheld love, than with a genetic similarity to their mother.  Back in the fifties and sixties, the ideal mother was supposed to be self-sacrificing -- the girls' seem to resent her for putting her own needs first. Now women like Veronica are the norm.  Quite honestly, she merely had a healthy ego -- I don't see much evidence of emotional abuse,and the parents seem quite generous, financially.  After she committs the narrator to the state asylum -- which actually doesn't sound that bad (the girls aren't even drugged, as they would be today, no tales of abuse related) Veronica resourcefully hooks Maria up with book deal calling for poems from jaded teens, launching her literary career. She seems to be trying to do her best,in her own way.<br />The girls, on the other hand, come off as thwarted Daddy's girls, who would have liked to take their mother's place. All in all, I felt more for the parents than for anyone. What would anyone do with such wild, spoiled girls, in such a volatile social environment?<br />The author seems to have landed on her feet -- first of all, she had the presence of mind to make an early marriage to an Ivy League heir, then persevere with her creative dreams. The &quot;lost&quot; sister Karen -- I'm sorry, but she seems to have chosen her fate. She seems to glory in her slumming, and by the book's end, seems to resent her younger sister's accomplishments.  So many people come into the world with worse families and backgrounds -- to me, Karen is more a casualty of the sixties and her own bad choices than anything else.<br />Another thing that bothered me -- the author seems to resent that the mother is using the rest of her money on a posh retirement home. Well, if you'd wanted Daddy to leave something to you, you should have had a word with him before. The girls seem to resent their mothers' very existence.<br />This is an odd book. The author seems to want to elevate Karen and hold the mother up for critique, yet manages to do the opposite, at least to this reader.r best,in her own way. <br />The girls, on the other hand, come off as thwarted Daddy's girls, who would have liked to take their mother's place. All in all, I felt more for the parents than for anyone. What would anyone do with such wild, spoiled girls, in such a volatile social environment? <br />The author seems to have landed on her feet -- first of all, she had the presence of mind to make an early marriage to an Ivy League heir, then persevere with her creative dreams. The &quot;lost&quot; sister Karen -- I'm sorry, but she seems to have chosen her fate. She seems to glory in her slumming, and by the book's end, seems to resent her younger sister's accomplishments.  So many people come into the world with worse families and backgrounds -- to me, Karen is more a casualty of the sixties and her own bad choices than anything else.<br />Another thing that bothered me -- the author seems to resent that the mother is using the rest of her money on a posh retirement home. Well, if you'd wanted Daddy to leave something to you, you should have had a word with him before. The girls seem to resent their mothers' very existence.<br />This is an odd book. The author seems to want to elevate Karen and hold the mother up for critique, yet manages to do the opposite, at least to this reader.	2001-08-20
US	52254727	RPY6OY6H5WQNE	0375726837	474101056	Experience: A Memoir	Books	3	35	40	N	N	Notes From a Frustrated Fan	I am probably a bigger fan of Martin Amis than I am of his brilliant and too-imitated father. I often wish more writers, particularly American writers, took his verbal verve as inspiration. I've always loved the way MA broke all the rules of the &quot;how to write&quot; school -- his brazen use of adverbs, etc. When I started reading Amis in my early twenties, he gave me hope.<br />I devoured book after book. But as I grew up (i.e., entered my thirties) it began to dawn on me that he had a brilliant style, with nothing to say. I kept thinking -- God, he ought to be writing copy for Mercedes or something, what a waste of talent to the advertising community. Because despite advancing age, he clearly lacked the insight and maturity to write about women, violence, nuclear fear, the Holocaust.<br />The early books, I thought, were about something. The Rachel Papers was about self-regarding first love, Success about growing up and putting our childhood heartbreaks behind us, though it might mean losing our souls in the process. Other People fascinated because I lived through something like the protagonist. How did this guy tap into my experience? I was deeply impressed.<br />Then came the big books that made him famous and rich: Money, London Fields, The Information. In which characters became less real, too cartoonlike, too cliched to move the reader to indentification, the books themselves too long, wearing out attention span and killing their own too-grand themes. Night Train and Time's Arrow brief, merely clever style exercises full of what we already know. The world is bad and scary. So what else is new?<br />It's amazing that Amis's next book is called Against Cliche, because for all his brilliant word combinations, his characters and situations are nothing but cliche.<br />I can always bank on being entertained by Amis, but in the mode of illicit, glossy magazines. I no longer get the sense that his books are deeply felt, that they do what real literature ought to do. He can't enlighten, because he only states the obvious, he's afraid of approaching the tough stuff. It's a shame, because he's got to be in possession of the best set of technical skills out there.<br />After reading all but one of his novels, and then this memoir, I almost feel like I know too much about the guy, and I'm liking him less and less. To wit: This Lucy Parkington business. Amis has written, over and over again, of suicidal, self-destructive women who bring on their own murders. Fair enough, until I found out he had a young woman in his own family on the missing persons list as he scribbled away. I don't blame him for answering the call to write about it, but why, in his books, are they always asking for it? Was it too painful for him to contemplate the truth -- that innocent girls do get done in for no good reason? I guess it makes libertine boomer males like him feel better to think so. Why didn't he even try to imagine it, fictionally, as it probably occured? And then all this self-righteous finger pointing when the killer confesses.<br />A likewise fascinating and unexpected parallel was this lost love child of his, this girl who surfaced at eighteen, her mother having committed suicide when the daughter was only two. Heartbreaking stuff, but was that before or after MA wrote about female suicide in Success? Enquiring readers want to know. We also want to know about the girl's mother, her relationship with Martin, who was told about the baby's existence. Did he feel responsible when his ex-lover died? His thoughts on adultery? Saying nothing, he tends to incriminate himself. Where is the story? Juicy, poignant, anticlimactic. It's not here.<br />There is lots here for people who like literary gossip, but it's pretty smarmy and unrevealining. Supposedly he didn't want to drag up too much mud, hurt anyone's feelings further, vis a vis the ex-wife, Julain Barnes, etc. But the reader's peaked interest is unfulfilled. Maybe when he's seventy, he'll tell all.<br />He likewise fails to take responsibility for his teeth. In the childhood photo on the cover, and in nearly every adult photo inside, Martin is shown sucking on a cigarette. This can't be good for his gums, I feel.<br />Next to the structural outline of his real life as revealed here, his recent novels seem more empty and parodic than ever. That's too bad. He's a highly talented writer, who could be a great, classic writer. When you next sit down, Martin, tell us the real story: the messy love life, the real people. I'm not saying expose everyone, but you have to know more about life than you're letting on.ll all.<br />He likewise fails to take responsibility for his teeth. In the childhood photo on the cover, and in nearly every adult photo inside, Martin is shown sucking on a cigarette. This can't be good for his gums, I feel.<br />Next to the structural outline of his real life as revealed here, his recent novels seem more empty and parodic than ever. That's too bad. He's a highly talented writer, who could be a great, classic writer. When you next sit down, Martin, tell us the real story: the messy love life, the real people. I'm not saying expose everyone, but you have to know more about life than you're letting on.	2001-07-23
US	52254727	R2NTNWRXMTQ46M	014130636X	799824626	Summer of My German Soldier (Young Puffin)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Kid's book Adults Can Appreciate	I love this book for many reasons. First, because it is so politically incorrect, in its depiction of the unlikely alliance between a misfit Jewish girl and a rather naive German prisoner of war in the small minded setting of WWII era American rural south.<br />This book was published in 1973, and written by a Jewish woman who was the same age as the protogonist, Patty Bergen, during WW II and who likewise grew up in a rural Arkansas town. My guess is that it wouldn't even be published today -- the very idea of giving a German the benefit of the doubt is now taboo, in the aftermath of Daniel Goldhagen and his book, Hitler's Willing Executioners, in which he has supposedly proved, once and for all, that all Germans are evil, and equally responsible for the Holocost.<br />Yes, it is shocking that Patty felt so abused by her Jewish parents that she sided with a German. Unfortunately, that's how people sometimes behave in real life. That's why this book transcends the genre of young adult novels -- all the major characters are deeply flawed, from Patty, who should know better than to committ treason, to Anton, who should have sat tight, seeing as he was being treated just fine by the Yanks, to her self-centered and I'm afraid all too typical parents. We see that being a member of a beleagured minority group (Jews) doesn't make Patty's parents saints. They are as class conscious as any of their redneck neighbors.<br />This book, if published today, would probably be attacked for being antisemitic, simply because some of the Jewish characters aren't perfect. (Her grandparents, by the way, provide a contrast of warmth and fairness.)<br />This book provides no panaceas at the end, when the heroine is still far from in the clear. It is a morally challenging book that surprised me at every turn with its realism and fearlessness.<br />In a way I have more respect for it than I do for To Kill A Mockingbird, which other reviewers here compared it to. That book itself has become a predictable cliche, much imitated, of moral right and wrong -- of course white people are always wrong, and black prisoners innocent victims.  Greene's book, on the other hand complicates the simplistic liberal equation.<br />A breath of fresh air in an era of PC censorship.ome a predictable cliche, much imitated, of moral right and wrong -- of course white people are always wrong, and black prisoners innocent victims.  Greene's book, on the other hand complicates the simplistic liberal equation.<br />A breath of fresh air in an era of PC censorship.	2001-07-23
US	52254727	R1DJIO7E9PIZA3	0374181152	85872492	Border Crossing: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not Up to Author's Reputation	Although I have not yet read the much praised Regeneration trilogy, I was knocked out by her early, feminist work exploring the lives of working class women, Union Street and Blow Your House Down.<br />This book just failed to deliver impact or reality, although it attempted to explore interesting issues about child criminals, morality, and the illusive nature of truth and memory. She just didn't seem to put much effort into it. The book seems a mere sketch, and doesn't nearly do justice to the fascinating themes raised.  For example, the main character, protagonist, the psychologist, is a completely generic character, so is his wife. It's like maybe because these people were upper middle class, they didn't come to life for the author, so she didn't know how to write them fully.  The husband and wife are going through a divorce, but we get no sense of what's at stake, what attracted them to each other, etc, so the whole thing reads like a run of the mill T.V. drama, not a novel. It would have been much more effective if she'd just left this poorly executed material out, and limited the entire work to the tense discussions between Danny, the child criminal, and the shrink, because only these scenes are fully engaging.<br />Well, it just goes to show, you can get away with an awful lot once you've won a couple of major prizes. Shame on her editors, for not urging her to do better. This book could have had a major emotional impact, like so many of her others. As it was, too much of it read like notes for scenes that the author never bothered to write up at all.	2001-06-30
US	52254727	R2LZNNGTTRIXGK	1885266316	383955305	The Night-Side: Chronic Fatigue Syndrome & The Illness Experience	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Uplifting Insights	As of this date there are close to 150 titles listed on amazon  relating to Chronic Fatigue Immune Dysfunction Syndrome. Only a very small number of these deal with the full personal experience of living with the illness. Unlike the other few memoir type writings I've read, Skloot's is not a &quot;how I beat the illness&quot; story, because he hasn't beat it, he's simply drastically altered his life by necessity.<br />For someone like me, whose same illness was denied by everyone around me for years, to the point where I internalized their beliefs and tried to live as if I weren't ill until I, too, became majorly debilitated, Skloot's perspective is a welcome relief. He had a sudden onset, which changed his life dramatically within a matter of weeks. It's encouraging to read the musings of someone who has his head straight on about this illness. He doesn't whine, or moan and groan. He is so completely sure of his ground, that there's no room for defensiveness in his tone. It's uplifting to read about someone who, like myself, was open to every alternative treatment or scientific explanation, though the miracle cure that would relieve his symptoms hasn't come along yet. It's also reassuring to know that there's someone out there who had the combination of luck and smarts not to be completely downtrodden by this disease. As a fellow sufferer, his lack of anger, his philosophical approach, his open mindedness are qualities I'd like to emulate.<br />If you are a sufferer, or know anyone who is, or has a CFIDS sufferer in their life, this is a good book to start the healing process.  The last thing anyone who's sick needs to be told is that all their problems will go away if they just give up wheat or mushrooms. Right now, CFIDS is a mystery, and coping strategies that go beyond the facile recommendations of most self-help for CFIDS books out there, like &quot;don't get upset if you miss a deadline at work&quot; -- are rare. If you become ill to the extent that Skloot is, you need the spiritual and philosophical nutrition of excellent literature. I only wish there were more such fine personal accounts written on this devastating illness., you need the spiritual and philosophical nutrition of excellent literature. I only wish there were more such fine personal accounts written on this devastating illness.	2001-04-11
US	52254727	RBID7E7ZN8VP2	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	1	111	149	N	N	The Triumph of Mediocrity	I'm glad that a number of South Asian reviewers had the same opinion of this book as I did, and gave me the names of better SA authors to pursue. The New York publishing cartel, the editors of the New Yorker magazine, and the Pulitzer Prize committee together run the risk of turning readers away from ethnic fiction if they continue to elevate unremarkable books like this above all others.<br />Where are the gatekeepers? There is absolutely nothing here that I haven't read before, in the eighties, by other trendy young women writers. They put an Indian stamp on it, and it's supposed to be profound? These stories had no ability to evoke character or emotion, the prose style was unremarkable, the structure color by numbers. There was not a surprise or a genuine moment anywhere. A real effort to pander to trendy tastes, though, with unconvincing depictions of adulterous affairs, and so forth. Nothing new here, except for the color of the characters' skins.<br />As I read these stories, I felt they were written by an author who was simply copying other fiction writers' work and depictions of emotions and situations, rather than had actually experienced anything herself.  The view is surface, facile, and immature. You get the impression that the author is a very protected and cossetted young woman, with little experience of life, and no genuine imagination to draw form either.<br />I was left thinking she had been promoted and snatched up because she fit this year's ethnic category. Let's see, we've done the late blooming Irish hard luck story, a heavy historical novel or two, I think we've overdone the Holocost and slavery a little too much, don't you? How about something no one can object to -- a woman, an immigrant story, no fresh ideas or anything anyone can possibly take offense to. Well, as a lover or good literature, I've taken offense at this injustice.<br />I feel like the publishing industry is shoving mediocrity down our throats. I know there's passionate writing out there somewhere. But the industry has decided to play it safe by hailing generic fiction like this.ing out there somewhere. But the industry has decided to play it safe by hailing generic fiction like this.	2001-04-08
US	52254727	R34WNG0L3R7UU7	0151005214	247759837	The Peppered Moth	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Mixed Success	We have seen a version of the difficult mother character Drabble executes here in &quot;Jerusalem the Golden.&quot; In the end, I think it's better to either do a straight memoir, implying, This is my opinion, take it or leave it, or to write a mother in as an influence on the main character, as was successfully done in &quot;Jerusalem.&quot;<br />During the first half of this book, when the author focuses on trying to tell the story of the mother, Bessie, this brilliant author's fictional voice fails her. There is none of the stream of consciousness intimacy, the being in the moment textured detail that make Drabble's works so rich and pleasurable. She simply could not seem to get in into Bessie's head, and her story is told sternly from the outside. The book picks up noticably mid-way, around the 160s, when the point of view is almost fully shifted to Bessie's daughter, Chrissie, who rebelled against her dour mother and got entangled in the excesses of the 1960s, and her daughter, Bessie's grandaughter, Faro, who represents, rather baldly, continuation of the female line.<br />I found myself wanting to know in even more depth about Chrissie's melodramatic life. Through her eyes, we get a better sense of Bessie's than in the narrative the preceded it. Chrissie being of Drabble's generation, she comes alive most. While Faro is perfectly pleasant, again, I felt the author didn't try hard enough to imagine her. It's almost as if people like Chrissie, who inflicted the chaos of the hippie generation (although here it was less Chrissie's fault than her philandering husband's)on their children, need to tell themselves that their kids are O.K., when they're clearly not. From the time frame, Faro is pushing 40, yet seems to still be inexplicably caught in unhealthy relating patterns with men. Where are the influences, the anger, the confused but I'm sure intense feelings about the much loved but deadbeat father? When Drabble was a young writer, she used to present the inner lives of such young characters with such breathtaking reality. Being of Faro's generation, I just felt the author didn't do her justice. For example, anyone who hadn't learned to discard leeches like the Sebastien character by the end of her student years must have serious developmental problems. In other ways, Faro seemed too smart for this kind of masochistic passivity. She hooks up with a better man toward the end, by why suddenly now? It's all a bit too neat, and doesn't come out of any discernable character change.<br />That said, once we're in mid-stream, the book really does revert in many ways to the high quality of much of Drabble's previous fiction -- the attention to detail, the moment by moment reckonings between the present and the past. I especially enjoyed  Nick Gaulden's funeral, with all the ex-wives, girlfriends and offspring. But again, Faro couldn't have been as unaffected as the author depicts her by this complicated family situation.<br />If you can get through the first half of the book, the second half is worthwhile.er lives of such young characters with such breathtaking reality. Being of Faro's generation, I just felt the author didn't do her justice. For example, anyone who hadn't learned to discard leeches like the Sebastien character by the end of her student years must have serious developmental problems. In other ways, Faro seemed too smart for this kind of masochistic passivity. She hooks up with a better man toward the end, by why suddenly now? It's all a bit too neat, and doesn't come out of any discernable character change.<br />That said, once we're in mid-stream, the book really does revert in many ways to the high quality of much of Drabble's previous fiction -- the attention to detail, the moment by moment reckonings between the present and the past. I especially enjoyed  Nick Gaulden's funeral, with all the ex-wives, girlfriends and offspring. But again, Faro couldn't have been as unaffected as the author depicts her by this complicated family situation.<br />If you can get through the first half of the book, the second half is worthwhile.	2001-04-02
US	52254727	R20JTISH6S097T	0316955132	826307525	Marjorie Morningstar	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Delightful Period Piece	This book is a real women's novel -- a Sex in the City for upper middle class Jewish 1930's New York. It's hard to believe a man wrote it! This book is at least twice the length of even long popular novels published these days -- and twice as enjoyable. Each chapter is a balanced, self-contained episode -- I'd guess that it was originally written for magazine serialization.<br />The characters here are very true to life. It's nice to read about a heroine who is pretty, popular, not wanting for money, etc. in an era of &quot;poor me&quot; novels starring dysfuncitonal people in even more dysfunctional families. Nor is she too arch or clever clever to identify with. It's an absolute pleasure to share ages of 17-24 with Marjorie.<br />Everything that happens in the novel is belieavable. Unlike the other reviewer, I don't think Wouk is a misongynist. Marjorie is very likeable, but she's basically a rather pampered middle class girl, who barely worked a day in her life. Of course she didn't have the wherewithall to be a successful actress, or the passion to throw herself into something else -- like altruistic, full time war work. She achieved what was really her goal all along -- getting married and creating a strong family unit, like the one she grew up in.<br />We see her at the end through the eyes of a former spurned suitor -- but he's just judging her from the standpoint of his youthful fantasies. Unfortunately, it's the 1950s by now -- not a great time for women. Any young woman reading this book can thank her lucky stars she was born later than Marjorie! I like to imagine her youngest daughter getting swept up into the hippie movement, and her grandaughter as a doctor or lawyer ...<br />I love the character of Noel Airman, Marjorie's Mr. Big -- who she tries to break off with several times, but who will neither let her alone, nor fully committ. He and many other male characters in the book are given to long soliliqueys about society, men and women, being Jewish, etc. I only wish Marjorie were given similar latitude -- we are always given to assume that her ideas are simply the conventional ones of the time -- I'd prefer to be a virgin when I marry, I'm Jewish and only associate with other Jewish people, yet I don't want to seem too Jewish ...<br />The fact that Marjorie doesn't have the imagination and breadth of interests as the men in the book is the only thing that makes it fall short of a 5 star all time classic. But Wouk was writing about who he was writing about, and in that sense he is writing very true.etc. I only wish Marjorie were given similar latitude -- we are always given to assume that her ideas are simply the conventional ones of the time -- I'd prefer to be a virgin when I marry, I'm Jewish and only associate with other Jewish people, yet I don't want to seem too Jewish ...<br />The fact that Marjorie doesn't have the imagination and breadth of interests as the men in the book is the only thing that makes it fall short of a 5 star all time classic. But Wouk was writing about who he was writing about, and in that sense he is writing very true.	2001-03-11
US	52254727	RSJXYM50GTJSM	0312140908	254157355	The Invisible Circus: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bildingsroman for our time	O.K. I admit it -- I skipped to the end of the book to find out the secret behind Faith's death, then went back and started over.  So I didn't have that feeling of Is That All There Is? That some other reviewers had. On the contrary, I thought Phoebe's steps of disillusionment regarding her idolized sister were absolutely realized. Life itself is often anticlimactic, and this book reflects that.<br />Yes, the book dragged a bit in spots. This was due to the structure -- you always pay a price when you jump back and forth in time. But Faith's character to me is very true -- lots of us had older sisters like that, there were a lot of wild passionate girls who got swept up in the revolutionary whirlwind, and were literally or figuratively lost to their families in the sixties and early seventies. The combination of factors that made Faith who she was, including the relationship with the Dad, all added up. So did Phoebe's romanticization of her. Believe me, she wouldn't have seen her that way if she was only a year or two younger!<br />The story of Phoebe's own quest, at times literally led on by her sister's ghost, is very real, enchanting, and at times heartbreaking. But compared to charismatic Faith, Phoebe is a bit of a dullard. It's hard to imagine a girl living in San Francisco in the seventies, her mother glamorously employed, who wasn't naturally somewhat immersed in the fun. I can understand that after her sister's death she'd be overly cautious, but this takes away from the reading pleasure. Also -- this sometimes reads like a young adult novel, because the author really does adhere to a late adolescent's limited view of the world.<br />I also have to agree with other reviewers that the affair with Wolf just doesn't work. I'm sure he would have relieved her of her virginity for the memory of his lost love, but a weeks long affair just didn't cut it. The way Faith's story came out in their conversations and his flashbacks, however, did. It was a realistic, gentle, subtle revelation.<br />The writing here is for the most part simple and straightforward, sometimes reflecting a little too well the boredom, frustration and drudgery of being eighteen. But when moments of enchantment and revelation come, the metaphors are just right, and rise naturally from the page. I will remember this book and probably read it again.ntle, subtle revelation. <br />The writing here is for the most part simple and straightforward, sometimes reflecting a little too well the boredom, frustration and drudgery of being eighteen. But when moments of enchantment and revelation come, the metaphors are just right, and rise naturally from the page. I will remember this book and probably read it again.	2001-03-08
US	52254727	R1P193DSB6YVQO	0399142789	916454618	Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue, Book 1	Books	2	24	40	N	N	Thank God I Have My Own Direct Channel to God!	O.K. -- Let me say first off that I'm not any sort of born again Christian to whom these concepts would be threatening. I am also long familiar with the William James/Gertrude Stein/ Julie Cameron/ Artist's Way method of automatic writing, by which we are mere conduits for a channelled Higher Power. I don't find any of this threatening, and as a creative artist myself it all makes sense.<br />Very few of these &quot;Power of Positive Thinking&quot; concepts here are things that I haven't heard already in comparative religion studies, Buddhism, yoga, and a host of New York Open Center courses, to say nothing of my years of psychotherapy and related reading.  The problem is, towards the end of this volume, the author shuts down the so-called Open Dialogue and descends into koo-koo land. We live in a society that represses and denies sex? Hello? That's something I (fortunately) never noticed growing up in the sixties, seventies and eighties. It's not something I notice watching T.V., going to the movies, reading books, or listening to music. Is the author living in Saudi Arabia?<br />A quick glance at the author's picture on the book jacket traces this perception back to one of his (oops! I mean God's!) earlier precepts -- when you have &quot;wants&quot; you are &quot;living by your lack.&quot; (A reiteration of Buddhist &quot;attachment&quot; philosophy, by the way.) Like so many homely men, Walsch must have suffered from a dearth of good sex in his life to not be able to dip into the sex all around him. Those of us who have been well satisfied don't see that lack. Gotcha!<br />He also seems to be promoting irresponsibility while blanketing the world's problems with simple panaceas. He says we have everything at hand to cure the world's ills. Fair enough, and credit where due, lots of us are working hard to cure them. Then he advises parents (read -- himself?) to abandon their own children to the winds of fate, in order to perceive their own higher bliss. Who'se going to save them? Oh, I get it -- someone else! Why not save a lot of energy and pain and do your best to take care of your own, instead of promulgating misery?<br />At the end of this volume he hints at a utopian world of free love, where no one's feelings will be hurt. Hey -- didn't we already try that, with only so so results?<br />There's a basic lack of empathy here that contradicts other directives earlier in the book, such as Empty your pockets for the homeless woman on the street. Why her and not your own kid?<br />All I can say is, I'm glad I have my own direct connection with God, so I can see the shallows here.  On the other hand, for Bible Belters who were never exposed to eastern religion or New Age thought, this book may be refreshing. But take my advice -- rely on your own direct relationship with God, and what you hear from your Higher Power.  These dialogues are a reflection of someone else's spiritual state -- you may be know alot better.to save them? Oh, I get it -- someone else! Why not save a lot of energy and pain and do your best to take care of your own, instead of promulgating misery? <br />At the end of this volume he hints at a utopian world of free love, where no one's feelings will be hurt. Hey -- didn't we already try that, with only so so results? <br />There's a basic lack of empathy here that contradicts other directives earlier in the book, such as Empty your pockets for the homeless woman on the street. Why her and not your own kid?<br />All I can say is, I'm glad I have my own direct connection with God, so I can see the shallows here.  On the other hand, for Bible Belters who were never exposed to eastern religion or New Age thought, this book may be refreshing. But take my advice -- rely on your own direct relationship with God, and what you hear from your Higher Power.  These dialogues are a reflection of someone else's spiritual state -- you may be know alot better.	2001-01-23
US	52254727	R2STFIIZ9IP5IA	0679455876	292491576	The Way Forward Is with a Broken Heart	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Raises Questions About Political Correctness	When I first began wading through this book I kept asking myself why I was bothering. I pegged it as quintessential Oprah -- cosy homilies, platitudes -- the author's truth, I'm sure, but not a very profound one. Completing the book gave a more complex picture.<br />Some stories crossed the line between a form of literature which is, if not hate speech, then psychobabble therapy. Why was I so offended at one character's repeated use of &quot;Irish&quot; and &quot;Scottish&quot; when naming a rapist master, when I am not and have never been Irish or Scottish? I found it offensive in a way I wouldn't have if he were named as a generic white male. Maybe because it's too easy to transpose &quot;Jew&quot; or &quot;black&quot; as an adjective to the abuser, an action that would be labelled unfair, if not an outright lie by the Oprah set. It seems some people are allowed truths and not others. If a Celt, innocent of these crimes, is offended by this depiction, it's his tough luck, because as Walker could point out -- these stories are true. But suppose one's story about a black or Jewish offender is true? To speak out is considered &quot;bad taste&quot; if not evidence of racism.  Walker's ingenuous racism has the perhaps unintended effect of making this reader understand how blacks must have felt -- so offended they couldn't even articulate a reply -- when wrongly typecast as she often typecasts whites here.<br />I was a bit amazed that the great feminist Alice Walker was a stay at home housewife, living off the sweat of a white male for so many years. Then she couldn't understand why he was so cold when she decided to dump him for no good reason. As this man was apparently a saint as a husband -- unfailingly supportive financially and artistically -- and she couldn't blame him, she decides to blame the old stand-by &quot;white society.&quot;<br />A pompous assumption comes through many of these story/memoirs -- &quot;I am right and have always been right because I'm a member of a victimized sex/race, and therefore hold no responsibility for my actions.&quot; I really felt for the daughter, who at 25, brought her parents together in the therapist's office, asking, Why couldn't you be there for me? Never does Walker take a gander into her own soul and ask if she herself could have done more. It's always someone else's fault.<br />The stories set in Civil Rights Mississippi are vividly detailed and full of emotion. It is interesting to see her take on the issue of &quot;forced love&quot; that some black domestic workers feel for the white families that employ them. The complex and often angry feelings this brings up in the author are completely understandable, because clearly delineated. Certainly this story will make many white limousine liberals who employ black women in their homes squirm.ember of a victimized sex/race, and therefore hold no responsibility for my actions.&quot; I really felt for the daughter, who at 25, brought her parents together in the therapist's office, asking, Why couldn't you be there for me? Never does Walker take a gander into her own soul and ask if she herself could have done more. It's always someone else's fault. <br />The stories set in Civil Rights Mississippi are vividly detailed and full of emotion. It is interesting to see her take on the issue of &quot;forced love&quot; that some black domestic workers feel for the white families that employ them. The complex and often angry feelings this brings up in the author are completely understandable, because clearly delineated. Certainly this story will make many white limousine liberals who employ black women in their homes squirm.	2001-01-18
US	52254727	R1FYEI8EIFCFY8	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	1	37	54	N	N	Disappointing, retro view of women ...	I'm afraid this book didn't work for me at all, despite the compelling subject matter. The author's minimalist style seems to be his excuse for not doing the work he needs to do to make the reader understand the context of the story. The most egregious failure here is the inexlplicable reaction  of the daughter, Lucy, to getting gang-raped and impregnated by three  roving native African rapists.<br />Look, I'm sorry, but this was completely  unbelievable -- particularly as the character was supposed to be a lesbian.  The author didn't create characters that live and breathe and seem  plausible -- the dirty old man Lurie is more charmless than any lecherous  professor I've ever come across. Lucy and her behavior are simply not  credible at all. Really lazy, unsuccessful story telling. The black  characters I won't even comment on, but I don't think we'll be seeing them  premiere on Oprah any time soon.  This novel is a rag-bag of oft-repeated  liberal white elitist cliches, start to finish. It failed to move me on any  level -- even intellectually, as the author was too lazy to give us enough  background on South Africa to make it resonate as a historical document.  There wasn't even enough landscape description to bring the place alive.<br />I suppose the Booker committee is made up of middle aged white  intellectual males, who could on some level relate to this caricature of a  protagonist. This book just failed to satisy on any level. It didn't even  shock me, it was just so predictable.	2000-07-30
US	52254727	R2IIS8BLO5L43J	1559705175	492250148	Destiny	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Tim Parks Goes Deeper	This is my kind of novel. The disenchanted, urban, pan-European middle-aged protagonist is the only type of character that interests me at the moment. This book goes deeper into the kind of philosophical yet entertaining writing that Parks' readers have come to expect of him. The  novel captures its protagonist at the riveting crisis point after a son's  suicide, as he contemplates the breakup of his marriage.<br />If so  wonderful, then why not five stars? Too much back and forth in the  narrator's head, time sequence confusion, the way we can't figure out if  we're in the present or the immediate past or both sumultaneously. There  are always at least two thoughts being conveyed simultaneously, because the  narrative strategy aims to mimic the jumbled thought processes during the  hero's crisis. The author succeeds in getting this effect across, but it  makes for a roller coaster effect. One has to read passages over and over  to get at the gems of insight, of which there are many. But I'm afraid many  readers will simply not be willing to battle the rocky terrain. Too much of  the writer's effort, and the reader's attention, are expended on this wild  ride, when I longed for information that would make the auxiliary  characters more real to me. I still don't have enough of a sense of the  dead Marco before his schizophrenia descended to feel a real sense of loss  on behalf of the narrator. And throughout most of the book, the wife Burton  is determined to leave seems more a larger than life symbol of Italian  national character than a flesh and blood woman. She only acquires a name,  for example, in the last chapter.<br />It also seems a bit of a lame  anti-climactic afterthought when, late in the book, Burton reveals, &quot;I  can't forgive my wife for growing old.&quot; When remarks like these are  thrown out, almost out of context, and a past mistress surfaces but is only  sketchily dealt with, I sometimes suspect that Parks uses these male  fiction conventions not because they are true to character, but because  they are simply male fiction convetions, a way of saying, &quot;Yes, I'm a  regular guy, a twentieth century adulturous man.&quot; The mistress of  almost five years' standing seems tacked on -- if he loved the girl as he  says he did, why don't we feel it? Such tricks do not sit well with the  philosophical sweep of the rest of the book, seem lazy when the reader  knows what depths the narrative is capable of plumbing. Some auxiliary  characters, such as the wife's former lover, Gregory, earn their space, but  too many appear as plot-driven, conscious creations.<br />Yet, these are  rather minor faults. Parks offers something unavailable in mainstream  literary fiction today, rising above the typical clever-clever  postmodernist wordplay of most &quot;leading&quot; British authors, or the  ponderous political correctness of their American counterparts. How many  books these days seriously explore ideas without sinking into preaching?<br />I applaud this book for questioning the current culture's over-emphasis  on blaming and explaining through simplistic pop psychology formulas. As in  Martin Amis' Night Train, we have the aftermath of a suicide without  apparent motive, people struggling to find meaning behind an apparently  meaningless act. But the phenomenon is rendered both so much more  personally and universally:  &quot; ... we all invent stories to explain  these horrible things to ourselves. We invent the past. When perhaps there  is no explanation.&quot;  The central concept of destiny, rather than  psychology, determining the course of people's lives also figures in some  of Anita Brookner's novels. I wish the often too chaotic style of Parks'  novel could have borrowed just a little of Brookner's calmness, in order to  let such concepts breathe.<br />The idea of going deeper into a marriage, into  an experience, rather than starting over is explored in this novel.  Likewise, in the writing itself, Parks goes deeper into his own style --  deeper into the workings of a human mind, deeper into faith, into  philosophy, deeper into meaning, or the mystery of its lack:  &quot; ...  And it occurs to me now that the brighter the light, the more evident it is  that revelation is denied. The more clearly one sees, the more inescapable  enigma becomes ... Whereas in a shady room ... It is just possible to  imagine that mysteries will one day be revealed.&quot; Wonderful stuff.f, Parks goes deeper into his own style --  deeper into the workings of a human mind, deeper into faith, into  philosophy, deeper into meaning, or the mystery of its lack:  &quot; ...  And it occurs to me now that the brighter the light, the more evident it is  that revelation is denied. The more clearly one sees, the more inescapable  enigma becomes ... Whereas in a shady room ... It is just possible to  imagine that mysteries will one day be revealed.&quot; Wonderful stuff.	2000-04-25
US	52254727	R4U7V8YM8MV73	155970506X	298723638	Europa	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Intelligent, Inner-life read	It's too bad that this excellent writer was given short shriftby David Gates in the New York Times, because if he achieved thebest-sellerdom he deserves in the states we might see some of his excellent novels turned into films.<br />But to get to the point, the things other people found fault with (too much inner life) I adored. I am so tired of lame plots and lamer dialogue. This book does what it does brilliantly, so why not leave it be? His meditation on dogs was daring and priceless, as was his general PC bashing. American readers like Gates probably missed alot -- i.e., the unification of Europe harking back to Napoleonic gradiosity. It's too bad Americans are so ill educated they can't see how well the author works in so many allusions and western myths. Parks is a one-of-a kind author. My only complaint here is that he doesn't explain his wife sufficiently -- a sketch of a woman who does nothing but vacuum is a bit lazy, even if her parents did buy them a flat. But this book excells in so many other areas where most novels don't even try, I don't take take points off.  END	2000-03-19
US	52254727	R1WQ01G0ONSD7X	0394552997	400474729	Tongues of Flame	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent period piece	This is Tim Parks' excellent first novel, set in 1968, where charismatic Christianity and the prevailing hippie culture clash in the household of a previously conventional Protestant minister. Parks does a wonderful job evoking the time and place in the funny, spellbinding voice of the family's  youngest 14-year old son. The narrative whips along until its frenzied  climax and sadly insightful conclusion. An excellent read, fast but deep.	2000-03-19
US	52254727	R21JN4LILY9UM9	0802110355	656328987	Home Thoughts	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Excellent ensemble novel	This is an entertaining but deep book about a group of thirty-something English ex-patriates living and working in Italy. A very affecting book about relationships, identity, sense of place and growing up. As always, Parks does a wonderful job with voices and characterization, in economical  space. Wish there were more writers like him.	2000-03-19
US	52254727	R17L3ILGDKMA25	0802100163	356548888	Loving Roger	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best reads ...	This was my first Tim Parks novel and still might be my favorite. Both clever and deep, dark and funny, Parks does a brilliant job telling a story of seduction and abandoment in the first person female voice of a working class girl who ultimately winds up on top. My only complaint is this story  was told so economically it ended too fast. Bravo.	2000-03-19
US	52254727	R2TP9JBO9LERA0	080213582X	857277480	Close to the Bone: Memoirs of Hurt, Rage, and Desire	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Memoirs with attitude	For those who like to read and write quality memoirs, the best thing about the book was its introduction -- which makes the point that quality memoirs are &quot;post-therapeutic&quot; and dwell in ambiguity. Too bad too many  of these memoirs fail to live up to the guides Stone set for herself.<br />The best memoirs here were the least sensational -- Lopate and Texier's  detailed, anticlimactic stories of their fathers and families were head and  shoulders above the rest. Some inclusions, like Lois Gould's, were  well-written but did not really stand on their own. The worst were the most  sensational -- Terminator's silly cartoon sex comedy, which sounds too  fabricated to ring true. Stone's own entry is credible, but when she starts  going into her own sex life, I just went into snooze-a-thon mode and  flipped the pages until she started talking about human nature again. Why  do these &quot;hip&quot; writers love sex so much and do such a bad job  writing about it?	2000-03-19
US	52254727	R28QLR83YDRWFJ	0679781471	120929301	Visitors: A Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Brilliant subtlety	In an age when most novels deal with issues in the heavy handed rhetoric of psychotherapy, it is a joy to see Brookner filter her observations with such subtelty and taste. And when most editors mandate that their authors  &quot;dramatize&quot; every scene with clunky dialogue (as if we were  children and could not get the message any other way!), I found it a  meditative pleasure to read a novel so deeply steeped in a character's  inner life. Yet, when dialogue appears, it is flawless.<br />Brookner is a  supremely subtle writer. For example, many of Thea's differences with her  husband's cousins are due to the fact that she is a gentile who married  into a close-knit family of Jews. Yet, the word &quot;Jew&quot; never  apears once. She manages to handle the issue delicately, without offending  anyone, grinding an axe or drawing too much attention it.<br />It was an  enlightening change to see life through the eyes of a seventy-year old, and  unlike some of Brookner's novels, this book had a gently upbeat ending.	2000-03-15
US	52254727	RKB0I1G06DF7X	0571174450	377684895	Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	Demystifying a rock God	Deborah Curtis certainly takes much of the luster off of thisextraordinary artist. Getting away from the &quot;he said, shesaid&quot; banter that dominates most of these reviews, she does make clear something none of the myth-makers has given enough attention to: Ian Curtis was suffering from a very serious neurological illness, and no one surrounding him in the music business was taking this enough into account, either before or after his suicide. When you and others don't understand the extent and scope of your illness, it leads to feelings of failure and despair. The combination of his illness and the drugs he was on would be enough to drive anyone over the edge, with or without a &quot;Bizarre Love Triangle.&quot; I know whereof I speak, because I also have a neuroligical illness and have taken some of the same powerful medications prescribed for epilepsy. Ian was pushed beyond his limits by his &quot;adoring&quot; manager and sometimes bullied by his bandmates for his inevitable collapses.<br />There may be many things Deborah didn't understand about her husband, but in all fairness, he got what he asked for in a wife. Women's lib hadn't reached the outskirts of Manchester in the early seventies, apparently, and Ian falls firmly into the retro male chauvinist pig category, despite his forays into eye shadow and fluffy pink funfur jackets. (Her first description of seeing him looking out over the wasteland below his housing project, thus attired screams out for film treatment.) The dead-end jobs, the stifling working class mores, the getting married straight from home is all too depressingly reminiscent of the lives of some of my own relatives. Listening to Joy Divisions music it's easy to read a more sophisticated backdrop into it. Seeing where the darkness actually came from is interesting.<br />This is a very sad and true book. The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five is that it is missing essential information about Deborah. Did she ever remarry? Find happiness with someone else? Did she get any decent money from record sales? And what about daughter Natalie? I'd have liked to know more about how Deborah developed and matured as a person, but,as in her marriage to Ian, she still seems to think her place is in the background. In pandering to the fans, she loses sight of the fact that we're reading this because we also want to know about her.  Photographs of the teenaged young couple are absolutely priceless.Find happiness with someone else? Did she get any decent money from record sales? And what about daughter Natalie? I'd have liked to know more about how Deborah developed and matured as a person, but,as in her marriage to Ian, she still seems to think her place is in the background. In pandering to the fans, she loses sight of the fact that we're reading this because we also want to know about her.  Photographs of the teenaged young couple are absolutely priceless.	2000-02-20
US	52254727	RE3PAQESR0IKL	0060928557	137095710	Heat Wave: A Novel	Books	3	5	19	N	N	Unsympathetic Characters failed to draw me in	This was my first try with this author, and despite rave reviews and major prizes, I doubt if I will be reading her again. This is what I call &quot;formulaic British women's fiction.&quot;  Dry style, stoic middle  aged sexless frump, wishy-washy young woman, evil male. Perhaps it's my  generation, but I do not understand women who can't get past a long-ago  betrayal and kick their sex-lives back into gear. And the daughter -- well,  what does a 29-year old sap, who is completely financially dependent on her  husband expect? If I was the husband, I would have looked elsewhere, for  stimulation, too. She seemed like a total baby who took her cushy life for  granted. But, being British, people never communicate in these formula  books -- they just have affairs and committ other drastic actions -- oops,  I think I gave away the ending. On the plus side, the less than bucolic  atmosphere of the working countryside does come across. But I'd expect such  an aclaimed author to create more memorable and sympathetic characters than  the ones I found here.	2000-02-16
US	52254727	R3QD3M1YE4ZVS	0679736093	859677839	Before She Met Me	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Cliched, predictable, unbelievable	I thought this book was a pretty formulaic male cliche-ridden rant. Let's start with the wife who does nothing but shop. Professors in the making usually have an aversion to such idiots, and I can never believe they would  have got together in the first place. Second, the girlfriend. Decides to  stop being an actress because she was only so-so. I've never met an actor  who didn't act because he or she was fundamentally driven to it, never met  one who walked away from it this easily either. And by the way, you don't  just drop out of one career and then have a mid-level, established job in a  totally different and unrelated field. She would have had to start at the  bottom, with its accompanying humiliations, self-doubts, etc. Girlfriend  has no complexes or faults? Don't buy it. Beautiful young blond would be  hopelessly in love with a fat-assed wimpy professor? Just doesn't ring  true. This is very standard poor-me male stuff of the sixties, seventies,  etc. There is nothing intertextual or new here.	2000-02-16
US	52254727	RCB10QPA0ZETT	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Way Overrated	As sociology, this book succeeds, as it provides a perspectiveon women in a war-torn country. As a novel, it was pretty weak. Whilethe main character, Sophie's plight is interesting, she is not the least bit interesting as a person,and we do not get to know her at all.  Her progress through life isn't believable. She comes from a family of hard working women, yet never holds a job herself, but marries young to an older man who mysteriously is also free from the need to work. Just not believable. The book is also ridden with victim-coincidences -- people always get pregnant after one instance of sexual intercourse, people always go crazy after getting raped (even though it's very common in that sad landscape) etc., etc. etc. I personally can't have much sympathy with a heroine who has never worked but always been dependent on other people, taken care of her whole life.<br />This was a really amateurish book. Obviously, publishers are eager to find multicultural material and make a star of someone. Dandicat benefitted from this trend. But as a writer who delivers a believable, fully developed story with characters the reader can care about, she fails miserably.	2000-02-04
US	52254727	R1KFI8ITBY6EKI	006092893X	166497217	Monkey King: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb writing about a difficult subject	One of the most difficult things to portray in fiction has to be the disintegration of the self, as occurs in mental illness. Patricia Chao succeeds in telling a story through the eyes of one suffering a lengthy  nervous breakdown, while at the same time rendering wonderful  characterizations of the protagonist's Chinese-American family. While most  of the writing is fairly straightforward, there are some really beautiful  passages that verge on the poetic, without overdoing it.<br />Unlike much of  the new wave of Asian-American literature, this book transcends the simple  new-immigrant-in-America ground that can make this genre one-dimensional.  And despite the grim subject matter, the book rises above the usual  &quot;downer&quot; mood of most novels discussing mental illness, child  abuse, etc. -- it is not sociology, it is art.<br />When incest and other  tragedies occur, it is very easy to point the finger at someone. This book  to me was ultimately compassionate and uplifting because it presented the  problem within a portrait of full human complexity. I won't give away the  ending but I will say it was very moving. I would love to see this story as  a film.	2000-02-03
US	52254727	R3QDE43IIXJZAF	0312198485	493018762	The Country Life	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Where's the story?	I can only guess that this author got into print because she was well connected and looks beautiful in the book jacket. Half way through this book I threw it across the room, not from laughter, but from frustration. Where's the story? Where's the character? I am a big fan of British  fiction, but this book's style is dated, derivative (lamely, of Stella  Gibbons) and without context. My reaction to the character from page one  was, who cares, who cares, who cares? These eccentric observations are very  old, and with no plot no characterisation and no back story, I don't know  how the reader is expected to care enough to keep reading. Please note, I  am NOT one of those Oprah freaks who is on the lookout for meaningful  literature, but someone who likes to be entertained in the manner of the  comic novels of Evelyn Waugh, E.F. Benson, etc. This book did not come near  the kind of British humor it was billed as delivering. It was aimless --  typing, not writing.	2000-02-01
US	52254727	R2JA65KB89U3T3	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Cop Out Ending, Unrealistic Female Characterizations	First, the praise -- there are many, many books out there that try to be funny, and very few that succeed. The sentence to sentence prose here is  consistently insightful and witty, and for that reason alone, I would  recommend this book to anyone who wants an amusing read. I concur with  other reviewers that this author is at the top of the heap of this  particular genre -- early Martin Amis post-adolescent male, or what you  because of a fling with someone with whom he had fantastic sex. Where is  this woman in the story? I think it's a flaw that we don't get a flashback  here. Even if it was supposed to be fairly meaningless sex, I think we have  the right to be there. Because we didn't get a clear picture of the affair  or the woman -- it seems like a cop out, or lazy writing, or un-thought out  characterization.<br />Second -- as one who has &quot;been there, done  that&quot; as a high powered woman paired with an underachieving male she  has in some ways outgrown, I can promise you that Laura, a successful  lawyer in private practice, would have inevitably been drawn to the more  dynamic men in her work environment. The last thing she would have been  inclined to do was repeat her mistake by having an affair with a man who  was an even bigger hippy loser than her original boyfriend. That was a male  ego assuaging device if I ever saw one. Get a massive grip!<br />And while it  is quite concievable to me that Laura would return to Rob, as she did, in a  vulnerable moment after her father died, and to baldly and rather  unflatteringly admit that it was because she couldn't face starting from  scratch with someone else, I didn't find the ending satisfying or  believable at all. I thought it was sad that the best that Rob's new  &quot;club&quot; could do was a Beatles cover band. Likewise, the best  Laura seems to settle for is a retread of her early days with Rob, when he  was a DJ. The plot ignores the fact that she's moved on in life. A woman  who's progressed cannot be happy for long with a man who stays in the same  place. Rob's flaw is less his tendency towards sexual infidelity -- after  all, we all grew up in a promiscuous age -- but his lack of initiative with  his own career. Laura did everything to set up the revival of the club,  which struck me as pathetic.<br />I gave this book to my husband to read,  thinking it was an acceptable &quot;guy&quot; book for a person who can't  stomach many novels, but being a music aficionado, he was appalled at some  of Rob's musical likes and dislikes, and at some point the whole main  relationship thing got so implausible that he was too nauseated and had to  put it down. I managed to finish it, but felt a fake happy ending was  tacked on -- I would have preferred more realistic complexity, and the book  would have had more staying power if, well, he'd had to see Laura walk off  with a senior partner at her firm. At least he would have been forced to  grow as a character. The way the book ends, everyone ends right where they  started.d cannot be happy for long with a man who stays in the same  place. Rob's flaw is less his tendency towards sexual infidelity -- after  all, we all grew up in a promiscuous age -- but his lack of initiative with  his own career. Laura did everything to set up the revival of the club,  which struck me as pathetic.<br />I gave this book to my husband to read,  thinking it was an acceptable &quot;guy&quot; book for a person who can't  stomach many novels, but being a music aficionado, he was appalled at some  of Rob's musical likes and dislikes, and at some point the whole main  relationship thing got so implausible that he was too nauseated and had to  put it down. I managed to finish it, but felt a fake happy ending was  tacked on -- I would have preferred more realistic complexity, and the book  would have had more staying power if, well, he'd had to see Laura walk off  with a senior partner at her firm. At least he would have been forced to  grow as a character. The way the book ends, everyone ends right where they  started.	2000-01-31
US	52254727	R3LM3C2KF22W8M	0805052038	725218718	Eight Months on Ghazzah Street: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Atmospheric Suspense	Like certain pieces of music, this book was strong on creating a vivid atmosphere, while being almost entirely free of &quot;hooks&quot; -- i.e., the momentum of a plot. Yes, something does happen at the end, but we don't  know quite what, and in a wierd way it doesn't really matter. I don't have  such a problem with the lack of plot that other reviewers did, but what did  bother me was that Frances was such a blank. Why did she leave England? Why  did she fall in love with her husband? What makes her tick? We don't know,  it's almost as if the author wanted to put a blank, generic, white educated  middle class Englishwoman down and just watch her interact in this  excellently rendered alien environment. Sorry, but I want a three  dimensional protagonist. It would have helped if she'd had some kind of  back story, after all, no one is a complete blank. While I can understand  that one might feel like a blank after several months of nearly solitary  confinement, such as Frances experienced, she began the novel seeming that  way to me. That was the only weakness of the book. The strength was the  excellence of the writing,and the detailed eye that summoned up the locale  to perfection.<br />While I was rather disappointed with this as a novel (I  gave it four stars instead of three, because the writing style is so much  more intelligent and superior to almost any American writer's)I highly  value it as a cultural study. When a friend of mine was considering moving  to Saudi Arabia for a year, I said, Don't make your decision until you read  this book!	2000-01-30
US	52254727	R24I6QT8YNFFHI	0670879738	222694972	Best of Friends	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Believable, but sometimes annoying	I liked this book because it gave a closer peek into a situation that's all too typical -- divorce reeks havoc, injured partiy reaches out to the easiest prey. Even though selfish Gina is something of the villainess in  this book, I wanted a bit more depth on her -- how was she really affected  by being a fatherless child? Laurence isn't allowed to think anything, he  can only act and speak. O.K., these are accepted stereotypes about male  behavior, but in a novel I like a bit more inner life. Hilary, who winds up  the most likeable character, is also the most fully fledged  because we  actually get to spend a few moments in her head. I blame not the author,  who I'd guess wanted to spend more time with all her characters, but the  current editorial trends, that  dictate dramatisation over narration, when,  as in a good old fashioned Victorian novel, the latter is often the more  effective strategy. While Vi gives us a break from the main drama, her  whole story and reason for being seem a bit sketched in simply for that  purpose. I'm sorry, but I didn't buy her relationship with Dan -- it was  just too pat, and I've known too many Vi-like strong old ladies to believe  they'll suddenly start going all soft on men in old age. And Sophy -- the  book begins and ends with her and spends way too much time on this spoiled,  dull and annoying character. She slowed down the book wherever she showed  up, and is not the least bit interesting or likeable. Throughout the book,  I wondered how Gina, a working class, fatherless girl, could have grown up  to be a spoiled upper middle class prat -- Sophy I could understand, but  her mother's characterization didn't ring true. And I didn't believe that  Fergus wasn't at least bisexual.	2000-01-14
US	52254727	R2KP1OFGWBMEP9	0425162346	172465398	Spanish Lover	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Depth and realistic compromises	I am a big Trolloppe fan, and enjoyed this book because it let me get to know the two main characters in enough depth so I wasn't going &quot;huh?&quot; every time someone said or did something, a minor  complaint in some of her other novels, where dozens of characters are  thrown at you. I savored the contrast between scenes set in chilly Bath and  sunny, historic Spain. What I didn't quite believe at first was how the  Spanish Lover, Luis, would go so nuts over prim Frances in the first place,  but what happens at the end, which I won't give away, rings true for this  kind of man operating in this kind of culture. The back story of the  parents seemed labored and not entirely believable. It actually detracted  from the otherwise strong believability of the twins. I always groan when a  baby appears at the end of a book, making a paste-on happy ending, and as  if to rectify all wrongs, but the ending here was bittersweet and mixed for  both sisters. Life moves along in its real, sometimes thwarted way.	2000-01-14
US	52254727	R1VF6HJ12ZTFAA	0385318782	405219559	Talk Before Sleep	Books	1	13	18	N	N	Dreadful	Sorry to spoil the party, but this was an unsatisfying book. Major flaw: The poorly developed characters (men bad/women good), and the first person narrator and cancer victim were both unsympathetic. Neither the situations,  nor the friendship, nor the dialogue, nor anything rang true to me. I am  amazed that this book was a success on any level. It already seems very  dated, with women who are unemployed or marginally employed whining about  not being understood by the hard working husbands who support them. They  are presumed to be in the wrong simply for being male.  The book opens with  one of those &quot;sensual&quot; descriptions they give you as an opening  exercise in creative writing class. The tedious description says nothing  about the narrator, her mother, anything that will lead us anywhere  plot-wise or take us anywhere in the book, thematically. Then the  descriptions of the friends -- just their physical characteristics, in  cartoon stereotypical simplicity, nothing about the real people or the  essence behind the physical forms. I didn't know who these characters were  by the end of the book. I'm sure there is a great novel out there about  women and breast cancer, possibly in the unread slushpile. This is  definitely not it.	2000-01-14
US	52254727	R34OYRHS2HAQD9	0385492685	555691073	Breakup	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Should be required reading for anyone who is married	... or even considering it. I had read Texier's fiction years ago and found it only so-so.  Whatever she was trying to get across about sex and human passion, major themes in her novels, never came across in a way to  make me feel anything for the characters. But this memoir made me feel  everything -- the passion, the pain, all that was at stake. I inhaled it,  rather too quickly, perhaps, and it sank into my soul and left my nerves  feeling bruised. Anyone who has been through a crisis (and not even  particularly this kind of crisis) in a long term, deeply felt relationship,  or even witnessed it in their parents' marriage or that of a close friend,  will recognize the essential truths so well and precisely articulated here.  Unlike other reviewers, I didn't mind the rawness, or the repetitiveness.  It was necessary to see the wearing away of her dignity. It takes a while  to say good-bye to twenty years of your life, and there is always that  suspense of, will the situation reverse itself?  I've known  married couple  who weathered multiple infidelities and a three year seperation and wind up  happy grandparents together in the end. Americans are often in denial about  matters of the heart, still clinging to absolutes -- total fidelity,  happily-ever-after stories, despite that pesky one in two divorce statistic  and the 70% infidelity rate. Texier's baring of her soul has been succor to  several divorced women I know, and should be an antidote for all young  women subject to the Cinderella propaganda still being broadcast through  Julia Roberts movies and limp women's fiction. What intrigued me were the  updated dynamics which I've also noticed everywhere in real life -- in the  end, a man leaves not for a better blow job, but for money, or the illusion  that success is obtainable through a relationship with a more influential  woman. No longer do men want the little woman at home, taking care of the  domestic front. Any emotional dependency is likewise anathema. As Texier  reported, when she &quot;cocooned&quot; at home with her children, her  husband rejected her. When he felt she was a has-been as a writer, he went  on to someone he perceived to be a success. Well, it's rather ironic that  this memoir has become Texier's pot of gold, professionally, and that  Rose's &quot;big&quot; novel launched by his new editor/lover sank without  a whisper of either sales or critical praise. Bravo Catherine! Perhaps it  was she who needed to dump Joel Rose in order to get her literary star back  on the rise. This breakup clearly invigorated her writing. It think memoir  is her true metier, and that she has much more to tell about her  unconventional upbringing and life. I look forward to her next work.. As Texier  reported, when she &quot;cocooned&quot; at home with her children, her  husband rejected her. When he felt she was a has-been as a writer, he went  on to someone he perceived to be a success. Well, it's rather ironic that  this memoir has become Texier's pot of gold, professionally, and that  Rose's &quot;big&quot; novel launched by his new editor/lover sank without  a whisper of either sales or critical praise. Bravo Catherine! Perhaps it  was she who needed to dump Joel Rose in order to get her literary star back  on the rise. This breakup clearly invigorated her writing. It think memoir  is her true metier, and that she has much more to tell about her  unconventional upbringing and life. I look forward to her next work.	1999-10-08
US	52254727	RJ80DNCUQ464G	0060974257	67560514	Road Song	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Fascinating Memoir that inadvertendly recalls Greek tragedy	Are disasters inevitable? That is the question that kept popping up in my mind as I read this searing memoir, which often reveals things I wonder if the author realized.  The Kusz family leaves L.A. to pursue adventures in  Alaska, and boy do they find them.  Why was seven year old  Natalie left on  her own to get nearly killed by sled dogs? Is it because her Dad didn't get  over the post traumatic stress disorder of his childhood in war-torn  Poland, and kept having to recreate scenes of peril in which to test  himself? If so, Natalie and the entire family paid a very high price. It  was like tempting the devil. The family of six sticks it out in the  outback, though God knows why, as they are a cultured family and this is a  cultural wasteland.  Is it really all that fulfilling to build these rustic  shacks by hand, just for the hell of it? It seems like a misguided  wilderness dream, and way too much copy is spent detailing the  housebuilding, when what I wanted to really know was more of the  repercussions of Natalie's accident to her and the rest of the family. She  skims over her teenage rebellious behavior as if none of it were important,  although it does land her with a child at 16. I feel awful for her  siblings, who were kept in the dark about their sister's pregnancy until  Natalie came home with a newborn. It is hard to fault a person who has  undergone what the author did, but in the context of her family she often  came off as monstrously selfish, although she clearly tried to present  herself as the hero.  Who was it again, who had screaming fights with her  martyred mother? How can she blame her other siblings for what eventually  happened to her mother when she herself was clearly the catalyst for so  much negative energy in the family? We only hear in backhand fashion, for  example, that her parents have already been deeply stressed and in debt  when she springs a pregnancy on them. Her parents are so giving that they  even offer to build her her own house out back, before they even have their  own house built!  It was almost like some Greek tragedy: Mother, you robbed  me of my face, therefore I will wreak havoc on you and all your other  children, and you will pay with your .... We don't see the author owning up  to the stresses she herself placed on her already beleagured family, nor do  we hear enough about the love affair that gave her a daughter. I wanted  much much more of what was going on inside her, and much less of the so  called &quot;close&quot; family dynamics. Perhaps a serious examination of  her emotional life was beyond the author, who was only 27 at the time of  the writing.  I look forward to a deeper layer of reflection in the future  from a more mature Natalie Kusz.own house out back, before they even have their  own house built!  It was almost like some Greek tragedy: Mother, you robbed  me of my face, therefore I will wreak havoc on you and all your other  children, and you will pay with your .... We don't see the author owning up  to the stresses she herself placed on her already beleagured family, nor do  we hear enough about the love affair that gave her a daughter. I wanted  much much more of what was going on inside her, and much less of the so  called &quot;close&quot; family dynamics. Perhaps a serious examination of  her emotional life was beyond the author, who was only 27 at the time of  the writing.  I look forward to a deeper layer of reflection in the future  from a more mature Natalie Kusz.	1999-10-07
US	52254727	R2UTJXWWCSJT0C	0684857820	784206304	Lucky	Books	3	32	53	N	Y	Kind of Disappointing and Incomplete	Did I read the same book as these other reviewers? I think not. I am also a rape survivor and I look for sustenance in the stories of others who share my experience.  I found this memoir to be pretty badly written and  just plain, well -- overblown. Overblown with the author's self  dramatization and sense of self importance -- yes, she wanted to grow up  and be Ethel Merman. The me me me tone was annoying, and I found myself  disliking a woman I ought to be having an affinity with. Why? She comes off  as a very spoiled, very sheltered upper middle class white girl from a  &quot;My Mommy and Daddy Love me Ver Much&quot; type of environment who  never gave any serious thought to anyone or anything outside of her  immediate orbit, either before or after her incident. No wonder she found  her brush with reality shocking. She mimicks a &quot;potpoiler&quot; style,  which just didn't work for me. Everything she wrote about herself may be  true, but she and other characters seemed to behave like cliched characters  in a T.V. movie.I got the feeling that this book was constructed from diary  entries immediately following the unfortunate incident, jottings which  haven't been fashioned into a real memoir.  Much of it is just documentary  -- her mundane undergraduate social life, a lot of day to day, when what  this memoir really demanded was PERSPECTIVE -- after all, she wrote it  about 15 years after the fact. I was much more interested in how the event  affected her relations with men, with women, with society, with her own  sexuality, with her choices of jobs, with her concept of herself as a  success or failure, her career, personal and life choices. Time frame  references from the early eighties to mid-nineties? Sexual and racial  politics? Feminism? Bosnia? Hello! Anyone there! We got a little afterward  on the progress of her life, which ought to have been the main story, which  makes me sense that the author is still stuck in time, still immaturely  obsessed with whether or not she's ugly or has fat thighs, or if guys like  her. Everything is viewed within the lowest common denominator framework of  her own life.  There's just not enough intelligent or spiritual reflection  and analysis. She prefers simple melodrama, which to me detracts from the  seriousness of her story. The book is worth reading, because she has some  good insights, here and there, buried beneath the potboiler style, such as  that she wound up living in New York because it's a place that wears its  violence on its sleeve -- but there's so much more she could have said. I'd  like to hear how she approached life after, how her experience affected her  modus operandi: Did she hook for her heroin habit? How did she manage grad  school and adjunct teaching, financially? Were her parents paying for her  the entire time? Did she in fact ever grow up? I get the sense not.  Finally, teaching NYC ghetto students, she gets a sense of perspective on  something she's clearly let define her life. But from all I hear from her,  I intuit she would have wound up a self-obsessed mess, even if she hadn't  been raped. We get a lot of the self centered persona of adolescence, but  no adult reflection on who she was, then and now. She seems not to have  evolved. Bottom line -- you have to wade through a lot of irrelevant junk  to get a few pearls of insight here. If you are a survivor, I recommend  Nancy Venable Raines', &quot;After Silence: Rape and My Journey Back.&quot;ether or not she's ugly or has fat thighs, or if guys like  her. Everything is viewed within the lowest common denominator framework of  her own life.  There's just not enough intelligent or spiritual reflection  and analysis. She prefers simple melodrama, which to me detracts from the  seriousness of her story. The book is worth reading, because she has some  good insights, here and there, buried beneath the potboiler style, such as  that she wound up living in New York because it's a place that wears its  violence on its sleeve -- but there's so much more she could have said. I'd  like to hear how she approached life after, how her experience affected her  modus operandi: Did she hook for her heroin habit? How did she manage grad  school and adjunct teaching, financially? Were her parents paying for her  the entire time? Did she in fact ever grow up? I get the sense not.  Finally, teaching NYC ghetto students, she gets a sense of perspective on  something she's clearly let define her life. But from all I hear from her,  I intuit she would have wound up a self-obsessed mess, even if she hadn't  been raped. We get a lot of the self centered persona of adolescence, but  no adult reflection on who she was, then and now. She seems not to have  evolved. Bottom line -- you have to wade through a lot of irrelevant junk  to get a few pearls of insight here. If you are a survivor, I recommend  Nancy Venable Raines', &quot;After Silence: Rape and My Journey Back.&quot;	1999-10-07
US	52254727	R383CKKNWA7BTX	0316803081	745099329	The Cliff Walk: A Memoir of a Job Lost and a Life Found	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intriguing memoir that often reads like a novel.	This intriguing memoir is best where it reads like a novel of surrealistic pscychological suspense -- as when both the author and his wife seem to toy with the idea of selling an unborn child before they consider more ordinary  ways of bringing in cash. The author's portrait of his wife, who seems to  me, in her determination to be a baby factory, a full accomplice in her  husband's downfall, is as interesting for what is left unsaid as for what  is. There is something sadistic, something passive/aggressively destructive  in the author's determination to smash her fairyland dream of idyllic,  dependent Mommyhood. All the while he is praising her beauty, patience,  saintliness, he is quietly undercutting by simply laying out the facts.  Staying home with as many babies as she could produce &quot;was the only  thing she'd asked of me in 12 years.&quot; Sounds like an awful lot to ask  a writer! They both seem amazingly selfish -- as if it were their  birthright to do exactly what they wanted, all the time. She to reproduce  to excess, simply because it feels good, regardless of whether or not she  or her husband were able to support the children, he for thinking that a  plush-lined teaching job would come without special connections. They both  seem equally at fault and responsible for what happened, but in failing to  bring his wife to task for her part in creating their troubles, the author  rather cleverly shows us the truth. Surely a woman whose goal in life was  to have as many babies as possible in her 20s should have picked a man with  either a steady profession or the financial resources to make this a safe,  sensible decision? The fact that both are from working class backgrounds  makes this even more baffling. Perhaps they never noticed that well off  people often get that way from working at anything and everything. The book  is slowest and almost nauseating when the author is singing his wife  Colleen's praises.You want to tell the wife, Wake up and smell the coffee!  Unless you ARE in the business of selling your babies, children are a noble  and worthy occupation, but not a way to make a living.the coffee!  Unless you ARE in the business of selling your babies, children are a noble  and worthy occupation, but not a way to make a living.	1999-09-19
