US	52266165	RLOA4RIHKZ6OF	1844160920	933892638	Legacy (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not as good as the first, but good enough of a read.	MAtthew Farrer's follow-up to his first Black Library novel (Crossfire) is titled Legacy and on its own the book is a good scifi novel, but it doesn't match or exceed its predecessor.<br /><br />The main protagonist of the first novel, Shira Calpurnia or the Adeptus Arbites, is really a background character this time, even though the books is considered the second one in the Calpurnia series. What one gets instead are characters who should've remained secondary. In legacy, Shira has to preside over the passing over of an ancient rogue trader charter to an heir apparent. What begins from there on is a mish-mash of double-cross, political machinations between members of the Imperium's many department's, especially the Adeptus Arbites and the Adeptus Ministorum (the Ecclesiarchy).<br /><br />There is less action in this book than in the first. More of Shira's personality is revealed and that of the Arbites' role in the Imperium. I just hope that Farrer has a better follow-up to continue Shira's saga.	2004-08-27
US	52266165	R2GD46JENB4LNV	0743443667	333015323	Cross Fire (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Matthew Farrer's Crossfire is a good read	The stable of Black Library writers has a good addition in Matthew Farrer. His first novel for the Black Library collection of Warhammer and Warhammer 40,000 novels is titled Crossfire and it lives up to the novels written by Abnett, King and Coulter.<br /><br />Crossfire uses a character type that is usually seen in the background and, most of the time, as cannon fodder: the Adeptus Arbites. The Arbites is Warhammer 40K's version of law enforcement. They have alot in common with the Judges of Megacity-One. The character of Shira Calpurnia is well-rounded and shows personality. Crossfire's plot owes alot more to mystery solving than to all-out warfare like most of the books in the Warhammer 40K line. The character Calpurnia really turns out to be worth another novel by story's end and Farrer and his editors must've agreed since a sequel has been released.<br /><br />For fans of Dan Abnett's Gaunt's Ghosts novels and William King's Space Wolf books, I highly recommend Farrer's first 40K novel.	2004-08-24
US	52266165	R2SNZFWQ4SDKXB	1569713499	695074754	Hellboy: The Chained Coffin and Others	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great collection of Hellboy illustrated short stories	Mike Mignola's first compilation graphic shorts is titled The Chained Coffin and Others. The stories within were compiled from sources such as the Dark Horse Presents comic issues all the way to promotional issue of the comic catalogue Diamond Comics. The one difference between those issues and this compilation was the coloring. The illustrated shorts where in black and white when they first appeared in those issues, but in this compilation book they have been retouched with bold primary colors.<br /><br />Mignola wrote and drew all the shorts included in Chained Coffin and Others. The coloring he'd done for all the shorts lives up to the previous Hellboy books. There's some inconsistency to the look of each stories artwork, but that's due to some of them being drawn early in Hellboy's history. Some of these stories were done even before the Seed of Destruction story.<br /><br />All the stories are well-written and they range from laugh-out funny to classically scary. Stand out entries in Chained Coffin and Others are \\"Christmas Underground\\" (Mignola's take on the vampire myth), The Wolves of St. August (a werewolf piece) and \\"Almost Colossus\\" (the introduction of recurring character Roger the Homunculus). These three takes are great examples of why the Hellboy books are a joy to read. \\"Christmas Underground\\" is my personal favorite for combining both a genuinely scary tale with some genuine humanity to turn a simple horror tale into one of redemption and forgiveness.<br /><br />For readers who have seen the Hellboy feature film, they will recognize a character in the film who actually appears in this compilation: \\"The Corpse\\". In the end, I highly recommend this graphic compilation to new fans of Hellboy and for old, loyal fans to pick it up if their old copy has been dog-eared and tattered from frequent readings.	2004-08-11
US	52266165	R20LH68G78M8FS	1593070942	673687494	Hellboy, Vol. 1: Seed of Destruction	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Byrne's writing keeps Seed from being perfect	Hellboy: Seed of Destruction was originally released as a 4-issue comic book mini-series from Dark Horse Comics in the early 90's. From the beginning, Seed of Destruction became an instant classic due to the great artwork from its artist and creator Mike Mignola. Mignola's artwork is very simple with its heavy use of blacks and shadows and solid primary colors. Whenever Hellboy is the centerpiece of the panel, Mignola makes great use of blacks and red to symbolize Hellboy's infernal origins. Whenever Abe Sapien (Hellboy's B.P.R.D. fish-man partner) is the center of the action then Mignola uses blacks and cool colors like blue, green and tones in between. Mignola's style is very minimalist yet he shows more depth of character and meaning with each panel of artwork than most comic book artists working in the field today.<br /><br />The characters of Hellboy and his supporting group in the B.P.R.D. (Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense) are very original and refreshing in the world of comics. It is not everytime that the main character of a book is a red-skinned demon with filed down horns and who was found by Allied troops during the end of WW2 and raised as a human by a paranormal researcher. Hellboy may be a demon in appearance, but he's the most human comic character to be created in quite awhile. He's very much the blue-collar, beer-drinking, cigar-chomping Everyman that is missing in comics these days. Hellboy's supporting characters of Abe Sapien and Liz Sherman in Seed of Destruction are given some background, but still not enough to make them fully realized characters. Part of this may be due to the writer of this series.<br /><br />John Byrne is considered one of the masters of the comic book writing world. His stint on Marvel's X-men and Spider-Man are considered classics. But with Hellboy, Byrne's style is very average and pedestrian. Byrne's style is more suited for superheroes, but Hellboy and his gang from B.P.R.D. require a better writer who is subtler and who understands the Lovecraftian-European folklore theme that permeates Hellboy and his world.<br /><br />It's really due to Byrne's stint as the writer for this first book that I cannot give Seed of Destruction a 5-star it deserves. The good news is that Mike Mignola takes control of the writing as well as the artwork for all future Hellboy stories. Mignola's writing will surprise and match perfectly the artwork he creates. Seed of Destruction is not a perfect book, but it is a great a beginning to what may turn out to be one of the definitive comic characters of this generation.s subtler and who understands the Lovecraftian-European folklore theme that permeates Hellboy and his world.  <br /> <br />It's really due to Byrne's stint as the writer for this first book that I cannot give Seed of Destruction a 5-star it deserves. The good news is that Mike Mignola takes control of the writing as well as the artwork for all future Hellboy stories. Mignola's writing will surprise and match perfectly the artwork he creates. Seed of Destruction is not a perfect book, but it is a great a beginning to what may turn out to be one of the definitive comic characters of this generation.	2004-08-11
US	52266165	R380BOXEBPQ6T0	1593070950	191038058	Hellboy, Vol. 2: Wake the Devil	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mignola takes control of Hellboy's writing and succeeds	Wake the Devil is the second Dark Horse Comic issued 4-issue series about Hellboy and the difference between the writing from Seed of Destruction to Wake is substantial. Mike Mignola took over sole writing duties for Wake the Devil after John Byrne's stint on Seed of Destruction. Mike Mignola never really wrote a full-scale plot and story for any comic he's drawn, but his inexperience in Wake the Devil is minimal. Hellboy is his creation and the world around him as well. He's lived and breathed the character since he is also the creator. Who else but the person who created the idea would know how to write the stories properly.<br /><br />Wake the Devil has less of the Lovecraftian-theme that was Seed of Destruction. Instead Mignola treats his fans and readers to a story about a Romanian aristocrat is is reputed to be a vampire sired by the Greek demoness, Lamia. In addition, Mignola mixes in a healthy dose of Nazi's leftover from WW2 who have ressurected from an icy slumber to try and return the Third Reich to prominence through occult and vampiric means. Mignola's heady mix of the occult, European folklore mythology and plain old 30's style detective noir give Wake the Devil a better written story than Seed of Destruction. Mignola as a writer is not bad and since Hellboy is his creation there really is nowhere for Mignola to go but improve.<br /><br />Wake the Devil is a perfect blend of a well-written story and great artwork. Having Mike take over as writer in addition to continuing as artist earns Wake the Devil 5-stars that Seed of Destruction failed to reach.	2004-08-11
US	52266165	R5MK6EJ58QMW3	1844160874	113398006	Grey Knights (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A very good intro to a new 40K series	Ben Counter starts off his new Warhammer 40,000-based series with a bang. Already known for his excellent Soul Drinkers series set in the same universe, Counter introduces his readers to a new fighting unit called the Grey Knights Chapter. This fighting unit would be considered the elite of elites. They're Space Marines just like the Soul Drinkers Chapter in his other series, but they're training, fighting prowess and mission directive puts them even above the other Space Marine Chapters. Grey Knights act as daemonhunters for the Imperium and as such they're seconded to the Inquistorial Order that deals with all things daemonic and Chaos: the Ordo Malleus.<br /><br />The book centers on one specific Grey Knight Justicar (a veteran leader title) by the name of Alaric. In addition to being a hardcore and dedicated soldier for the Imperium, Counter has fleshed out the character by making Alaric act and behave beyond the psycho-conditioning and training given Space Marines. Alaric never expresses any doubts about his role as a Grey Knight but he does contemplate the role Grey Knights must perform to keep humanity safe from the daemonic and its allies. Alaric acts beyond his training and shows initiative that Space Marines are not well-known for.<br /><br />The story itself centers on Alaric, his men and the Inquisitors who command them fighting a side, but pivotal battle to the raging Black Crusade currently being waged in the 40K universe. The battles scenes are well-written and action-packed. Counter doesn't pull his punches in describing the horrific consequences of these battles on the human body and even on the superhuman physiques of the Grey Knights.<br /><br />There is a lacking of deeper characterization in the supporting characters around Alaric, but as an introductory novel to this series I'm willing to let it slide abit. In the end, the book is about Alaric and the Grey Knights. Counter does a gret job in introducing both to the fans and readers of the Warhammer 40,000 universe.e Warhammer 40,000 universe.	2004-08-11
US	52266165	R1159IEUMPZKLJ	0743462823	936924895	The Lost Army (Hellboy)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Golden captures the spirit of Mignola's creation	Mike Mignola's Hellboy character and the universe he inhabits is one of the most engaging and interesting comic creation. Mignola took a large helping of H.P. Lovecraft, added in a healthy dose of James Bond and finished it off with a good dash of European folklore and mythologies and he comes up with Hellboy and the B.P.R.D.<br /><br />Hellboy was originally just in comics and graphic novels, but Christopher Golden was given a chance by Mike Mignola to try and come up with a novel-lenght story to give Hellboy a new medium to appear in. Golden succeeds with this first Hellboy novel titled The Lost Army. It helped that Mignola drew some illustrations for the book and these illustrations help explain some of the words Golden has wrought.<br /><br />There really is no need to explain the plot since Amazon has conveniently copied the back cover summary to explain the book. The story is very Lovecraftian in its tone as most of Hellboy's comic book exploits have a tendency to be. Unlike the comics, Golden's novel allows more of Hellboy's inner personality and feelings to come through. It has only been hinted in the comics, but in Golden's story Hellboy's past history and his current unfolding situation are allowed for some romance.<br /><br />The Lost Army is very much more adult than the comics, but the overall theme and story fits well with the canon that Mignola has created for Hellboy and his universe. I have to admit that the ending has abit of Deus ex Machina to it that lets off Hellboy and crew too easily, but it is really just a small quibble on the overall satisfying read The Lost Army turned out to be.	2004-08-10
US	52266165	R29UKB17E680BO	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A sexy, fun book w/ equal touches of romance and mystery	I was running out of books to check out and try when I happened upon the mystery section of the bookstore I go to. I don't usually go for mystery novels, but after reading some reviews of J.D. Robb's (aka Nora Roberts) books here on Amazon, I decided to give Ms. Robb's book a try.<br /><br />I know I've said that mystery novels are not really my cup of tea, romance is not even remotely in the same ballpark. I always picture romance novels as thin paperbacks with half-naked, beautiful people on the covers. I was surprised to know that I was hooked on Ms. Robb's Naked In Death novel from the first chapter all the way to the end. I enjoyed the perfect blend of crime-mystery and sexy romance from her novel's two main characters.<br /><br />NYPSD Lt. Eve Dallas is one of the better female characters I've ever had the chance to read. Eve is both a tough-as-nails police detective and also very feminine though she would be the last person to think so. Its this duality in her personality that attracts rogue Irish bilionaire Roarke (the cool characters always can get away with using just a single name) to Eve. The attraction seems very unusual at first, especially since Roarke can get and have any woman he wishes, but as the story progresses some hints as to why he's attracted comes out in the open.<br /><br />The mystery part of the novel is very well-done, even though Roarke being a suspect in the beginning seems like a convenient way to get the two characters together. The heat from their initial meeting shows that Ms. Robb can write scenes of romance and conflict and make both look very steamy. I don't know which I enjoyed reading more, the scenes where Eve and Roarke finally have sex or their constant baiting each other to react, but both were written with enough heat and chemistry to make the book a must-read.<br /><br />Ms. Robb's first novel in her In Death series, Naked In Death, is a wonderful and fun novel. It should appeal to others who are not just romance novel readers. The scenes of romance and sensual, steamy sex is a big bonus. The novel overall is engaging and well-written for other genre fans to enjoy.ce novel readers. The scenes of romance and sensual, steamy sex is a big bonus. The novel overall is engaging and well-written for other genre fans to enjoy.	2004-08-09
US	52266165	R1XAWQX3Z1JWMH	0743443047	71696110	The Guns of Tanith (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Guns of Tanith lives up to the previous four Gaunt novels	In this fifth installment of the Gaunt's Ghosts Saga, Abnett introduces us to the world of Phantine. Phantine is a world where everyone lives on aerial hive-installations which float above the toxic atmosphere that comprises most of the world. Phantine also seem to be a major contributer of promethium --- a form of fuel which is invaluable to the forces of the Imperium --- for the Sabbat Systems. It is also in this novel, Guns of Tanith, that Abnett introduces the Tanith's main opponent who are as skillful and disciplined a unit as Gaunt's own men: The Blood Pact.<br /><br />The Blood Pact is one of the better scifi creations I've ever read. This elite unit of Chaos-worshipping soldiers are almost the mirror-image of what the Tanith regiment has been described so far. Abnett's writing continues to impress and with the new location and its special environment, Abnett shows that he can write battle scenes that is not just a muddy, confusing amalgam of men fighting it out. Guns of Tanith showcases the Tanith's skills as elite, light infantrymen. This novel has more of a special-ops feel to it than the previous four novels.<br /><br />In the end, Guns of Tanith is another winner in Abnett's growing portfolio of scifi novels. I was wholly impressed and satisfied by this story and will continue on to the next novel in this series.	2004-08-06
US	52266165	R3G5TW2V1AYV17	0743411676	361039960	Honour Guard (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Abnett continues to impress with this 4th installment...	With Honour Guard, Dan Abnett continues his Gaunt's Ghosts series with another tightly-written, action-packed war novel. the fourth book in the series, Honour Guard actually is the beginning of the Sabbat Crusade story campaign. The first three novels in the series introduces Colonel-Commissar Ibrahim Gaunt and his Tanith First and Only Regiment.<br /><br />This time around certain high-ranking elements in the Sabbat Crusade Army has blamed Gaunt and his Ghosts for a battlefield loss that was orchestrated by some behind-the-scenes. Honour Guard is pretty much a story about redemption and spiritual discovery for Gaunt and the troops in his regiment. We actually see Gaunt brought low by outside forces, most of which are actually officers in the Army who are jealous of his sudden rise to power and popularity amongst the regular troops. It was refreshing to know that Gaunt was human after all and not some super-commander who could do no wrong and who could brush off any drawbacks with aplomb.<br /><br />This time around, Abnett's battle scenes are more centered towards fighting between armored units with infantry in support. Again, Abnett  must have good knowledge of military history because the battles leading up to the final stand in the end is very similar to the armor battles which occurred on the roads of the Dutch countryside during the Allies ill-advised Operation Market Garden.<br /><br />Honour Guard is a worthy successor to the first three Gaunt novels that precedes it. Here's to hoping that Abnett continues is hot streak. I highly recommend.	2004-08-06
US	52266165	R3SGFOVM8W1JS4	382286398X	804403005	Natacha Merritt Digital Diaries	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A raw and honest look into a young woman's sexuality	Natacha Merritt's Digital Diaries is less an art book of nude photos than a raw and honest look --- some would say peek --- into a young woman's sexuality. It is not just a look, but a visual documentation of sexual experimentation including both a casual sexual situations and more fetishist imagery.<br /><br />Digital Diaries is also very sexy just like its author-photographer. Natacha doesn't convey a shy personality, but actually comes off as a very liberated and aggressive young woman. Her book is not for everyone and certainly not for someone who doesn't have an open mind. Those who are willing to explore the many faces of sexuality, they can't go wrong by acquiring Ms. Merritt's Digital Diaries.	2004-08-04
US	52266165	R35E0J5272YVU9	0743411595	485580251	Necropolis (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Abnett's Gaunt's Ghost saga hits its stride	It is in Dan Abnett's third installment of his well-done Gaunt's Ghosts Saga that he finally hits his stride. In Necropolis, Colonel-Commissar Ibrahim Gaunt and his Tanith First and Only Regiment are thrown into the meat-grinder type of warfare seen when fought within a city. The hive city in question is Vervunhive and Gaunt and his men must help protect and save the city from a rival hive-city that has fallen under the sway of Chaos. This massive civil war takes a large toll on the men of Tanith. The political backstabbing seen in Ghostmaker is continued in Necropolis, some of the jealousy and scheming of rival Imperial Guard commanders having a detrimental and deadly effect on the outcome of certain battles for Vervunhive.<br /><br />One reviewer has compared Necropolis as a fictional and scifi account of the Battle of Stalingrad. I must agree with this comparison, but I must also point out that it also share some similarities with the siege of Moscow during World War Two. In fact, any battle fought in the Eastern Front could substitute for what occurs within the pages of Necropolis.<br /><br />Abnett's writing style has improved with this installment and part of this may be that he has become comfortable with the characters and their motivations. Abnett's becoming one of the premiere writers thats come out of the Black Library branch of Games Workshop. Here's to hoping he continues writing more books about Gaunt and his Ghosts.	2004-08-04
US	52266165	RDSNM6OCW5E2B	0671784102	927004757	Ghostmaker: A Gaunt's Ghosts Novel (Warhammer 40,000)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good sequel to Tanith First and Only	Dan Abnett follows up his first Gaunt's Ghosts novel --- Tanith First and Only --- with Ghostmaker and he does a good job to keep fans of the original hooked with the story. It doesn't rise above the original, but the characterization of major and secondary characters are explored abit further.<br /><br />Ghostmaker also further explains the current Crusade campaign the regiment is on. Politics become an issue as well. Jealousy from other regiments with a more storied history helps add abit of a subplot to the main story. Gaunt and his men are put through the wringer as they accept missions or put into dangerous situations that slowly dwindle their numbers. This is sad and poignant for the fact that without a homeworld to call home anymore, they have no way of replenishing their regiment like other Imperial Guard units. This also means that for every Tanith who falls in battle, more of their homeworld and people's culture disappear. It really adds meaning to the title of Ghostmaker.<br /><br />I would recommend this book to those who have read the first and still contemplating as to whether to pick up this sequel.	2004-08-03
US	52266165	R2MOOQDLQ5S43G	0971977550	66304600	30 Days Of Night	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A brutal, horrific and gore-filled vampire story: Amen!	Finally, Steve Niles has written a vampire story that goes a long way to making the vampire genre a true horror genre instead of the velvet and lace which the Anne Rice and Laurell K. Hamilton have turned them to.<br /><br />Steve Niles' 30 Days of Night has the brutal and gore-filled stylings of Clive Barker's Books of Blood short stories. This is a story that is told with a minimum of fuss. In fact, 30 Days of Night is one of the leanest horror stories I have ever read. From the first page and panel of this graphic novel to the final one, Niles' pulls no punches and takes the breaks off this horror rollercoaster.<br /><br />The plot is very simple. A group of vampires have decided to gather in Barrow, Alaska during its yearly 30 days straight of perpetual night due to the Earth's rotation. This monthly long darkness for the population of Barrow has been a part of their lives to become routine. Cell phones, radios, and other modes communication makes the eerie month easier to live through. But the gathering of undead have other plans.<br /><br />The moment the night begins and the vampires arrive the story becomes one nonstop grand guignol bloodbath that doesn't hold back or slow down to give the reader a breather. Nobody is saved from the undeads' brutal and savage assault. Its not all the time an author has allowed kids to be fair game in addition to the adults.<br /><br />Niles' really created a taut and fast-paced story that seems to be beg to be turned into a film. The good news is that Sam Raimi of Evil Dead and Spider-Man fame has optioned the graphic novel to be turned into a film. Steve Niles' himself will be writing the screenplay for this film treatment. I can't think of anyone else who can do a better job.<br /><br />30 Days of Night is a great and scary ride that gives me hope for the future of horror. Steve Niles is one writer of horror and the supernatural that is very close to taking the reins of king of horror. Make sure to read with the lights on, or better yet in the daytime.lights on, or better yet in the daytime.	2004-08-03
US	52266165	R2WTPK2DXGH2FV	193238216X	426186603	Dark Days (30 Days of Night, Book 2)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A very good sequel to 30 Days of Night	Dark Days is Steve Niles' sequel graphic novel to his critically-acclaimed 30 Days of Night. Once again, his brutal and tense prose is backed up by Ben Templesmith's unique illustrations that really helps Niles' story with its horrific and disturbing images.<br /><br />Dark Days continues the events which transpired in Barrow, Alaska except this time the story is set in Los Angeles and its sunny atmosphere. The story this time is really one of revenge and redemption. The major characters, from the good guys to the villains have revenge as the common denominator linking them throughout the lenght and breadth of the graphic novel. There's one character who straddles the line between light and dark who is the most interesting in the bunch.<br /><br />The story itself is not as powerful as 30 Days of Night. Dark Days is similar to James Cameron's Aliens --- when compared to Ridley Scott's Alien --- in that there is more action in Dark Days than its predecessor. There is still a heavy dose of horror, but it doesn't suffocate as much as 30 Days of Night's did. Dark Days even has more of a film feel to it that 30 Days and maybe thats why its horror is less, but I am not complaining too much. And yes, Dark Days would also make a fine sequel to 30 Days of Night if the original ever gets on celluloid.<br /><br />Dark Days' ending does owe alot to shock value, but it just shows that Niles' take on horror as something that shouldn't really have a nice, sunny ending. Fans of the original graphic novel won't be disappointed with this sequel. Steve Niles is a master storyteller and I hope he continues the saga he began with 30 Days of Night.	2004-08-03
US	52266165	R3FH3D1CW0WMKU	0671783750	544264686	First and Only (Warhammer 40,000 Novels)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A good old-fashioned war story w/ a scifi twist.	I have enjoyed playing the Warhammer 40,000 games from Games Workshop and even collected several hundred painted figures. When I found out that they were going to start publishing novels based on this game, I made sure to pick up copies of the books when they appear.<br /><br />One of the first I picked up is Dan Abnett's satisfying novel about an Imperial Guard Regiment and its commander: Colonel-Commissar Ibrahim Gaunt. The regiment is called Tanith First and Only for the fact that the homeworld they were recruited from was destroyed by a surprise attack on the day of their deployment. This fact gives the story and its many characters a certain humanity that most scifi action novel do not have. These are people who have lost everything they know and love. The only thing they have left is each other.<br /><br />The action in this novel is fast-paced and very brutal. Its very reminiscent of the dime novels about battles during World War 2. This story doesn't glorify war and actually shows war at its most brutal and ugliest.<br /><br />Dan Abnett has set up a good base from which to write successive sequel novels dealing with Gaunt and his Ghosts. This book really conveys the theme and idea behind the Warhammer 40k games. Fans of the games will love this book and fans of scifi books as well.	2004-08-03
US	52266165	R2YX27TBQPBAG	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Face the Fire brings the Three Island Sisters to a magical end	Face the Fire is the third and climactic installment to Nora Roberts' entertaining and fun Three Sisters Island trilogy. The first two books dealt with the first two \\"sisters\\" whose powers were tied with the elements of Air and Earth. In this third book, Mia Devlin, the third so-called sister of the title takes her power from the element of Fire. Like the element itself, Mia mirrors it in her stunning look, with her flowing fiery-red hair and even fiery demeanor. Mia is the sister, who in the previous two books, that was the glue which guided and helped Nell and Ripley with their own trials and tribulations.<br /><br />Face the Fire now has Mia becoming the center of all the magical happenings on the titular Three Sisters Island. The previous two books gradually gave its readers more and more information concerning the original Three Sisters and the prophecy/curse which befall them and which still hangs over their descendants and the island refuge their created. nell and Ripley have doen their part in trying to prevent the darkness about to descend on their island home, but its all up to Mia and her own intertwined destiny with a man who broke her heart many years past that must find a way to head off disaster and break the curse that has plagued their line through the generations. Will Mia succeed in breaking the chain of heartache which started with her ancestor? No matter what, Mia has her two \\"sisters\\" to help and assist her in her own trials.<br /><br />In the end, Face the Fire is a worthy conclusion to what has been a magical trilogy. Face the fire continues where Dance Upon the Air and Heaven and Earth left off. It was nice to have Mia becoming the center of the story. In the previous two books she's always been like the omnipresent powerful white witch who knew all. This time around we got to see her human side and know that she's as damaged as her other sisters. Ms. Roberts did a great job with this trilogy and as great as the three books has been, it was abit saddening to know that Face the Fire will be the last time we as readers will get to visit the Three Sisters Island.was abit saddening to know that Face the Fire will be the last time we as readers will get to visit the Three Sisters Island.	2002-06-03
US	52266165	R34ZNV6X8D8JKS	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	J.D. Robb has a nother great installment in Witness	Witness in Death is the tenth installment in J.D. Robb's very popular and long-running mystery-romance series, In Death. Detailing the on-going exploits, trials and tribulations of one of NYPSD's (New York Police and Security Department) best, Eve Dallas and her soul mate, the ridiculously handsome and rich Roarke. Through the first nine books in this series, Ms. Robb has shown the great ability to combine many differing literary styles to create a great story. She's mixed romance, mystery and humor to great effect. With Witness she delves into an Agatha Christie-type of plot.<br /><br />Out on a rare night together catching a show on Broadway (it helps when Roarke owns the theater and is the producer and bankroller of the production) with her husband with police work and murder cases far from her mind. Though murder is in the offing in the production. Roarke knows his wife well and chooses a Dame Christie production which would catch Eve's police mind and at the same time entertain them both. Little do they know that the murder-mystery being performed on-stage will soon become all too real. Soon, Eve takes charge of the situation and a tangled web of lies, betrayal and revenge lay themselves out at Eve's feet like one of the Agatha Christie murder-syteries she and Roarke enjoys. The mystery she and Peabody must solve as they sift through the lives of the victims, the suspects and their shared histories become more and more sordid. As they dig deeper and deeper Eve's own traumatic and abusive childhood past becomes a mirror image to one of the suspects and she must war between her sympathy toward's the individual and her sense of duty as a police officer.<br /><br />The twist in the climactic end of the story is not too surprising, but it does put Eve into a moral quandary and dilemma as she the roles of victims and suspects become blurred. Roarke remains close at-hand to give Eve all the support she needs, and if needed, a kick in the butt to keep her focused on her goal. Their relationship continues to grow as they gradually get used to the idea of them actually being a married couple. There are arguments between them but nothing a passionate and sizzling make-up session doesn't fix right after.<br /><br />Witness In Death is a great look at a traditional murder-mystery played out in a near-futuristic setting. Ms. Robb gives the story just enough of the Dame Christie's own brand of mystery which the In Death series is more than deserving to have. Witness also does a daring tactic in ending the story with no clear-cut winner or losers. Everyone involved seem to have lost a piece of themselves and like all great murder-mysteries this one losers of varying degrees. Even Eve loses even though she does solve the case.n her goal. Their relationship continues to grow as they gradually get used to the idea of them actually being a married couple. There are arguments between them but nothing a passionate and sizzling make-up session doesn't fix right after. <br /> <br />Witness In Death is a great look at a traditional murder-mystery played out in a near-futuristic setting. Ms. Robb gives the story just enough of the Dame Christie's own brand of mystery which the In Death series is more than deserving to have. Witness also does a daring tactic in ending the story with no clear-cut winner or losers. Everyone involved seem to have lost a piece of themselves and like all great murder-mysteries this one losers of varying degrees. Even Eve loses even though she does solve the case.	2002-03-27
US	52266165	R3QMK77W5M1E5I	042517140X	776192522	Loyalty in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An action-packed installment to Robb's In Death series	Loyalty in Death is the ninth book in J.D. Robb's ever-popular In Death series. This new installment in this mystery-romance headed by soul mates Eve Dallas and Roarke, increases the level of action to all the police procedural, sizzling sex and romance and humor that the previous eight books have built up to now. The murder-mystery in question doesn't just go to explain the current time the story is set in but also gives abit of info to the decades prior which became known as the \\"Urban Wars\\" era.<br /><br />Loyalty in Death gives the reader more info on how life must've been like when the entire world seemed to be sliding down into the abyss of total urban strife and conflicts. The U.S. government becomes helpless in the face of despotic domestic leaders who think they know whats best for the country and would kill to see it happen. Fast-forward to the tail end of the 2050's and one of the groups who were annihilated for being a terrorist organization has arisen and calling itself Cassandra. Eve and Roarke must decipher the seeming \\"love letters\\" left by this group for Eve which holds the clue to which building will be bombed next.<br /><br />To complicate things all the buildings targeted seem to all be owned by Roarke and his corporation. This does not sit well with Eve since it once again puts Roarke in danger and also in the middle of one of her cases. Despite their difference in how things should be solved, the two work well together in a race against time before more buildings are bombed and more innocents hurt and killed. Helping them through this are the blossoming new couple in Officer Delia Peabody and flamboyant, cocky E-Detective Ian McNabb (Ms. Robb sure likes her men of the Gaelic variety). The growing relationship (though the two seem to fight as much as have sex and sometimes the two not being mutually-exclusive). This new pairing is a great counterpoint to Eve and Roarke's own relationship. Where theirs is passionate and serious, Peabody's and McNabb's are hilarious and endearingly cute.<br /><br />In the end, Loyalty in Death is a great installment to the In Death series. It's inclusion of the past history of this alternate timeline Ms. Robb has created makes the series grow more as a true and living thing. The requisite great storytelling is still there as is the sex, romance, mystery and humor. Loyalty in Death will not disappoint fans of this series.McNabb's are hilarious and endearingly cute. <br /> <br />In the end, Loyalty in Death is a great installment to the In Death series. It's inclusion of the past history of this alternate timeline Ms. Robb has created makes the series grow more as a true and living thing. The requisite great storytelling is still there as is the sex, romance, mystery and humor. Loyalty in Death will not disappoint fans of this series.	2002-03-11
US	52266165	R24QF5K587SPCX	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dead Until Dark is a verty good start to a new gothic-romance series	Sookie Stackhouse has given up ever trying to find a man in her life. Why so? Her ability to hear the thoughts of those around her has given her a more than quick glimpse into the dirty laundry of her little town of Bon Temps, Louisiana. She's stuck in a dull, rut of an existance not just in her lovelife but also in her work and at home. A waitress at a quaint little diner, Sookie must try to make ends meet to keep the familial home her grandmother has left her. It's the only thing left in her life worth keeping and even then there's a danger that she may lose it. Just when she thinks things will never look up for her a certain stranger arrives into town that will change her life forever.<br /><br />Dead Until Dark is a very good introductory novel to Charlaine Harris' Southern Vampire Mysteries series. She's taken a similar route that Laurell Hamilton took with her Anita Blake series in that the protagonist is a woman who suddenly realizes that her preternatural powers has attracted to her a new breed of men of which exotic would be an understatement. The new man in Sookie's life is Bill, a handsome vampire passing by Bon Temps who catches not just her eye but her curiosity. Sookie cannot read or catch any thoughts from Bill and this is a breath of fresh air for her. Their mutual attraction doesn't flare up right away but grows gradually. Unlike Ms. Hamilton's predilection for interjecting way too much sex (and in the latter installments of the Anita Blake series, quite explicit), Ms. Harris doesn't go for the gold right away. There's abit of a sweet naivete in Sookie's life and her interaction with Bill. I like the sizzling sexual exploits in Ms. Hamilton's books as any fan of hers, but I found the traditional courting of Sookie by Bill to be quite endearing. The book doesn't just involve a growing look into Sookie and Bill's relationship. They also have to contend with the fact that people are gradually going missing or found murdered in her little town. Being the stranger, Bill is suspected right away. It's up to Sookie to find out the truth before whatever she and Bill might have together disappear like a puff of smoke.<br /><br />Charlain Harris has started off her new Southern Vampire Mysteries series in a very good way. She's created quite a funny, endearing and complex character in Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie's not as abrasive and calculating as Anita Blake which makes her quite a nice counterbalance for fans of Anita looking for something new. Dead Until Dark is abit too short and rushes the solving of the murder mystery abit to hastily in the end, but overall the book itself was a fun and entertaining read. I'll be waiting to see whatever adventures Ms. Harris has in store for Sookie.the stranger, Bill is suspected right away. It's up to Sookie to find out the truth before whatever she and Bill might have together disappear like a puff of smoke. <br /> <br />Charlain Harris has started off her new Southern Vampire Mysteries series in a very good way. She's created quite a funny, endearing and complex character in Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie's not as abrasive and calculating as Anita Blake which makes her quite a nice counterbalance for fans of Anita looking for something new. Dead Until Dark is abit too short and rushes the solving of the murder mystery abit to hastily in the end, but overall the book itself was a fun and entertaining read. I'll be waiting to see whatever adventures Ms. Harris has in store for Sookie.	2002-03-10
US	52266165	RZ232ZZHZZRLP	0425163717	695515166	Holiday in Death	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In Death series continues to impress with Holiday	Holiday in Death marks the seventh installment in the very popular and entertaining In Death series by J.D. Robb. Holiday had quite a previous novel to match with the excellent Vengeance in Death. Robb's Christmas-themed tale in 2058 New York City more than lives up to the standard set by its predecessor. Detectiv Lt. Eve Dallas of the NYPSD and her ungodly rich and handsome Irish husband, Roarke, spend their first Christmas holiday as husband and wife. So far, things continue to grow between the two newlywed soul mates but once again murder gets to complicate their bliss.<br /><br />The holiday season becomes darker with a series of murders which confounds Eve and her aide, Officer Peabody. Each murder scene is meticulously staged and cleaned with a calling card of sorts left behind as a tease from the killer: a partridge in a pear tree. The killer is seen by security cam dressed as Santa Claus bearing gifts for the victims in question. The methods used by the killer hits close to home for Eve as each victim were bound and made helpless as the killer violates them bringing past childhood memories Eve would rather not remember. Holiday in Death moves at a feverish pace as Eve and Peabody must figure out who the killer has targeted next. In the end, Eve must race against time to capture and stop this holiday killer before one of her close friends becomes the next victim.<br /><br />Holiday in Death is a wonderful and entertaining tale which just continues to make Robb's In Death series the top mystery-romance series in tha market. The interaction between Eve and Roarke continues to sizzle, especially with everyone being in a holiday mood and for the very first time Eve's Christmas holiday has true meaning for her as she shares it with Roarke and the growing circle of friends she seems to have gained. I can't wait for the next book in the series.	2002-03-10
US	52266165	R2FI5VYHEH9RFB	0425168131	14193917	Conspiracy in Death	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Conspiracy in Death is a great eight installment in Robb's In Death series	Conspiracy in Death is the eight installment in J.D. Robb's very popular and entertaining mystery-romance In Death series. The adventures of Detective Lt. Eve Dallas of the NYPSD and her ridiculously rich and handsome, Irish billionaire husband Roarke continues to grow and this time the latest murder case to come across Eve's desk threatens not just Eve's life but also Eve's spirit and will.<br /><br />The story starts off with winter still at its height and the body of a vagrant found with his heart missing. Even with just a cursory look at the murder, Eve realizes that the wounds and technique used to remove said heart would take surgical skills that the usual low-level criminal would not have. This gives her the necessary clue to follow which would lead her to the highest levels of the medical community. To complicate matters is the badgering and incomprehensible attitude and harrassment of a beat cop first at the scene who seem to have held a grudge against Eve's successes both as an officer of the law and in her personal life.<br /><br />All these factors make Eve's job that much harder and things really threaten her will and spirit when those culpable of the murders manipulate things behind the scenes and make her a suspect in another murder. This new situation threatens to give her reputation as a police officer a black mark and that is something Eve cannot deal with. With the help of Roarke, Peabody, Feeney, McNabb and Mavis (even Summerset helps in his own particular way), Eve soon finds a way to work through all the distractions and gets back to pursuing those whose god-complexes made them think they're above the law.<br /><br />Consipracy in Death is a great addition to the In Death series. It showed Eve at her lowest and most vulnerable. For once her tough exterior is softened with situations out of her control and she must accept help from Roarke and those close to her when in the past she would never do such a thing. This story made Eve more human instead of just the superwoman, kickass cop she seem to be most of the time. A great eight book in the series and I can't wait for the next.an instead of just the superwoman, kickass cop she seem to be most of the time. A great eight book in the series and I can't wait for the next.	2002-03-10
US	52266165	R3CTUANTOJVUGQ	0425157628	737300478	Ceremony in Death	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Eve and Roarke take a trip into the darkside in Ceremony	Ceremony in Death is the fifth installment in J.D. Robb's very popular mystery-romance series, In Death. Though still full of the sex, romance, and police procedural mystery of the previous four books, Ceremony in Death lacks some of the humor present in those books. In this fifth book things for Eve, Roarke and their friends take on a darker note as Eve's latest case seem to involve the occult and the supernatural. Level-headed as she always has been about her work, the story for Ceremony came off slightly off as the theme of the occult behind the killings in her latest case doesn't come off as well as the previous books.<br /><br />The story overall still manages to be very entertaining as Eve and, her aide, Peabody must traverse the more preternatural side of NYC. Red herrings abound in this story and even though the reader already has an idea of who the killer or killers are it still nice to see that Eve is not the all-knowing and all-powerful detective with superhuman gut instincts. She's run around and led by the nose to looking at the wrong suspects even though part of her has lingering doubts of their culpability. In the end, she saves the day and even gets a wonderful saving-the-damsel-in-distress moment from Roarke.	2002-03-04
US	52266165	R2104S3OPW9CHL	0425160394	737300478	Vengeance in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In Death series returns with a vengeance	Vengeance in Death is the sixth and, so far, best book in the In Death series by J.D. Robb. The In Death series stars Detective Lt. Eve Dallas of the NYPSD and her roguishly handsome and ridiculously rich billionaire husband and soul mate Roarke.<br /><br />The events of the previous book in the series, Ceremony in Death, is still fresh on the minds of Eve and Roarke and those around them. Eve has insisted that her mentor, Capt. Feeney take his family to one of Roarke's many island paradise estates and unwind. Though things are quiet at first, they don't stay that way for long as killings once again fall into Eve's lap. These killings seem to have a ritualistic, or at least a purpose to them and soon she finds out why they're being committed. Once again her husband, Roarke, becomes involved in this new case whether she likes it or not.<br /><br />The killings are people from Roarke's past and who meant something to him in one way or another. I thought this installment was the best so far due to the handling of how to bring up info about Roarke's mysterious past without it being said through long-winded dialogue. Robb just took said past history added a healthy dose of Summerset's own recollections and then mixed it all into the current murder case Eve was investigating and you got yourself one great story. The fact that Roarke's childhood was as screwed up as Eve's though without the incestuous rape and pimping shows that he and Eve have alot more in common.<br /><br />Vengeance in Death just continues to make J.D. Robb's In Death series a must read for fance of fun escapism with a balanced diet of romance, mystery, and humor. It was also great to know abit more of Roarke's and Summerset's past. I'm looking forward to the next book.	2002-03-04
US	52266165	R3ATJQCJPOSVTJ	0425155188	939449265	Rapture in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rapture in Death is a strong and great installment in the In Death series	Rapture in Death is the fourth installment in the great mystery-romance series written by J.D. Robb (pen name for best-selling author Nora Roberts). This newest book in the In Death series find Detective Lt. Eve Dallas in a situation new to scary, wonderful and wholly new to her: marriage. With the first three books exploring and telling the tale of Eve and Roarke's intense courtship (both its ups and downs), engagement and, at the end of the previous book, their wonderfully staged wedding.<br /><br />In Rapture we're shown Eve and Roarke on their honeymoon off-planet in Roarke's unfinished, but soon to be 5-star and top-of-the-line, space resort. One would think that even in space Eve would have a semblance of peace for her honeymoon. But this is Eve Dallas who seem to attract murder and its aftermath like moths to her flame. With their honeymoon cut short by what seems like a suicide of one of the employees of the resort, Eve and Roarke return to their palatial mansion in the outskirts of NYC, but not long after their arrival back on-planet another suicide, this time of a preeminent defense attorney, brings Eve into a mystery that includes abit more future science than the first three books in the series.<br /><br />Officer Delia Peabody has now joined Eve's cast of characters permanently as her aide in her investigation and her sober and even-keeled personality is a great counterweight to Eve's own sarcastic, sometimes cynical view of the world and people, in general. The addition of Peabody adds a new element of a sisterly theme to Eve's everchanging new life with Roarke. Despite her caustic and sarcastic comments directed at her aide, Eve shows that she cares for the young officer and hopes to groom her to become a detective herself.<br /><br />The mystery of the suicides, soon labeled as murders by some unknown means, once again complicates the relationship between Eve and Roarke. With mind-control becoming a clue to whats causing the deaths, both Even and Roarke must fight their way through disagreements and behaviors that may or may not be of their own choosing. They both open up to each other in Rapture and its a good complement to the constant sex these two seem to be having in addition to their many disagreements and fights. It seems that even through a case needing to be solved their honeymoon really wasn't over by a long shot.<br /><br />Rapture in Death has a much more futuristic flavor to it but not too much that it overwhelms the balance of mystery, romance and humor that the series is becomign known for with the previous three novels in the series. A great fourth installment and one that cements this series as a must-read.and Roarke must fight their way through disagreements and behaviors that may or may not be of their own choosing. They both open up to each other in Rapture and its a good complement to the constant sex these two seem to be having in addition to their many disagreements and fights. It seems that even through a case needing to be solved their honeymoon really wasn't over by a long shot. <br /> <br />Rapture in Death has a much more futuristic flavor to it but not too much that it overwhelms the balance of mystery, romance and humor that the series is becomign known for with the previous three novels in the series. A great fourth installment and one that cements this series as a must-read.	2002-02-19
US	52266165	R262VT0Z2PBXDT	0425153789	101996312	Immortal in Death (In Death, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Immortal continues to make In Death a great series	Immortal in Death marks the third entry in J.D. Robb's excellent mystery-romance series. This In Death entry brings back sexy and tough Detective Lt. Eve Dallas of the NYPSD and her fiance, the ridiculously wealthy and handsome, Irish billionaire Roarke (he had popped the question to Eve in the final moments of the previous book). This third book in the series continues to build on the great stories already told with the previous two books. With marriage plans now part of Eve and Roarke's daily life things become even more complicated and hectic. Though Eve seems to be the one whose confused about the whole thing since she's still surprised Roarke wants to marry her despite their vast differences. Roarke on the other seems to keep his cool no matter how exasperating Eve's temper and behavior gets.<br /><br />To balance out the romance and humor of their marriage plans, Eve and Roarke once again become embroiled in a murder which hits very close to home for Eve. The prime suspect for the murder of a prominent supermodel is none other than Eve's own best friend, Mavis Freestone. It takes all of Eve's efforts, and with reluctance on her part, and Roarke's finances to keep Mavis from becoming the scapegoat in a case that soon becomes much bigger than just a typical murder. Immortal does a great job in exploring an aspect of Eve's life that doesn't involve Roarke and her violent childhood past. The friendship between Eve and Mavis gets tested by the case, but its their mutual trust in each other which keeps both of them together through the crisis.<br /><br />Immortal In Death is another great book in whats turning out to be an excellent series. Again Ms. Robb does a great job of balancing out the many parts of the book which keeps it from just becoming just another mystery or just another romance novel. Police procedural is balanced by the passionate romance between Eve and Roarke which is kept together tightly by the humor and friendship between Even and her supporting players.ting players.	2002-02-18
US	52266165	R37XNG9ZFT79O3	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magical continuation of the Three Sisters Island trilogy	Heaven and Earth marks the middle installment in Nora Roberts' Three Sisters Island trilogy. The first book in the series, Dance Upon the Air, started off the trilogy on a magical note with Ms. Roberts deftly combining romance, abit of the supernatural, and a nice thriller into an exciting tale of intertwined destinies and pasts, strong female characters, and passionate romance.<br /><br />Heaven and Earth starts with the wedding and honeymoon of Nell Channing and Zack Todd (island town's sheriff). This helps cement Nell's full acceptance into the island town's fabric. Her trials and tribulations which led her to Three Sisters Island and the test she had to pass to finally begin her life anew seem less of a coincidence and more fate and predestiny. Nell is very open to such a possibility and helps explain to her just why she felt so at home upon her arrival on the island. She thinks its the magic in her past and blood that she now has learned she has. Her new sister-in-law and fellow \\"sister witch\\" Ripley Todd thinks its all crapola and would rather not dwell on such things. Ripley Todd knows of the island's magical history and her own role in it, but her fear and stubborn reluctance to accept her magical heritage makes up the meat of Heaven and Earth.<br /><br />Ripley's attitude towards the magic that permeates the island and the two other women supposedly tied to her, Nell Channing and Mia Devlin (the resident island witch and seemingly its most desired woman on the island), run from tolerance to outright restrained hostility. Ripley's willing to tolerate her new sister-in-law's acceptance of her magical heritage. Mia Devlin on the other hand she avoids and ridicules in equal amount. Mia takes it all in stride but at the same time drops comments in an attempt to remind Ripley of her past and future. Ripley doesn't like this at all and does all she can to avoid the fire-haired Mia. But soon a new factor drops into her life which would lead to her finally confronting her fear of her heritage and her role in what could be the survival of Three Sisters Island.<br /><br />This factor comes in the guise of Dr. MacAllister Brooke. Mac, as he likes to be called, is a professor whose main call in life is the hunt of the so-called supernatural. His travels and research leads him to the island. He plans on researching the island and determining as to the veracity of the island's supernatural past and origins. For some reason he and Ripley are set on a course to deal with each other. Mac sees Ripley as a challenge and an attraction forms. Ripley on the other hand sees Mac's research and choice of profession as being something close to being worthless, but as they continue to stay in close proximity she too cannot deny the growing attraction between them.<br /><br />As the story moves along, Ripley and Mac must contend not just with each other's prickly and stubborn natures, but an outside force that wants nothing more than to destroy the peaceful lives of the original Three Sisters' descendants and the idyllic island home they and the other townspeople call home. Ripley will have to decide in the end whether to accept that which she has feared for so long, or close herself off from it forever and thus dooming her and everyone close to her. In the end, Ripley will not be alone in her own confrontation with the darkness looming over the Three Sisters Island, Mac, Nell, Mia, Zack and many others will be there to help and support her.<br /><br />All in all, Heaven and Earth is a great continuation of the epic tale began with Dance Upon the Air. Ripley and Mac's relationship is a source of both humor and heat. It's amusing to see polar opposites, yet with so much in common personality-wise, fight tooth and nail not to give in to what is definitely two halves of the same coin finally finding each other. I can't wait for the third and climactic book in this magical trilogy.onting her fear of her heritage and her role in what could be the survival of Three Sisters Island.  <br /> <br />This factor comes in the guise of Dr. MacAllister Brooke. Mac, as he likes to be called, is a professor whose main call in life is the hunt of the so-called supernatural. His travels and research leads him to the island. He plans on researching the island and determining as to the veracity of the island's supernatural past and origins. For some reason he and Ripley are set on a course to deal with each other. Mac sees Ripley as a challenge and an attraction forms. Ripley on the other hand sees Mac's research and choice of profession as being something close to being worthless, but as they continue to stay in close proximity she too cannot deny the growing attraction between them. <br /> <br />As the story moves along, Ripley and Mac must contend not just with each other's prickly and stubborn natures, but an outside force that wants nothing more than to destroy the peaceful lives of the original Three Sisters' descendants and the idyllic island home they and the other townspeople call home. Ripley will have to decide in the end whether to accept that which she has feared for so long, or close herself off from it forever and thus dooming her and everyone close to her. In the end, Ripley will not be alone in her own confrontation with the darkness looming over the Three Sisters Island, Mac, Nell, Mia, Zack and many others will be there to help and support her. <br /> <br />All in all, Heaven and Earth is a great continuation of the epic tale began with Dance Upon the Air. Ripley and Mac's relationship is a source of both humor and heat. It's amusing to see polar opposites, yet with so much in common personality-wise, fight tooth and nail not to give in to what is definitely two halves of the same coin finally finding each other. I can't wait for the third and climactic book in this magical trilogy.	2002-02-18
US	52266165	R2VHLE7L0TPXIM	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A magical beginning to Roberts' newest trilogy	Dance Upon the Air was a surprise find for me as a reader. My initial introduction to Nora Roberts' writing was through a mystery-romance series of hers written by her under the pseudonym, J.D. Robb. Her In Death series had just the right balance of mystery, police procedural, humor and romance to make this male not feel all weird reading was really was a romance novel. On the prodding of a friend who is a voracious reader of all things Nora Roberts, I picked up Dance Upon the Air. From the moment I began to read the exciting introduction of the Three Sisters Island being born, I was hooked line and sinker on this book.<br /><br />The Three Sisters Island is a small and quaint little island community off the coast of Massachusetts whose origins, legend has it, was due to a powerful spell weaved by three sister witches. Their spell ripped a portion of the Massachusetts coastline from the earth and floated off to just off the coast to form a sort of haven for their descendants. A haven from the puritanical witchhunts which have taken the lives of both real witches and those falsely accused as one. It's through the later generations and their descendants that the story for this trilogy is played out through.<br /><br />Dance Upon the Air deals with one of the descendants of the Three Sisters. The books tale concentrates on the trials and tribulations of one Nell Channing whose a direct descendant of the Sister whose powers were of the element of Air. A delicate woman whose life has been a living hell due to a very abusive and powerfully connected husband, Nell finally escapes her abusive relationship through guile and trickery, but as the story progresses its not long before the husband she left behind finds out the truth about his wife's apparent \\"death\\". Nell makes it to Three Sisters Island and upon setting foot on its soil feels as if she's returned home. Whether by fate or providence, Nell soon meets two other women on the island whose destinies have been preordained to entwine with hers.<br /><br />Dance Upon the Air sounds abit like the Julia Roberts thriller Sleeping with the Enemy. The similarities are pretty close, but Roberts' tale of magic, fate and self-reliance is the better of the two. Nell's experiences as she learns to live and love again on Three Sisters Island has a sense of hope and self reawakening which the Julia Roberts film lacked. This book shares abit of the thriller of the film, but doesn't rely on it to weave a beautiful tale. Instead, Dance Upon the Air reads more like the journey of a damaged woman whose realization that the place she has now decided to call home and those friends and lovers she's met will be the anchor in finally realizing the life she's always thought she should have lived.<br /><br />The book ends with Nell's initial life-journey ending in a powerful note as the powers of her ancestor is reborn in her once more. But it also starts her off on a new journey that will help determine on whether her two other \\"sisters\\" will succeed or fail in their own journeys. Nora Roberts has found herself a new fan in her more romance-centric novels and I await the arrival of the next two books in this magical trilogy.rdained to entwine with hers. <br /> <br />Dance Upon the Air sounds abit like the Julia Roberts thriller Sleeping with the Enemy. The similarities are pretty close, but Roberts' tale of magic, fate and self-reliance is the better of the two. Nell's experiences as she learns to live and love again on Three Sisters Island has a sense of hope and self reawakening which the Julia Roberts film lacked. This book shares abit of the thriller of the film, but doesn't rely on it to weave a beautiful tale. Instead, Dance Upon the Air reads more like the journey of a damaged woman whose realization that the place she has now decided to call home and those friends and lovers she's met will be the anchor in finally realizing the life she's always thought she should have lived. <br /> <br />The book ends with Nell's initial life-journey ending in a powerful note as the powers of her ancestor is reborn in her once more. But it also starts her off on a new journey that will help determine on whether her two other \\"sisters\\" will succeed or fail in their own journeys. Nora Roberts has found herself a new fan in her more romance-centric novels and I await the arrival of the next two books in this magical trilogy.	2002-02-03
US	52266165	R2144IRZ5DULZF	0425150984	203707661	Glory in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great follow-up to Naked	Glory in Death is the second novel in J.D. Robb's In Death series. All the major characters have already had their detailed introduction in the first book in the series, Naked in Death. Eve Dallas once again stars as the tough and sexy police detective of the NYPSD. Dallas is once more thrust into trying to solve the case of the brutal murder of one of New York City's prosecuting attorneys. Before she can get herself settled into solving this murder another brutal killing lands on her capable hands. This time around it's the murder of a young and beautiful TV actress. The method used in both murders are similar in nature. There's also a factor that ties both dead women to each other. Both share a common past history with Dallas' lover, the ridiculously wealthy and roguish billionaire, Roarke. To say that this clue to the murders has made her relationship with Roarke complicated would be an understatement.<br /><br />As Dallas tries to keep her professionalism separate from her personal involvement with the only suspect she has, deep in her gut she knows that there is someone else involved and that Roarke has become a suspect by coincidence. The mystery side of the novel was handled well. Ms. Robb drops in hints and clues just enough to keep the mystery at arm's lenght without making it so simple to solve. The romance side of things between Dallas and Roarke really keeps the story from becoming just your run-of-the-mill detective tale. Both characters' personalities were drawn well. Their mutual stubbornness leading either one and sometimes both from making decisions and saying things they regret later on. It's not definite that their relationship will survive the case between them, but the chemistry and heat between the two should make it more than obvious even to the jaded reader.<br /><br />Glory in Death is a great follow-up to Naked in Death. The murder mystery is balanced well by the steamy and hot romance side of the story. The characters of Eve Dallas and Roarke continue to grow as is their relationship. Though both acknowledge that their backgrounds may be of different sides of the law, they both know that they're meant for each other.Roarke continue to grow as is their relationship. Though both acknowledge that their backgrounds may be of different sides of the law, they both know that they're meant for each other.	2002-01-13
US	52266165	R1XCYCFN66WGEC	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Matheson's I Am Legend still one of the vampire tales ever	In 1954, Richard Matheson published a novel that would influence so many future generations of science-fiction and horror writers and film directors. Matheson's body of work prior to 1954 could be summed up as good but nothing too exciting. His work thus far overlapped such pulp genres as horror, science-fiction and fantasy. This style would be the hallmark of his brand of story-telling. This style could truly be seen in his epic and greatest work to date: I Am Legend.<br /><br />I Am Legend takes the vampire tale and brings it out of the shadows and darkness, so to speak. Set in the late 1970's, I Am Legend begins its tale with humanity pretty much on the quick path to extinction due to a pandemic where the bactirium or virus involved causes symptoms very similar to what folklore calls vampirism. The protagonist of this tale is one Robert Neville. An unassuming man living in a Los Angeles suburban neighborhood who may just be the only living human being, or at least the only un-infected one, on the face of the planet. Neville's been reduced to a day-to-day routine of defending his fortified home from the vampire-like infected humans who've tried attacking him and his home once night falls. This routine has become so ingrained in Neville that it starts him on a downward spiral to utter despair. He knows that he may just be the only human left and the prospect of such an idea almost becomes too much for his psyche.<br /><br />His attempts to solve the mystery of why he's the only one not affected by the disease becomes his way of keeping himself sane. Neville's work in trying to find the answer leads him to take chances in keeping a vampire survivor alive and bound instead of just killing it outright. His experiments ranges from disproving the myths surrounding the vampire creature and ackowledging the scientific and/or psychological explanations to certain behavioral traits of these nocturnal creatures. Neville's studies on captured vampires tell him why certain things like garlic and sunlight causes such an extreme reaction on these creatures. Why do they have a certain invulnerability towards bullets but not a stake through the heart. He even surmises that the vampires aversion to crucifix is more psychological than anything supernatural. Neville arrives at this after observing a vampire's reaction to a Star of David is similar to the reaction of another one towards the crucifix.<br /><br />It's events such as these which puts I Am Legend in a category all by itself. It still uses themes of horror which the vampires fulfill to great effect, but it also does a great job of taking the vampire tale out of the supernatural realm and into the scientific and logical. Neville's attempts to keep himself sane, as his loneliness begin to weigh on his psyche and health, through these studies and experiments adds a level of the science-fiction to this tale. It's the combination of these two genres which makes I Am Legend such an epic tale in scope yet it's not that which gives the tale its heaviest impact. It's Neville himself, more to the point, his desperate situation of being the last man on earth weighing on his mind. This tone gives this apocalyptic vampire tale such an intimate feel that the reader hopes and wishes for some sort of peaceful end to Neville, better yet some hope that he might find clues that he might not be the last.<br /><br />As the story moves forward, the line between who is human, who is monster and who is the true survivor become blurred as Neville's forays into the city for supplies lead him to a community of others who have not succumbed to the monstrous effect of the pandemic. It's this discovery that gives Neville a semblance of hope which momentarily lifts the heavy weight of inevitability from his mind. But not everything is at it seems at first glance. Neville finds this out as his encounters with this thriving community continue to give him more and more insight as to how they've survived. The climactic end to this tale has become such a classic ending that any other resolution wouldn't have worked. The end worked as the best possible ending to Matheson's tale. It also gives the books title a deeper and more profound meaning to it.<br /><br />I Am Legend will continue to go down in literary history as one of the best examples of fantastic literature. It's seemless blending of horror, science-fiction and the apocalyptic gives the tale both an epic and intimate feel and tone. It's not wonder the very themes and premise of this story has influenced such horror writers and filmmakers as Stephen King (The Stand, Salem's Lot) and George A. Romero (Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Day of the Dead). I Am Legend takes the vampire tale out of the shadows and darkness it usually in habits and brings it out to the light of science and logic with surprising results. A true classic piece of writing from Richard Matheson and one that still stands as the benchmark for apocalyptic tales.climactic end to this tale has become such a classic ending that any other resolution wouldn't have worked. The end worked as the best possible ending to Matheson's tale. It also gives the books title a deeper and more profound meaning to it. <br /> <br />I Am Legend will continue to go down in literary history as one of the best examples of fantastic literature. It's seemless blending of horror, science-fiction and the apocalyptic gives the tale both an epic and intimate feel and tone. It's not wonder the very themes and premise of this story has influenced such horror writers and filmmakers as Stephen King (The Stand, Salem's Lot) and George A. Romero (Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Day of the Dead). I Am Legend takes the vampire tale out of the shadows and darkness it usually in habits and brings it out to the light of science and logic with surprising results. A true classic piece of writing from Richard Matheson and one that still stands as the benchmark for apocalyptic tales.	2000-09-29
