US	52262682	R156K5ETWPPQK	082611332X	491225748	Geriatric Nursing Research Digest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Geriatric Nursing Research Digest by Fitzpatrick, J. J., Fulmer, T., Wallace M., & Flaherty, E. (Eds.)	One hundred four authors have contributed to this book. It has five divisions each containing many chapters: I. Health Promotion and Risk Reduction, II. Normalcy Throughout the Life Span, III. Issues in Environments of Care, IV. Geriatric Emotional Health, V. Pathological Conditions of Aging, and VI. Cognitive and Neurobehavioral Issues in Aging. Each entry presents relevant research up to about 2000. Entries have a title, note the author and identify related topics. This is a good book for learning of the research related to geriatric nursing up to 2000.  <br />	2005-10-03
US	52262682	R2PVE1YULE94FL	080361053X	53303617	Caring for Older Adults Holistically	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Caring for Older Adults Holistically  3rd ed. by Anderson, Mary Ann (Ed.)	<br />This book has been written by 17 contributing authors from several states. It contains 16 chapters: 1. the aging experience, 2. promoting wellness, 3. the management role of the licensed practical/vocational nurse, 4. use of the nursing process and nursing diagnosis in the care of the older adult, 5. legal and ethical considerations regarding the elderly, 6. end-of-life issues, 7. environments of care, 8. common infectious diseases, 9. common medical diagnoses, 10. physiological assessment, 11. common physiological clinical problems, 12. psychological assessment, 13. common psychological clinical problems, 14. restorative care, 15. pharmacology and its significance for older adults, and 16. laboratory values and the older adult. Chapters start with learning objectives and an introduction and end with conclusions, a case study and study questions. Chapters may contain pictures, boxes, figures, tables, and points of interest. Unit resources, appendix A Introduction to Your Pennsylvania Advance Directive, answers to chapter study questions, and an index are at the end of the book. This book has been written for licensed practical/vocational nurses who care for older adults.  <br />	2005-09-27
US	52262682	R2CJVM3T9C8KDY	0957987641	608348529	Aged Care Nursing (Guide to Practice)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Aged Care Nursing: A Guide to Practice by Susan Carmody and Sue Foster (Eds.)	<br />This book has two editors and 23 authors with a variety of experiences from various countries. The book has 22 chapters: 1. aged care nursing, 2. nursing assessments, 3. skin and oral hygiene, 4. pressure ulcers and leg ulcers, 5. foot care, 6. nutrition, 7. enteral feeding, 8. incontinence, 9. falls, 10. manual handling and mobility, 11. wandering, 12. dysfunctional behaviour, 13. pain management, 14. palliative care, 15. care plans, 16. delirium and dementia, 17. medications, 18. complementary therapies, 19. cultural differences, 20. occupational health and safety, 21. elder abuse, and 22. communicating in frustrating situations. The book is written generically for clinicians by clinicians from a number of countries so it will have international applicability. Chapters start with introductions, have figures, tables, evidence based information, case studies, and end with a conclusion. Gray boxes contain much useful information. References for the chapters and an index are at the back of the book. This book is useful for nurses and nursing students working with the elderly.    <br />	2005-09-27
US	52262682	R2PZECPX9TZ79O	0323019900	358313593	Gerontologic Palliative Care Nursing, 1e	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Gerontologic Pallative Care Nursing by Marianne Laporte Matzo and Deborah Witt Sherman (Eds.)	<br />Both of these doctorally prepared nurse educators are fellows in the American Academy of Nursing and are involved with palliative care. There are an additional 37 contributing authors. The book has three parts and 25 chapters: Part one, Promoting Quality of Life During The Dying Process contains nine chapters: 1. Cultural and Spiritual Backgrounds of Older Adults, 2. Death and an Aging Society, 3. Community Based Pallative Care for Older Adults, 4. Pallation and End of Life Care Across Health Care Settings, 5. Ethical and Legal Aspects of Dying and Health Care Resources Allocation, 6. Communication issues in Advance Care Planning, 7. Advance Directives: Older Adults with Dementia, 8. Family Caregivers of Dying Elders: Burdens and Opportunities, and 9. Suffering, Loss, and Bereavement. Part two, Disease-Related Pallative Care Nursing has seven chapters: 10. End-Stage Heart Disease, 11. Cancer, !2. Stroke, Coma, and Brain Death, 13. Dementia and Neurodegenerative Illness, 14. End-Stage Renal Disease and Discontinuation of Dialysis, 15. Chronic Lung Disease, and 15. End-Stage Liver Disease. Part three, Symptom Management and Related Issues has nine chapters: 17. Dyspnia, 18 Anxiety, Depression, and Delirium, 19. Gastrointestinal Symptoms, 20. Fatigue, 21, Pain Assessment and Management, 22. Skin Care Needs of Pallative Care Patients, 23. Nutrition and Hydration, 24. Polypharmacy, and 25 Peri-Death Nursing Care.  <br /> Most chapters start with a case study some of which contain questions for reflection and introduction, present content, and end with case study conclusions, conclusions and references most of which are from the 1990s to 2003. Chapters are clarified with boxes, figures, and tables and most have a box for evidence-based practice containing the research reference, research problem, design, sample and setting, methods, results, implications for nursing practice and conclusion.  Theories such as theoretical stages and tasks of grief are presented (p. 155). Assessment tools such as physical fitness, feelings, daily activities, social activities, social support, change in health, overall health, and quality of life are included (pp. 174-175.) Peri-death Hindu, Buddhist, Islamic, Muslim, Jewish, Mormon, Cuban-American, Native American, Appalacian, Homong, Japanese, Mexican-American, and Black-American traditions are presented. This 560 page book ends with an index.  <br /> The book contains 15 measurable AACN competencies required for quality care of the dying. It presents a trajectory of caring that follows the physical and mental decline of people with specific chronic diseases. Holistic interventions are emphasized. This is a particularly important book to help faculty incorporate end of life content into curricula, for students to learn what they will need to know to work with an aging population, and for any nurse working with people at the end of their life.  <br />	2005-09-21
US	52262682	R2E35KITXRZMOW	0826114091	652690509	Critical Care Nursing of the Elderly	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Critical Care Nursing of the Elderly 2nd ed by Fulmer, Foreman, and Walker (Eds.)	<br /> The editors are professors of nursing from different universities. The foreword  was written by the series editor and the preface that includes a discussion of the evolution of gerontological nursing and it as a specialty was written by Dr. Fulmer. There are 37 contributing authors. The book has four parts and 23 chapters including: Chapter 1, Standards of Practice: Gerontological and Critical Care Nursing; Part I: Basic Issues with Elderly Populations-2. Common Geriatric Problems, 3. Becoming Frail: Failure to Thrive, 4. Delirium, 5. Comorbidity: Assessment and Impact, 6. Pain, 7. Nutrition, and 8. Injury Prevention in the Elderly. Part II: Nursing Assessment and Management-9. The Clinical Approach, 10. Pharmacological Therapy, 11. Patient Education, 12. Evaluating Outcomes, 13. Discharge Planning: Design and Implementation, and 14. Family Resources to Critical Care. Part III: Specialized Practice in Critical Care Settings-15. Trauma Care, 16. Medical Intensive Care, and 17. The Coronary Care Unit. Part IV: Social and Policy Issues-18. Ethical Decision Making, 19. End-of- Life Care, 20. Spiritual and Religious Care, 21. Ethnogeriatric Issues in Critical Care, 22. Legal Issues, and 23. Policy Issues.  The chapters end with summaries and references most of which are from the 1990s, but some date back to the 1960s. There are tables throughout the book that list such information as the Braden Scale, the confussion assessment method, cumulative illness rating scale, weighted index of comorbidity, complications, risk factors, screening questions, resources, examples, drug classes, selected instruments, predisposing factors, common medications and side effects. The book ends with an index. The stress of hospitalization can contribute to medication side effects, infection, incontinence, delirium and falls. This book can help critical care nurses provide excellent geriatric critical care by restoring physiological stability and by preventing functional decline.    <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-19
US	52262682	RLZGB5PNEPSPR	0766859924	92216989	Delmar's Geriatric Nursing Care Plans	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Delmar's Geriatric Nursing Care Plans (3rd ed.) by Sheree Comer.	<br /> <br />This book includes care plans by body systems for disorders common among the elderly population. Care begins with a comprehensive review and assessment followed by data analysis, and development of a specific plan of care. The discussion of each condition starts with the medical care such as laboratory work, tests, and medications, the nursing diagnosis as approved by the North American Diagnosis Association (NANDA) taxonomy 2003-2004, related etiology, defining characteristics, goals and outcome criteria/ Nursing Outcome Classification (NOC), interventions with rationales, Nursing Intervention Classification (NIC), and evaluation of the patient's goals and consideration for the next action.  <br />This book has a preface, 11  units, bibliography,  four appendix-NANDA Nursing Diagnosis, Nursing Outcomes Classifications (NOC), Nursing Interventions Classifications (NIC), and abbreviations--, an index, and a place for notes. The units include: 1. Cardiovascular system (coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, and pacemakers), 2. Respiratory System (chronic obstructive pulmonary diseased, influenza, pneumonia, tuberculosis), 3. Neurologic System (Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular accident, depression, Parkinson's disease, sleep disorders and transient ischemic attach), 4. Gastrointestinal/Hepatic Systems (bowel disorders, cholecystitis, diveticular disease, gastroesophageal reflux, gastrointestinal bleeding, hemorrhoids, hepatitis, liver failure, and malnutrition, 5. Genitourinary System (interstitial cystitis, menopause, benign prostatic hypertrophy, sexual disorders, urinary tract infections, and chronic renal failure), 6. Ophthalmologic System (cataracts, glaucoma, and macular degeneration), 7 Hemotolotic System (anemia), 8. Endocrine System ( diabetes mellitus and thyroid dysfunction), 9. Musculoskeletal System (arthritis, fractures, osteoporosis, total joint replacement), 10. Integumentary System (hypothermia, hyperthermia, and decutitus ulcer), 11. Other Considerations (cancer/malignancies, drug poisoning/overdoses, elder abuse and long-term care). There is a conceptual map at the end of each chapter. A CD for an electronic care plan maker is included in the back of the book, but I could not use mine because the file I was trying to copy was older than the Windows XP I was using.  <br />The preface indicates that aging is a process of gradual changes with inevitable decline in later years but that healthy aging involves minimal disease impairment, may avoid catastrophic disease and maintain an active healthy lifestyle until death. It is important that compassionate and sensitive care be provided to the aging whether that care is administered at home, retirement community, outpatient clinic, long-term care facility, alternative care facility, or hospital. This comprehensive reference book is excellent for providers working with the elderly, students and faculty in any location. It tells what to do but not how to do it. It needs to be used in conjunction with other books.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-09
US	52262682	R3PK3HIYXR7Q3J	1591021898	350814609	The Encyclopedia of Elder Care	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Encyclopedia of Elder Care by Mezey and others (eds.)	<br />This encyclopedia has one editor-in-chief, seven associate editors, one managing editor, and 23 advisory board members with a variety of experiences. The preface presents the conceptual framework of four major concepts and 14 subtopics. They are: 1. Society: The social and policy issues important in caring for elders-gerontological health care providers, financing coverage and costs of health care for elders, and organizations in aging; 2. Community: The structural supports and circumstances necessary to care for elderly-special characteristics of various care locations, provider and institutional interactions across the health care continuum; 3. Caregiving and Family: Issues important for family and professional caregivers-caregiver issues, and technology support for elders and caregivers; 4. Patient: Issues specific to diagnosis, treatment, and disease management-clinical assessment, prevention, symptom management, geriatric syndromes and major diseases of the elderly, disease management, issues in providing health care for specific racial/ethnic elder populations, and pharmacology and appropriate prescribing.  That is followed by a four page list of contributors. Then there is an alphabetical listing of topics that generally include the subject title, also see topics, internet key words, and internet resources. The topics have varying levels of comprehensiveness. Many are very informative and comprehensive. Pages 691-748 are references; 749-780 are the subject index, and 781-783 are the contributor index. This encyclopedia contains information about issues significant for health care providers caring for older people. It is an excellent reference book.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-07
US	52262682	R34MW6EZ7HZ2BC	080361165X	872080939	Gerontological Nursing: Promoting Successful Aging with Older Adults	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Gerontological Nursing: Promoting Successful Aging with Older Adults 3rd ed by Stanley, Blair and Beare (Eds.)	This book is edited by nursing professors from Southern Illinois University, University of Nothern Colorado, and Louisiana State University Medical Center respectively. There are four contributors to the third edition in addition to the 44 from previous editions. There are six sections and 35 chapters. Section 1 Introduction to Health Promotion and Protection in the Care of Older Adults contains the following chapters: 1 Promoting Health through Public Policy and Standards of Care, 2. Theories of Aging, 3. Mental Health Wellness, 4. Cultural Dimensions, 5. Legal Issues Affecting Older Adults, 6. Ethical Issues, 7. Health Teaching and Compliance, 8. Pharmacology and Older Adults, and 9. Settings of Care. Section 2 Health Protection from a Body Systems Approach contains chapters about 10. Normal Aging and Physical Assessment and the following aging systems 11. sensory,  12 integumentary, 13. musculoskeletal, 14. neurological, 15. cardiovascular, 16. pulmonary, 17. endocrine, 18. genitourinary, and 19. gastrointestinal and nutrition. Section 3 Multisystem Alterations contains five chapters: 20. Immobility and Activity Intolerance in older Adults, 21. Assessment and Prevention of Falls, 22. Pain Management in older Adults, 23. Cancer in Older Adults, 24. HIV in Older Adults. Section 4 Individual and Family Psychodynamics includes: 25 Developmental Tasks and Development in Later Years of Life, 26. Family Dynamics, 27. Elder Mistreatment, 28. Depression, Alcoholism, and Suicide, 29. Spirituality in Older Adults, 30. Sexuality in Older Adults, and 31. End-of-Life and Pallative Care. Section 5 Alterations in Mental Processing contains: 32. Sleep Disturbances, 33. Acute Confusion, and 34 Demential in Older Adults. Section 6 is the Epilogue, 35. The Future of Gerontological Nursing. The book ends with an index. <br />Each chapter starts with objectives and ends with student learning activities and references that may cover several decades. Many chapters contain cases, research briefs, and summaries. Chapters includes boxes about standards, risk factors, questions for system histories, screening tools, nursing interventions, techniques, teaching guides, resources, etc. Tables include attitudes of African-Americans, Appalacians, Chinese-Americans, Korean-Americans, Mexican-Americans, Native-Americans, Vietnamise-Americans; age related changes in systems, pathophysiology, assessments, nursing care plans including expected outcomes and nursing actions, etc. Some chapters also have figures. This 8  by 11 inch 387 page book is packed with valuable information for working with older adults.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-05
US	52262682	R1K9U6EZX03UBQ	032303165X	342000895	Gerontological Nursing and Healthy Aging, 2e	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Gerontological Nursing & Healthy Aging  (2nd ed.) by Ebersole, Hess, Touhy, and Jett	The original work of Priscilla Ebersole and Patricia Hess in the first edition of this book has been expanded by Theris Touhy and Kathleen Jett in this second edition. All are professors of nursing. The book has five sections and 27 chapters including: Chapter 1 Introduction to Healthy Aging, Section 1:  (2) Gerontological Nursing History, Education, and Roles, (3) Communications with Elders, (4) Culture and  Aging, (5) Developing the Life History, (6) Communication Through Documentation; Section II Changes of Aging (7) Physical Changes of Aging, (8) Psychological, Cognitive, and Social Aspects of Aging, (9) Sensory Changes of Aging, (10) Nutrition and Aging, (11) Fluids and Continence, (12) Rest, Sleep, and Activity, (13) Promoting Healthy  Skin and Feet, (14) Assessment Tools in Gerontological Nursing, (15) Medication Use and Management; Section III Coping with Chronic Disorders: (!6) Living with Chronic Illness, (17) Pain and Comfort, (18) Diabetes Mellitus in Late Life, (19) Bone and Joint Problems in the Elderly, (20) Coping with Cardiac and Respiratory Disorders, (21) Cognitive Impairment and Other Persons, (22) Maintaining Mobility and Environmental Safety; Section IV Caring for Elders and Their Caregivers; (23) Older Adults and Their Families, (24) Financing Health Care for Older Adults, (25) Emotional Health in Late Life; Section V: Life Space Options for Elders.  <br />The front cover of the book identifies the location of assessment tools and guidelines, management protocols, professional issues in care of the aged, and normal aging changes and healthy aging. Chapters start with learning objectives, glossary, the lived experience, have the content, and then end with key concepts, activities and discussion questions, resources such as books and publications, websites, films, videos, games, kits,  and organizations and  end with references most of which are from the 1990s until 2004. Chapters are clarified with boxes, tables, and figures. Some also includeappendix such as 7-A Physiological Changes and Functional Effects with Age: Implications and Interventions. It contains theories of aging. <br />This book emphasizes gerontological nursing with an emphasis on health rather than disease. It has a particularly good discussion of the development of gerontological nursing as a specialty including ANA Scope and Standards of Gerontological Nursing Practice, related organizations, and staff development. It addresses culture and ethnicity and the importance of reminiscing to develop life histories.  Many chapters are related to changes of aging and coping with chronic disorders. Caregivers and continuity in care are also addressed.  <br />Instructor's resource manual with chapter summaries, suggested classroom and clinical activities, review and critical thinking activities, and exam test bank are available. This excellent book about health, wellness, and aging is valuable for faculty, students, and practicing nurses.  <br />  <br />	2005-08-27
US	52262682	R1AKY18I9ADH3U	082611895X	88631278	Conducting Research in Long-Term Care Settings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Conducting Research in Long-Term Care Settings by Brenda Lewis Cleary	This 119 page book was written by Brenda Lewis Cleary, who is a doctorally prepared gerontological-nurse specialist who has practiced in both primary and long-term care settings. The book has seven chapters. 1. Long-Term Care in the United States-a well referenced, descriptive chapter about characteristics of U. S. nursing homes, organizational climate and culture, regulatory environment, characteristics of residents, staffing and quality of care in nursing homes and long-term care. 2. The State of the Science in Long-Term Care Research-identifies research studies in thematic areas of research priorities for decreased mobility, falls and restraint, incontinence, cognitive impairment, dehydration, weight loss, infectious diseases, and identifies model programs.  3. Issues of Research Design in Long-Term Care Research-includes information about federally mandated rights for recipients in long-term care, decision making, informed consent, surrogate decision making, protection of vulnerable subjects, and advanced directives. 4. Issues of Research Design in Long-Term Care-reviews design and methodology, sampling, data collection, and future issues in long-term care research. 5. Gaining Access for Research-presents strategies for gaining access such as meeting with the system representatives and administrators, working with staff, and involving residents and family members. 6. Implementing long-Term Care Research-delineates roles of the researcher and staff, strategies for screening and enrolling subjects, preventing attrition, access to medical records, and recognition of people who help with the research. 7. Dissemination of Findings-identifies sources for disseminating findings and suggestions for manuscript submission. There are an extensive reference list and index at the end of the book. This is a good book for teaching about long-term care for advanced practioners.  <br />	2005-08-26
US	52262682	R1MGLC043FT3ZO	0826118143	610427309	Diversity in Health Care Research: Strategies for Multisite, Multidisciplinary, and Multicultural Projects	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Diversity in Health Care Research: Strategies for Multisite, Multidisciplinary, and Multicultural Projects by Joellen W. Hawkins	Both Joellen W. Hawkins and Lois A. Haggerty are nursing professors who have done multisite, multidisciplinary research projects. The book has two parts and eleven chapters written by 27 contributors. Part 1: Strategies for Implementation includes 1. Managing Multisite, Multidisciplinary, and Multiethnic Research Projects, 2. Obtaining Funding, 3. Facilitating Passage Through the Institutional Maze, 4. Utilizing Research Assistants, 5. Special Considerations for Multisite Research, 6. Managing the Multisite Team, and 7. International Multisite Studies. Part 2 contains four chapters about lessons learned from specific research projects from a birth weight study, interventions with family caretakers for cancer patients, women's health initiative, and early head start research. The critical role of management is stressed. The chapter about obtaining funds gives an overview of the most common ways to find and secure research funds, provides many websites for public and private funding and grant-writing resources, and lists grant writing tips. Challenges related to multisite and interdisciplinary research  such as communications, diversity, finding stable sites, getting multiple review board approvals, access to participants, costs, funding, time, staff turnover, increased need for planning, standardizing procedures, differences among sites, waiting for funding, maintaining staff interest, staff training, leadership, keeping on schedule, and integrity of data are addressed.  Numerous references are listed at the end of each chapter. The book ends with an epilogue by the editors and an index. This is a good read for anyone contemplating multisite and or multidisciplinary research.    <br />	2005-08-25
US	52262682	R1HYEHEX506OOQ	0826120253	477655182	Community- Based Health Research: Issues and Methods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Community-Based Health Research by Daniel S. Blumenthal and Ralph J. DiClemente (Eds).	<br />Both of the editors and sixteen additional contributing authors have a variety of experiences. The 218 page book has two parts and ten chapters. Part 1, Issues, contains four chapters. Chapter 1 is Community-Based Research: An Introduction. It identifies that community-based research as scientific inquiry that involves human subjects, takes place in the community, has a prevention focus, is population-centered, involves a partnership with the community, takes a multidisciplinary approach while the participants who may have little motivation regarding the study continue their usual activities. It provides some history of public health, new paradigms, levels of community participation, community organizing, principles for working with communities and of community-based research, and cultural competence. Chapter 2, Assessing and Applying Community- Based Research, focuses of preventive services, specifically vaccinations. Chapter 3, Public Health Ethics and Community-Based Research is about African-American subjects and the Tuskegee Syphilis Study. Chapter 4, The View From the Community, addresses the Hispanic and Asian cultures and community assets such as churches, traditional networks, opinion leaders, community health workers, and community organizations. The fact that health professionals need to become more nontraditional in their approaches to communities and cultures where they are considered outsiders is noted.  <br /> <br />Part 2 is about methods including surveys and descriptive studies. Analytical-observation studies include cross-sectional, case-control, and cohort. Experimental studies that allow randomized manipulation include clinical trials, community intervention trials, laboratory experiments, and evaluation studies. Cross sectional studies and related nonprobability and probability sampling (including simple random, systematic selection, stratified, cluster, and multistage) are discussed. Behavioral risk factors, qualitative methods including interviewing, focus groups, observations, case studies, document reviews and the related data analysis are discussed. The book is concluded with research related to AIDS prevention and cardiovascular risk-prevention. There are tables, figures, boxes, or appendix in some chapters. Chapters usually end with a summary, discussion, or conclusion and references. The book is indexed. This is a good book for teachers, students, and community members involved in community-based health research.       <br />	2005-07-21
US	52262682	RHZEF7L7QTI92	0826126642	890224380	Educating Nurses for Leadership	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Educating Nurses for Leadership by Harriet R. Feldman and Martha J. Greenberg (Eds). (2005). New York, NY: Springer.	<br /> <br />This book is based on the evidence based practice identified in a national survey to determine consensus on the most important leadership attributes for a leadership education model for teaching nursing leadership. A descriptive survey was sent to 124 nurse educator members of The Council of Graduate Education for Administration in Nursing, 1,371 administrator members of the American Organization of Nurse Executives, and 247 students in RN to BSN and graduate programs in nursing.  The 31 item survey had three parts: 1. nine leadership principle and development items, 2. nine basic leadership knowledge and skill items, and 3. 13 advanced leadership knowledge and skill items. Items were categorized into one of six modules 1. leader as communicator (6 items), 2. leader as visionary (7 items). 3. leader as achiever (3 items), 4. leader as critical thinker (6 items), 5. leader as expert (5 items), and leader as mentor (5 items). The items were rated on a four-point Likert Scale. The leader as critical thinker and achiever had higher agreement than leader as visionary, mentor, or expert. The ten most important constructs with the lowest means were critical thinking, systematic problem-solving, advanced critical thinking skills, complex problem solving, two-way communications, capacity development, ethics, team building, multifaceted communication skills, and influencing others.  <br /> <br />This book contains 29 chapters written by about 35 contributing authors. Several chapters have multiple authors and several authors contributed to more than one chapter. The book has three parts. Part one is A Model for Educating Future Leaders with nine chapters: 1. A Leadership Education model and chapter about the leader as 2. visionary, 3. expert, 4. achiever, 5. critical thinker, 6. communicator, and 7. mentor. The second part, Educating with an Academic Focus, has 12 chapters about using nursing history, reflective journaling, group process, online clinical scenarios, team building through quilting, using art, literature, music and films, teaching in community settings and for the common good. Integrating leadership into the undergraduate curriculum and using Parse's Theory to educate for leadership are also discussed. Part 3, Leadership Education in the Clinical Setting, has 10 chapters about using shift coordinators, shadowing a leader, and practice-oriented leadership education. It includes teaching values, developing evidence-based practice skills, practicing delegation, and developing a change project. Succession planning, a capstone leadership course, and growing leaders in developing nations are also discussed. Chapters end with references. A few chapters have figures or tables. A couple of chapters provide websites. The book ends with an annotated bibliography and index. This is a good book for nursing faculty developing nursing curriculum and involved in teaching nursing leadership to study.  <br />	2005-07-18
US	52262682	R1V55FWM58W2F6	0763729124	36144208	The Quantum Leader: Applications for the New World of Work	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Quantum Leader: Applications for the New World of Work by Kathy Malloch and Tim Porter-O-Grady.	<br />Both authors are doctorally prepared consultants who are Fellows in the American Academy of Nursing. This 81/2 by 11 inch book has 200 pages. Typically two-thirds of the page is narrative and 1/3 has side bars including tables, figures, gems, scenarios, discussions, and questions.  Bullets and numbers are frequently used in tables. The book has ten chapters: 1. Making sense of Transformation, 2. Leading in the New Age, 3. Quantum Leadership: Effective Conflict, 4. The Vulnerable Leader, 4. Creating a Culture of Safety, 6. The Fully Engaged Leader, 7. Turning Toxic Behaviors into Transformational Actions, 8. The Leader as Mentor and Coach, 9. Leading with Courage, and 10. Leadership and Care of the Self. Chapters begin with chapter objectives and an introduction. They usually end with conclusions or summaries, references, and suggested readings. Some chapters have scenarios, exercises, and/or appendix. The book is indexed.  <br /> <br />In chapter 1, the authors teach that management was historically about power but is now about change (p. 3). People do not want to change what they enjoy; so the leader must manage tension between satisfaction and dissatisfaction (p.9). Chapter 2 indicates that relationships now need a new level of honesty about what is or is not going to happen (p. 22). Staff ownership is critical and cannot be sustained if the leader makes the decisions independently (p. 25). The authors promote that the leader is to have no business friends throughout the book. It is a lonely position. In chapter 3, they suggest that \\"the best way to avoid conflict is to create a culture where conflict is accepted as part of the way of interacting with each other\\" (p. 39). An eight step process for conflict resolution with numerous sub steps is outlined on pages 59-60. In chapter 4, they stress the vulnerability of the leader in a culture of uncertainty and the need for mindfulness, stretching, and risk taking. They indicate that capacity can be increased through diversity. Chapter 5 promotes error as an essential element for improvement, presents three theories of error (foolishness, normal accidents, and high reliability) and their application, addresses root cause, and identifies principles to guide leaders for transforming to a culture of safety. Appendix 1 on page 93 identifies transforming leader behaviors as know yourself, plan for error, balance standardization, continually assure staff competence, and documentation accompanied with errors to avoid. Chapter 6 discusses the relationship of engagement to organizational outcomes, emotional aspects of leadership, processes of engagement including skill building, self-assessment, valuing others and sustaining engagement. The authors quote Paul P. Parker as saying, \\"You can work with people more successfully by enlisting their feelings than by convincing their reason\\" (p. 98) and encourage Manfred F. R. Kets de Vries concept of the Teddy Bear Factor, an emotional intelligence that helps people feel comfortable with you (p. 99). They list Goleman's 25 emotional intelligence competencies on page 100 and encourage soliciting opinions of team members, listening until others have finished talking, and dealing with disappointment (p.99). They stress authentic self, valuing others, sustaining engagement, and hiring for engagement. Interview guidelines and a summary sheet for leadership roles are in the appendix. Chapter 7 contains information about differentiating healthy and toxic behaviors, decreasing toxic behaviors, and importance of story telling. Chapter 8 is about the need to coach and mentor, elements of coaching, components of coaching and mentoring, and value of both for deep change. Having the right questions and creating a safe place are important. 20th-century and 21st-centruy leadership behaviors are listed. Chapter 9 examines the value of courageous leadership, strategies to develop courageous communication skills, and leadership behaviors that reflect courage. Chapter 10 encourages self care to increase ability to manage the leadership role through chaos, change, and challenging team dynamics. This is an excellent book for learning how to be a quantum leader whether one is a student of leadership or already a leader.  <br />	2005-07-11
US	52262682	R2PAS2U5BJH77R	0826125255	735485653	Management and Leadership in Nursing and Health Care: An Experiential Approach, 2nd Edition (Leadership and Management in Nursing)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Management and Leadership in Nursing and Health Care: An Experiential Approach 2nd Ed. by Elaine La Monica Rigolosi	Dr. Rigolosi holds several degrees in nursing, education, and law. She has teaching, administration, publication, and consultation experience. The book has three parts: 1. Understanding Management and Leadership: The Science and The Philosophy (management process, theories of management and leadership), 2. How Managers Work: The Core (knowing self, diagnosing others, leader behavior, diagnosing the tasks, management in action), 3. Managerial Skills: The \\"How To\\" satellites (communication process, power, confident communications, conflict resolution, time management), and 4. Managerial Roles: The \\"Action\\" Satellites (change facilitator, teacher, team builder, interviewer, and performance appraiser). There are tables, figures, and case studies throughout the book. Chapters end with a summary and references. There are a total of 29 exercises at the end of the sections. The book contains traditional information about leadership and management. Dr. Rigolosi has collected exercises from numerous sources over a few decades. They are a unique part of the textbook. Purposes, facility, materials, time required, group size design, and variations are presented. Worksheets are often provided. There are an epilogue and author and subject indexes at the end of the book. This is a good book for an experiential approach to management and leadership in nursing and health care.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-30
US	52262682	R9I24K40AX7LE	0763732435	106399513	Principles of Health Care Management: Compliance Consumerism and Accountability in the 21st Century	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Principles of Health Care Management: Compliance, Consumerism, and Accountability in the 21st Century by S. B. Goldsmith	<br />Goldsmith draws on his many years of experience as the CEO of a health care company for personal leadership and management examples. His long career in academia and legal background are reflected in the statistical information, heavy footnoting, and extensive use of case laws. He discusses such issues as corporate compliance, consumerism, government regulation, and accountable management more than most management books. The book has 17 chapters about the U. S. Health System and health care industry including specific information about setting objectives, board of directors, structure and staffing, financial management, legal imperatives, and strategic planning. He does discuss the traditional theories of motivation and a fairly extensive discussion of Machiavelli. Many chapters end with a case study and discussion questions. An instructors manual and online tools are also available. This book is excellent for students in health administration programs and health care executives. It also makes a good companion to a leadership and management book that discusses the related theories in more traditional detail for health related disciplines.  <br />	2005-06-27
US	52262682	R2EPNQ6FPXPLUT	0763747025	205251385	Critical Thinking TACTICS for Nurses	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Critical Thinking Tactics for Nurses	Critical Thinking Tactics for Nurses has twelve chapters: 1. Frequently Asked Questions about Critical Thinking in Nursing; 2. What is Critical Thinking? 3. Who Are the Critical Thinkers? 4. Why is Critical Thinking so Important? 5. The How, When, and Where of Critical Thinking for Clinicians and Educators; 6. Critical Thinking and Patient-Centered Care; 7. Critical Thinking and Interdisciplinary Teams;  8. Critical Thinking and Evidence-Based Practice; 9. Critical Thinking and Informatics; 10. Critical Thinking and Quality Improvement; 11 Thinking Realities of Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow; and 12 Assessing Critical Thinking. There is a table of frequently asked questions about critical thinking in nursing with identification of the chapters where that content is discussed (pp.3-8) and one comparing multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary, and interprofessional teams (pp. 119-120). There are numerous boxes throughout the book on such topics thinking strategies (p. 14), critical thinking skills and habits of the mind (pp. 16-17; words to describe critical thinking (pp. 23-26); Gardner's Multiple Intelligences ( p. 37); thinking-promoting teaching style checklist (p. 47); Institute of Medicine core competencies (p. 77); critical thinking promoting and squelching comments and behaviors (p. 82); teaching techniques to promote processing and internalization of knowledge (pp. 87-88); validation remarks to promote patient participation in decisions (p. 108); and Institute of Medicine five criteria for achieving quality (p. 205). Sometimes tactics are listed or scenarios are presented. Chapter end with a pause and ponder section, reflection cues, and references. Appendix A is a critical thinking inventory and appendix B is an index of tactics. The book ends with an index. The authors synthesize the seventeen components of critical thinking with the Institute of Medicine's five competencies of patient-centered care, interdisciplinary team work, evidence-based practice, informatics, and quality improvement. Content from this book can be incorporated into numerous courses or be used in a course specifically about critical thinking.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-20
US	52262682	R3EZZCM4LC0XEW	0781752043	243605802	The Legal, Professional and Ethical Dimensions of Higher Education	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Legal, Professional, and Ethical Dimensions of higher Ed	This is an excellent book for any college teacher to read. It was written by Mable H. Smith, RN, JD, PhD and a couple of other qualified contributors. It has three parts: 1 The Legal Framework of Higher Education Environments, 2 The Professional Framework Governing the Educator's Role, and 3 Ethical Framework of Higher Education. Part one has four chapters: 1 The Legal Rights of Students, 2 The Legal Rights of Faculty, 3 Faculty Protection Against Lawsuits, and 4 Faculty and the Employment Relationship. Part two has four chapters including faculty relations in academic environments and the teaching, scholarship, and service/practice roles of faculty. Part 3 has the ninth chapter, Ethical Considerations in Education Environments.  <br /> <br />Each chapter starts with an outline of the content, introduction, case study and critical thinking questions followed by the content and then ends with professional dimension, ethical dimension, implication for educators, strategies to avoid legal problems, responses to the critical thinking questions, annotated bibliography, and notes. Case law is referenced throughout the book. There is a glossary and an index. Appendix A is How to Read a Legal Case. Appendix B is How to Research Legal Topics.  <br /> <br />While the book was intended to be used as a textbook for graduate students studying education, it is an excellent resource for faculty. It has some examples of nursing situations, but is still appropriate for any faculty member or education student. I highly recommend this book for information about legal, professional and ethical issues related to higher education.  <br />	2005-06-13
US	52262682	RLBM8B3881FJE	0793191866	905165502	Lessons from the Hive: The Buzz on Surviving and Thriving in an Ever-Changing Workplace	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lessons from the Hive	Charles Decker is vice president of an electronic publishing company, does work with business publishing initiatives, and has coauthored Beans: Four Principles for Running a Business in Good Times or Bad.  Lessons from the Hive is about a fictionalized organization that is reinventing itself and was created to teach positive ways of viewing changes in an organization, how to deal with fears of the unknown, the importance of trust, and how to deal with conflicting interpersonal relationships. It is of the business-fable genre that uses a week-in the-life approach for five players in an organization including a recently installed CEO, a newly hired employee, and a seasoned director of marketing with personal struggles at home and at work. The junior change agent uses mantras many people call clichs such as Happiness is a choice; Inspire yourself, others will follow; Vanity is not a team sport; Enthusiasm will take you 90 percent of the way; and Change your thinking, change your life. This book can be used in classrooms and in businesses. Many people learn better by stories and examples than by other methods. This is a brief but powerful message. There are questions at the back of the book to assist reflection about each chapter.	2005-06-06
US	52262682	R11FIT689PMGCH	0781747708	152923363	Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Nursing	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Nursing	<br />Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Nursing by Sarah B. Keating (ed.) (2006) has seven sections and 15 chapters as a practical guide for developing curricula at the ADN, BSN, entry level masters, specialty and advanced practice masters, and doctoral programs. Section one is introduction to the history of curriculum development and faculty role.  Section two is about learning theories, education taxonomies, and critical thinking. Section three presents the external and internal frame factors for conducting a needs assessment for reviewing and developing curricula. Section four, curriculum development, addresses undergraduate and graduate components of the curriculum. Section five, curriculum and program evaluation, covers master planning for program and curriculum evaluation, application of educational evaluation models, and planning for accreditation. Section six adapts curriculum development and evaluation to staff development and client-centered health education. Section seven reveals issues and trends in curriculum development and evaluation. The chapters are written by 12 contributing authors. Keating writes \\"A curriculum is the formal plan of study that provides the philosophical underpinning, goals, and guidelines for the delivery of a specific educational program.\\" Faculty is responsible and need a view of the curriculum as a whole. History is a strength of the book. Authors address the transformative and constructivist learning theories, the use of technology to deliver the curriculum, distance education and the measurement of program outcomes as part of total quality management. Both formal and informal curricula are diagramed. Chapters have a summary, discussion questions, learning activities, faculty learning activities and references. Figures, tables, case studies, and examples of documents facilitate understanding. This introduction to curriculum development and evaluation is intended for graduate students preparing for the faculty role, newteachers, preceptors and mentors for students, and nurse educators in practice settings.  <br />	2005-03-03
US	52262682	R3TTGMPWGXQ23S	0131780948	797163554	Effective Leadership and Management in Nursing (6th Edition) (EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP & MANAGEMENT IN NURSING (SULL)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Effective Leadership and Management (6th ed)	Effective Leadership and Management (6th ed) by Eleanor J. Sullivan and Phillip J. Decker <br /> <br />     This book has three parts and twenty-four chapters including Part 1: Introduction to nursing management and organizations, Part 2 Key skills in nursing management, and Part 3 Managing human resources. Part 1 includes introduction to nursing management, how organizations are designed, how nursing care is delivered, leading and managing leaders and managers, understanding legal and ethical issues, and understanding power and politics. Part 2 discusses thinking critically, making decisions, solving problems, communicating effectively, handling conflict, delegating successfully, building and managing teams, managing and improving quality, using health care technology systems, managing stress and time, initiating and managing change. Part three is about handling staffing and scheduling, recruiting and selecting staff, evaluating staff and performance, coaching, disciplining, and terminating staff, reducing turnover retaining staff, managing absenteeism and other staff problems, and handling collective-bargaining issues. <br />     Each chapter begins with an outline of the chapter content, objectives and media link. Key terms are defined in boxes throughout the book. There are figures, tables, and other boxes to highlight and clarify important content. Each chapter ends with What you know now that are key points from the chapter, Questions to challenge you, Explore media link, and References.  <br />     Media link is an asset. There are some video overviews, objectives, NCLEX review questions, critical thinking activities, current events, chapter outlines, nursing leadership and management, media link, key terms, profiles and syllabus manager. This interactive approach should help the readers remember content. This book is good for undergraduate nursing students and practicing nurses.   <br />  <br />	2005-01-31
US	52262682	R2FXMKNMPMK5BP	0316090077	167264475	Aging Well: Surprising Guideposts to a Happier Life from the Landmark Harvard Study of Adult Development	Books	5	43	50	N	N	Vaillant, George E. (2002). Aging well. Boston, Little, Brow	<br />George E. Vaillant is well qualified to write this book. He is a psychiatrist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, a professor at Harvard Medical School, director of the Harvard Study of Adult Development, and a respected researcher. Harvard Medical School professors have been studying the basic elements of adult human development for more than five decades. Three separate cohorts of 824 individuals were selected as teenagers for different facts of mental and physical health and studied for the rest of their lives to observe the adult life cycle and to provide a theoretical framework for  understanding how older people become fulfilled or not. <br /> <br />Harvard men were studied. In 1940, men who went to Harvard were rich, privileged, white, born to American born grandparents, and expected to equal or exceed their natural ability.  <br /> <br />In 1939, Sheldon Glueck obtained funding to do a prospective study of 500 youth sent to reform school and 500 matched school boys who had not been in any legal trouble   <br />at age 14. His wife restudied the groups at ages 17, 25, and 32. The control nondeliquent group had the same social risk factors that helped doom the delinquents-had repeated two grades or more in school, had foreign born parents, lived in blighted neighborhoods, and were from families known to five or more social agencies and more than two-thirds were on welfare. Valinti inherited the study when the subjects were 40, and subjects continued to have physical examinations every five years. At age 60, all but 2 of the 456 subjects were known to be dead or alive. <br /> <br /> For the Terman Women Sample, Terman tried to identify most of the brightest children in his three city area. He asked teachers to indentify the brightest in each class. He learned that the unattractive and shy children tended to be overlooked so that he only captured about 80 percent of the bright children. He used the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Test to identify 1 percent of the California urban school children with IOs greater than 135 to 140 most of whom were born between 1908 and 1914. Four generations of investigators have followed the Terman men and women by questionnaires about every five years and by personal interviews in 1940 and 1950. The Terman women were not asked to provide regular physical exams. However, when compared to classmates, they had better nutrition, more humor, common sense, perseverance, leadership and popularity among their classmates. By age 80, they had half the mortality of white American women in their birth cohort.  <br /> <br />In comparison, at age sixty-eight to seventy, the inner city men had the same physical decline as the Terman and Harvard cohorts at seventy-eight to eighty. The difference was attributed to less education, more obesity, and greater alcohol and cigarette abuse among the inner city cohort.  <br />  <br />These cohorts seemed to demonstrate that it is social aptitude or emotional intelligence rather than brilliance or parental social class that leads to a well-adapted old age. Vaillant concluded that individual life style choices contribute a greater role than genetics, wealth, race, or other factors in determining how happy people are in late life. He found that \\" It is not the bad things that happen to us that doom us; it is the good people who happen to us at any age that facilitate enjoyable old age. Healing relationships are facilitated by a capacity for gratitude, for forgiveness.... A good marriage at age 50 predicted positive aging at 80. But surprisingly, low cholesterol levels at age 50 did not. Alcohol abuse -unrelated to unhappy childhood-consistently predicted unsuccessful aging, in part because alcoholism damaged future social supports. Learning to play and create after retirement and learning to gain younger friends as we lose older ones add more to life's enjoyment than retirement income. Objective good physical health was less important to successful aging than subjective good health.... It is all right to be ill as long as you do not feel sick\\" p. 13.  <br /> <br />This research report can help us understand that we can do little to changer our genetic make-up, but we can change our habits so we avoid alcohol and smoking, eat a healthy diet, exercise to maintain a healthy weight, develop loving relationships, and continue to learn. These are important lessons for all of us wanting to age well, but it takes a sophisticated reader, knowledgable about research and willing to wade through research findings to read this research report. The book has 12 chapters, 11 appendices, notes, acknowledgments, and an index.  <br />	2004-12-31
US	52262682	R1OJJEWOA2SK2R	0834202875	531012501	Management Principles for Health Professionals	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Management Principles for Health Professionals	The forth edition of Management Principles for Health Professionals has three parts and 15 chapters. Part one has two chapters about the health professional's modern arena. Part two has five chapters about management functions-planning, decision making, organizing, staffing, directing and controlling. Part three has eight chapters about practical considerations for keeping the department running smoothly-budgeting; committees and teams; adaptation, innovation, and conflict management; training and development; authority, leadership, and supervision; human resource management; communication; and day-to-day management. Each chapter starts with chapter objectives and ends with exercises, notes, and appendix. There are exhibits throughout the book including but not limited to: mission, vision, values statement, philosophy, objectives, procedure, strategic plan, scheduling by shifts, guidelines for use of contractual services, job descriptions, process for written request for release of information, control tools, annual budget plan, worksheets for budgeting, calculating FTE, worksheet for comparison of storage options, follow up of committee actions, monitoring and evaluation of standards, quality assurance report, program evaluation, written warning and grievance procedure. Tables, figures, and cases are used throughout to help clarify concepts. The book ends with a index. This book is useful for nursing student, practicing nurse managers and other health professionals.	2004-05-02
US	52262682	R1TI9UIISUSFUU	140183454X	484789057	Case Applications in Nursing Leadership and Management	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Case Applications in Nursing Leadership and Management	This book compliments other books about nursing leadership and management. It has seven units. Unit one introduces the American health care environment and basic health care economics. Unit two: A New Health Care Model has five chapters about evidence-based health care, nursing and health care informatics, population-based health care practice, personal and interdisciplinary communication and politics and consumer partnerships. Unit three: Planning Care contains six chapters about leadership and management, strategic planning and organizing patient care, effective team building, budget concepts for patient care, effective staffing and delegation of nursing care. Unit four: Managing Care: discusses first-line patient care management, patient teaching, change and conflict resolution, power and time management. Unit 5: Evaluation is about managing outcomes and decision making. Unit six: Other Professional Considerations has four chapters including legal aspects of patient care, ethical dimensions of patient care, cultural diversity and spirituality, and collective bargaining. The final unit: Preparation for Entry-Level Nursing Practice has one chapter about career planning. Chapters introduce the concept often with bulleted points, present case scenarios, case considerations, case analysis, key points, and list references and suggested readings. There are some figures and tables to help visualize the content. It has an index. These real life scenarios and analysis use communication and critical thinking throughout and are good supplemental material for use with other textbooks for teaching leadership and management.	2004-04-23
US	52262682	RMSHWLZPGXQR6	0826114148	216442474	Strategies for Nursing Leadership	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Strategies for Nursing Leadership	Strategies for Nursing Leadership by Harriet R. Feldman (Ed.)<br />Strategies for Nursing Leadership is an anthology edited by Harriet R. Feldman, a nurse noted for her leadership. There are 37 reputable contributors. Some contributed to more than one chapter. There are 29 chapters some of which have multiple authors. The chapters are divided into four parts: 1. Getting Started, 2. Developing Leadership Skills, 3. Enhancing Patient and Employee Satisfaction, and 4. Coping with Changing Institutions. The chapters were originally published in Nursing Leadership Forum. Sixteen were published in 1995 and 1996 (eight each year). Thirteen were published in 1998 (6), 1999 (3), and 2000 (4). The book was then copyrighted in 2001.  Part 1, Getting Started, addresses leadership by writing, legendary leadership, storytelling, preparing the nurse executive for the future, and reflections on achieving professional leadership. Part 2, Developing Leadership Skills, discusses giving speeches, succession planning, ethical leadership, maintaining balance, philanthropy, research, and fundraising. Part 3, Enhancing Patient and Employee Satisfaction, contains chapters about reflections on empowerment, impact of organizational climate on nurse satisfaction, focus group interviews to improve patient satisfaction, shared governance, use of computers, funding, nominating a colleagues for awards, and cost control by reducing operating expenses. Part 4, Coping with Changing Institutions, discusses expert nurse executives, responsible redesign, reengineering, and restructure, vulnerability of the nurse administrator, displaced nurses, overseeing closing an institution, mergers, and ends with consensus and community in American health care. The content was extremely relevant for the 1990s and continues to be useful in the 2000s.  The book is well organized, well written, and contains valuable information for nurse administrators. It also preserves some history of nursing and health care.	2004-01-05
US	52262682	R1AFZPM1B990MY	0826112781	629205006	Clinical Teaching Strategies in Nursing (Springer Series on the Teaching of Nursing)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Clinical Teaching Strategies in Nursing	Clinical Teaching Strategies in Nursing by Kathleen B. Gaberson and Marilyn H. Oermann<BR>This book was developed to examine concepts of clinical teaching but is helpful for teaching in general. The first three chapters are about a philosophy and outcomes of clinical teaching and preparing for clinical learning activities. The next three chapters are about models and processes of clinical teaching and the ethical and legal issues in clinical teaching. The last nine chapters are about teaching strategies including learning assignments, self-directed learning activities, learning laboratories, simulations, games, case method, case study, grand rounds, conferences, discussions, written assignments, use of preceptors, and clinical teaching in diverse settings. Discussions of multimedia, computer-assisted instruction, critical thinking, journals, concept maps, portfolios, contracts, global and population based settings. The authors believe that there are essential and enriched curricula. This is a scholarly and practical book that is well written and well organized. Chapters have section headings, tables, bulleted content, summaries, and list of references. My students have indicated that this book was especially helpful to them.	2003-01-21
US	52262682	R31MXC6XUFAELP	0763703109	71396140	Nurse as Educator: Principles of Teaching and Learning (Jones and Bartlett Series in Nursing)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Nurse as Educator: Principles of teaching and learning for n	Nurse as Educator: Principles of teaching and learning for nursing practice 2nd ed. by Susan B. Bastable<BR>Fifteen chapters are divided into three parts: 1. perspectives on teaching and learning, 2. characteristics of the learner, and 3. techniques and strategies for teaching and learning. The book deals with theory and application. The second edition has an increased emphasis on the teacher as facilitator, shift from teaching the ill to promotion of health and prevention of disease. A chapter about technology has been added. Each chapter starts with chapter highlights, key terms, and objectives and ends with a summary, review questions, and references. Major divisions in chapters and tables are colored. Bullets and numbers facilitate reading. There is a glossary at the back of the book. This is a scholarly 571 page book An Instructor's Manual that contains multiple choice and essay questions, learning activities, and instructional materials including PowerPoint slides for each chapter is available with this edition. This book is appropriate for students and registered nurses who do patient teaching and faculty.	2003-01-18
US	52262682	RXG3ON38PPOWF	083421668X	801956800	Fuszard's Innovative Teaching Strategies in Nursing	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Fuszard's Innovative Teaching Strategies in Nursing 3rd ed.	Fuszard's Innovative Teaching Strategies in Nursing 3rd ed. by Arlene J. Lowenstein and Martha J. Bradshaw (Ed.)<BR>This book is intended as a reference book for teachers and is appropriate for any teacher. The book has seven parts: 1. introduction (effective learning, innovation, critical thinking, creativity, and humor), 2. teaching in structured settings (lecture, problem-based learning, reflective practice, and sensitive subjects), 3. simulation and imagination (role-play, simulation, expressive techniques, debate, and the tree of impact), 4. technology assisted strategies (distance education, electronic communications, and web-based instruction), 5. remote faculty (co-consultant, preceptor, and mentor), 6. clinical teaching (philosophical approaches, refocusing the nursing skills laboratory, low literacy, community based experience, nursing process mapping, and issues in clinical teaching), 7 evaluation (computer-based testing, clinical pathway, and evaluation of learning outcomes). The chapters have section headings, tables, figures, exhibits, examples, resources, conclusions, notes, and suggested readings. This is a valuable teaching resource.	2003-01-14
US	52262682	RYRJ76YCXS0YE	0130452165	357905594	Teaching Strategies for Nurse Educators	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Teaching strategies for nurse educators by Sandra DeYoung	Teaching strategies for nurse educators by Sandra DeYoung<BR>The book was designed to provide a theory base to help nurses teach patients, staff, or students. This book has fourteen chapters divided into three parts: 1. teaching and learning, 2. the learner, and 3. teaching strategies. Part one focuses on good teaching, research and principles for good teaching, learning theories and concepts, and explains how to plan and conduct classes including writing objectives, selecting content and teaching methods, planning assignments and conducting the class. Part two discusses learners, motivation and readiness for learning, multicultural and gender aspects of learning and literacy. Part three presents traditional teaching strategies (lecturing, discussion, questioning, using audiovisuals, and interactive lecture), activity-based teaching strategies (cooperative learning, simulations, problem-based learning, and self-learning modules), computer teaching strategies (computer technology and learning, computer assisted and managed instruction, the Internet, and virtual reality), distance learning (advantages and disadvantages, clinical education, interactive television classes and Internet), teaching psychomotor skills, promoting and assessing critical thinking, clinical teaching, and assessing and evaluating learning. Each chapter has a case study to apply the information, critical thinking exercises, and ideas for future research.  The book is well documented, scholarly, and practical. There are tables, figures, chapter divisions, bullets, and numbers to facilitate reading and understanding. I highly recommend this book.	2003-01-02
US	52262682	R2CDHYWGIYTSNW	0803607997	655823607	How to Survive and Maybe Even Love Nursing School!: Guide for Students by Students	Books	5	16	22	N	N	How to Survive and Maybe Even Love Nursing School	How to Survive and Maybe Even Love Nursing School: A Guide for Students by Students by Kelli S. Dunham.<BR>The author is a registered nurse who has worked her way through AD, BS, and MS  programs in nursing. She interviewed over 300 students and faculty members to collect their stories for this book which is a discussion in first person of practical tips, resources and information needed for succeeding in nursing school. The author addresses choosing and getting into a nursing school, financial aid, time management, stress and overload, developing study habits, test taking, diversity, clinical rotations, preparing for NCLEX-RN, licensure, finding a job, and trends in nursing. Appendix A is about computers and Internet. Appendix B is about humor and resources. This is a good book for a high school student or nontraditional student who is considering nursing school and can be used throughout the nursing education. It's an entertaining \\"how to\\" book.	2002-02-25
US	52262682	R3VLO9TMWETJ3N	0803605242	222308005	Test Success: Test-Taking Techniques for Beginning Nursing Students	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Test Success: Test-Taking Techniques	Test Success: Test-Taking Techniques for Beginning Nursing Students 3rd ed. by Particia M. Nugent and Barbara A. Vitale<BR>This book is designed for fundamentals of nursing. It introduces techniques for developing a positive mental attitude, critical thinking skills, and study techniques. It teaches specific and general test-taking techniques. It identifies the nursing process as a form of problem solving. The book emphasizes multiple-choice questions but also addresses structured response, restricted response, extended essay questions and performance appraisal as well as computer applications in education and evaluation. It facilitates active participation in learning by displaying over 700 questions with  accompanying correct answers and rationale. There are three simulated tests of equal difficulty intended as a pretest, test after chapter eight, and a posttest in chapter 10. It is recommended that questions for specific categories in chapter 10 be answered after that content in discussed in class. Practice questions are in the following categories: the world of the patient and nurse, common theories related to meeting patient's basic human needs, communications and meeting patient's emotional needs, physical assessment, meeting patient's physical safety and mobility needs, hygiene and comfort needs, fluid and nutritional needs, elimination needs, oxygen needs, perioperative needs, microbiological safety needs, needs of the patient in the community setting, administration of medications and pharmacology. This is an excellent book for beginning nursing students to learn techniques of test success and to practice questions related to fundamentals of nursing.	2002-02-06
US	52262682	R337T1M55PJDER	0534265200	627724384	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success/Concise (The Freshman Year Experience Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success 4th ed by John N. Gardner and A. Jerome Jewler. <BR>This book is excellent for a first semester college introduction to academic life. It deals with the issues students need to address for academic success such as critical thinking, time management, active learning, learning styles, reading, writing, listening and speaking, test taking, library use, computer use, academic resources, advisors, relationships, diversity, stress management, finances, alcohol, drugs, and sex. The book has six parts: 1. Strategies for success, 2. Plan ahead, 3. Take charge of learning, 4. Hone your skills, 5. Get connected, and 6. Know yourself. There are one to four chapters in each part totaling fourteen chapters, about one per week for a semester. There are exercises and guiding questions for a personal journal at the end of each chapter. A highlight is the interactivity provided by the CD-ROM packaged with each textbook. Each chapter has a self-assessment, has exercises from the book formatted to use on the computer and refers to textbook pages, has additional exercises not in the textbook, quizzes, crossword puzzles, and journal assignments that can be done on the computer. The CD-ROM links to many Internet sites for additional information and self-assessments. The book comes with a free four month subscription to InfoTrac, an online  library. This book is good for the visual learner, the CD-ROM is particularly good for the kinesthetic learner, and the discussion exercises are good for the auditory learner. There are also supportive materials for faculty who adopt the book, and the CD-ROM is available on Blackboard and WebCT as online course management tools. .	2002-01-19
US	52262682	R2SC62CNK04290	0534534325	71205259	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success, Media Edition (with CD-ROM, Non-InfoTrac Version)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success 4th ed	Your College Experience: Strategies for Success 4th ed by John N. Gardner and A. Jerome Jewler.<br />This book is excellent for a first semester college introduction to academic life. It deals with the issues students need to address for academic success such as critical thinking, time management, active learning, learning styles, reading, writing, listening and speaking, test taking, library use, computer use, academic resources, advisors, relationships, diversity, stress management, finances, alcohol, drugs, and sex. The book has six parts: 1. Strategies for success, 2. Plan ahead, 3. Take charge of learning, 4. Hone your skills, 5. Get connected, and 6. Know yourself. There are one to four chapters in each part totaling fourteen chapters, about one per week for a semester. There are exercises and guiding questions for a personal journal at the end of each chapter. A highlight is the interactivity provided by the CD-ROM packaged with each textbook. Each chapter has a self-assessment, has exercises from the book formatted to use on the computer and refers to textbook pages, has additional exercises not in the textbook, quizzes, crossword puzzles, and journal assignments that can be done on the computer. The CD-ROM links to many Internet sites for additional information and self-assessments. The book comes with a free four month subscription to InfoTrac, an online  library. This book is good for the visual learner, the CD-ROM is particularly good for the kinesthetic learner, and the discussion exercises are good for the auditory learner. There are also supportive materials for faculty who adopt the book, and the CD-ROM is available on Blackboard and WebCT as online course management tools.	2002-01-01
US	52262682	R38GB7F6YZAB5S	0834216558	138386582	Continuous Quality Improvement in Health Care: Theory, Implementation, and Applications	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Continuous Quality Improvement in Health Care	Book review: Continuous Quality Improvement in Health Care: Theory, Implementation and Applications 2nd edition by McLaughlin and Kaluzny<br />Both authors have impressive backgrounds in health policy and administration. Part I of this book has two introductory chapters defining quality improvement and discussing total quality management and continuous quality improvement. Part II contains four basic chapters about the outcome model, measurement and statistical analysis and continuous learning. Flowcharts or diagrams, cause-and-effect diagrams, checksheets, Pareto diagrams or charts, histograms, run charts, regression analysis, and control charts are discussed in detail. Part III is about implementation and has five chapters about transformation, the process of implementation, information management and technology, collaboration, and focusing on health professional development. The six chapters in Part IV are about application in primary care, managed care, research organizations, public health, academic health centers, and with patient centered care. Part V, illustration, presents seven case studies. There is an extensive bibliography, list of sources, and index. This book is particularly useful for graduate students studying health care. The didactic content is illustrated in several settings and case studies.	2001-03-27
US	52262682	R1EKB6OJ58TRCW	0721681034	682624449	Interpersonal Relationships: Professional Communication Skills for Nurses, 3e	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Interpersonal Relationships 3rd ed by Arnold and Boggs	This book has five parts. Part I Conceptual Foundations of Nurse-Client Relationships discusses theory, professional guides, and self-concept. Part II The Nurse-Client Relationship includes structuring the relationship, therapeutic relationship, role relationship patterns, critical thinking, and grief. Part III Therapeutic Communications covers communication styles, therapeutic communication skills, intercultural communication, groups, families, conflict, health promotion and teaching. Part IV Responding to Special Needs addresses communicating with clients experiencing communication deficits, children, older adults, and clients in stressful situations and crisis. Part V Professional Issues is about communicating with other health professionals and documentation using computers. Chapters start with an outline and objectives. Sections are identified with bold and colored print. Some important content is put in boxes. Exercises specifying purpose, procedure, and discussion are dispersed throughout the chapters. Case examples and tables are used. Chapters are well illustrated. Color is used. A summary and references are at the end of each chapter. A glossary and index are at the end of the book. This is a scholarly, theoretical and well-documented book for teaching professional communication skills to nurses. .	2001-03-19
US	52262682	RB6FTVQ8SESD3	0323008720	983488089	Communication in Nursing: Communicating Assertively and Responsibly in Nursing, 4e	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Communication in Nursing 4th ed by Riley	This book has four parts each containing five to ten chapters. Part I: Getting Started includes responsible, assertive, caring communications; helping relationship; mutual problem solving; culture; and electronic communications. Part II: Building Relationships has chapters about warmth, respect, genuineness, empathy, self-disclosure, specificity, asking questions, expressing opinions, humor, and spirituality. Part III: Meeting Challenges deals with confrontation, refusing unreasonable requests, communicating assertively and responsibly with distressed and/or aggressive clients and colleagues and with unpopular clients, and team conflict. Part IV: Building Confidence covers requesting support, evaluation anxiety, feedback, relaxation, imagery, positive self-talk, and commitment. The author explains how to read the book by noting the questions at the end of the chapter, chapter objectives, and bold print. Then think about the answers to questions as the book is read. In the acknowledgments the author identifies content in each part and how it will help the reader. Connecting the content with reasons for learning it helps motivate the learner. Each chapter starts with whimsical animals and inspiring figures art, quotations, and the chapter objectives. Important content is highlighted in tables and boxes. Important points are often bulleted or numbered. Color is used. Multicultural proverbs, wit and wisdom sections, poetry, and moments of connection that share the meaning of nursing through story telling are dispersed throughout the book. Nursing examples are used. Spirituality, humor, and think about it exercises have been added since the last edition. Exercises encourage active learning. References and suggestions are at the end of each chapter, and appendix and index are at the end of the book. This book facilitates multiple intelligences and applies learning theory. Use of this book is an excellent way to teach communication in nursing.	2001-03-12
US	52262682	R1KHICSGOB8A0V	0834211157	963072512	Activity-Based Costing and Activity-Based Management for Health Care	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Activity-Based Costing and Activity-Based Management	Activity-Based Costing and Activity-Based Management for Health Care by Baker<br />The editor and contributing authors are well qualified with rich backgrounds in finance and management. This book has 24 chapters that are both theoretical and practical. The first three chapters introduce activity-based costing and management and discuss how they work in health care. The benefits of activity based costing versus volume-based costing are identified as: &quot;(1) more accurate costs of services delivered, (2) better discrimination between profitable and unprofitable services and service lines, (3) improved pricing and contracting strategies, (4) improved management decision-making capability, (5) greater ease of determining relevant costs, and (6) reduced nonvalue-added costs. (p. 27) The book gives a detailed step by step procedure for doing a time study. The importance of structural choices such as direct costs to be traced and indirect costs to be allocated is stressed for determining the organization's costing framework. Because ABC provides a mix-and-match menu of costs and their financial and operational interrelationships, it is important for management to determine that the ABM reporting depicts what the organization wants to measure and manage. The book relates quality measures, budgeting, standard setting, benchmarking , Pareto analysis, and clinical pathways  to activity-based costing and management. Content is illustrated through case studies about family physicians, primecare, hospitals, home health agencies, skilled nursing facilities, and a school-based health center. The final chapter is about the future for ABC/ABM in health care. There is a glossary and index. This book is appropriate for graduate students interested in financial and strategic management of health care organizations	2001-03-03
US	52262682	RPYKWTDJLNGZ1	0335200494	378575708	Designing Courses For Higher Education (Society for Research into Higher Education)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Designing Courses for Higher Education	This book presents the course design process-clarifying values, determining goals and content, structuring the course, preparing flexible learning opportunities, deciding goals and objectives for units of study, selecting teaching strategies, and assessing. The last chapter is about implementing a new course. References, index, and a page of information about The Society for Research into Higher Education are at the back of the book. This is a very scholarly, academic book. It is well documented and incorporates research findings. It focuses on strategic decisions that need to be made before a course is developed and provides realistic advice for designing courses. It is not about teaching techniques. This 6 by 9-inch book has relative small print. It has very few figures or tables. Most pages are filled with words. This is a good book for a scholar of education who likes verbiage.	2001-02-20
US	52262682	R1L6B2GY5Q7SU2	0787910309	701322748	Designing and Assessing Courses and Curricula: A Practical Guide (Jossey Bass Higher and Adult Education Series)	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Designing and assessing courses and curricula	Book Review: Designing &amp; Assessing Courses &amp; Curricula by Ann Tomey<br />This book provides a model for designing, implementing, and evaluating courses and curricula from which the book has been organized. The first two chapters are the introduction. Chapters three through twelve describe the process, present research about teaching and learning, and identify excellent resources. Chapters three through five discuss deciding to begin, getting the process going, and the relationship of courses and curriculum. Chapters six and seven use case studies to illustrate the design process, ask appropriate questions, identify what data needs to be collected, and explore options. Chapters nine to twelve focuses on the course design, identification of instructional goals, development of assessment to measure accomplishment of the goals, decisions of how the course will be taught and usage of technology. Chapters thirteen and fourteen deal with communications between the teacher and the student and diversity. Chapter fifteen is about course and curriculum evaluation. Chapter sixteen outlines the characteristics of successful innovation. This 81/2 by 11inch book has large print, bolded divisions, bulleted and numbered lists, lots of diagrams and figures, and summaries at the end of most chapters. Resources, references, name and subject indexes are at the end of the book. This is a practical handbook for faculty and administrators.	2001-01-21
US	52262682	R2UKBZNPC7XUB3	0969046596	472910075	The Art of Teaching Adults: How to become an exceptional instructor & facilitator	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Art of Teaching Adults	Book Review: The Art of Teaching Adults: How to Become an Exceptional Instructor &amp; Facilitator by Ann Tomey<br />This is a 140-page book packed with practical ideas of how to help students learn. The chapters are: 1. On becoming a teacher, 2. Planning a session, 3. Setting up the room, 4. Getting packed, 5. Breaking the ice, 6. Contracting for learning, 7. Working in groups, 8. Delivering lively lectures, 9. Asking beautiful question, 10. Flexing learning styles 11. Observing group behavior, 12. Rallying learning circles, 13. Brewing brainstorms, 14. Directing role-plays, 15. Teaching by demonstration, 16. Inspiring participation, 17. Studying cases, 18. Inviting experts, 19. Learning outside the classroom, 20. Individualizing assignments, 21. Writing in journals, 22. Assessing the course, 23. Giving &amp; receiving feedback, 24. Designing tests &amp; quizzes, 25. Projecting overhead, 26. Flipping charts, and 27. Showing films. Footnotes, bibliography, and index are at the end of the book. The book is well organized and easy to read. It uses large print, bolded headings, bullets, numbered lists, case studies, quotations for emphasis, and illustrates room set-ups. It gives step by step instructions for how to get students involved in learning. It is not only for the beginning teacher, it is also useful for the seasoned teacher to review the book and reflect on how the teacher could teach even better. It is a good reference book for a teacher to use throughout one's teaching career.	2001-01-12
US	52262682	R5ZS5SMOBW1JP	1567930506	597211447	The Five Stages of Managed Care: Strategies for Providers, HMOs, and Suppliers (Management Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THe FIve Stages of Managed Care	Book Review: The Five Stages of Managed Care: Strategies for Providers, HMOs, and Suppliers by Coile<br />Russell. C. Coile is a futurist who specializes in health care. He has used very current literature and experience to write this cutting edge book. He labels the five stages of managed care as 1. Can't spell HMO, 2. Managed care gets aggressive, 3. Managed care penetration, 4. Managed competition, and 5. Post-reform. He examines strategies that payers and providers have used to succeed and prepare for the future. He uses delivery systems to illustrate the successful strategies and pitfalls of the stages of managed care. This book is useful for graduate students studying health care and for health care administrators.	2000-12-20
US	52262682	R3U6A66JJTJP06	0834211335	581404212	Case Studies in Health Care Supervision	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Case Studies in Health Care Supervision by McConnell	Book review: Case Studies in Health Care Supervision by McConnell<br />Case studies can be used to bring realistic situations into the classroom without too much emotion. This book presents 75 case studies that have been developed from experiences of managers actively employed in health care. Chapter four in Part I contains a table that identifies topics as change, communication, criticism and discipline, decision making, delegation/empowerment, general management practice, interviewing/hiring, labor relations, leadership, meetings/group process, methods improvement, motivation, people problems, rules and policies, supervisory authority and time management/personal effectiveness. It also identifies the chapter's primary topic and additional topics according to the identified topics. Part II presents the cases. Each case study begins with the case number and title. The primary topic and additional topics are identified. The short case is presented and questions to facilitate critical thinking are provided. Part III is composed of responses to the case studies that have been supplied by managers and educators who have read the cases and the editors. These case studies are intended to be used with other teaching strategies such as videotapes, games, and exercises to address a variety of learning styles. This book can be used for initial and continuing education of managers and supervisors. It can be used to supplement most management textbooks. It can be used for self-study particularly by visual learners. It can probably be used best with small group discussions. The teacher will likely have to help relate the cases to theory.	2000-12-16
US	52262682	R2R7HVJLM37DEU	0205277020	222108701	Curriculum: Foundations, Principles, and Issues (3rd Edition)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Curriculum: Foundations, Principles, and Issues	Book Review: Curriculum: Foundations, Principles, and Issues by Ornstein and Hunkins<br />This book discusses various curriculum approaches and is an excellent source of information about philosophical, historical, psychological, and social foundations of curriculum. It discusses curriculum theory, curriculum development and curriculum designs. This book explains the taxonomic levels and approaches to educational objectives. It identifies curriculum implementation models and numerous curriculum evaluation models. It ends with a discussion of curriculum issues, trends and future directions. This book is an excellent source of theory related to curriculum and should be helpful to faculty and students studying curriculum and to anyone involved in developing curriculum.	2000-12-13
US	52262682	R1WO5119W3V61J	0205307108	80411700	Curriculum Planning: A Contemporary Approach (7th Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Curriculum Planning: A Contemporary Approach	Part I contains six chapters about the bases and criteria for the curriculum including goals and values, social forces, human development, learning and learning styles, the nature of knowledge, and curriculum criteria. Part II contains four chapters about the curriculum including education for children, early adolescents, middle adolescents, and late adolescents and adults including senior learners. Each of the first six chapters begin with focus questions, key points, criterion questions, and references followed by contributed short selections that included questions for reflection. The last four chapters begin with focus questions, developmental aspects and goals for that age group, and references followed by contributed related selections.  Each chapter ends with learning activities, critical thinking, application activities, field experiences, internet activities and books and articles to review. The book is both theoretical and practical and should be useful for anyone developing curriculum for any age group.	2000-12-01
US	52262682	R1S3F0VKMEKRC7	0205307108	80411700	Curriculum Planning: A Contemporary Approach (7th Edition)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Curriculum Planning: A Contemporary Approach	Part I contains six chapters about the bases and criteria for the curriculum including goals and values, social forces, human development, learning and learning styles, the nature of knowledge, and curriculum criteria. Part II contains four chapters about the curriculum including education for children, early adolescents, middle adolescents, and late adolescents and adults including senior learners. Each of the first six chapters begin with focus questions, key points, criterion questions, and references followed by contributed short selections that included questions for reflection. The last four chapters begin with focus questions, developmental aspects and goals for that age group, and references followed by contributed related selections.  Each chapter ends with learning activities, critical thinking, application activities, field experiences, internet activities and books and articles to review. The book is both theoretical and practical and should be useful for anyone developing curriculum for any age group.	2000-12-01
