US	52270655	R1GWZA59675SP8	0312890729	318023725	King Rat	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Unusual, but not to everyone's taste	What you can't deny Mr Mieville is him having exuberant fantasy and coming with the most original ideas possible. In this book he blends persuasively urban folklore, fairytale characters, modern rhythms and poetry of London dehumanized city hectic. The plot is rather simplistic, but has enough of little twists and grisly descriptions.<br />However, the drawls of dialects his characters use are hardly intelligible sometimes, and detailed descriptions of Jungle music may bore you (if you're not the fan).<br />A promising &quot;try of the pen&quot;, but to enjoy China Mieville's talent to the last drop, read the superb Perdido Train Station (completely different in plot and settings)!	2001-07-25
US	52270655	R1M2TVK25MEOQ7	0575067861	367969063	Grimoire	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Might have been 200 pages shorter...	I had very high expectations for this book (mainly because of the raving reviews posted on the Amazon.co.uk), but literally had to force myself finish the book.  In a nutshell the plot sounds promising: in 1860s a mysterious murder happens (the victim is Peter Owling - an extravagant and, as we find out later, rather repulsive gentleman), the only witness, presumingly his lover - an angelic youngster Christian drowns himself, all as a result of dabbling with demon summoning. In modern Australia the descendants of Peter's &quot;sponsors&quot;, the Humberston clan, put all their efforts to get the grimoire that Peters used, together and summon a demon who'll betray Satan himself into the hands of Humberstons. But three fellow students in Humberstone college - Holly, Pridence and Justin - stumble upon their secrets and get involved into the plot.<br />The book is long, but incredibly slow-moving. First ca 200 pages we get acquainted with the young trio and they seem to be rather ordinary young adults, with their unshared love, suppressed desires, broken marriage, alcoholic mothers, uncaring parents etc. The tales of them getting drunk and splashing out their adolescent adventures become too repetitive to be exciting. Later on the author probably wants to compensate rather boring beginning and shoves so many deeds upon them, that I think for these two girls and one guy is too much to share. The narration from time to time is diluted by a story of Peter's unsightly deeds told by a ghost - Christian. Only half through the book things finally start to develop, when the grimoire is finally collected and the invocation starts...<br />The book left me with an impression of insipid try-of-the pen of a young author aiming to capture the minds of young adults with all the possible Gothic novel style tricks. However, due to overabundance of the latter and their misplaced usage, the story turned out to be inflated, the characters - nothing much to root for, even the baddies were unpersuasive and rather stupid. There are many words, but no essence. There was one powerful description - of Satan coming for Peter Owling, but you've probably guessed it can't save a 600+pages book. You can try reading it, but be warned that you'll be flickering through the pages and reading only those parts when something really happens. The editor would have done the author a big favor if asked to reduce the text by 1/3. Between 2 and 3 stars.	2001-06-21
US	52270655	R28NZQDBXRP72Y	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A rare treat...a big surprise for a non-fantasy fan	Although I was sure that the days when I was gulping any sci-fi or fantasy book are gone in the mists of time (mostly because of disappointments and absolute trash I've been encountering over the last years), this wonderful book has rekindled my interest in this genre and added another author to my list of &quot;every new book is eagerly anticipated&quot;.<br />The story of a scientist researching nature of flight and unleashing the unmitigated disaster onto the great city, and then prying into its nature and trying to stop it, acquiring enemies and losing friends, might in short seem rather unsophisticated, but don't be short-sighted: although sometimes difficult to plough through the debris of words (because of the author's encyclopedian vocabulary), the city of New Crobuzon and what's been living and happening in its slimy bowels and whirling skies, dusty attics and militia towers, grips you from some 20th page and heads on a ride that will contain demons and weavers of space webs, cactus-people and insect-people, dream-slaking monster moths and Remade humans, governmental secret experiments and drug mobsters, birds-philosophers and artificial intelligence. This is also a story of a quest for knowledge and how it can lead to disaster, that wishes to control uncontrollable, as well as such feelings as friendship, betrayal, love, crime and passion for creation are as everlasting as the world around us. I sincerely admired author's fathomless imagination and wondered why this book didn't get any awards. To his credit, Mr Mieville never goes for primitive monsters, gratuitous violence (although some scenes are blood-curdling), cheap feelings and straightforward moralizing.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys to let's one imagination soar: plunge deep into the adventures in the fantastic and frightening city-world Mr Mieville has created. I bet to make this story into a movie it'd require talents of five Spielbergs and wagonloads of sfxs.	2001-05-22
US	52270655	R3S9GFN3RV24OB	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Do you like gory moralizing tales?	First of all, guys, this book is incredibly overhyped - I would have never paid any attention to it, if not the reviews, proclaiming it &quot;unputdownable&quot;, &quot;provoking&quot; and &quot;stretching limits of imagination&quot;. What this book is really stretching is your capability to withstand feelings of disgust and manipulation.<br />The book is a mixture of sci-fi, horror and satire over the humankind. However, for sci-fi, it's underdeveloped and expects the readers to take many things for granted (like the appearance of &quot;humans&quot; in Scotland and their &quot;trade&quot;, how and where their &quot;home&quot; is, and why it's in such despicable condition); for horror it's too straightforward and unimaginative, for satire - it's too horrible. Yes, the book has its moments of piercing compassion and breathtaking beauty found in a small object, but it's also &quot;putdownable&quot;: after page 70 it becomes fairly predictable (well, the goriest details lay ahead, if it's what you're after). The ending leaves you gaping: like hey, so what? Just so simple?<br />I wish the author didn't indulge into the details of meat-processing, for it shifts the focus of readers' perception from whatever conclusion we're supposed to get, and the gritty images is the only thing leaving imprints in your mind after you close the book. I don't deny that the book stands out from many other conventional and boring &quot;thriller&quot; and &quot;suspense&quot; tripe, but don't overestimate it: such concepts and similar plotlines you can find in  sci-fi and horror books. Just overstep all the limits and you're dubbed &quot;daring&quot; and &quot;though-provoking&quot;. <br />Don't you think that sometimes we arrive to simple conslusions (as the Earth is beautiful, humans don't value what they're having, people are too selfish, cruel and manipulative, woman shouldn't be viewed as sex-object only) by too sophisticated and unacceptable means? I'd recommend the book to someone, already &quot;tempered&quot; by horror books, it's not for the weak guts. Moreover, I'll not give up meat eating, maybe only when a book appears written from the point of view of cows.	2001-05-14
US	52270655	RR3X5ED3VDN7E	0671741039	907356964	Swan Song	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Not a bedtime story!	I'm very suspicious of books with cover blurbs shrieking it's &quot;a stunning tale of sheer fright and terror&quot;, and usually my suspicions are justified and result in very negative reviews of such &quot;masterpieces&quot;. But as it was some time since I've read a horror flick, I decided to give the book a try. The opening 60 pages of tale how the nuclear holocaust was unleashed aggravated my suspicion of stumbling at another old-fashioned book using concept of cold wars and slogan &quot;Wipe them Ivans off the map!&quot;. How passé! <br />But flicking through the pages I trudged on. And it happened: after some 80+ pages it got me hooked! I did put down this book several times, for a normal person with sound psyche can withstand only a certain number of macabre imprints of destroyed and poisoned world, of people gone low worse than animals, piles of corpses and all horrible deaths galore. Images that the book has produced even gave me a bad dream once (!). <br />The plot is has been described by other reviewers in details: not many survive the Bang, but all clutch to survival as best as they can: some help preserve crumbles of life and light (and Swan is one of them, the girl with the gift of bringing back life), some get to established their own &quot;Neu Ordnung&quot; by means well described in &quot;Mein Kampf&quot; (the Man with Red Eye is the Biggest Baddie of them, but to my mind, Roland, the boy King Knight gone berserk with blood lust and Colonel Macklin, eternal soldier haunted by war ghosts are even worse, for they are of human tribe). However, Swan seems not to be the person no 1 in the Book, without other human helpers (Sister, Josh, Robin) she would never make it to the end of the book. Some scenes touched me in unusual way - right to the heart, I felt such compassion to the characters. It is a rare thing in books like that. Several final chapters spun quick action movie-like sequences that somehow lessened the effect of doomed civilization and tragism created before. But the author had to end the book somehow, didn't he?<br />It's not a bedtime story: I have not read the Stand, but its TV adaptation is kids' babble in comparison with Swan Song's creating an ugly, violent, depressing and morbid picture.  But still this book is better than many of King's inflated creations.	2001-04-18
US	52270655	RS50X7Y2YQVN7	0394432622	928897898	Kristin Lavransdatter: The Bridal Wreath; The Mistress of Husaby; The Cross	Books	5	15	15	N	N	the Book for all times	I've purchased this book 2 years ago, and 9 years have passed since I first read it. I tend to re-read it at least once per year, especially when the first buds of depression appear or I doubt the purpose of human life. <br />The book is profound and epic in handling the storyline, it's well worth the Nobel prize. It's not a silly bodice-ripper or the story unnecessary embellished by descriptions of sumptuous feasts, glittering costumes, erotic scenes etc. Though, the descriptions of Norway's astute yet breathtaking nature are lavish. The author also expertly describes aspects of social and religious traditions of Norway in 14th century, way of living and thinking, standards of behavior and culture. It's the book where musings and inner conversations of the characters occupy paragraphs. <br />If you've read this review so far you probably start thinking it's a boring and moralizing book. But behold this: the book spans the life story of Kristiin, daughter of noble parents, and her happy childhood, involves forbidden illicit passion, murder, her stormy and controversial marriage, pride in seeing her sons growing, estrangements and reunions, family feuds, a royal conspiracy, constant choice between earthly chores and consolation in God, heroic and mundane. We see the world as it has been through eyes of the three main characters, their joy, hatred, secret sorrow and passion.<br />I've read quite a few excellent historical novels by modern writers (such as Zoe Oldenbourg, Margaret George, Sharon K Penmann), but this book is different. Read it and make sure yourself! Subject of the book is eternal. The choices the characters face and hardships they have to overcome are as old as humankind. The ultimate gift of the author, what makes this book different is that the reader feels both close and wrenching sympathy for Kristiin and her kind, but still they remain remote for their rhythm of life, way of thinking and world perception is 600 years old. But the thread of life spins through the pages and binds past and future and we feel tenderness of a caress, warmth of fire and pain from losses. For technology and traditions change, not the human nature itself.	2001-03-03
US	52270655	R104M8GQWNMKXX	0671610503	500454597	006: The Reformation (The Story of Civilization VI)	Books	5	29	32	N	Y	Savour this book...	If we ask a question &quot;What put an end to the Middle Ages (as the majority vizualizes them - barbarous, violent, uneducated, unsanitary... even if it is not really so)? To answer with author's words &quot;Many causes through 3 centuries: the failure of the Crusades,...the resurrection of classic pagan culture, the expansion of commerce through great navigators, the rise of business class, the development of national states and Luther challenging the supernational authority of the Popes, printing&quot;. These 5 lines in short summarize the book. And although &quot;we do nations injustice when we judge them from their kings, for morals are not made for sovereigns&quot;, you'll find accounts for all prominent monarchs of that period (to some, e.g. Yorks &amp; Lancasters, Richard III, insane King Charles VI of France, only a dozen of lines is dedicated, analysis of lives and deeds of others - Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, Mary Tudor and Henry VIII, Ivan the Terrible, the Burgundian kings, Fransisc I occupy chapters).<br />Approximately 1/4 of the book is dedicated to the conflict that actually brought  the Reformation (church vs. state and individual)and afterwards, Contr-Reformation. As I'm not the specialist in this area, I've skipped some pages, but I'll definitely put myself together and read them later.<br />As usual, Mr Durant guides us through all bloody and terrible wars and strifes of that age, reminding us that &quot;from barbarism to civilization requires a century, from civilization to barbarism needs but a day&quot;. No distinguished artist, philosopher, writer escapes his scrutiny (Hans Holbein, Rableis, Durer, F. Villon - to name just a few). I was particularly hooked by chapters on development of science and medicine (A. Pare, Copernicus, Columbus, Vesalius, Paracels etc), for things that are universally known now took centuries to discover and lives to prove.<br />After &quot;Caesar and Christ&quot; and &quot;The Age of Faith&quot;, this volume makes the third &quot;jewel&quot; in my collection.	2000-09-25
US	52270655	R2ZOOUR1WJ5JPJ	0517887290	114266213	Fingerprints of the Gods	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	A subject of great debates...	To ask questions and seek for answers is a solely human trait - trait that  lead to great discoveries and meteorite speed of technical and intellectual  progress of modern times. However, to spread new knowledge and theories, if  they contradict accepted conventions is equally difficult: it's a  &quot;prejudice&quot; of all highly developed societies to acknowledge that  their theories on creation and development of civilization might well be  wrong or that it's finally time to doubt them. History numerously proves  that it's easier to reject and ignore than to refute. This book can be  rejected or its theories refuted, but it can't be silently ignored.<br />As  the headline for this book I can mention author's words: &quot;I'm just  following the science where it leads me... If my findings are in conflicts  with their theory about  the rise of civilization then maybe it Ò time to  re-evaluate that theory&quot;. <br />Indeed, some aspects of the book's topics  (eternal questions of &quot;who are we&quot;, &quot;who were our  ancestors&quot;, &quot;what is the message of ancient civilizations&quot;,  &quot;what stands behind stupendous monuments of Incas, Mayas,  Egyptians&quot;, &quot;why ancient mythologies have so much in  common&quot;, &quot;are civilizations cyclic and are we heading for a  disaster'' etc) made me wonder, some I didn't quite grasp (e.g. part on  solar equinoxes and solstices, precessions of earth and ecliptic cycles), a  few seemed to be a little farfetched, but overwhelming flow of new  information made me eager to investigate further, to doubt the facts we  usually read in textbooks  and also to express support to the author by  writing this. <br />It was a genuine pleasure for me to read a very  comprehensible and persuasive account on travels, research and evidence Mr.  Hancock carried out. I truly admire his courage and devotion. His theories  are fascinating, logical and stand on the basis of new (or old, but  &quot;unnoticed&quot;) factsand research carried out by various scientists  in archeology, astronomy, geology and anthropology. <br />Although I have a  great interest on research and new theory, I hardly belong to the credible  lot and flow of info during last couple of years (especially all the  &quot;year 2000&quot; craze), taught me to view very critical all these  pseudo-scientific and simply laughable theories. This author is not  blabbering some nonsense that Pyramids were built by Martians or were used  to pump water, or that Ice Age was caused by a nuclear explosion or that  dinosaurs died of flu. <br />But 4 stars account for the ending of the book:  theories, however persuasive and alluring, were left hanging in the air,  and singular message suddenly became supreme: that there was a  civilization, equal in development to our own, although different in  thinking, ca BC 11 000 that wanted to warn us about a recurring natural  catastrophe. It seems we've had enough of this &quot;last judgment&quot;  staff, even if it's going to occur. To my opinion, other questions  initiated by the author were of much more interest.<br />However, the book  should definitely be read (and judging by a hundred of reviews it is read  and causes lively discussions) as a tribute to spread quest for truth and  knowledge in the name of the progress of our own civilization (oops, do I  sound like Fox Mulder here?)	2000-09-06
US	52270655	R2UDYKY9TY53TW	0671616005	533474173	5: The Renaissance (The Story of Civilization V)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Overwhelmingly detailed...	I've read 4 other brilliantly written and researched books by Durant, but  after going through this book my admiration of this author turned into awe:  the amount of information he provides the reader with (even if you have  experience in enjoying such volumes and know the difference betw. Verocchio  and Pinturicchio) is unmeasurable. After being through half of the book  facts and life-stories of all universally and hardly-so-well-known  politicians, humanists, popes, sculptors, artists, philosophers, kings and  merchants and a hundred of other notable personae began to choke me and I  couldn't finish the book, to my shame.<br />Unfortunately, however dedicated  only to one country and even desribing rise and fall of separate Italian  cities, the book does not provide such ineteresting details on life and  customs (food, housing, men-woman relations) of menfolk in general, so to  say &quot;a human touch&quot;, as it has been amazingly accomplished in  Durant's books on Greece, Rome and medieval Europe. It seems that all  tremendous geniuses that lived in that period overshadow their  contemporaries with their grandeur and achievements.<br />But if you need to  write a thesis on any theme concerning Reneissance Italy, I would recommend  this book to you.	2000-08-25
US	52270655	R1CFU0F24M21J6	0312155859	309178067	Mary Queen of Scotland and The Isles: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A fascinating book, not long at all...	The best book so far I have read among biographies of Mary Queen of Scots. Well researched, a perfect blend of fiction and historical prose, of which  history prevails. A touching love-story between Mary and Bothwell moves you  to tears (I am the one who strongly opposes the version of historians in  which Mary has been raped by Bothwell, what is against logics and course of  events). Truly a story of a woman in the wrong time in the wrong country,  for let's admit it that she was not an innocent victim of plotting  courtiers: contrary to Elizabeth Tudor, Mary was unfit to rule Scotland,  for she was notorious for her bad judgement of people, subject to hysteria  and ruled completely by her heart, not mind (although she was charismatic  and reckless). She considered her royalty a divine right, but in England  and Scotland, contrary to France, kings had often been made and it took  them more to stay on the throne than only being annointed.<br />The only fact  that does not seem true to me: is it documented somewhere that Darnley had  a sexual intercource with Riccio!	2000-08-04
US	52270655	R3VETKIOIS2J8A	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A true revelation...	UNFAIR, that's how I felt finishing reading this book. UNFAIR that we don't know the truth about Richard III and his rule, that we must rely on  the inspiration and imagination of this brilliant author, describing those  bloody and tumultous times. <br />UNFAIR is how Richard III has been treated  posthumously. Although he is described in the book as almost a faultless  person, his consciousness and devotion being his drawbecks in those times  when people were so treacherous, blood-thirsty, avaricious, striving for  power and driven by their wildest ambitions (probably also that's why  almost they all found their way to the block eventually, taking a few  innocent along too), we must acknowledge that if a monarch can't punish  those who threaten his personal safety or interests of the state, he's  condemned to be deposed. At least Richard met his death with honour  (although had he not rushed into the battle  and wisely withdrawn to gain  support, maybe Tudors, who now appears also had had rather a dubious claim  to the throne, would not have founded their dynasty). His personal dramas  only add up to the feeling that all Yorks and Lancasters were damned from  the beginning.<br />In general, I've tried before to understand the conflict  between Y&amp;L and read a couple of non-fictional book about it, but was  lost in a whirpool of names, dates, titles and battles. Only after this  book I have quite clear idea who was who in this war, how events developed  and why this period is truly called one of the bloodes in the history of  England. It's a long book, covering about 25 years of the period, but it  can be our share of returning Richard III his good name. It would also be  UNFAIR if you don't discover this book for yourself!	2000-08-03
US	52270655	R24ELHMBUEMYOK	0440222087	285244573	A Woman of Passion	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Funny interpretation of Elizabethian era...	If you love HISTORY and ever heard of Elizabeth the Great, King Harry and Bloody Mary, I would not advise you to read this book - for England of the 16th century serves only as a stage for mental and bodily tormenting of Ms  Elizabeth Hardwick. Appearance of this great persons are fragmentary, and  descriptions of their behavior, characters and manners made me often smile  (to hear Elizabeth Tudor conversing about masturbation, e.g.), as before I  read half-a-dozen non-fiction books about them. In short, the book might  have well went on without them.<br />Much more pages are occupied by colourful  descriptions of Elizabeth Hardwick's dresses (and underwear),  wall-shattering orgasms, and of course, her four husbands (of whom two, as  usually in such books, were weak and impotent). It also seems that  Elizabeth Tudor invited her to be her Lady of the Bedchamber only to  conceal her pranks wit hLord Dudley, otherwise Ms Hardwick seems to perform  no other functions. Also scene of making love in Tower cell seemed to be  completely irrelevant.<br />In general, I took this book as a lollipop after  generous helping of exquisite sweets - it simply can't be compared with  serious historical fiction, but you can read it for fun. Unfortunately the  author in the afterword did not mention anything about the end of Ms  Hardwick, as she lived to her 80s and was involved into a plot with her  husband and Mary Stewart.	2000-07-21
US	52270655	R1RDA948EQZM5M	031286888X	516725328	The Kings in Winter	Books	1	8	23	N	N	What is so special here!	Contrary to the previous reader, I've read it only once and don't recommend you to do it - you can find much better historical novels (more or less fictional). Myself being an avid reader of all types of historical  fiction and biographies (you can see it by the books I've reviewed) and  having heard before about talents of Ms Holland, I was taken aback by  incongruity of plot and indifference of the topic: it's Ireland of the 11th  century swarming with internal feuds and Viking invasions from the seas and  the main hero, Muirtagh the Harper roams the country for the purpose known  to only himself: it seems he tries to avenge someone, but you can never  understand whom, for the book is full of unpronounceable names of other  fierce Irishmen and Vikings drinking in dreary halls. You also get a  glimpse of his family (to which he never returns?) and of his (?) old king,  who seems to exercise no authority whatsoever. True, short and crisp  descriptions of nature, weather and night roamings of the characters are  convincing, while sometimes short dialogs between characters are not - one  can't understand what they mean by one-word phrases. Probably it is to  stress the set of the book and ruthless characters? Also note tha almost  total lack of female characters in the book. In short, this book seems more  to be a fragment of some bigger narration or even a short novella for the  author trying her pen (it's written in 1967), otherwise I see no point.	2000-07-19
US	52270655	R1298MTLNKE30J	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	2	16	22	N	N	Challenging debute with too many flaws...	The pluses: the author wanted to create a speleological action thriller with some scientific background. As books on such a theme are rather rare - the plot is interesting, the mythology well invented, the beginning is  intriguing, the pace is quick. There is some suspense, especially in the  beginning, nut no terror and other horror whatsoever. The minuses:  - book  reminds an action movie script in language and in characters: &quot;good  guys&quot; and, in particularly, one &quot;bad guy&quot; - of course an  Arabian terrorist (!); rather blue print main heroes - Ashley, who's  annoying and screams her head off without a reason especially in the  beginning of the book and Mr Nice guy with blue eyes and troublesome past  and with a hereditary telepathic link with the underground aborigines that  of course saves everyone in the end. And there is also Ashley's son whose  existence is justified by him getting kidnapped by the bad guy in the end  of the book (to add suspense, undoubtedly.).  - I agree with some other  reviewers who note rather poor language of the book. Especially funny is  when such words as &quot;marsupials&quot;, &quot;diatoms&quot;,  &quot;monotremes&quot; etc pop up to add up a &quot;scientific  flavour&quot; to this underground monster chase.<br />Resume: a challenging  attempt to create a &quot;cave thriller&quot;, but as the book is too  short, the plot is predictable and characters one dimensional. For beach  reading try it, for some REAL STUFF - be glued to JEFF LONG's  &quot;DESCENT&quot; and FEEL THE DIFFERENCE!	2000-06-29
US	52270655	R2N6HZDUH1BYZI	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	3	2	5	N	N	You can see that it's the author's first book...	The pluses: the author wanted to create a speleological action thriller with some scientific background. As books on such a theme are rather rare, I can say that the plot is interesting, the mythology well invented, the  beginning is intriguing, the pace is quick.<br />The minuses:  - book reminds  an action movie script in language and in characters: &quot;good guys&quot;  and, in particularly, one &quot;bad guy&quot; - of course an Arabian  terrorist (!); rather blue print main heroes - Ashley, who's annoying and  screams her head off without a reason especially in the beginning of the  book and Mr Nice guy with blue eyes and troublesome past and with a  hereditary telepathic link with the underground aborigines that of course  saves everyone in the end. And there is also Ashley's son whose existence  is justified by him getting kidnapped by the bad guy in the end of the book  (to add suspense, undoubtedly.) - I agree with some other reviewers who  note rather poor language of the book. Especially funny is when such words  as &quot;marsupials&quot;, &quot;diatoms&quot;, &quot;monotremes&quot; etc  pop up to add up a &quot;scientific flavour&quot; to this underground  monster chase.<br />Resume: a challenging attempt to create a &quot;cave  thriller&quot;, but as the book is too short, the plot is predictable and  characters one dimensional. For beach reading try it, for some REAL STUFF -  be glued to JEFF LONG's &quot;DESCENT&quot; and FEEL THE DIFFERENCE!	2000-06-26
US	52270655	R1TMVM1AMXODJS	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	1	12	20	N	N	Horrible horror...	If there can be horror at its worst, it is this book. Not any normal person will find this book either exciting or interesting (unless you are interested in a report from a slaughterhouse, of course), and I felt so cheated because of all the enthusiastic reviews I've read prior to the  purchase. <br />The narration is fragmentary and leaps back and forth from  characters' teenage years to present day: yeah, it probably must mean the  &quot;waking nightmares&quot; and &quot;elusive reality&quot; the  characters are suffering from, except it becomes clear from the first pages  that the author simply has no idea how to go on with the book, so let it be  &quot;a mess of delirious dreams&quot;. No to mention absurd and repulsive  violence and torture scene the author uses &quot;to spice up&quot; his  story (don't think I'm too sensitive, BUT THIS TIME THEY ARE ABSOLUTELY OUT  OF PLACE,and all the same: dead dogs, skinned cows, torn breasts, red  ants... ) The characters during teenage years are portrayed as cruel brats,  intersted only in sex and violence, so no wonder they end up in a looney  bin and who cares what happens with them in the end? The demon that, as I  understood, invides the main characters, is an unwanted child, whose mother  wanted to smother it at birth &quot;because she knew it would be a  monster&quot; (a very enthralling climax for the book indeed)... END	2000-06-09
US	52270655	R2BQBKFF6ELSV9	0446605980	264443642	The Last Day	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Topic of &quot;second freshness&quot;, but intriguing .. to a point	There have been countless books written about coming of Statan's son, but very few - about a Messiah and His Second coming, this is a book on the latter. Although, taking into consideration it was written in 1997,  Millennium bruhaha is past already, and that's why all the hysteria of last  December days of 1999 does not seem so actual any more (and it diminishes  the effect of the book).<br />There is no use to retell the plot (it is  precisely described in reviews above and below), which loses it  breath-taking pace around page 120 when Jeza's origin is discovered and  further on the only riddle of the book is whether she comes from Christ or  Antichrist. Some scenes are moving and intense and grip the reader (meeting  with American president, meeting with the Pope), make him think and guess  on her true mission. Although when her journey starts to repeat Christ's  (flight from Israel to Egypt, return to Israel on a mule through Golden  Gates etc) and Easter is nearing, her destiny becomes predictable. However,  as I liked the Messiah quite a lot (contrary to one reviewer, she is quite  believable and her &quot;feminist&quot; message complies with her whole  mission very well), and can forgive the predictability of her end and  ressurection, but the happy-end for other main heroes was unbelievable (Jon  Feldman falling from a flying helicopter and staying alive, Jeza's  &quot;sister&quot; rising from a 6-year coma, all bad powerful gyus  overthrown and captured in the last moment, people handing in their weapons  all over the world) and diminished solemn and touching effect of the whole  book. If you write a book on Messiah and end of the world, don't finish it  with &quot;Armageddon&quot;-style ending... <br />The main character is not a  person to be remembered (I even can't recall how his looks are described in  the book), and it seems that all he was able to understand after Jeza's  coming and leaving, that he &quot;loved Anke (his lover) with his heart,  butJeza - with his mind&quot;. Very valuable experience!<br />As to the  &quot;burning religeous topics&quot; - I don 't find this book shoking or  surprising, rather it makes me sad - that Church has acquired immense  wealth during passing centuries, together with imbibing all human sins with  it, and it will not part from its Universal power so easily - it is not a  secret; if Son (or Daughter) of God would visit us now, we'd turn it into a  TV show and a guessing game - no wonder...<br />However, the book does set  some hidden wheels in your soul in motion, even if it is not worth a second  reading...	2000-05-29
US	52270655	R96KSDLXDGTAJ	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A deep inside into Henry's egoistic mind...	To explain why why he did that, not only recite what - this makes this book stand out from numerous books about Henry VIII. It shows transformation from enlightened youthful &quot;sun-king&quot;, pride of the  nation, to debilitaed obese woman-hater. I personally has never been  attracted to this immense (both literally and figuratively speaking) figure  of English history, but now I'm not repelled any more, because I can  understand (although never accept)how his mind was working, how he  justified own deeds. The story is told in first person, so with all its  self-pity, prejudice and bias. This is a thrilling tour into king's psyche  - distant, beautiful mother, always distracted father, web of intrigues  from the start, first love and knightly ardor for the Spanish princess,  happy marriage turning into disaster (by eternal fear of princes to die  without a progeny), the resta is history... <br />To judge this man because he  has outlived 5 of his 6 wives would be unwise. We see his women through his  eyes: alluring witch Anne (what was she like in life? I'm afraid we'll  never know), submissive &quot;grey mouse&quot; Jane, starlett-type  Katherine, who whets lust of an ageing king, wife-nurse Katherine Parr...    This book brings out pity for him - one of the greatest kings, killing  without (seeming) remorse,  ruled by passion, perfectly described by  author's  spectacular pen. He left us wiht Bloody Mary and Good Queen Bess  - by far imprints of their mothers...	2000-05-24
US	52270655	R1CBJ5LKDP6OZX	0312187459	237942375	The Memoirs of Cleopatra: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Detailed to maximum...	Such books it is difficult to rate: the characters - Cleopatra, Caesar, Marc Antony - are so legendary and their story is so generally wide-known and notorious that it is nearly to impossible to percept them as humans  that ever lived. And often I couldn't reading this beautiful book - they  were so beautiful, daring and head-strong, ruling empires and proving how  challenging and fleeting luck can be. This book reads slowlier than two  other splendid books by this author: to savour all details (that are the  main asset of the book and sometimes turn into its drawbeck)you need time  and mood - you feel scent of burning incense, weight of golden necklaces,  crispy cool cotton dresses, clanking of breast plates, dust and sweat of  Roman crowds - and million of other sensations that the author weaves into  thin tapestry enwrapping you. Another note: this novel contains a dozen  more love scenes than her other books (it's a story of love and power, in  the end). Some scenes make you choke with tears (Caesar's burial, death of  both protagonists), some makes you admire enormous wealth of the ancient  Egypt. I can only add that 4th book by Ms. George will be an anticipated  gift to me.	2000-05-18
US	52270655	R7U3BR2ZUOZWD	0812521463	477457064	Aztec	Books	4	4	9	N	Y	Makes you shudder and smile...	First of all, undeniable praise goes to author's talent for recreation of the world long gone: besides Aztecs themselves, all those tribes and peoples, with names difficult to pronounce and their ways and traditions,  mostly repulsive and hardly believable.  I'd have liked to know how much of  the story has been fruit of Mr. Jenning's brilliant imagination, and what  has been based on research.  To follow narrator's - Mixtil's - fascinating  story is easy, but sad to acknowledged, I finished this book with no regret  that this civilization has vanished. First of all, it reached its peak and  was ripe for defeat and conquest, second, and more important, however much  blood was shed in the name of Christianity and European civilization, rites  of Aztec to 99% are abominable to understanding of a modern and medieval  person alike. Author's merit is that he does not only graphically and  grisly describes them, but also explains why they were performed, what  religious belief led to them. Still such civilization did not stir no  sympathy or understanding in me. However, author's sense of humor, acid  scorn or subtle remarks, pronounced by Mixtil, whether it concerned Aztec's  ways, human stupidity or Spanish concistadors, are amazingly to the  point.The book also proves that human joys and misery are always the same.   Enjoy this book, even if it makes you shudder every second page...what  remains after you finishthe book, is its humour and bloody imprints in your  memory.	2000-05-10
US	52270655	R2OCGA97MTEPBV	0671641778	325405829	The Firebrand	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Plain...	Unfortunately this book pales in comparison to &quot;Mists of Avalon&quot;: although the mythology is as legendary as the ones of King Arthur's era, characters are plain, one-dimensional and some of them simply  deserve to be killed because of their stubborness or arrogancy. Lady  Cassandra seems to be the one sober among them, but as noone listens to her  prophecies, they will end up in troubles, it is clear from the start.  Positive side: if you want to know who was who in legend of Troy, read this  book...	2000-05-10
US	52270655	R3EAKXYLF00EG2	0671704184	257613214	Weaveworld	Books	1	10	25	N	Y	Fanciful delirium...	I bought this book half-a-year ago and still did not finish it (I think I'll never will, neither do I have any wish): the beginning was so-so, and afterwards the author was completely lost in the creatures he himself  created,but for what purpose? It takes more to write a good book than  creating a delirious mess of queer monsters and worlds... I think it is my  second and last book by Barker.	2000-04-14
US	52270655	R36JDZSY051Z4P	0674403681	492040449	History of Women in the West, Volume II: Silences of the Middle Ages	Books	2	10	21	N	Y	A one-sided view...	One can at once notice the meticulous research that preceded the writing of the book, the more surprising is that the author describes only the reasons why women were considered &quot;vessels of sin&quot; in that period  of time and other hideous superstitions attributed to them. No line is  dedicated (and to believe that history had not preserved any evidence of  the contrary is laughable) about those mothers, mistresses, wifes, sisters  that had been deeply loved, adored and respected. To creat an opinion that  all women were either adored as saints or abhorred and violently  subjugated, would be, to my idea, misleading....	2000-04-14
US	52270655	RMOBNXCW4I6AH	0140153381	407852732	Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Biography	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	An excellent biography ...	Although I have been acquainted with a turbulent life of this amasing woman in fits and starts by reading different other historical books (fiction and non-fiction), by far this book surpasses them in richness of detailes and thorough approach. Account of Eleanor's life starts with her  ancestors, follows her happy cloudless childhood, sudden marriage to King  Louis of France, her relations in this ill-matched union, participation in  crusade, divorce, dazzling marriage to Henry II Plantagenet, her genious of  administration and support of chivalry culture, birth of numerous  &quot;eaglets&quot; and accounts of their lives, describes the cooling down  of matrimonial passion, exile, return to glory with the rule of Richard the  Lion Heart and disentegration of vast Plantagenet domains at John  Lackland's rule after Eleanor's death. It is not a dry account of facts,  but engrossing multicolored mosaic of names, feelings, deeds, customs and  reasons.  In her times a woman could be noted either by being a saint or  too scandalous: Eleanor was neither, but worth while being remembered after  800 years. Although I must add that one can feel at once that the author is  a woman and that the book was written in the 70s, when feministic movement  was in its height and we just started to re-discover anew the role of women  in history. However, now, 20 years later, after reading this book, no one  would disagree, that the author overpraised her heroine - Eleanor of  Aquitaine well deserves remembrance and admiration.	2000-04-06
US	52270655	R2KPO6H8O901Z9	0671012002	572080433	004: The Age of Faith (The Story of Civilization, Volume 4)	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Engrossing...	Although it is obvoius that to squeeze 7 centuries of history of Europe and Asia Minor into 1 volume (although very thick) is a task for an ingenious historian, to make this volume engrossing and even fascinating -  is hardly achievable. But Mr. Durant's talent is unsurpassed: the book  contains summary of all important events - military and religeous, cultural  and social - as well as biographies of legendary personae of the times we  used to call the Dark Ages. But the language of the book and the details it  provides are not just dry facts (which makes many other similar  compilations boring and easily forgettable), the author makes you feel and  understand the customs and rites of the epoch, its way of dressing, food,  family relations..., by drawing parallels with our times.  I have read  quite a few books on history of that period, and by far, this book,  employing a special scientific approach, is the best, although written  several decades ago: it throbbs with the echo of life of centuries long  past.	2000-04-05
US	52270655	R3PLMFN9X5LJ16	1567310141	763666725	Caesar and Christ: A History of Roman Civilization and of Christianity from Their Beginnings to A.D. 325 (Story of Civilization)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Proves tha thistory can be fascinating...	One must have a talent to write about history in such vivid and colorful style, being able to give an overview of all aspects of a period - wars, heroes and politicians of the epoch, way of living, arts, medicine,  customs, family etc. without becoming dry of language and just merely  reciting the widely known. Even if you think you knew a lot about Romans  and their ancestors, you fill find out many new facts. It is a civilization   which was brought to ruins by its own thirst for power, ambitions and  vice, but Christianity, to me personally, pales in comparison to its  grandeur and achievements... Definetely it is not a book you will gulp  overnight, but it will be bringing you many exciting hours of absorbing  reading.	2000-03-31
US	52270655	R3H2ASTF6RHPV2	0965972194	695571716	The Forgotten Queen (Warrior Queen Series)	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	Nice love story, but completely fictional...	If you are in a mood of reading some romance staff, go on... If you want real historical fiction, true-to-life characters and atmosphere, go search somewhere else. Although the storyline is within the popular historical myth (or not myth, but I'm afraid we shall never know for sure: That Henry  was Mathilda's and Stephen's son etc), the way characters act (especially  Mathilda, although she is the King's daughter, would not be allowed by  standards of behaviour of her time to spit her newly-wed husband, the King  (!), in the face, nor would he tolerate it), is completely unpersuasive.  They remind me characters of some modern soap-opera. True, I agree that  intrigues and affairs existed in all times, but why dress them in 12th  century costumes then?	2000-03-14
US	52270655	R5HTLKDCX3VN	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Too slow in the beginning and never speeds up...	Sharing one of the reviewr's opinions below, I'm writing this review to pull down the average rate of the book. The synopsis and reviews sounded very promising, and I hoped to read some clever SF that I'm missing so  much. The book definetely has its potential, but it starts slowly,  painfully slowly.. tantalising the reader ... constant leaps to the past  seemed often irrelevant. The characters are plain and dry with funny French  last names. When they died, I felt no sympathy. Mr. Sandoz was the only one  who evoked pity in me with his misery and because those other Jesuits were  plaguing him constantly, but as the enigma of what happened to him was  dangled in front of me for too long, when he told his awful story in the  last chapters of the book, it never had the effect the author probably has  planned it would do.	2000-03-02
US	52270655	R37MF0QY6WSA7O	0786705248	838947513	The Cornerstone	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Makes you shudder with revulsion and sympathy...	The book continues to narrate the life-story of the characters and their children started in &quot;the World is not Enough&quot;. This book is much more sadder and some scenes are simply horrible in their cruelty to accept  (unless we forget the atrocities of the 20th century). Events of their  family lives (adulters, plunders, squabbles, first &quot;blossoms&quot; of  the Chivalric culture), description of religious persecution in France and  piligrimage to the Holy Land, Saracen captivity - the life of the 12th  century comes alive in its horror and nakedness.  Although I enjoyed the  book, now it is difficult for me to return and re-read it - the emotions  are too strong to handle sometimes ...	2000-02-23
US	52270655	R1AF3X29RRM2KF	0786705779	373973769	Destiny of Fire	Books	1	3	19	N	Y	One-dimensial...	First two books of the author are accessible to everyone interested in historical fiction and I enjoyed them immensely. This book, unfortunately, completely failed my expectations. Unless you are a fanatic of theological  disputes or a specialist in religious trends, you do not need to spend your  money on the book. The previus reviewer has very precisely formulated the  thoughts the book evoked in me. The sect seems to be doomed from the start  and as they are drawn so one-dimensially, you feel absolutely no pity...  One crowd of fanatics less, so History erased them from its pages...	2000-02-23
US	52270655	R2RP9T2SETN6D6	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Heart-wrenching...	Describing one of the notorious history misteries - Pope Joan, mere existance of whom has long been denied by the Church officials, the author spins a tale about the Dark Age, when mere human existance was a risk in  itself. Me not being a very sensitive type, the story sometimes made my  heart wrench in agony of simpathy and compassion towards Joan. True, the  beliefs and concept of laws, public and moral (or rather their total  absence), can shock a modern libertated woman-reader. The love story in the  book is touching and lethal, the narration flows flawless, although it is  clear that the story is more fictional than true. The epilogue by the  author is very helpful, too.	2000-02-23
US	52270655	RS5SKKWLPD9FN	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Awfull !	I have read a dozen of King's books, and, although all his books are different and sometimes have flaws, this one was simply a loss of money. Delirious characters, &quot;pure evil&quot; that finally appeared when I was half through the book (I must say I even didn't finish it at all),  blood-bath instead of a plot.  I am amazed how many people found this book  interesting - or are they all under 15 years old?	2000-01-26
US	52270655	R3MRC28BWQAHCG	0312872933	622668415	Others	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Disappointing ,don't believe the add	It seems that I belong to the minority  who does not find this book amusing at all. It promises a lot but ends as a freak show run by a dastard Doctor who has a mummy as his twin-brother. Yes, Hell is mentioned in the  prologue (however quite unpersuasive), but in the end there is absolutely  no connection with the beginning of the book. Oh, and I forgot to mention  Mr. Dismas, who somehow did not cause a stir of pity in me (despite him  being beaten several times during the book for the obvious purpose to  stress &quot;the moral&quot; of the book - that it is difficult for him to  live this sick life among us, sick people). The narration is too verbose  and repetitive at times. The author seem to have spent lots of times  visualizing his monters before depicting them on paper, but &quot;scary  monsters do not a book make&quot;, nor a weak love story between the two  invalids either... It was the first Herbert's book I read, I don 't know  whether it is worth to start another...	2000-01-25
US	52270655	R52LHGI8DOUW5	0804102988	767740511	Sarum: The Novel of England	Books	3	26	30	N	N	Not a magnificent, but an original book	Definetely NOT the best historical fiction I've ever read, but the book with a difference - it almost does not contain descriptions of events that changed the country, except for the main guidelines. They serve as a  background for tracing destinies of 4 common families, back from the  pre-historical mists till modernity.  As you won't find here no  heart-wrenching love stories, nor portraits of great historical persons, it  might seem boring (and I was often lost in the debris of family trees of  the main characters), and it often is. But after I have finished the book  (it took me a couple of weeks), I felt a little sad, for human generations  stem from immemorial times and generations ceaselessly go on, even if we,  people of modernity, sometimes forget about it... Read the book, if you are  in a philosophical or contemplative mood...	2000-01-18
US	52270655	RD4P1SKXTW5F2	0609602934	59736501	The Descent: A Novel	Books	4	23	29	N	N	It should have contained 700 pages	THE BOOK IS DEFINETLY WORTH READING!  Although I'm 25 and it is difficult to impress me with an original/imaginative horror or thriller story (maestroes King, Koontz and Barker left me disappointed too often), the  first 4 chapters of the book I read on one breath. Further on the narration  slows down occasionally, still I was glued to the book every free moment I  had. The idea of Hell and its inhabitants and their influence on human  civilization fascinated me, because it is real and unnatural phenomena can  be explained by natural causes. This book is like a gripping action movie -  you are so in it, that forget author's lapses of logics or narration. And  yet only 4 stars, because the book might have been SO EXCELLENT and the  best thriller I had ever read, but for that it should have contained some  200 pages more and answered all questions that popped in my mind concerning  the history and decline of hadal civilization, Satan and his reincarnation  and so many more. Judging by other reviews I had read, other readers  are  of the same opinion. But maybe there will be a sequel in plans, then we can  hope for something?	1999-11-19
US	52270655	R16H7VK358YD5U	0786704896	92785803	The World Is Not Enough	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	a fascinating medieval life recreation	This is the best book I have purchased on this site so far. It has in plenty what I appreciate most in historical novels - realism of depicting. The epoch - violent and passionate - comes to life so that you will be  re-reading this book to savour every detail once more. The people look,  talk and behave as they probably would have been in the 12th century. They  are loving and caring, cruel and merciless, aspiring and constantly  warring. The violence, filth, blind devotion or unacceptable, to  &quot;modern&quot; times, customs and concepts, is what makes the book  different. I have bought 2 more books of the same author afterwards.	1999-09-03
US	52270655	R2LGKT1350O0US	0425098648	469342893	Night Chills	Books	2	1	2	N	N	rather boring	The book, because written in the 70s, seemed rather old fashioned, although the topic of mind-controlling is always actual. The chief villain Ogden seemed rather one-dimensional because of his obsession to humiliate   all women within his reach. What the author really managed to do  is to raise profound feeling of disgust for him. Otherwise, quite an  ordinary &quot;train reading stuff&quot;.	1999-09-01
US	52270655	R2KS8WPP5CYVAE	0375704035	902953844	King Hereafter	Books	2	6	16	N	Y	Impressive, but boring...	Being an avid reader of historical fiction and attracted by the subject and praising (mainly) reviews of the book, unfortunately, after having started to read the book I couldn't make it further than the 20th page.  Then it became clear to me that I simply can 't read it any more, because I  already forgot what I had read 10 pages before. The background research  performed by the author is impressive, and the book might have been a  splendid read if only the characters were not drawn so one-dimensially. Has  there been something else in their life than intrigues? Feasts, passion,  life at home? They are mentioned only as background for innumerable  meetings, strifles and scheming.Unfortunately it gives impression of an old  chronicle, not of a book sparkling with true-to life characters.	1999-07-28
US	52270655	R1AABW92JFES5G	089733356X	974943131	In a Dark Wood Wandering: A Novel of the Middle Ages	Books	3	14	21	N	Y	Dumas style - but you can find better	The book reminded me of Dumas novels, though this book is more historically authentic - rich in epoch detailes and magnificent personages. Author's talent in describing the intrigue spinning courtiers and knowledge  of historical facts is undoubtful. But something was missing - everyday  life, or passion?  What makes you feel the real life as if you are  travelling back in time.The description of the mad king is probably the  best description in the book.  Otherwise, try reading Zoe Oldenbourg's  novels - then you will understand what I mean.	1999-07-28
