US	52276534	R21SNI59AG6WJ6	0679642757	584670950	The Wrong Side of Paris	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Lively and fun &quot;new&quot; Balzac	There is something immensely comforting in reading a book by one of your favorite authors. In college, Balzac was always one of my favorite writers, mostly due to the scope of his lifelong writing project, a brilliant attempt to encapsulate all of Parisian life through fiction; the magic, politics, economics, and religion of a very unique group of people.<br />This new translation is a wonderful addition to any English-speaking Balzac fan's shelf. Here you'll find Balzac's incessant cataloging of Parisian society set amidst an intriguing story. Godefroid, a directionless drifter, finds himself initiated into an underground religious group which performs acts of charity for the truly needy and unfortunate.<br />The story consists mainly of Godefroid's education in the ways of the group and his application of that knowledge to his first &quot;charitable assignment.&quot; I won't give anything specific away by telling you that there is marvelous twist in the story that gracefully pulls everything together at the end of the book.<br />This is a book with a big heart and will not disappoint fans of Balzac. I only wish that someone would create a modern English translation of all of his novels. I guess I'm going to have to study back up on my French if I really want to read them all...	2004-01-22
US	52276534	R1ORM0Y6KZNSTP	0812968190	464158273	Revenge: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Story recap: Brood for years, revenge as quickly as possible	There are a few wonderfully written scenes in &quot;Revenge.&quot; Unfortunately, they all come before any actual revenge occurs. While the book spends a great deal of time setting a plausible scene, setting characters' motives in play, and following Ned Maddstone's transformation from hapless schoolchum to international man of mystery, the end of the book happens so quickly that Fry might have just as well said &quot;and then he got back at all the people that wronged him.&quot; &quot;Revenge&quot; failed for me as a reader because it unduly strained my credulity and resolved itself with far too much haste. This book would have benefited greatly from a more nuanced and thoroughly plotted completion to its story. It pained me to read the afterword to this book and listen to Stephen Fry babble about how he planned out this novel in his head and about how he's not the &quot;index-card, scenario, or flow-chart sort of person.&quot; Those are the precise actions I would want to see him use if he were to try a similar project in the future.	2003-09-20
US	52276534	R16GO1O0CQI4WX	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	3	3	3	N	N	How to be Average	It's difficult to call a book with so much good material &quot;average&quot;, but that's what I'm doing here. Hornby has written a nebulous book which flirts with some very interesting themes while never quite acheiving any breakthroughs. Consider this a warning that &quot;How To Be Good&quot; will leave you unfulfilled.<br />Told in the first person, through the eyes of a woman named Katie, the story is basically the whining examinations of herself and family, none of whom the reader is given to care anything about. Amazingly enough, moments in the text are downright pithy and beautiful, they just don't add up to a &quot;well-crafted&quot; story. Read it if you are a huge fan of Hornby but stick to better fare if you are just introducing yourself to him.	2003-09-02
US	52276534	R39W97AVTB1L2Y	055337849X	208985901	The Brothers K	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Epic Saga of a Northwest Family	Now I am not one that tends to go in for sentimental claptrap. After reading the reviews of this title, it was with trepidation that I took this book off of my &quot;to read&quot; shelf (it had been sitting there untouched for almost two years). The book was gift from a friend of mine - a writer that had been trying to sell me on its virtues and finally just decided to buy me a copy.<br />I see why my writer friend enjoyed this book so much. Beginning the read, I quickly became engrossed in the fate of the Chance family. This book is immensely sprawling and well written, following a large family through multiple decades of their lives and bringing everything together in a large string of climaxes near its end. The narrative is complex in that it is told through multiple people, through letters, newspaper articles, etc. I get the feeling that it was wonderful fun for Duncan to map this behemoth out before &quot;setting pen to paper.&quot;<br />Admirably, most of the time &quot;The Brothers K&quot; is heartfelt without getting overwraught or feeling forced. Even though some of the circumstances will test your credulity, in general they seem &quot;just likely enough&quot; to be possible. The central family is diverse, colorful, and alternates between being dysfunctional and supportive of each other, just like almost every family I know.<br />This is a book for folks that like their fiction down to earth, rustic, and with eminent faith in that great American institution known as &quot;the family.&quot; If you like books like &quot;A River Runs Through It&quot; or find yourself attending epic large-budget movies (and enjoying them) this could be the story for you.	2003-08-26
US	52276534	R3ULST6N8MR6BO	0896086348	55583096	Propaganda and the Public Mind	Books	5	12	13	N	N	For a life more illuminated...	Love him or hate him, Noam Chomsky serves a vital role to any thoughtful and/or politically minded individual in the United States today. By focusing on what you're NOT hearing from the major media sources and political powers, Chomsky engages his audiences by exhaustively cataloging his sources and letting them make their own decisions on what they need to do with the information.<br />This book represents some of the most accessible Chomsky that you can buy. Comprised of a series of interviews with Alternative Radio founder, David Barsamian, \\"Propaganda and the Public Mind\\" does exactly what you would expect it to do; exposing propaganda as a weapon used by the powerful, how it can be recognized, and showing the extraordinary impact normal people can have when they work towards the right sort of changes. Even while discussing grave issues, Noam manages to convey his faith that positive action is alive and well. As a lovely bonus to the interviews themselves, the resources section of the book will help you get as deeply into any of the subject matter as you dare.<br />I was thrilled by this book. If I were a doctor, I would prescribe an essay a day (which, unfortunately would only last a week for this book) as an antidote for the daily news.	2003-07-28
US	52276534	RXQOWZIQXACPV	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Liberal Revolution	For those of you willing to hatch a revolution against conservative governments working you too hard and paying you too little, this is your book. Learn to plot you own liberal revolution and improve your chances of success! Hurl large moon rocks at Earth if they won't accept your demands!<br />I found this book to be more accomplished than &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land&quot; in almost every way imaginable. While there are some dated concepts, especially with regard to gender relations, the plotting of this book and its in-depth study of other concepts more than makes up its shortcomings. This is a wonderful novel of political ideals and intrigue. It explores environmental concepts of living at peace (and maintaining equilibrium) with your surroundings, the potentially destabilizing impact of globalization, and the eventualities of pure capitalism.<br />Read this book.  You will not be sorry.	2003-07-03
US	52276534	R1WG96WMAJAD6T	0312965338	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	4	29	35	N	N	Exhilerating	This is a book for the adventuresome. While the writing is not as polished as the effort by Krakauer, it does indeed convey what it needs to, adequately enough that an interesting story unfolds. At the very heart of the book are interesting questions about the commercialization of high altitude climbing (nowhere more obscenely displayed than on Everest) and the commitment level of those that choose to undertake such a climb. Everest attracts thrill-seekers, as well as those who want to engage a challenge. Anatoli Boukreev, lead climber on the Mountain Madness team, definitely falls into the latter camp (as do most mountain guides). As someone that worked up to big mountain climbs over many years of climbing, continuously pushing his self-reliance in a measured manner, he is the epitome of what is to be a climber. The clients he led on Everest, however, came from various backgrounds, with varied levels of conditioning, mountain proficiency, etc.<br />As much as Everest clients may believe that they have an understanding of the danger and hardship that such a climb proposes, it is difficult to do so without the context that comes from years of experience.<br />This book was written as a rebuttal to claims made by Krakauer in his book but its true rewards to the reader lie elsewhere. The sad truth of the matter is that only the individuals on the mountain will ever really know what was running through their own heads at the time that critical decisions were made. Having a coherent thought above 8,000 meters is enough of a challenge without having the lives of clients in your hands.<br />At some point, a decision was made for Anatoli to descend in front of his clients. We will never know whether this was right or wrong, but we do know its outcome. Anatoli, as a mountaineer, is legendary, and this book gives real insight into how he climbed and the way he thought about and appreciated the mountains in which he lived. Regardless of the questions surrounding his descent, he ended up saving lives and making repeated forays into conditions where others would not / could not dare. For those of you with similar climbing appreciation or interests, the book is great reading on solely those grounds., he ended up saving lives and making repeated forays into conditions where others would not / could not dare. For those of you with similar climbing appreciation or interests, the book is great reading on solely those grounds.	2003-04-25
US	52276534	R24BFTH1O8SL6Z	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An "A" for effort...	Not intending to be harsh, I did really enjoy this book and am glad I finally read it, but I'm having a hard time determing why this book has changed so many lives. Why do so many people list this book as the single book they would take with them if they were stranded on an island? The adaptive transformation of martian Michael Valentine Smith to his surroundings as the story progresses is fascinating, but the overall philosophy promoted is dated and flawed; dated in its representation of racial stereotypes and gender roles; flawed in that it only works by a select pseudo-religious group capitalizing on an outside world they consider to be \\"marks.\\" Stylistically speaking, I think the plot of this book moved much in the same way as any of the books by Ayn Rand. This is certainly not to say that the authors promote the same ideals, only to say that the highly nuanced mapping of their plot, and the use of characters to embody simplified ideals is similar.<br />This is definitely a book to be read, especially as a guage for what good science fiction is capable of, and to understand it's cult status within the genre. I believe, however, that you can find better more subtle, thoughtful, and sensitive work out there by writers like Samuel Delany (\\"Trouble on Triton\\" springs to mind).	2003-03-21
US	52276534	R2UJJNJ3GMA8ZL	0898866618	162097065	100 Classic Backcountry Ski & Snowboard Routes in Washington	Books	4	10	10	N	N	By far, the best backcountry ski/board guide available in WA	Reading the other reviews of this book, I felt that people were ganging up on the author and that I just needed to chime in with my two cents worth. I believe this book to be far and away the best backcountry skiing/snowboarding guide available for Washington. These are the epic routes and memorable peaks that are the stuff of touring legend. I have found the route descriptions to be highly accurate and the maps to be fine for the purposes of illustration. After all, you should really have a full USGS or at least Green Trails map when you go into these areas anyways. The only thing I wish had a bit more consideration are snowboard specific hazards such as long flat or uphill areas along the descent. These add drastically to estimated times, especially when postholing is involved. That, however, is my minor quibble. I've made several of the trips in this book and loved them all (even last weekend when I broke my splitboard out by the Sulphide Glacier). Hardly a weekend passes where I do not have this  book out planning my next escapades with my climbing partner. An admirable job on highly variable subject matter. Now, if I can just find a book that accurately predicts what the snowpack will look like for a given day...	2003-03-06
US	52276534	R13BJFTW0N1UR	0156027607	74781857	Solaris	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More questions than answers	Most readers come to a book hoping for some sort of escalating tension and crafty resolution. &quot;Solaris&quot; is a sublime fiction precisely because it knows this and resolves its conflicts in a unique way, deciding to leave the reader with more questions than whan they began. It's a deeply philosophical and thoughtful examination of what actual contact with an alien intelligence might look like. It also touches on the nature of scientific exploration and the sometimes false security that our knowledge lends us. This book is Stanislaw Lem at his crafty and subtle best and I would highly recommend it to anyone.	2003-01-28
US	52276534	R3EW8LI9GVXF49	037571894X	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Murakami: Creative Force	&quot;A Wild Sheep Chase&quot; is a wonderful and colorful read. Ostensibly the story of a nameless and flat protagonist as he searches for the answer to a puzzling riddle, the story sees to wander greatly in the first two-thirds of the book. The lead character, coerced into searching for a missing and mysterious sheep, never seems to sense the urgency of what his failure could mean. He is a character who feels he has nothing to lose. Indeed, his only redeeming characteristics seem to be that he cares for a missing friend (called &quot;The Rat&quot;) and that he has enough curiosity to even push him towards an attempt at solving the riddle.<br />While the protagonist is very much an empty vessel, the reader of this book will find themselves attracted to the detached yet interesting interactions with some of the other main characters. The characters and scenes, for the most part, are David Lynch-like; quirky, with murky motives, and strange communications.<br />Structurally, the book wanders around a bit while getting started. It feels as if the author just started writing one day and learned how to tie it all together as he went along (near the end of the book). Even so, while it may feel that not much plot progress is being made, however, Murakami is able to delight the reader enough with his inventiveness that the story seems worthwhile. The book climaxes with a brilliant metaphyical dialogue between the protagonist and his friend. The last several chapters are done so well, I had to read them a couple of times and scribble all over the pages (that's surely a good sign).<br />I found Murakami to have a concise and enjoyable writing style that is deceptively simple for the deeply layered plot it conveyed. I certainly wil be recommending the book to my friends.	2003-01-10
US	52276534	R3L7DPEOFE65RO	0765303884	96820989	White Apples	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Surreal Philanderer Seeks Beautiful Non-Committal Women	Vincent Ettrich was once dead. Now that he's returned to life, he has discovered that he's soon to be a father to a child the world will desperately need. Isabelle, the mother, is the one that brought him back. Pursued by destructive forces, and helped along by benificent guardians (including the unborn fetus itself), the two attempt to protect their unborn child and themselves from death, chaos, and a sinister henchman known only as \\"King of the Park\\". Somehow this all makes much more sense in the book.<br />Jonathan Carroll is one hell of a good writer and I look forward to reading some of his other work. Not one to be cubby-holed into a genre, this book spans fiction, fantasy, science fiction, and a beautifully portrayed look at metaphysics without so much as batting an eyelash. The dialog is written wonderfully. The scenes between Vincent and his women really sparkle. I tore through this book in a day - which I haven't done for any book in quite some time. While the book is not without a couple of loose ends, the ambience more than makes up for it and makes this one you should place high on your reading list.	2002-11-05
US	52276534	R1EDN02WVKRQ3F	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A rewarding chore	Chuck Palahniuk is a clunky idea stylist. I initially found the writing to be stilted and laborious but later warmed up to it. This is a quick read, even at near 300 pages. While the overall book does have some structure, most of it only becomes apparent after the 150 pages or so. Unfortunately, this makes the beginning feel like you're wallowing in misery along with the apathetic lead character - Victor Mancini.<br />Victor is like many people in that he's never really live up to his expectations. In fact, he's quit trying. He's a listless sex-addict with an addled mother in the hospital, a poor mindless daily job, a con-artist by evening, who has a friend with even less direction than himself.<br />Victor is happy to take the blame for other people's misfortune, even when he has nothing to do with it - a real sadomasochist. This story is about what happens when Victor's reality gets pulled out from under him and he has to come clean to everyone he's deluded - especially himself. It's also a story about inspiration and how it can be found in the strangest places. Stick through this one to the end. It's worth it. I would think that fans of Irvine Welsh would really like this book.	2002-10-30
US	52276534	R2W3RTRWT7Z9VZ	0156340402	536588166	The Futurological Congress: From the Memoirs of Ijon Tichy	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Livin' the lap of luxury...maybe...	This book will make you think of the world differently. I guarantee that you will question the value of subjectivity by the time you're done.<br />Lately, I've been asking friends to loan me books that changed their lives or that have found particularly noteworthy. I asked this in an attempt to broaden my reading background and also to learn more about my friends. I've always considered myself a science/speculative fiction fan but had never heard of Stanislaw Lem until this book was loaned to me. After this wonderful first experience, I will certainly be tracking down a few more copies of some of his other titles.<br /><br />This book embodies everything that good science fiction should be - using the future to teach us more about our present. \\"The Futurological Congress\\" is a heavily layered book that relies on the reader to engage the storyline and draw parallels to the present day. The text (in translation) is spare enough to be clear and move the plot along rapidly, while also being satirical and comical at the same time.<br />I don't want to go into the plot in too much depth since folks before me have already done an admirable job in that regard, but suffice it to say that reality becomes almost immediately problematized and you will not be able to figure out what is fact or fiction within the world of the book (not that it matters). Ijon Tichy, the main character, goes to attend a conference called the \\"Futurological Congress\\", where all sorts of folks discuss the future directions of humanity. During the conference, a popular revolution places the scientists in danger. Drugged by the hotel water supply, hallucinating hotel guests hide out in the sewer. It gets more insane from there...<br />If you like Philip K. Dick's more mindbending works like \\"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\\" or \\"Ubik,\\" you will love this one by Lem. At a scant 150 pages, you'll truck right on through it and then wonder whether you actually read it.	2002-10-17
US	52276534	R2KL3HQ7CI9XR4	0192817639	420375395	Rob Roy (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Quaint Story of a Bohemian and his Guardian Angel	Francis Osbaldistone forgoes a position in his father's firm to pursue an existence closer to his own ideals, travel and adventure. In order to even maintain a sufficent income from his father, however, he is sent on an errand to visit relatives in Northern England, and there to locate a replacement for himself in his father's firm from amongst his cousins. Due to a mishap on the road there, however, Francis is cast into a difficult legal situation and quickly learns that there are political and passionate motives behind his being unjustly accused.<br />This book really reads almost as if it it two different novels. The first half of the book concerns the time that Francis spends at Osbaldistone hall, where he learns that there are undisclosed secrets, some of which implicate him without his knowledge. It is also here that he falls head over heels in love with an unattainable woman. The tension that these scenes create is palpable and enjoyable. Scott is wonderful with English dialogue and his description of the English countryside, its inhabitants, and the activities that consume their day to day existence.<br />Somewhere along the way, however, the book shifts gears rather dramatically, merely echoing its previous sentimentality and thought. The book becomes more active and more of a travel narrative in Scotland, where a good deal of lawlessness occurs in the hills. Here you'll find the title elusive title character embroiled in his own local political intrigues while also endeavoring to support Francis in his own quest.<br />Scottish dialect, while faithfully recorded, makes the reading difficult, and at some times arduous. I did find, though, that if you read these phonetically, that you quickly attain the language necessary to follow along. Take the time up front to figure out the Scottish translations and you'll be better suited when it becomes a large part of the latter half of the book.<br />All in all, I found this to be quite an enjoyable read, although not on the same level as &quot;Ivanhoe,&quot; which I think is superior in just about every way. If you've already read &quot;Ivanhoe,&quot; and enjoyed it, you will probably like this book as well. I could have potentially given this book 5 stars if I felt that if the protagonist did not have to shift gears so suddenly.ot on the same level as &quot;Ivanhoe,&quot; which I think is superior in just about every way. If you've already read &quot;Ivanhoe,&quot; and enjoyed it, you will probably like this book as well. I could have potentially given this book 5 stars if I felt that if the protagonist did not have to shift gears so suddenly.	2002-07-10
US	52276534	R3I6AD6NX2I1A8	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Warning: Marathon Caffeinated Reading Session Required	This book is so brutally beautiful and well-written that I have a hard time knowing where to start. First of all, if you're a fan of well-constructed fantasy cityscapes, this book is going to be your cup of tea. Every neighborhood within New Crobuzon is alive and teeming with activity; the streets breathe, the skies are alive with flying critters, the rivers are bursting with life, and a frightening surgically-altered murderer stalks the quiet alleyways by night. Colorful descriptions of the buildings, the inhabitants, and how they relate to the areas around them, are fascinating in their own rite - without even getting to any of the plot of the book.<br />I think what I love most about this book is the total lack of sentimentality for its protagonists. Here, just as in real life, good intentions don't necessarily get the job done; random events have very real and negative repercussions on nice people.<br />The plot is positively scintillating and the writing is absolutely among the best I've seen from any fiction writer.  Set amid a backdrop of political intrigue, pseudo-science, and crackpot philosophies, a monstrous lifeform is unwittingly released upon the city. In order to stop it and save the city, the cooperation of a disparate group of concerned outlaws, citizens, and other unclassifiable entities is required.<br />Drop everything and fire up the coffee, it's going to be a long night.	2002-05-04
US	52276534	R14PVBL5V5HKGG	1573228729	4143821	Pastoralia	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Not your standard pastorals	I strongly recommend George Saunders's fiction to anyone that enjoys cynicism dished up with a dollop of hope. The six stories contained in this book are for those who like their stories dark and comical. Here you will find folks living in a theme-park cave for money, a dead aunt returning from the grave to get what she feels she deserved in life, hyper-critical barbers, and hateful children.<br />Despite all of the depressing characters that one visits while reading this book, the stories resonate because of their humanity and occasional acts of selflessness. Saunders's characters are at their best when they drop their egoism, realize their unhappiness, and address it via minute or drastic means. The gratifying part about all of this is that you become the character telling each of the stories - thinking their thoughts and seeing the world through their first-person narratives. This recurring theme gives the stories a voyeuristic quality that is highly engaging. Read this book in as few sittings as possible - you will not be sorry.	2002-02-26
US	52276534	R2O2XUCZSVMSSF	0312288468	144791964	An Unexpected Light: Travels in Afghanistan	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Reminder of why things are the way they are...	Jason Elliot gives us a lyrical and cogent account of the Afghan people, their country, and their history in this moving travelogue. If you're looking for a book that gives you a pre-September 11th look at Afghanistan, look no further. Elliot, a British traveler, gives himself over to the spirit of travel and Afghan hospitality with a frequency and a belief in fate that is astounding. I thoroughly enjoyed Elliot's numerous forays into hostile territories and his accounts of the people that went out of their way to protect him and give him lodging. As a fairly recent travelogue, this serves as an interesting look into where things stood, just before recent events that resurfaced interest in Afghanistan - a nation which we (the US) had paid little attention to since the Soviet occupation ended more than a decade ago. Highly recommended. The only reason I gave it four stars, as opposed to 5, were a couple of long winded flights of historical fancy, that took away some of the book's impact.	2001-12-21
US	52276534	R2MKD93ZFN91QE	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Diabolical romp	This book wallows in its own mischievousness and comes out the better for it. Following Grenouille, the main character, through France as he learns the perfume trade, you want to feel sorry for him, his inauspicious beginnings - being sold into slave labor as a child and never receiving the opportunities given to other children. Grenouille, however, doesn't feel sorry for himself. In fact, it his detached malevolence, continually distending as the novel progresses, that begins to truly frighten you. This beautiful book toys with stylistic parallels to both Gothic and &quot;coming-of-age&quot; stories, but it does so with a notable slant that comes to one deliciously dark climax. I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2001-08-26
US	52276534	R33WKUJQYMW7EK	0874137209	485054521	Pynchon and Mason & Dixon	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Incredibly useful	As anyone that reads Pynchon novels can tell you, trying to get at all of the different potential readings of his novels can be downright difficult. If you snooze your way through a couple pages, you invariably are going to miss some of the sub-plots, or even keys to one of the on-going plots. Every novel of his that I finish, makes me realize that I need to go back and read with a different eye towards the actions and events of the text. To me, this is the mark of a great artist - enjoyable and rewarding every time, with something new to offer upon each successive return.<br />This companion collection of literary criticism regarding &quot;Mason and Dixon&quot;, with contributions by some of the preeminent scholars on Pynchon, doubtless increased my enjoyment of the book several-fold on my first time through it. For that, even given the steep price, I have to heartily recommend this title. Since the novel itself takes over much of your life for an extended period of time, you may as well assign an appropriate level of importance to it and go for the highest level of comprehension that you can.<br />I know with absolute certainy that when I go back for a second read of &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon,&quot; that this book will be my map towards a more detailed reading.<br />Here are a list of the papers included:<br />&quot;Foreshadowing the Text,&quot; Irving Malin<br />&quot;Mason &amp; Dixon in the Zone, or, A Brief Poetics of Pynchon-Space,&quot; Brian McHale<br />&quot;'Cranks of Ev'ry Radius': Romancing the Line in 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Arthur Saltzman<br />&quot;Thomas Pynchon and the Fault Lines of America,&quot; Donald J. Greiner<br />&quot;Mapping the Course of Empire in the New World,&quot; David Seed<br />&quot;Dimming the Enlightenment: Thomas Pynchon's 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Victor Strandberg<br />&quot;The Sound of One Man Mapping: Wicks Cherrycoke and the Eastern (Re)solution,&quot; Joseph Dewey<br />&quot;Reading at the 'Crease of Credulity',&quot; Bernard Duyfhuizen<br />&quot;Historical Documents Relating to 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot;  David Foreman<br />&quot;Plucking the American Albatross: Pynchon's Irrealism in 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Jeff Baker<br />&quot;Plot, Ideology, and Compassion in 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Thomas H. Schaub<br />&quot;'Mason &amp; Dixon' Bibliography,&quot; Clifford S. Meadt; Bernard Duyfhuizen<br />&quot;Historical Documents Relating to 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot;  David Foreman  <br />&quot;Plucking the American Albatross: Pynchon's Irrealism in 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Jeff Baker<br />&quot;Plot, Ideology, and Compassion in 'Mason &amp; Dixon',&quot; Thomas H. Schaub<br />&quot;'Mason &amp; Dixon' Bibliography,&quot; Clifford S. Mead	2001-05-11
US	52276534	R1MNYVF674IQ72	0812536037	761340975	Songs of Earth And Power	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the better fantasy novels	For those of you interested in seeing how good fantasy can actually<br />be, you should read this book and give it the chance to show<br />you. &quot;Songs of Earth and Power&quot; is epic in scope, with the<br />title character battling to preserve life on Earth. What is<br />refreshing, however, are the physics of how the interconnected worlds are<br />portrayed.<br />The basic premise is that &quot;Songs of Power,&quot;<br />create new worlds or change them when played in certain ways. Only the<br />creators of these songs, and sometimes not even them, know to what<br />extent this actually happens. A \\"Song of Power\\" can be any item which takes artistry to create - a poem, painting, wine, etc.<br />The story is told as a sort of coming<br />of age story for the main character, Michael Perrin. When he starts,<br />he is a bookish, self-proclaimed young poet attempting to discover<br />intrigue. A mysterious neighbor gives him the chance. Before he knows<br />it, Michael is thrust into another world where he must adapt to<br />survive. Ultimately, he must become more powerful than he ever<br />anticipated to save the human race.<br />Any author or artist has to like<br />the idea of their work changing the world. I would recommend this book<br />to any young dreamer searching for inspiration. While some of the<br />basic premises have been done in other terrible works before<br />(i.e. young boy versus the world), the execution here is novel enough<br />to warrant a read.	2001-04-10
US	52276534	R1FPFEX06Y0YZ4	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	2	9	10	N	N	A little too &quot;crafted&quot;	Ian McEwan is a very good writer, this just does not happen to be a very good book. The writing is crisp and sparse, just as I was told by the friend who loaned it to me, but the plot is so threadbare that I found the ending to be broadcast well in advance of when it should have been. I know that this style of story can work, it just doesn't here. Theoretically, you're supposed to get to the end of the book and not be able to believe that you read right past the clues that you needed. Unfortunately, this book is so sparse that the plot elements all point to the same culminative moment. 'Twas a pity because I expected more out of a Booker Prize winner. I guess what they say is true, you always win prizes one book too late.	2001-03-14
US	52276534	R1PU5SP4968OP9	0140189378	105415017	Seize the Day (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Condition of Modern Breakdown	Middle-aged Wilhelm las lost his sense of direction. He cannot find the means to support his wife and kids, who he recently walked out on, and is looking for pity and help from everyone that he can.<br />The premise may not sound that interesting but Bellow does an incredible job of showing how suppressing emotions come back to haunt us. Throughout this book, Wilhelm has several life-changing interactions with the other characters, and comes out a totally different person. These interactions are gracefully executed by Bellow, showing an amazing grasp of differing psyches and how they interact with others.<br />I don't want to give anything away, but Wilhelm's final confrontations with Tamkin and his father are absolutely amazing. If your interest can be held by an intensely personal journey (as opposed to a plot driven thriller), then this book may be for you. Once you've finished the book, just compare the opening paragraphs with the closing ones and you should get a hint of what you just gained. Doing so may even convince you to give it another go.	2001-03-09
US	52276534	R333VTPBO3UPSG	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic Character Studies	&quot;The Magus&quot; is wonderfully well written, packed with evocative character studies and relationships, and intensely plotted. This is one of those books where you don't know where the deception begins and ends (or even if it does).<br />The main character, Nicholas, accepts a teaching post on the small Greek island of Phraxos. Once there, he succumbs to the allure of a mysterious loner living on a remote corner of the island. Their interactions together are meant to challenge Nicholas's assumptions about himself, his place in the world, and the way he treats those around him. I don't want to give away how this is acheived, but it involves imaginative distortions of history and elaborately staged scenes.<br />Critics of this book tend to point to flat dispassionate characters as its main downfall. Ironically, this is precisely what makes the book the stunning case study that it is. Much of the language, especially with regards to the relationships between the characters, is cold and precise. That's exactly how it's supposed to be considering that you're not meant to know whether each event in the book is staged. If you figure that out early enough, you'll be better off and left free to enjoy the book for what it is - a clinical look at a morose young man and his disfunctional, energy-sapping relationship with the world. This is one of the most rewarding reads I have had in quite some time.	2001-03-06
US	52276534	R17MCTIA7DT230	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A look at the lovelorn	&quot;Shopgirl&quot; is a novella about the lovelorn in Los Angeles. Centering around four emotionally-damaged main characters, the plot is essentially how their personality traits mesh and change through their interactions with each other - how they attempt to discover the things which will make them feel alright with themselves.<br />It's a novella of personal compromise, where whatever is gained always involves the loss of something equally important. There's a sly sardonic humor at work here, and that's what makes this book so enjoyable. I am definitely impressed by Steve Martin's descriptive ability and the insight he brings to these characters. I would highly recommend reading the book in a single sitting as it is so cohesive and tight that it makes for a great experience. At 120 pages, setting aside a couple of hours shouldn't be that hard to do.	2000-12-11
US	52276534	R1P3GSNBW0KK4L	081121401X	229963176	The Book of Happiness	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beauty in Structure	This is an exquisite little book about a woman searching for her own version of happiness. Broken into three separate books, each detailing a different segment of her life, the books power lies in its simple elegance.<br />On the cover of the book, Berberova is compared to some of the absolute lions of Russian literature - Turgenev and Chekhov - which puts her in some good company. I really don't know if she's as good as those two, but she definitely has style and knows how to connote emotion well with sparse description. I do wish that she had spent more time giving us a setting and a time for the story. This book ends up being solely a personal journey, divorced from the happenings in Paris and St. Petersburg.<br />This book, in particular, reads and works like a short story and can be gone through in a couple of hours. I don't want to give away how the whole story operates but I want to make it clear that it can appear listless until you get to that last 20-30 pages - so you just HAVE to stick with it. The ending makes you want to go back to the beginning and read it again, hopefully with a clearer understanding of where the story is going and how the main character, Vera, is getting closer to finding what she seeks all along.<br />While I highly recommend the text, it does come at a fairly stiff financial price. I wish that there were a paperback available.	2000-09-15
US	52276534	R26I4G8NR7JA1L	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best High Mountain Account I Have Ever Read	Jon Krakauer states himself that writing this book was an act of catharsis  - a means of releasing the troubling thoughts which developed through the  writing of the original article in &quot;Outside&quot; magazine. The  decisions that he and the other survivors made on Everest will haunt them  for the rest of their natural lives.<br />The book spends a great deal of time  discussing what drives marginal mountaineers to undertake such a dangerous  climb. With the increase of guided expeditions there has been much  discussion about whether or not merely being a paying client is reason  enough to be allowed to take on such an undertaking. Krakauer's presence on  the climb, as paid for by &quot;Outside&quot; magazine, was meant to assess  the experience of the guided expedition.<br />Krakauer does a great job of  researching the backgrounds of the climbers on his team. He fleshes out  where they came from and their myriad motivations for wanting to  &quot;stand on top of the world.&quot; As a long-time climber himself, he  is able to see some of the dangerous potentialities inherant in such a  climb - especially when it involves folks lacking the requisite experience  for big mountain climbing. When things go right, the good guides on Everest  can get a lot of climbers to the top. When things go badly, however, or  poor decisions are made, situations can escalate in their severity very  quickly.<br />I applaud Jon for telling us all about his experience. His pain  over the deaths and his helplessness to do anything about some of them is  self-evident. There have been many who criticized him for not participating  more in the rescue efforts. I feel that such criticism is totally  unfounded. Jon was a paying customer, not a guide. If customers were to  start attempting rescues on the mountain, in all likelihood we would see  many more deaths and accidents every year. A customer does not have the  same responsibilities, nor the training, as the people they have paid to  take care of them. Whether or not customers should be on the mountain at  all is a debatable topic, but it's outlandish to hold them responsible for  their failures to perform rescue attempts in such conditions.<br />For anybody  intrigued by high-mountain adventure, this is an absolute, hands-down,  read-it-straight-through type of book. I can't believe that I waited so  long before finally getting to it.take care of them. Whether or not customers should be on the mountain at  all is a debatable topic, but it's outlandish to hold them responsible for  their failures to perform rescue attempts in such conditions.<br />For anybody  intrigued by high-mountain adventure, this is an absolute, hands-down,  read-it-straight-through type of book. I can't believe that I waited so  long before finally getting to it.	2000-08-23
US	52276534	R2S3DKIMBJAU7S	0812541979	549628767	Tea From An Empty Cup	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Give us a new world please...	First of all, Pat Cadigan at her worst is better than 95% of the science fiction authors out there. With that said, this debacle, &quot;Tea from an  Empty Cup,&quot; could use a little help. What is so disappointing for me  is that the general themes of this book rely so heavily on well-established  cyberpunk convention. Apocalyptic cityscapes, artificial realities, and  this Gibsonesque &quot;Japanese-ness&quot; all have been explored in more  unique ways before this book. While much of the book travels this old  territory, SOME of the ideas  are quite good. Cadigan is at her best when  exploring the nature of identity and its fallibilty in regards to  technological communities - it's what she did in both &quot;Synners&quot;  and &quot;Fools&quot; (both of which are better, more substantive books  than this one). This book is a mild success on that front, but it fails to  give us a new context in which to put it - to suss out all of the  ramifications of her theories. I think this text had the potential to be  much more dangerous and interesting if she had made these matters more  relevant and focused, possibly by building the world of the text around her  actual plot instead of this &quot;plug-and-play&quot; environment that has  been used countless times before. Using tried tropes of the cyberpunk field  is not a way to get past the work of setting up an environment that the  book could actually benefit from. In fact, Cadigan would do well to try and  shed herself of the &quot;goddess of cyberpunk&quot; moniker that she's  apparently trying to keep. Cadigan is an amazing talent, a great  storyteller - if she ever builds us a world as variegated as her plots and  the technology being utilized, and tries to keep it relevant to modern-day  readers, she's going to turn cyberpunk on its head.<br />It's a quick read at  a short 250 pages or so. If you've read and enjoyed her other work, you'll  probably be satiated. Worth reading if you've got a hankering to toy with  notions of identity, but not if you've only got time for the truly  revalatory.notions of identity, but not if you've only got time for the truly  revalatory.	2000-07-16
US	52276534	R3URZMY9ZO7RGC	0898865611	648665679	2: Selected Climbs in the Cascades: Alpine Routes, Sport Climbs, & Crag Climbs	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Could not be a better guidebook.	This is one of the most well done guidebooks I have ever seen. Some of my friends refer to the first volume of this book as &quot;The Bible of Northwest Climbing.&quot; This one is destined for the same accolades.<br />The book itself is made of heavy stock paper - something that you can  throw around in your car and not worry about too much. The black and white  pictures are awesome and the route descriptions are well written. Hardware  suggestions appear to be appropriate and the permit information looks good  too.<br />This book describes 96 new routes and includes crag climbs  (something which was not covered in the first edition). Perhaps the best  thing about this book is that most of the climbs are somewhat off of the  beaten track and not the most well known. Every self-respecting climber in  the northwest should own both of these books - they're guaranteed to get  you excited and help you pick your next trip.	2000-06-28
US	52276534	R3PUYIJQU3Q0M2	0345426339	256202976	The Measure of a Mountain: Beauty and Terror on Mount Rainier	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful Reading	For anybody that is infatuated with Mt. Rainier, this is the book for you. Living in the Pacific Northwest, Rainier is a fact of life for all of us. On sunny, clear days when it towers over the downtown seattle skyline, we  say that the &quot;mountain is out&quot; and cannot help but steal glances  at its mighty presence.<br />It is readily apparent that this book is a labor  of love for the author. He revels in any and all information about the  mountain that he can track down. All of his studies of the mountain add  flavor to his own wanderings. He sees in the mountain all of the history,  geology, native folklore, and danger that it deserves. His respect is  palpable and his experiences are priceless. If you want to experience  Rainier in a different way than you ever have before, you need to check  this out.<br />This book is well written, an easy read, and highly  recommended.	2000-06-25
US	52276534	R3TFQ7CY8W5LGC	0898866553	765101678	Mount Rainier: A Climbing Guide	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Enough! I'm going climbing already!	This is one of the best climbing guides that I have ever seen. I think that guides of this nature (no pun intended) have to walk a fine line between giving too much information and giving so little that somebody gets hurt on a route they shouldn't be on. This book walks that line masterfully. <br />To begin with, the routes are organized in groups that are sorted by their respective approaches. The technical information about difficulties, level of intensity, and time involved are extremely realistic for semi-experienced mountaineers. What I like best, however, are the descriptions of the routes and the pictures. The descriptions are detailed enough to address certain specifics but leave enough unsaid to not spoil the personality of the individual routes. Mike's pictures are great (good enough to be on permanent display at Longmire) and show the mountain in stunning detail. Most routes receive several pictures to help you see it from all sides.<br />To be sure, this is one climbing guide that you must use to fully appreciate. It is not a coffee table book or a course on mountaineering - it is an excellent text detailing all of the major routes on the mountain and their commitment level for all levels of climbers. You cannot do better than this book if you are planning a climb of Rainier.  From the explanations of how the seasons effect the routes to the group checklist of gear, this is one book that will pay for itself in spades by the time you are done with it.	2000-06-20
US	52276534	R2KPPU2N10RR78	0782124674	847681034	Html Complete	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Bringing the web to the masses...	This book should be enough to get you going in web design. Within a single day, I was creating very basic web pages - so it can be done. Sure, I knew a little about computers going into it, but it was my first time trying to  speak to my machine in anything other than &quot;point-and-click&quot;  fashion.<br />What I like the best about this book is the fact that they take  you from the beginning and get you thinking about how you should really go  about the designing your site. They show examples of excellent and poor  website design and talk about what makes a site navigable. This general  approach becomes much more focused as you progress through the book.<br />You've got more basic HTML in this book than you'll know what to do  with, BUT if you get a real handle on the beginner stuff, you can delve  into some of the more advanced material. Dynamic HTML, JavaScript, XML,  basic Perl and CGI are all included.<br />I got to admit it, I haven't  progressed to the point where I have used all of the concepts in this book.  It's comforting to know that I have the tools at my disposal when I'm  ready, though. For now, seeing as how I've learned the basics, all I  need  are the reference charts and quickie quides that are posted throughout.  This book is pretty darn cheap for all of its comprehensiveness, so you owe  it to yourself to purchase the darned thing. Several friends of mine that  are much more familiar with HTML conventions than myself, have riffled  through my copy of this book and run out to buy it themselves. That kind of  response tells me that I made a sound decision. Well, that and the fact  that I now maintain several portions of our internal webpages at work and  people ask ME questions about HTML. Yeehaw! Happy building!	2000-05-08
US	52276534	R21S9UJRW6BQ8	0966220900	150987593	Mt. Rainier Climbing Guide SM10097	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Better than a plain old topo - a new essential	As the editorials above correctly state, the two Rainier guides available from Stanley are good enough for guides, rescuers, and climbers alike. The sections on High Altitude Sickness and the checklists are somewhat helpful,  although if you don't know the stuff already, you shouldn't be climbing the  mountain.<br />Don't get fooled into thinking that this guide will teach you  what is necessary to become a good mountaineer, it's only there as a  resource for those who have some mountaineering experience.<br />What sets  these guides apart from standard guides are the photos of the routes.  Combine that with the &quot;portability factor&quot; and you've got  yourself a winner. While a little imagination can go a long ways with an  ordinary topo, this takes some of the guess-work out of it and allows you  to navigate by sight when the visibility is decent. Take it in your pack  and peruse it in your tent at base-camp - I guarantee that you won't regret  it.	1999-12-21
