US	52279342	R2KVMCHGDWM3JY	061844663X	695032446	Rational Mysticism: Spirituality Meets Science in the Search for Enlightenment	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Misleading Title; Lite but Interesting Book	--This is a difficult book to review, because it has notably strong and weak points.  On the five-star side, the author writes well.  His unusual perspective provokes thought and provides a light \\"kick in the mind\\" to conventional thinking.  He provides many wonderful one-liners and brings some humor to this often-dry study.  On the one-star side, the book has little to do with legitimate science, rationality, or mysticism.  With a couple of exceptions, the author interviewed a small sample of people at the fringes of quasi-mystical and semi-scientific experience, and chose the most interesting, colorful, \\"pop star\\" people.  That sure made for an interesting read but it's kind of like using interviews with folks like Hunter S. Thompson and William Burroughs as the foundation for a book on the Beauty of English Literature.<br />--The author admits his distaste for the self-responsible discipline of Zen Buddhism, and maybe that's why he seems so wrapped up in psychedelics as a cheap key to mystical awareness (although he admits drugs have an inescapable and very diabolical side. Well...... Garbage In, Garbage Out.).<br />--However, the author discusses an interesting question: are all mystical experiences alike?  He seems to conclude they are not, and in my opinion he makes a reasonable case.  Nearly all interviewees had substantially different interpretations of many important aspects of their experiences, and indeed, many had what seemed to be different experiences altogether (assuming, of course, their experiences were trustworthy ones).  My own view of mysticism was enriched after reading this book because instead of seeming like some kind of amorphous monolithic entity, mystical experience seems richly diverse.  This makes a reductionist explanation for mystical awareness far more difficult, it supports recent research suggesting drugs and \\"Awareness Therapy\\" act at very different brain locations, and it means if you are looking for a teacher you should examine how they live their life, not just what kind of experiences they report to you.<br />--If you want to read about mysticism and science or psychology, consider instead B. Alan Wallace (who is not Alan Watts!), Jon Kabatt-Zin, or Daniel Goleman and the Dalai Lama.  Those interested in mysticism have a wide selection of excellent authors as diverse as Thomas Merton, Ayya Khema, Thich Nhat Hanh, and Ajahn Chah.  Those interested in the science of the mind might be better off reading Gerald Edelman, Michael Gazzaniga, Antonio D'Amasio, or the delightful NY Times Book of the Brain.<br />--In short, read this book for the humor, thoughtfulness, and perspective it brings to the subject, but don't expect to read much about the most creditable sample of either scientists or mystics, and do expect a lot of speculative hype about how the experiences from taking drugs can supposedly duplicate the wisdom and peace of refined Awareness.ow they live their life, not just what kind of experiences they report to you.<br />--If you want to read about mysticism and science or psychology, consider instead B. Alan Wallace (who is not Alan Watts!), Jon Kabatt-Zin, or Daniel Goleman and the Dalai Lama.  Those interested in mysticism have a wide selection of excellent authors as diverse as Thomas Merton, Ayya Khema, Thich Nhat Hanh, and Ajahn Chah.  Those interested in the science of the mind might be better off reading Gerald Edelman, Michael Gazzaniga, Antonio D'Amasio, or the delightful NY Times Book of the Brain.<br />--In short, read this book for the humor, thoughtfulness, and perspective it brings to the subject, but don't expect to read much about the most creditable sample of either scientists or mystics, and do expect a lot of speculative hype about how the experiences from taking drugs can supposedly duplicate the wisdom and peace of refined Awareness.	2005-09-18
US	52279342	R1562E1EFB8FFW	1559391995	138882638	Choosing Reality, : A Buddhist View of Physics and the Mind	Books	5	66	69	N	Y	Five-star Credentials and Five-star Writing	--This fascinating, well-written work deserves another five-star vote.  The author explains several interesting problems when using a strictly scientific or philosophical viewpoint for understanding Reality and then shows how the principle of Conditioned Origination, developed in Buddhism, can offer a lucid alternative.  Buddhism, a source of the most profound spiritual insight and personal value, can also be a means for understanding our world and a source of deep intellectual joy.<br /><br />--Several authors (notably Varela and Kalupahana)have discussed the intersection of Buddhism and science but the author's credentials are unique.  He has officially translated for the Dalai Lama at conferences on Science and Buddhism, which indicates His Holiness trusts the author.<br /><br />--The author first addresses how certain limitations of scientific understanding make it an ultimately unreliable instrument for discovering ontological or ethical \\"truth.\\"  These limitations include the reasonableness of multiple hypotheses.  Because they are inherent to scientific understanding, they will exist no matter how well we refine our methods, our math, or our measurements (indeed, many scientists, notably Richard Feynman, have acknowledged them).  They preclude a unique and provable \\"Theory of Anything,\\" much less a \\"Theory of Everything.\\" Traditional philosophical and sociological viewpoints are similarly limited.<br /><br />--The author then shows how Buddhism has developed an intellectually sound, attractive, and consistent viewpoint, especially in its analysis of Mind.  Buddhism, instead of referring to an inherently existing external world or a set of measurements used by our mental or social structure, interprets empirical reality as Relationships between Events (rather than \\"things\\" or \\"ideas.\\"). Because these relationships are causally conditioned and evolving, empirical existence is perpetually verbal and perpetually co-related.  Buddhist insights, originally developed to end Suffering, can also help comprehend the world in which we live.  They can also transform our lives if we add an ethical dimension -- including compassion, clarity, calmness, and unselfish joy.  Buddhism also offers a sound and lucid alternative to the vacuity of modern and post-modern philosophy and social value theory.<br /><br />--Given the beauty and value of Buddhist insights, at least some Buddhists should maintain a sound intellectual rigor and discipline, to avoid Buddhism's becoming a shallow dharma or some kind of vague New Age metaphysics.  To be sure, the mystical experiences are said to be superlative, but Buddhism can defend itself quite well in the realm of the gross material world.  The Buddha often gave a philosophically cogent defense of his world-view to inquirers, and any Buddhist seeking this cogent defense would benefit from this book.<br /><br />--The author concludes Buddhism and science are complementary rather than opposed.  They are partners in using ingenuity and freedom and in seeking truth. Buddhism, without a superb empirical insight like science, might have no hands; science, without a mindful set of principles like those proposed by Buddhism, might have no wisdom.  Science gives a wonderful window into the empirical world in which we live, and Buddhism gives a wonderful world into the relational world in which we live.  We should rejoice in both, and this book helped me do that.<br /><br />--This book gave several insights extremely useful to my meditation practice, in addition to its value as a commentary on a world-view of Buddhism.  I hope this review and this book will be useful to you.d to end Suffering, can also help comprehend the world in which we live.  They can also transform our lives if we add an ethical dimension -- including compassion, clarity, calmness, and unselfish joy.  Buddhism also offers a sound and lucid alternative to the vacuity of modern and post-modern philosophy and social value theory.<br /><br />--Given the beauty and value of Buddhist insights, at least some Buddhists should maintain a sound intellectual rigor and discipline, to avoid Buddhism's becoming a shallow dharma or some kind of vague New Age metaphysics.  To be sure, the mystical experiences are said to be superlative, but Buddhism can defend itself quite well in the realm of the gross material world.  The Buddha often gave a philosophically cogent defense of his world-view to inquirers, and any Buddhist seeking this cogent defense would benefit from this book.<br /><br />--The author concludes Buddhism and science are complementary rather than opposed.  They are partners in using ingenuity and freedom and in seeking truth. Buddhism, without a superb empirical insight like science, might have no hands; science, without a mindful set of principles like those proposed by Buddhism, might have no wisdom.  Science gives a wonderful window into the empirical world in which we live, and Buddhism gives a wonderful world into the relational world in which we live.  We should rejoice in both, and this book helped me do that.<br /><br />--This book gave several insights extremely useful to my meditation practice, in addition to its value as a commentary on a world-view of Buddhism.  I hope this review and this book will be useful to you.	2005-08-29
US	52279342	RE00C4I96OBD	1582343578	405572610	Mediated: How the Media Shapes Your World and the Way You Live in It	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Stream of Consciousness style detracts from value	Sorry to part company with the crowd here.<br /><br />THe author's thesis -- that \\"news\\" and ad media severely blur the distinction between Real and Unreal -- sounded intriguing, and I wanted to see how the author developed it. Unfortunately, after a few dozen pages, it seemed like the book was a good EXAMPLE of that thesis, and not an elucidation of it.  It reminded me of James Joyce, and while Joyce's style can be wonderful for a novel, it kind of stinks for an expository work.  My second thought is that publishers have got to stop paying people by the word.<br /><br />The author's point seemed reasonable and based on common-sense -- my quarrel was he could have made it more succinctly, with better support, and with less verbosity.<br /><br />Oh well, enough said.	2005-08-06
US	52279342	RYSDM2KX2JFOB	026211268X	961787315	The  High Price of Materialism	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Are we there yet?	--I just wanted to add another five-star rating for this insightful, concise, and fascinating book.<br />--The author currently teaches psychology at Knox College and has performed several original studies researching the effects of material-oriented values on perceived well-being and health. Several people with outstanding credentials have already commented on this book, and it is suited for a non-specialized reader.<br />--The author develops several points: first, selfishly materialistic values naturally reinforce insecurity and discontent; second, such values diminish personal freedom and authenticity; third, affluence rarely (if ever) leads to much happiness or satisfaction; and fourth, materialism detracts from meaningful relationships between ourselves and others (and between ourselves and nature, and between ourselves and, well, ourselves). The author points out that materialism is not some inherent and unique evil within American culture, but seems to be a product of secondary developments (like mass marketing and advertising).<br />--The author provides several alternatives to materialism and overconsumption, but there are no \\"easy fixes.\\" On the other hand, it's not all that difficult for individuals to begin to change.<br />-- The author neglected to point out the high social cost of materialism for the image of the US.  Materialism costs Americans much, in terms of oil wars, our financial dependence on China, and an image as a greedy and lazy group. Some of the research he uses in his bibliography are secondary sources, and several referenced studies are best described as pilot studies rather than landmark research.  He also fails to point out the paradox that despite materialist cultural values, Americans have a unique freedom to leave those values aside.  Most Americans can take the responsibility to break out at any time. He also seems somewhat oblivious to the growth of materialism among newly-rich nations like China, who seem ready to teach America a few lessons about materialism.<br />--I would recommend this book to anyone who is curious how people think they need a couple of BMW's and a million-dollar house to be happy.  It certainly made me question some of my assumptions about  the relationship between material and my well-being.a few lessons about materialism.<br />--I would recommend this book to anyone who is curious how people think they need a couple of BMW's and a million-dollar house to be happy.  It certainly made me question some of my assumptions about  the relationship between material and my well-being.	2005-07-16
US	52279342	R3U1F1XJWD41C0	0670348422	750011002	Great Ascents: A Narrative History of Mountaineering (A Studio Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A superb collection of brief, uplifting essays	Eric Newby, who has considerable credibility as an entertaining traveler, has written what seems to me to be a wonderful set of brief vignettes on some of the more important ascents in Mountaineering.  Each essay provides a succinct and uplifting description, along with enough pictures to bring joyfulness if you have been there, or if you wish you had.  I've climbed a few of the ones in Europe and it's kind of nice to know who went before you.<br /><br />For example, the author's unique essay on Tschingel of the Alps, a brave dog who took part in the Golden Age of Mountaineering, is worth the book's price.  The author documents the story well and tells it with tenderness and appreciation -- the mountains have brought gifts to others besides humans. The story will probably bring a tear to the eye of anyone who has ever seen the enjoyment a mountain hike can bring to a beloved pet.	2005-05-10
US	52279342	R1UGA5G5LHYVSD	0465092624	420480449	Letters to a Young Catholic (Art of Mentoring)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A positive book, for youngsters from 9 to 92	Count me in for a five-star vote for this wonderful book.<br /><br />  I've been one of those Catholics who has occasionally felt guilty for feeling good about being a Catholic.  After all, why feel good about a tradition which is so so politically incorrect, which has inflicted almost as many atrocities on humanity as atheism (or other religions), and which has done really bad things like support the political institutions which embarrassed Galileo?<br /><br />  Weigel not only makes me positive about being Catholic, he makes me positive about being a human being.  Instead of showing us some profound doctrinal twist or turn, he takes us to the cheerful good humor of G K Chesterton as he spent a few nights in a pub, the deep expressions of love expressed in Chartres and in Brideshead Revisited, and the truly human humanism of a politically-incorrect figure like Gertrude Stein, who was martyred by the Nazis for beliefs which any moral relativist would condemn today.<br /><br />  Thanks for a great book and keep up the good work.<br /><br />  \\"...solemnity flows out of men natually, but laughter is a leap...Satan fell by force of gravity.\\"	2005-05-09
US	52279342	R15U7H83BNNBY1	0345406958	131001816	Story of the Other Wise Man	Books	5	49	51	N	N	A pearl of great price	--I first read this book when I was fifty years old and instantly became forty years younger.  The book not only tells the story of Christmas, it tells the story of a kind and learned man.<br /><br />--The story begins long ago, when Four Wise Men agree they must find the newborn Prince of Heaven and Earth.  They all know this is the most important journey they will ever take, but one of them, named Artaban, spends too much time comforting a dying old man and cannot meet his three companions as they set out, so he misses his chance to visit Bethlehem with his three friends. Artaban must begin his search all over again, but he does not regret his decision.  His youth passes and he becomes a dignified and just old man.  Two more opportunities to meet the Christ come his way, and both are thwarted because he again takes time to perform acts of kindness. One of these happens at the end of his life, when ....<br /><br />--Artaban is lovingly touched by the Christ in a way far, far better than if he had been with his companions on that night in Bethlehem.<br /><br />--This is a story for kids from one to ninety-two.  If you are thinking about reading this story for you or for a child in your life, do it.... and if you've ever regretted delaying your own Spiritual Journey because you must raise children or work helping others or care for a sick relative, then this book is definitely yours.	2004-10-11
US	52279342	R2X3922N2ETYXV	0861711270	510384077	Who Is My Self?: A Guide to Buddhist Meditation	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	A skillful exploration into Buddhist meditation	--This wonderful book, despite its somewhat misleading title, is a modern commentary on Buddhism's Jhanas, or supreme meditative contemplations (others might use terms like \\"peak spiritual experiences\\" or \\"liberated states of awareness.\\").  The Jhanas include eight levels of conscious awareness, and they appear to be the mystical \\"mystical experiences\\" that so many pilgrims from so many religious traditions have sought for so many centuries.  This book gives a Buddhist perspective on them, although the methodology for approaching and assessing the Jhanas are subjects of some debate within the Buddhist community.<br /><br />--Ayya Khema, a well-respected Buddhist nun, centers her book around a little-known part of Buddhist scripture called the Potthapada Sutta, in which a well-meaning but unsophisticated student asks the Buddha how to achieve the highest level of conscious awareness.  The Buddha often answered such complicated questions very simply and with some humor, but he now takes the reader into a journey full of wisdom and depth. Instead of answering the student directly, he defers the answer until he has addressed the preparation needed to comprehend the question.  The Buddha clearly indicates that the higher mental states should be approached indirectly, carefully, and with great ethical and mental preparation.  Such preparation usually takes tremendous effort and personal change, but without them, chasing after something like the \\"highest conscious states\\" may not only be useless but a dangerous source of attachment and delusion.  Far from being an esoteric spiritual cookbook, Buddhism demands adequate awareness, a practiced discernment of existence, and an ethical \\"guarding of the sense doors.\\"  Only then can the various Jhanas be productively accessed, although they are not simply \\"obtained\\" by our own efforts.  Liberation depends on comprehending existence, not manipulating it.<br /><br />--Ayya Khema then gives a superb commentary on the Buddha's description of the Jhanas, and discusses what they mean for us.  The author suggests the Buddha viewed these supreme mystical experiences far differently from many other religious leaders.  Although the Jhanas are a supremely wonderful and useful place for the mind to be, they too are subject to arising and passing away, and are not the End of the Road.  Instead, their value is to allow the mind to become so clear and so focused that Insight Meditation becomes more, well, insightful.  As the author puts it, the Jhanas can have indispensible value in \\"understanding experience,\\" and in managing the questions of old age, suffering, and death.  When all becomes still and one becomes kind, all becomes obvious.<br /><br />--Ayya Khema has artfully described a wonderful teaching.  She has introduced us to steps on the spiritual journey that many of us had not expected to take -- those of discipline, renunciation, heightened awareness, and decency.  Life isn't easy, but it can be positive for one who pays attention and changes accordingly.<br /><br />--This book deserves the attention of anyone interested in this dimension of Buddhist meditation.  You may also want to consider a directed Jhana retreat, such as one of those found on her student Leigh Brasington's website.<br /><br />--I should add the Potthapada Sutta is not only an excellent commentary on the Jhanas, it gives superb advice about the overall Buddhist path.ption of the Jhanas, and discusses what they mean for us.  The author suggests the Buddha viewed these supreme mystical experiences far differently from many other religious leaders.  Although the Jhanas are a supremely wonderful and useful place for the mind to be, they too are subject to arising and passing away, and are not the End of the Road.  Instead, their value is to allow the mind to become so clear and so focused that Insight Meditation becomes more, well, insightful.  As the author puts it, the Jhanas can have indispensible value in \\"understanding experience,\\" and in managing the questions of old age, suffering, and death.  When all becomes still and one becomes kind, all becomes obvious.<br /><br />--Ayya Khema has artfully described a wonderful teaching.  She has introduced us to steps on the spiritual journey that many of us had not expected to take -- those of discipline, renunciation, heightened awareness, and decency.  Life isn't easy, but it can be positive for one who pays attention and changes accordingly.<br /><br />--This book deserves the attention of anyone interested in this dimension of Buddhist meditation.  You may also want to consider a directed Jhana retreat, such as one of those found on her student Leigh Brasington's website.<br /><br />--I should add the Potthapada Sutta is not only an excellent commentary on the Jhanas, it gives superb advice about the overall Buddhist path.	2004-10-08
US	52279342	R1N1X5AXCQ5JES	068482356X	614247230	Memory'S Ghost: The Nature Of Memory And The Strange Tale Of Mr. M	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Memory is part of a Great Adventure!	--Memory's Ghost should be a blessing for anyone (poet, scientist, or general reader) who wants to understand how memory makes us human. In this easily read, occasionally frightening, singularly fascinating, and stimulating book, the author describes the life of Henry M., who lived nearly forty years without the ability to form new memories.  To help us understand this condition, the author also gives wonderful descriptions of memory, including a short history of memory (natural and cultural), the types of memory, limits on its reliability, and how and why it might have evolved. After reading it you won't take memory for granted again!<br /><br />--In 1953, long before the miracles of modern pharmaceutical treatments and current neurological understanding, Mr. M. was given surgery to help stop his suffering intractable epileptic seizures, by removing parts of the brain thought to generate the seizures.  Unfortunately, Mr. M.'s surgeon experimentally removed a brain area which \\"bundled up\\" the perceptions and symbols of the Total Present Moment and selectively sent them off for storage and future recall.  After the operation, Mr.M. could no longer form long-term memories. He could learn new skills, but could not remember learning them.  He could not recognize people absent for more than a few seconds, even if they were staff who had known him daily for years.  Nevertheless, he clearly retained his humanity.  His pleasant personality and even his happiness remained, his IQ stayed normal, he loved TV and conversation, and his memories and capabilities formed before the surgery seemed intact.  Since the surgeon who performed the maneuver quickly realized removal of this area should never be repeated, since human lab experiments were unikely to duplicate the situation, and since other conditions (like accidents, strokes, or Alzheimer's) would almost certainly never remove such a specific area, Mr. M. has given a unique perspective for what it means to lose this critical part of the brain and mind (indeed, he soon became one of the most referenced patients in medical literature).<br /><br />--The author provides some vivid background for memory (Note: it is not intended to directly cover \\"how-to-improve-your-memory\\" issues and it does not discuss the tremendous bioethical issues this case raises). He gives several vivid and metaphorical descriptions of memory, all intended to show it is an intensely active, ever-changing, evolving process, and not a static representational recording device (like a tape recorder). The author shows human memory offers an incredible richness and dynamic adaptibility which could never be duplicated by a simple data retrieval device.  Memory is not a hard-disc, it's part of a great adventure.<br /><br />--Of course, a short book with a deep topic will have omissions, but ....<br /><br />--In summary, I thought this well-written and accessible book was an admirable story both of Mr. M. and of memory -- one of the richest (and most frustrating) parts of our individual and cultural experiences as human beings. It deserves a wide audience.part of the brain and mind (indeed, he soon became one of the most referenced patients in medical literature).<br /><br />--The author provides some vivid background for memory (Note: it is not intended to directly cover \\"how-to-improve-your-memory\\" issues and it does not discuss the tremendous bioethical issues this case raises). He gives several vivid and metaphorical descriptions of memory, all intended to show it is an intensely active, ever-changing, evolving process, and not a static representational recording device (like a tape recorder). The author shows human memory offers an incredible richness and dynamic adaptibility which could never be duplicated by a simple data retrieval device.  Memory is not a hard-disc, it's part of a great adventure.<br /><br />--Of course, a short book with a deep topic will have omissions, but ....<br /><br />--In summary, I thought this well-written and accessible book was an admirable story both of Mr. M. and of memory -- one of the richest (and most frustrating) parts of our individual and cultural experiences as human beings. It deserves a wide audience.	2004-08-19
US	52279342	R32EXITW3GMMSA	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Excellent idea, poorly executed	-- On the surface, few tales could be more appealing than this one, which was loosely based on an English town which quarantined itself rather than take a chance on spreading the plague to nearby villages.  The heroine, Anna Frith, is an appealing and dauntless character (although the story is told completely from her point of view, with little understanding of the conflicting motives of any other characters).  The author generally writes well and the story moves with the intensity that you would expect from the plot's appeal.<br />-- Nevertheless, the ending of the story seems so badly botched and becomes so unbelievable that the tale's credibility simply falls apart. For one thing, a villainous upper-class family handsomely pays Anna to run off with one of their newly-born illegitimate children, which is about the least-likely scenario possible. The town's previously-heroic minister is found to carry a rather unbelievable secret which has little to do with the story. Finally, life in an Islamic harem (to which the heroine escapes) is portrayed as the answer to nearly every woman's dreams, when the reality was probably quite different.<br />-- In short, if you read this one, skip the ending.  You'll save time and you'll have a much better read.	2004-07-04
US	52279342	RHMRDKA49FX2W	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A snide but amusing farewell to a beloved home	--\\"Notes\\" discusses Bill Bryson's \\"farewell\\" trip around Britain, his adopted and beloved homeland of twenty years.<br />-- On the bright side, the author clearly shows why he regards Britain so highly.  As he puts it, few other places have such charming and concentrated excellence, and in many ways it's as good as it gets.  The Brits often have an attractive outlook on life which resembles their sense of humor (i.e. there's no use in being rushed or keeping a self-centered attitude, it's bad form to curse long lines or other annoyances, and what is most obvious can often be appreciated the most dearly).  Many observations (such as why Communism might have flourished in Britain, or how Wigan escaped the dreadfulness of post-War city planning) were funny enough to be worth the read.<br />-- On the perhaps not-so-bright side, the author too often passes from wry humor to a grating snideness, and his observations often seem so overwhelmingly mood-dependent that they lack the objectivity, cheerfulness, and professional touch that distinguishes great humor and travel writing.  For example, his chapter on Durham and the artists of Ashington brings us to heights of joyfulness and contentment, but then he spoils this buoyant chapter by banally concluding that Brits watch too many Cagney and Lacey re-runs.<br />-- This is, nevertheless, an amusing book.  The author seems at his best when he isn't in a foul mood and when he thoughtfully interprets his observations.<br />-- I'd recommend it to anyone wanting an amusing read or a decent perspective on a decent island.	2004-02-23
US	52279342	RCTRJ25232B3D	0743222318	416422180	The Pawprints of History: Dogs and the Course of Human Events	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A charming view of some wonderful friendships	This interesting book discusses the relationships between several noteable people and their dogs.  At least one cynical Washington D.C. politician said that \\"if you want someone to love you in this town, buy a dog,\\" and you will find he was not the first one to conjure up that thought.  The author shows how people such as Florence Nightingale, Frederick the Great, Robert Burns, and Sigmund Freud were all warmly touched by the positive side of their dogs. These people, who somehow seemed so intensely boring in History class, never seemed so human as when interacting with their dogs. Dogs have served as companions for many others who needed a consistent friend, and they often served as inspirations for those who enriched our artistic and aesthetic lives (perhaps because they were so cheerful and so honest).  Oh, by the way, the author gives us some pretty interesting lessons in history and the arts, too, so this story is not just about the canids. If you are looking for a good book to curl up with, and read to, your animal companions, give this one a try.	2004-02-12
US	52279342	RFNTLZMUDUA0P	0824516559	431017358	Searching for Truth: Lenten Meditations on Science & Faith	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A scientist looks at the mystery of lent	I'm again looking forward to reading a section of this book each day during Lent.  This season gives a superb opportunity to formally look at subjects we'd normally like to avoid, but which are best not avoided too much.  The author shows how the scientific method can look at Lenten traditions with a new perspective, and how the religious method can give science an added dimension of humility, mystery, and wonder.<br />  The book has been divided into seven sections:  an introduction, Creation, Reality, Searching, Prayer, Suffering, and Holy Week.  In my opinion, the author gives a wonderful outline.  After spending forty days with this book, you may have experienced a delightful blend of reason and wonder, and may understand how a  scientist can find value in the dimension of the spirit.	2004-01-27
US	52279342	R36TV7UVTK376Z	0205162991	122406049	A Colorful Introduction to the Anatomy of the Human Brain: A Brain and Psychology Coloring Book	Books	5	55	57	N	Y	Not too heavy, not too light	--I am a medical professional who has not had a formal neuroanatomy course for some time. I've \\"returned\\" to neuroanatomy because brain science is so interesting, and because I now need to know it more and more for professional reasons.<br />--This book is grrreat for its intended purpose -- providing an accurate and reasonably entertaining BASIC introduction (or re-introduction) to functional neuroanatomy (and a good foundation is both rare and valuable).  Without neuroanatomy, you are soon in the realm of \\"sophistry and delusion\\" while reading about extremely exciting recent brain research. This book seems to be a reasonably adequate BASIC text and is a good \\"piggyback\\" for further work.  It isn't intended to bog you down, and will probably provide most of the neuroanatomy you need to know to read a book by Edelman, D'Amasio, Ledoux, etc. more productively and enjoyably.<br />--If you've never had a neuroanatomy course, breaking out the Crayola colored pencils is a good way to learn.  If you have had a neuroanatomy class in the distant past, you can clear the cobwebs pretty quickly with this text. It's much less daunting  than related texts, and you can always get to those later.	2003-12-31
US	52279342	R12HAHZTKQLRU4	0062503952	554028239	The Dancing Healers: A Doctor's Journey of Healing with Native Americans	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A "dancing," but limited, introduction	--The author is a psychiatrist with apparently excellent credentials, and the book is an interesting, easily read introduction to the art of Native American Healing.  He uses several case studies from his own experience to illustrate how \\"healing\\" (creating a healthy attitude toward pain or loss) differs from \\"curing\\" (attempting to end the disease, as in the Western medical model).  Healing is a dance while curing is a technique.  Both demand training and intuition, and they work best when they work together.<br /><br />-- He also observes how Native Americans are faring, in an exhaustingly unhealthy situation.  The third or fourth world exists here in the USA, on nearly any Reservation, and is likely to be here for some time.  Speaking of which, the author also gives a good perspective on ethnic prejudice -- after being stereotyped as just another pushy white transient Reservation doctor, he quickly developed a better understanding of prejudice and compassion, and he also improved his listening skills.<br /><br />--Unfortunately, we can romanticize and expect too much from a charming and appealing concept like \\"dancing healing.\\"  Sick people have ignored the wisdom of \\"curers\\" to live a responsibly healthy lifestyle, and are also likely to ignore the wisdom of \\"healers.\\" The \\"dancing\\" described by the author is very difficult to qualify or compare, it is vulnerable to shallow understanding, and it depends greatly on charisma -- and charismatic leaders often turn very bad, very quickly.  Like many others who sort of slam Western medicine, the author conveys a poor understanding of the scientific method or evidence-based medicine (perhaps we should focus attention on interesting more Native Americans in the sciences, which is a tradition universal to all of humanity.  If Judaism and Christianity can be compatible with science, so can Native American traditions.  It's a safe bet that without an appreciation of, and education in, science, conditions on the Reservations won't improve much).  The author seems to highlight the worst cases of Western medicine in his apologia, and seems to imply that Western medicine is responsible for alcoholism, diabetes, and the other conditions leading to the deplorable state of much of our health system.  This ignores the vast benefits medicine has given to nearly every person on this planet.  I certainly hope \\"dancing healing\\" works well; I'm just saying I would be realistic with my expectations.<br /><br />-- The author alludes to several technical papers he has written, and a bibliography would have been helpful.  The reader may want to look into L. Irwin's \\"Native American Spirituality\\" and \\"Dream Seekers\\" (with V. DeLoria), and may want to examine Drs. B. Lown and R. Remen for other physicians who want to heal as well as cure.<br /><br />  In short, this is an eminently readable, but eminently limited, book.  It's brief and informative, and a good introduction; I wish the author well with his work and his dance, and wish those who seek to improve the health of Native America well with theirs.s won't improve much).  The author seems to highlight the worst cases of Western medicine in his apologia, and seems to imply that Western medicine is responsible for alcoholism, diabetes, and the other conditions leading to the deplorable state of much of our health system.  This ignores the vast benefits medicine has given to nearly every person on this planet.  I certainly hope \\"dancing healing\\" works well; I'm just saying I would be realistic with my expectations.<br /><br />-- The author alludes to several technical papers he has written, and a bibliography would have been helpful.  The reader may want to look into L. Irwin's \\"Native American Spirituality\\" and \\"Dream Seekers\\" (with V. DeLoria), and may want to examine Drs. B. Lown and R. Remen for other physicians who want to heal as well as cure.<br /><br />  In short, this is an eminently readable, but eminently limited, book.  It's brief and informative, and a good introduction; I wish the author well with his work and his dance, and wish those who seek to improve the health of Native America well with theirs.	2003-12-27
US	52279342	R2DY5RGK68AHNA	0380726475	428320645	Descartes' Error	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Some hints for enjoying this book more	Other reviewers have surely summarized and analyzed this modern classic far better than I could, so here are some hints that may help you productively enjoy it:<br /><br />1.) scan sections of the book before and after you read them.  The author's simple expositions are terrific but the book's organization and data blending can be confusing, and the pace often slows uncomfortably.  2.) Consider using a good neuroanatomy text or atlas, like Barr or Hanaway.  The author's maps are surprisingly skimpy and I strongly hope he includes a few pages of neuroanatomical diagrams in any future editions. 3.) You may want to underline selected terms and definitions, and note the reference at the back of the book -- the book has no glossary and the index is annoyingly weak. 4.)  I thought the most valuable sections were on the Somatic Marker Hypothesis, the Body-Minded Brain, and the Postscriptum -- consider scanning these sections as you begin the book.<br />  Good luck and enjoy.  The author's credentials are superb, his perspective complements other authors such as Edelmann, William James, and LeDoux, and he brings the unique and empathetic perspective of a neurologist who has specialized in analyzing the changes associated wtih discrete neuropathological conditions.  The ideas you may receive from this wonderful book should be well worth the effort, and you should gain some insight into the miracle of how we think/feel/are.	2003-12-25
US	52279342	R36YVSFU47S092	1585745324	104974102	The New York Times Book of the Brain: Revised and Expanded	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A revised classic -- clear and fascinating	Each Tuesday I eagerly turn to the NY Times Science section, hoping to find a new article on brain science.  The Times articles on this wide and important subject are among the most clearly written and captivating in all of science today.  They seem to follow Einstein's dicta that you should be able to explain any concept -- including relativity -- in terms that a ten-year old child can not only understand, but be interested in.  These articles will provide a solid foundation for anyone interested in this wonderful and positive field, especially when combined with a decent text on neuroanatomy to provide a map of what's going on.  If more people wrote technical science as clearly and as cheerily as Ms Blakeslee, Ms Brody, or Mr Goleman, I doubt we would be worried about scientific literacy in this country. This book is a wonderful gift for kids from one to ninety-three, and I'd recommend it highly.	2003-12-12
US	52279342	R3O2LMWILJ3PVB	0553378007	210508905	The Scalpel and the Silver Bear: The First Navajo Woman Surgeon Combines Western Medicine and Traditional Healing	Books	4	11	15	N	Y	Solid credentials but too abstract	--Dr Alvord writes about her journeys as a Native American student and physician.  The book seems clearly designed for non-technical readers rather than the professional medical community, and there's little medical jargon. She uses her own difficult pregnancy and the death of a beloved grandmother as case studies in integrating Western medicine and Navajo ideas.<br />--On the one hand, it's worth reading this book just to hear such an inspirational story from such a decent role model.  Dr Alvord tells her story with dignity and courage and has many good ideas about listening to patients while integrating Balance and Harmony in our profession (although these ideas don't seem as radical or as rare within the medical community as she seems to imply, and I don't think she does anyone a great service by implying they are).<br />--On the other hand, the book seems disappointingly abstract, even given the limitations of confidentiality and space.  The stories of Navajo healing barely scratched the surface and the book was pretty scanty with practical advice that would help non-Native healers understand Native American patients.  I'd love to have heard her perspectives on the magnitude of Native American health problems, how she handled the constant pressures of time and funding, how she motivated patients, or how she successfully used traditional Native American methods to help manage serious medical-social problems (i.e. alcohol use, diabetogenic diets, family pressures, basic compliance and responsibility issues, etc).  In short, I'd like to have heard more about her successes.<br />--The book adds perspective to all those who criticize Western medicine as too impersonal/sterile/uncaring/whatever, but seems to fail in demonstrating how to predictably improve things and still efficiently deliver technically competent health care to people with different levels of motivation and understanding.  Western medicine works beautifully in its own niche, but it can be made to work less efficiently if we mess around with the wrong things.<br />--Perhaps medicine will improve if we balance the responsibilities of patients to live a healthy lifestyle with the responsibilities of healers to carefully listen to patients and then help them heal. This book did not practically help me to do this, so I cannot give it five stars despite my respect for her credentials. I do look forward to a sequel.<br />--Other books which may be of interest include Blessings (by Dr. A. Organick), The Dancing Healers, and Primary Care of Native American Patients.k less efficiently if we mess around with the wrong things.<br />--Perhaps medicine will improve if we balance the responsibilities of patients to live a healthy lifestyle with the responsibilities of healers to carefully listen to patients and then help them heal. This book did not practically help me to do this, so I cannot give it five stars despite my respect for her credentials. I do look forward to a sequel.<br />--Other books which may be of interest include Blessings (by Dr. A. Organick), The Dancing Healers, and Primary Care of Native American Patients.	2003-12-04
US	52279342	R1NFM7JJ3CCC9Z	0802130313	299156432	What the Buddha Taught: Revised and Expanded Edition with Texts from Suttas and Dhammapada	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A competent and brief introduction	This is a popular, brief introduction to classical or Theravada Buddhism.  The author gives a short introduction and then discusses the Four Noble Truths, the value of meditation, and some ideas on the modern relevance of Buddhism.  The writing style is reasonably good, and the index and glossary are excellent if a bit out of date (one excellent source of modern text translations is accesstoinsight.org).  This book can be recommended for beginners.<br />One caveat:  Mr Rahula seems to argue that the Buddha's views were atheistic.  Given the Buddha's admonition to investigate-for-yourself, his non-dogmatic statement that he had simply not seen a transcendent deity (rather than saying he knew there was no such deity), and his acceptance of some revelation and authority in addition to his reliance on analysis, I would argue the Buddha's views were probably agnostic rather than atheistic.	2003-11-21
US	52279342	R3DLX0NQU9D5ER	0446672483	642071122	The Good Marriage: How and Why Love Lasts	Books	5	39	43	N	Y	We could surely use more studies like this one	The authors bring a rather unusual perspective to the study of marriage -- rather than examining how it has failed or is failing, they examine how marriage can succeed.  The book provides a commendable example of a study focusing on success instead of failure.  The authors first define a successful marriage, then discuss nine principles common to any good marriage and use several couples as case studies to illustrate and personalize these principles.  The book uses a rather small, homogenous, and politically incorrect sample -- nearly all couples were selected by the authors and were lily-white, heterosexual, reasonably honest and cheerful Americans.  Of course, many ground-breaking and valid scientific studies have successfully used such small, homogenous and politically incorrect cohorts.  The book is not a cross-cultural study, an historical analysis, or a &quot;how-to&quot; guide for &quot;making marriage work,&quot; and those whose marriages are in trouble may not find this book much of a substitute for self-analysis or competent counseling.<br />Since history began, in nearly all societies, marriage has successfully survived despite never-ending pressures from those who have sought to abolish, revolutionize, over-idealize, or trivialize it.  Marriage has proven flexible, durable, and critically important to individuals and to societies.  Nevertheless, individuals and societies should frequently re-examine and re-explore marriage if they are to gain the most benefits from it -- marriage and success are verbs as well as nouns.  Marriage and the family certainly need attentive examination today, since they remain under tremendous stresses from those who wish to change (or destroy) them and from forces causing them to fail at an increasing rate.<br />The authors have given us a fine example of such an examination.  They write remarkably well (no surprise, given Ms Blakeslee's wonderful columns in the NY Times Science Section, which first drew me to this book).  They relate how marriage can be enriching, empowering, dynamic, transformative, redemptive, and positive (I found myself cheering on one of the subjects whose marriage succeeded despite enormous psychological problems dating from his childhood).  As the husband of a wife whose parents had a successful marriage, as the child of a successful marriage, and as a member of a thirty-three year old successful marriage, I found the principles outlined in this book to be reasonably accurate and helpful.  No book could be the last word, but this one is a fine place to start.ey relate how marriage can be enriching, empowering, dynamic, transformative, redemptive, and positive (I found myself cheering on one of the subjects whose marriage succeeded despite enormous psychological problems dating from his childhood).  As the husband of a wife whose parents had a successful marriage, as the child of a successful marriage, and as a member of a thirty-three year old successful marriage, I found the principles outlined in this book to be reasonably accurate and helpful.  No book could be the last word, but this one is a fine place to start.	2003-11-20
US	52279342	R3V9R4NNNZTVXI	061809542X	454177999	Absolutely American: Four Years at West Point	Books	4	13	18	N	Y	A good, but brief, snapshot of a complex place	The author is a Rolling Stone correspondent who was invited to live with West Point cadets, in the manner of an anthropologist, for a few months.  Since he is a fairly liberal writer whose specialty was college students and party animals, this could have been an epic public relations disaster for West Point, but he wound up spending four seemingly enjoyable years.  His liberal perspective does show through, but liberalism is hardly incompatible with the military -- many hyper-competent Israeli generals have been socialists, and few institutions have ever shown more flexibility, innovation, and initiative than the US military has shown over the past generation. I (the reviewer) graduated from a military academy and belong to its association of graduates.<br />  To begin with, a small book may never give an adequate picture of the many paradoxes and adventures such a place can give -- a military academy is simply too rich, too intense, and too complex.  This book is more of a competent and entertaining surface overview than some kind of in-depth analysis, and it's a given that the author left out a lot of comedy, tragedy, and the in-between.  Rather than try to picture a mythical \\"typical cadet\\" (there is no such thing), the author has wisely chosen to focus his attention on a diverse but small sample of classmates and faculty members. These include some superbly competent born leaders, a gung-ho and highly-respected leader who is sacrificed on the altar of political correctness, a modern feminist cadet, a talented fellow who probably took the place a bit too seriously, and one persistent but seemingly out-of-place survivor who just seems to excel in doing nothing right.  Mr. Lipsky also gives us some interesting facts on West Point tradition, training, and the contemporary pressures on this school (such as trying to integrate the \\"entertain-me generation\\" into a demanding profession founded on ethical integrity and selflessness, the problems of inter-cadet dating in a confined and pressure-cooker environment, and how the class responded to 9-11). Being in charge of West Point is a tough job!<br />The author writes well and with the appealling enthusiasm of one who seems to enjoy his work. In my opinion, the book gives a reasonably good snapshot of the Point, but someone who is thinking of entering the school should obviously do much more research (including talking with cadets and graduates).  Had I been the Rolling Stone's editor I'm not sure I'd have cheerfully paid four years of his salary for this book, but it's their money, and huuu-ahhhh. I especially enjoyed his very accurate observation that although cadets are notorious complainers, he never ran into a more happy band of young people in his entire career of covering young people.a confined and pressure-cooker environment, and how the class responded to 9-11). Being in charge of West Point is a tough job!<br />The author writes well and with the appealling enthusiasm of one who seems to enjoy his work. In my opinion, the book gives a reasonably good snapshot of the Point, but someone who is thinking of entering the school should obviously do much more research (including talking with cadets and graduates).  Had I been the Rolling Stone's editor I'm not sure I'd have cheerfully paid four years of his salary for this book, but it's their money, and huuu-ahhhh. I especially enjoyed his very accurate observation that although cadets are notorious complainers, he never ran into a more happy band of young people in his entire career of covering young people.	2003-11-20
US	52279342	R31RIIKLX577V0	B00008RUNH	191733139	The Complete Bedside Companion	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A very useful guide for patients and caregivers alike	The overall description of this book in the Review section seems to describe the contents and features of this book quite well, so I will simply add my impressions.<br />  I have recently begun sharing caregiver duties for a terminally ill parent and recommend this book as perhaps the best single introduction I have found.  Looking at thirteen years of full-time undergraduate and post-graduate work, I found I had not a single hour of instruction in how to navigate the emotional and technically difficult art of caring for a terminally ill patient.  Such caring is not given much coverage in today's world, and I have to admit I was nearly clueless as the process began. I would not hesitate to recommend this book to those who are beginning this potentially beautiful yet potentially treacherous path, either as a caregiver or a patient.  The book is a tremendous &quot;how-to&quot; resource and elementary caregiving, and it provides a decent list resources for further information.  I hope to use the book to prepare my own way as well. My only criticism is it gives little help in things like preparing eulogies or funeral etiquette, and it gives little help in managing the sibling difficulties which can arise during the process of caregiving.	2003-08-30
US	52279342	R2A8XZFPSI8W26	1573226564	99488062	Buddhism Without Beliefs: A Contemporary Guide to Awakening	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Life is beautiful -- even without dogma.	Suppose we hade a way of life which was both agnostic and morally positive?  Stephen Batchelor makes a good point that this has already happened.  &quot;Organized&quot; religion may be morally positive, but makes no sense for those who do not believe in revelation.  On the other hand, philosophies like Marxism, humanism, and post-modernism are intellectually agnostic, but have no more morality than does anarchy, and they have been demonstrably prone to an essential violence against the human spirit.  Buddhist philosophy takes a fundamentally agnostic, inductive, and non-absolutist approach to life. Yet Buddhist philosophy advocates an exceptionally strong and consistent moral code, because morality is an essential first step to awareness. The moral code of Buddhism is based on skepticism, agnosticism, and an absence of political correctness or similar dogmas, but has paradoxically produced a way of life every bit as consistent and liberating as any other which humanity has ever adopted.<br />In short -- even without political correctness, dogma, or revelation, Buddhist thought has argued that existence is meaningful and beautiful, simply by observing what is right in front of your nose. This book is a good and thoughtful introduction to a skeptical yet affirmative point of view.	2003-08-23
US	52279342	R2R37I7W2UF456	0553381350	678579754	The Right Stuff	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Six star entertainment, two star objectivity	Tom Wolfe gives a brilliantly entertaining and inspirational book about one of the most colorful chapters in recent American history -- the years from the first supersonic piloted test flight up to the early Sixties, when astronauts completed the beginning of America's space program.  Wolfe writes about &#34;the right stuff--&#34; a blend of correct judgment, coolness, and the ability to get the job done no matter what the danger.  Wolfe rarely depends on technical stuff, so the book will appeal to those who know or care little about aviation or space, and there's little to deter the squeamish, either.  The author shows the period's bright side (the accomplishments in spite of the danger, the dopamine-flowing release after a job well-done, the intense exhilaration of it all) , and the dark side (the fears of the families, the tragic deaths from minor lapses in luck or judgment, the tedious egomania of many involved in the programs).<br />  This book epitomizes the bright and dark side of Wolfe's school of writing, too.  Above all, Wolfe can be as riveting and as entertaining as you'll find -- &#34;truth can be funnier than fiction.&#34; I have heard how Wolfe caught the essence of what someone wanted to say even better than the one who said it, and he sure puts you into the thick of the action.  The author gives a legitimate and interesting perspective.  Nevertheless, this style plays heavily on your emotions, with all the problems that can involve, and the book is not terribly objective -- a purely entertaining incident can assume more importance than it should.  Since Wolfe's storytelling style can blur the distinction between fact and conjecture, it &#34;stretches the envelope&#34; of truthtelling, so if another storyteller doesn't have basic integrity (and many authors and journalists regrettably do not), this style of writing can mislead or deceive.  Character development and depth are questionable; those who have &#34;the right stuff&#34; in the face of danger are portrayed as almost superhuman, and those who don't are made into buffoons (no matter how significant their contributions to the mission).  This &#34;tyranny of the cool&#34; can get a bit annoying after a while.<br />  In short, I think Wolfe's book gives a grand idea of the spirit of the times, and of life's entertainment value, but it is rightly considered a novel rather than history.  I easily gave it five stars because it is SUCH an inspirational and delightful read, but I would approach it with a bit of light-hearted skepticism.are portrayed as almost superhuman, and those who don't are made into buffoons (no matter how significant their contributions to the mission).  This &#34;tyranny of the cool&#34; can get a bit annoying after a while.<br />  In short, I think Wolfe's book gives a grand idea of the spirit of the times, and of life's entertainment value, but it is rightly considered a novel rather than history.  I easily gave it five stars because it is SUCH an inspirational and delightful read, but I would approach it with a bit of light-hearted skepticism.	2003-06-18
US	52279342	R311I6RWTHT28W	0842027327	279844443	Aces Wild: The Race for Mach 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A superb historical "whodunit"	What a find -- a terrific read, an interesting poke at one of our most cherished icons, and a wonderful reminiscence about the \\"golden age of test flight.\\" Mr. Blackburn presents two main ideas in this book -- first, the legendary Chuck Yeager may not have been the first person to pass through the equally legendary sound barrier, and second, the need for public support for flight research dictated the credits for this accomplishment. The author test piloted for North American Aviation, which produced the XP-86 Sabrejet (discussed later), so he has singular credentials and credibility. His research seems reasonably well done, with personal, primary, and backup sources.<br />The first person to become supersonic may well have been North American test pilot George Welch, in the superb new XP-86 fighter prototype. Welch may have jetted past Mach 1 several times before Gen. Yeager's immortalized flight (this takes little away from Yeager, who doubtlessly never felt Welch was first. The author also pays the obligatory adulations to Yeager's skills, although I doubt Mr. Yeager has bought Mr. Blackburn many drinks to celebrate this book). The author gives three reasons to suggest Welch was first. To begin with, the XP-86 aircraft was certainly capable of Mach 1+ (in a shallow dive), and Welch's skill and aggressiveness were up to it, too. Second, although the government gave Welch's team strict orders to let Yeager's Air Force team go first, Welch often cared neither a fiddle nor a fig about such orders. Finally, witnesses heard Welch's sonic booms several times before Yeager's.<br />So why didn't anyone investigate the legitimacy of the claims for Welch and the XP-86 when the flights were performed? The author implies things worked out as they did for three reasons. First, breaking the sound barrier became a vast potential gold mine of publicity, and the \\"powers that be\\" wanted this publicity mined for purposes they would determine. Supporters of the brand new Air Force wanted the prestige. Furthermore, tremendous effort had gone into developing specialized research planes like the X-1, and few wanted to see the experimental aircraft program be swept into insignificance by a relatively non-exotic fighter -- the sonic boom was to announce a revolution, not a progression. Even North American later joined that revolution with its own magnificent X-15. Second, about the time the sound barrier was \\"broken,\\" aviation became very expensive, and progress depended upon public acceptance of the required effort. Therefore, aviation wanted a good publicist, and Yeager proved almost ideal. His confident charm seemed likely to pluck the funding right straight out of a politician's tight but awestruck fists. By contrast, George Welch was a fine young man and a superb pilot, but his speaking and social skills seemed, uh, marginal compared to Yeager's. Recruitment and public support for aviation probably benefitted from Yeager sitting atop the supersonic food chain. Finally, neither Welch nor North American made a big deal of the purported accomplishment (especially since it was forbidden by the top brass), and Welch was tragically killed testing an aircraft not long after these flights. At any rate, he did not keep complete data records for these surreptitious flights, so his methods (having witnesses listen to his sonic booms) were anecdotal. In my opinion, Welch's accomplishment, no matter how possible, is speculative, and Yeager' X-1 still indisputably claims the first properly documented piloted supersonic flight.<br />Not that it matters so much. The author agrees the first supersonic flight turned out to be little more than an inspirational but dangerous adventure, and even for aviation, the publicity-to-direct-benefit ratio was high. The first supersonic flight, like the first Everest climb, was immensely uplifting but hasn't put food on our tables any faster or better. Few people will experience supersonic flight or an Everest climb, but ifthe stories about the first ones don't cheer your spirit, you should check to see if you can become excited about anything.<br />Mr. Blackburn does far more than advance these ideas, however. With a test pilot's brassy style, he has crafted a genuinely interesting book about one of the most colorful chapters in aviation history, when dangerous and challenging aircraft filled the skies over America's test ranges and when computers weren't around to lower the danger but soften the adventure.<br />The book has unfortunate ommissions. Although the author was a North American test pilot for may years and was granted access to first-source files, he documents these sources poorly in the Bibliography. Regrettably, he tells little about his company, which was an exceptionally productive jewel in aviation's crown. For example, would aviation have benefitted if publicity from the first supersonic flight enabled North American to survive? I hope this superb author will write more about this magnificent corporation, which eventually fell on hard times and became mergered out of existence. Sadly, Mr. Blackburn feels the irreplaceable files he used for this book face an uncerain near-term future and may soon just get tossed into the trash by their new corporate owners.<br />A well-written, fascinating, controversial book, a chance to see how history and progress can be shaped by publicity and the need for the right hero, and a great gift idea for an aviation nut who has everything.the stories about the first ones don't cheer your spirit, you should check to see if you can become excited about anything.<br />Mr. Blackburn does far more than advance these ideas, however. With a test pilot's brassy style, he has crafted a genuinely interesting book about one of the most colorful chapters in aviation history, when dangerous and challenging aircraft filled the skies over America's test ranges and when computers weren't around to lower the danger but soften the adventure.<br />The book has unfortunate ommissions. Although the author was a North American test pilot for may years and was granted access to first-source files, he documents these sources poorly in the Bibliography. Regrettably, he tells little about his company, which was an exceptionally productive jewel in aviation's crown. For example, would aviation have benefitted if publicity from the first supersonic flight enabled North American to survive? I hope this superb author will write more about this magnificent corporation, which eventually fell on hard times and became mergered out of existence. Sadly, Mr. Blackburn feels the irreplaceable files he used for this book face an uncerain near-term future and may soon just get tossed into the trash by their new corporate owners.<br />A well-written, fascinating, controversial book, a chance to see how history and progress can be shaped by publicity and the need for the right hero, and a great gift idea for an aviation nut who has everything.	2003-06-18
US	52279342	R10MM9H8AD2GPG	1886391491	189019615	Stealth Down: The Loss of the First F-117 Stealth Fighter in Combat and the Dramatic Rescue of the Pilot	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A rare opportunity to see professionalism in action	This terrific book is a real find.  Here's the scenario -- a pilot knowing some of America's most sensitive tactics is missing over enemy territory, a cunning enemy intensely pursues the pilot on their own territory, and a rescue mission is promptly organized and conducted despite ambiguous information.  Ross Simpson shows a true story can be more exciting than fiction, if told by a skillful writer.  Sure, Tom Clancy or Joseph Heller (the masters of combat fiction) would work such a scenario differently, but Mr. Simpson does even better -- he has written an exciting and factual account based not on conjecture, but on gaining credibility with a military unit and telling their story.  Unlike fictional narratives or secondhand journalism, this work gives the reader a rare opportunity to see the depth of the unit's human side, and he shows how concern and compassion support the values the press normally associates with the military.<br />  This book has three advantages over the usual military book. First, he appeared to have earned considerable credibility from the people involved in the story.  Fighter units will not give this credibility lightly, and it helped Mr. Simpson project an almost palpable feel for the daily life and working relationships of the unit he covered.<br />  Second, this book shows how a good unit responds to a crisis outside their normal training pattern.  Many books give a good account of America's military and how they train with what they use, but this one shows the head-scratching flexibility when something happens outside the instruction manual.<br />  Last and not least, the author showed the critical importance of the families and how they help one another maintain and improve their spirit.  The families responded to this emergency with the same degree of leadership, competence, flexibility, and caring as did the frontline units.  Good show! -- and one we rarely see in the press.<br />Stealth fighters are pretty high-tech, but the edge enjoyed by this unit had less to do with technological superiority and more to do with old-fashioned integrity, competence, consistency, excellence, and unit spirit.  A good commander from WW II might not recognize the shape of the F-117, but would certainly appreciate the leadership, unit cohesion, and family support.  This was especially notable in Mr. Simpson's picture of the Stealth unit commander, who epitomized what we think of as Professionalism.<br />  Disclaimer:  I'm a military retiree but cannot imagine how I would have any commercial interest in anything connected with the book.<br />  ... It's worth finding.oyed by this unit had less to do with technological superiority and more to do with old-fashioned integrity, competence, consistency, excellence, and unit spirit.  A good commander from WW II might not recognize the shape of the F-117, but would certainly appreciate the leadership, unit cohesion, and family support.  This was especially notable in Mr. Simpson's picture of the Stealth unit commander, who epitomized what we think of as Professionalism.<br />  Disclaimer:  I'm a military retiree but cannot imagine how I would have any commercial interest in anything connected with the book.<br />  ... It's worth finding.	2003-06-06
US	52279342	R1NQGBJYXTL2LH	0062734857	145553587	Caninestein: Unleashing the Genius in YOUR Dog	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Be happy with your canine pals without dumbing them down	What a neat book!  The authors give a brief \\"intelligence test\\" for your dog and then tell how to make use of whatever intelligence your dog has (including emotional intelligence) to reward the lives of you and your dog(s). The authors seem to feel that you have to be realistic about the intelligence level of your animals -- you can't assume they have too much, but you shouldn't assume they don't need mental stimulation, either. Their tips don't take a great deal of your time, either.<br />We tried their tips and animals seemed to enjoy them, and the dogs seemed to sense we were giving them time, stimulation, and credit.  One caveat -- if you teach them how to do tricks, make sure they \\"only use their knowledge for good and never for evil\\" (i.e. if you teach them how to climb things, don't forget to use additional safeguards for your things!).	2003-05-27
US	52279342	R2ME6SYA182N3Q	0393310396	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Insightful and thoughtful	This translation of Rainer Maria Rilke's advice to a young would-be poet, Franz Kappus, helps to affirm his standing as one of humanity's most insightful artists in any medium, in any language.<br />Rilke appears to offer advice not so much to help Kappus understand our world, as how best to respond to it (by &quot;world&quot; I mean our mental world as well as our social world). Rilke thoughtfully discusses how an artist's life involves great discipline and patient effort in order to reinforce what is positive and leave behind what is negative. This advice is universal and can apply to any religion, discipline, or intent.<br />It's hard to think how one could not find a useful and valid insight on each page of this gentle work.  Everyone will have some line or two which stands out as their favorite.  If you are at all interested in Rilke, or in responding to Life, this book should be wonderful for you.	2003-05-25
US	52279342	R3OKLDEZXZNBNC	0385249373	908486357	Awareness: The Perils and Opportunities of Reality	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wonderful insight for those grounded in their faith	This will be a brief review, to cast my vote &quot;for&quot; this wonderful book and to offer some advice.  I was greatly impressed with Father De Mello's advice to stop thinking about being aware and Just DO IT! That advice -- to be aware of the blessings of God in our world and in the brief section of the world we call our life -- is superb and valid no matter what your faith or outlook (assuming it is basically positive).<br />Just one word of advice -- the Vatican has, indeed, cast some aspersions on this book (at least for now; who knows when that may change).  I would recommend this book be read by someone who feels comfortable with their faith and with their trust in the Lord.  The book can seem a bit new age-y but it can also bless one's prayer life and one's response to the wonderful creation, which includes one's awareness.	2003-05-25
US	52279342	R17FZMWJCYUU3X	0609801945	565245063	A Year to Live: How to Live This Year as If It Were Your Last	Books	4	177	189	N	N	5 stars if you're New Age, 2 if you're not, 4 to compromise	Stephen Levine has worked with the Dying for several years, and wrote this book as an exercise to prepare to die by preparing to live.  He relates his personal insights of the dynamic process of dying, and suggests an exercise to be undertaken by one who knows they have... only one year to live.<br />This is an exceptionally difficult book to review.  On the five-star side, the author has some exceptional credentials and the work has been well-reviewed by people with a wide variety of perspectives.  Some of his exercises (such as his \\"soft-belly\\" meditation, his advice to carefully observe our thoughts-as-they-arise, and his suggestions to recall and bid farewell to our most pleasant memories and to forgive our worst ones) are simply wonderful. They have aided my own practice immensely. I commend his gentle assurances that, despite our fears, All Should Be Well (most religious leaders have said the same thing).  I think the author has made a noble effort to tackle a hugely difficult subject.<br />On the dark side, however, I wouldn't give this book to someone imminently facing the Great Gulp unless they were pretty comfortable with the New Age view of Death.  Many good people feel preparing for death requires much regret, repentance, suffering, uncertainty, angst, fear, etcetera, and this book might provoke outrage from those people at a sensitive time without any corresponding redemptive value (I indeed respect a terminally-ill reviewer who trashed this book).  The author seems to feel death should be kind of a peaceable, emotionally blissy, blend-with-the-infinite, far-out sort of experience.  I wouldn't exactly say he views death as the spiritual equivalent of a trip to Disneyland but ... you get the picture.  I'm sorry to again be so totally crass, but you have several financial and material responsibilities in preparing your loved ones for your after-death experience, and this book glossed over them pretty darn quickly. The book is New Age Ambiguous -- I looked over one section and put negatives in place of the positives, and it read pretty much the same either way. I'm skeptical the author's theology or ontology improve on the Buddha, who was silent regarding The Ultimate Question.  I also agree with other reviewers who pointed out the twelve-month exercise is ultimately artificial and can degenerate into shallowness.  Finally, no bibliography, no index, and no backup data for some Pretty Big Assertions-As-Facts.<br /><br /> I finally suggest four stars as a compromise.  I also gave a respectable rating because of the sheer value of some of his meditational exercises, and suggest the book for those reasons alone.over one section and put negatives in place of the positives, and it read pretty much the same either way. I'm skeptical the author's theology or ontology improve on the Buddha, who was silent regarding The Ultimate Question.  I also agree with other reviewers who pointed out the twelve-month exercise is ultimately artificial and can degenerate into shallowness.  Finally, no bibliography, no index, and no backup data for some Pretty Big Assertions-As-Facts.<br /><br /> I finally suggest four stars as a compromise.  I also gave a respectable rating because of the sheer value of some of his meditational exercises, and suggest the book for those reasons alone.	2003-05-23
US	52279342	R2PKYD4NQIQ14F	0688142974	221246579	Biblical Literacy: The Most Important People, Events, and Ideas of the Hebrew Bible	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A thoughtful, decent work	I'd like to add my vote to those who rate this work highly.  The author has gracefully summarized insights into the Bible, and has made it seem one of the most human of books.  These insights were not achieved cheaply, but by observing the Infinite, while listening to the gentle voice within the maelstrom.  I have never failed to create amazement when I have raised Rabbi Telushkin's points in my (Christian) Bible Study Group.  If you are thinking about reading this book .... Do It.	2003-05-23
US	52279342	R1DW47N2FJ8R6I	1573228567	560589279	My Grandfather's Blessings: Stories of Strength, Refuge, and Belonging	Books	5	55	56	N	N	How can we give and discover kindness in today's world?	Of the hundreds of books I have read, I consider this one of the very best. By way of background, I am a Board-certified clinical dentist with 17 years experience and three years of post-doctoral training.  This collection of essays explores the value of our contributions to life, and the value of life's contributions to us.  Although Dr Remen is an experienced oncologist, she has found most of her lessons by observing &quot;the mysterious simple things,&quot; including her beloved grandfather's gentle and loving suggestions.<br />These stories almost seem mystical in their value and goodness.  They are wise and profound, despite (rather than because of) her clinical skills (medicine and medical business have usually emphasized competence and quickness rather than anything akin to compassion).<br />I read one chapter of her book each day, along with my religious readings, and rarely finish the chapter without a tear in my eye and a glimmer of insight.  She is a superb teaacher and I'd recommend her book to anyone who wonders how they are ever going to show caring or kindness in the kind of world they live in.	2003-05-18
US	52279342	R1I8VZAL12IRBU	0767908139	753033210	The Good, the Bad & the Difference: How to Tell the Right From Wrong in Everyday Situations	Books	1	35	61	N	N	Dangerous, inconsistent, smarmy;  worse than useless	First, every well-educated person's library should have at least one good ethics book. Second, this book ain't it.<br /><br />The author gives a series of ethical case studies and then shows how he would quickly solve the problems (although he seldom tells the reader all the necessary details in his scenarios).  The author seems to believe ethics is like quantum physics or surgery -- people can be shown how problems are solved by the experts, but they should not try to do it themselves.  I consider this conclusion not only wrong, but potentially dangerous and inconsistent with liberal democracy.  Cohen's approach would leave us at the mercy of the self-proclaimed \\"experts\\" -- and I assume these \\"experts\\" would be lawyers, politicians, or professional ethicists. We've already conceded justice in this country to lawyers and politicians, with disastrous consequences for justice, and heaven help us if we should do the same with morality and ethics.<br /><br />A major quarrel I have with this book is the same quarrel I have with Mr. Cohen's New York Times articles -- the author's views are often inconsistent and downright wrong.  One case in point is his view on college honor codes requiring students to turn in known and verified cheaters.  Mr Cohen feels this is \\"tattling,\\" which can be effectively ignored by an ethical person, even if this means cheaters can continue to take advantage of the system.  Well, if I know someone is falsifying aircraft maintenance records, and do not \\"tattle,\\" I could rightly be considered partially liable for killing hundreds of people if their planes crash because of faulty repairs. Mr Cohen never draws a line between minor \\"tattling\\" and a crime of collaboration, and he never indicates how (or if) he would draw that line.  If a person does not develop a respect for honesty in a training situation like college, just where are they going to develop it?  College honor codes can help establish the kind of character that Mr Cohen's (poorly-developed) \\"virtue ethics\\" requires.  This is just one case in point.<br /><br />Last and least, the author's writing style often seems insufferably smug and smarmy.  Yecch. Poor writing is not necessary for good ethics.<br /><br />I hope professional ethicists won't do to ethics what lawyers have done to justice, but after reading this book, I am far less hopeful.eloped) \\"virtue ethics\\" requires.  This is just one case in point.<br /><br />Last and least, the author's writing style often seems insufferably smug and smarmy.  Yecch. Poor writing is not necessary for good ethics.<br /><br />I hope professional ethicists won't do to ethics what lawyers have done to justice, but after reading this book, I am far less hopeful.	2003-05-13
US	52279342	R7ZIP6VQOSKE0	1931709416	879591547	Blessings from the Battlefield	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A positive blessing from the terror of the battlefields	...<br />The editors give a series of brief vignettes shared by priests who minister to those who are preparing for, conducting, or recovering from one of man's greatest inhumanities to man. You will find people who have been transformed by something positive which shines forth just when you think things are at their worst.<br />I have to tell you this book reminds me of the Nurses' sculpture at the Vietnam Memorial in D.C.  The nurses are holding an injured soldier and caring for him, while one of them is looking up for the airevac to arrive.  I was greatly moved by this sculpture, which seems to beautifully portray the fact that in the middle of this depraved, frightening, almost hopeless environment, human beings still have the courage and the dignity to care for one another.<br />This book should brighten your day and give you hope.	2003-04-06
US	52279342	RVYQX1EN7FN8M	0899424236	663448995	Shorter Christian Prayer: The Four-Week Psalter of the Liturgy of the Hours Containing Morning Prayer and Evening Prayer With Selections for the Entire Year	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	It's short, it's Christian, it's prayer; it's wonderful	This set of prayers is a daily offering of psalms, readings, and other prayers to help direct one towards God.<br />I have the four-volume set of the liturgy, but find those volumes are difficult to carry with me when I am traveling, or when I am visiting a place where I will have some time to pray and just want to carry a smaller book in my pocket. What you do lose is the complete set of prayers (such as the Office of Readings and various holy days), and you do have to use more place-markers, but it's a wonderful companion that I'd rather not be without.	2003-02-04
US	52279342	R30GUN2N1Z5DJ5	0446676136	756843172	Reason for Hope: A Spiritual Journey	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A gentle and cultivated guide	Reason For Hope outlines Jane Goodall's life and her philosophy, and provides a summary of what she believes, why she believes it, and how she came to believe it. I was a bit skeptical when I began this book, but quickly became a convert to much of Ms Goodall's philosophy and outlook when it became rather obvious that her insights were tested by, and developed through, the many trials of her life as a scientist and a publicist. Goodall gives a charming and succinct view of how her interests in primatology developed, how she remained positive despite personal tragedy and the environmental depradations in her beloved Africa, and why we should cultivate a concern about life.<br />  I was most impressed by how Ms Goodall's insights were carefully nurtured through intense patience and keen observation.  She does not come by her insights cheaply, and has made an enviable blend of rationalism and empiricism. She notes many similarities between humanity and the higher primates, such as an innate cruelty (which can be overridden, but only with difficulty), an understandable but often fiercely destructive &quot;herd mentality,&quot; and a tendency to favor optimism and joyfulness in our acquaintances. She makes a convincing argument that an appreciation of other life forms can enhance --not degrade-- our humanity. Finally, Ms Goodall argues that each one of us can make a positive difference in how we live, for the betterment of ourselves and others.<br />  I was impressed with how this productive and innovative scientist shows how science can be ethically progressive and &quot;spiritually&quot; meaningful.  I can't think of anyone I would not recommend it to. Her book is a wonderful gift to her readers and to life.	2002-09-26
US	52279342	RSWP93DLH8CQF	1580800599	642382954	Incredible Victory: The Battle of Midway (Classics of War)	Books	5	72	74	N	N	Steven Spielberg, Stephen King, Tom Clancy, take a back seat	Wow!  Although the outcome of this battle is a given, I cannot remember a more thrilling, edge-of-the-seat read than this one.  Truth is indeed more exciting than fiction, or at least it can be when the right author relates the tale.  Mr Lord has shown us just how contingent and unpredictable history can be -- although nearly everything we threw at the japanese was  shrugged off by the emperor's men, when we finally succeeded, it was a magnificent triumph that no one would believe if it had happened in a story. Lord's book is well-documented and he tells us a few new things about this battle -- for instance, although we had supposedly cracked the japanese code, it was more like a few bits of information rather than the entire plan.<br />I'd recommend it highly, but only if you have a good heart and a tolerance for intensity.	2002-08-27
US	52279342	R337ZST0VKIVSV	0395244188	779421686	Find the Constellations	Books	5	88	90	N	Y	It's the Greatest!	I'm a doc with over 3 years of post-doc training and I can't think of a single science text which is more enjoyable to read.  Even after 16 years of astronomical observation, I still think of the constellations as Rey drew them (they are easier to remember), and I still get this text out when I want to show someone how to enjoy astronomy.  If all science writers were like Mr Rey, we wouldn't be too worried about scientific illiteracy in this country.  Along with its twin, The Stars, it stands alone. This treasure is &quot;for kids from one to ninety-two.&quot;	2002-01-15
US	52279342	R3FABAZLPGCUP0	0395248302	527135786	The Stars: A New Way to See Them	Books	5	4	5	N	N	It's the best (along with its twin)	I've been an amateur astronomer for over 16 years and have three years of post-doc training, and still consider this book (along with Find the Constellations) to be the among very best introductory observational astronomy books ever published. I can't think of a single individual who has brought more enjoyment and pleasure to what can actually be a slogging, tough discipline. I refer to it whenever I want to teach someone about astronomical observation. It's too bad Rey didn't apply his talents to other areas of science, or we wouldn't be so worried about people not enjoying science. \\"For kids from one to ninety-two.\\"	2002-01-15
US	52279342	R1ETLPN0J5SYBE	1585742406	774717286	The Grey Seas Under: The Perilous Rescue Mission of a N.A. Salvage Tug	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A tale well told	I've just finished this work and give it five stars because it is a tale well told, with skill and fire. The book first provides a sound and interesting introduction to salvage law and operations -- I had thought the title alluded to lifesaving missions as the primary mission of the salvage tug. Instead, saving sailors was strictly secondary to saving cargo and vessels, although the little tug actually saved more lives than government vessels whose primary mission was lifesaving. Mr Mowat then describes how a small rescue tug and its crew made dozens of successful and intensely difficult rescues of vessels in distress. These rescues were carried out using determination and cunning, and a synergy between a well-designed boat and its crew, rather than computers and satellite navigation, and they demanded an intense courage and fortitude which may seem unimaginable in our softer and more pleasant technological age. We are the richer for Mr Mowat's story, because it gives us an insight into another era, before technology had improved our abilities but lessened our involvement and committment. My only real problem with the book was that Mr Mowat never discussed the important role played by those who maintained this vessel, even though he describes how a lack of maintenance and care almost destroyed the vessel as it passed into obsolescence during its final voyage.	2001-08-30
US	52279342	R1LAR22N3X54SS	0006280366	999218312	Like Water in a Dry Land: Journey into Modern Israel	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Another watered-down polemic	I purchased this book on an overflow shelf.  Ms Selby offers another diatribe on how the Israelis are entirely to blame for the current sad state of affairs in the Mid East, and how the Arabs and Palestinians would be in a state of bliss -- just like they were prior to 1948 -- if the Jews simply packed up and left the Holy Land.  When she equated the Israeli Army with the Nazis, I figured enough was enough -- she seems to forget that had she tried this narcissistic bike trip prior to l967, she would have been barred from re-entering Jordan.  This book is an insult to the Arabs as well as the Israelis.	2001-05-09
US	52279342	R2WW8DW243W48W	1569751374	808274910	Music of Silence: A Sacred Journey Through the Hours of the Day	Books	5	34	34	N	N	The listened appreciation of time	The author discusses how time can be a deeply sacred part of the hours of our lives, and why an appreciation of time has been developed by the experts of the monastic orders. Nothing is as ordinary, or as sacred, as time. Far from being an infinitesimally small unit of measurement or a means of separating one event from another, time provides the means by which the still, small, silent voice of God may be heard.  This is a book to take on a sabbatical journey.	2001-01-06
US	52279342	R3MTG7CGEDFY87	0486289729	833741997	Scrambles Among the Alps in the Years 1860-69	Books	5	12	13	N	N	superb writing from the Golden Age of Alpinism	Since I first read this little classic, Edward Whymper's book on scrambling in the Alps has always been my favorite mountaineering book.  Something about his style of writing makes one feel they have not only read a delightful tale, they have actually incorporated it into their own memory. His pencil etchings are so evocative, you can almost smell the brisk air of Zermatt and feel the weathered texture of the Swiss dwelling. You can once again experience the thoughts of trepidation and anticipation which accompany a good outing in the mountains. This is Victorian mountain writing at its very best, in an age before high technology and polarfleece added safety and comfort but put some palpable distance between you and the experience and blunted the directness of your perceptions and observations. I've spent many of my own happy hours scrambling in the Alps, but somehow Whymper makes it seem like I'm doing it anew.  Sure, it's always interesting to read of the difficulties of Everest or the tales of hardship on Half Dome, but Whymper was among the first, and high technology and modern photography have not allowed us to better put you into the heart of the experience.	2000-12-25
US	52279342	R2T6OD10T7F38P	076790415X	374953865	Spanish Lessons: Beginning a New Life in Spain	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Spain without the Tourists	Having read a lot of travel books I immediately cring at books advertised to be &quot;like Peter Mayle&quot; because most of them are anything but! Hurray, in Spanish Lessons, the spirit of Peter lives on.  The ability to  see the humor in a difficult situation and to enjoy,not condemn customs and  habits foreign to him are well in evidence here.  The book is amusing, well  written and punctuated with laugh alouds.  Lambert takes on the Spanish  with a limited vocabulary and a house renovation job that would make most  of us cring and comes out if not the better, at least even.  I enjoyed the  book and its insight into life in a small Spanish village, its characters  and its culture.  All this and not a jug of Sangria in sight!  Encore!	2000-07-22
US	52279342	R2CRTZL10RX7BS	0968172903	53891310	Spirit of the Open Road	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Buy This Book and read it to Your RV!	At last, practical advice for both before and after you have bought that dream RV.  I have read a lot of RV advice and how to's but this is the one I'll take with me.  Peggi delivers an organized and extremely helpful book  divided into logical sections so you can read the whole thing ( I recommend  this approach so you don't miss anything) or just what you need to know  when you need it.  I have owned an RV for 6 years and I wish I'd had this  book when I bought my first one. This is the best book I have seen for  novices - strong on how to and practical tips culled from years of  experience and chats with RVers all over.  This is also a great book for  those thinking of beginning in RV's.  If you think you know it all read  Peggi and you'll learn a lot more!  Hope she brings out another one soon.	2000-07-02
US	52279342	RDRB8FBB7BE4P	007135428X	435413465	Brother Astronomer: Adventures of a Vatican Scientist	Books	5	52	55	N	N	a brief review of Brother Astronomer's book	(Brother)(Dr) Guy Consolmagno has given us a delightful book, obviously written by someone who has comfortably lived (and uncomfortably adventured) in the two worlds of scientific and religious inquiry.  The author  discusses his infectious enthusiasm for both &quot;worlds,&quot; although  he doesn't think there is an essential line between the two. During the  course of this book, you will travel to the ends of the earth to look for  fragments of another world, understand why serendipity (and a good high  school English teacher) are often major parts of a successful big-league  scientific presentation, and learn why the Vatican maintains one of the  world's best meteorite collections (in a home built by the pope who helped  condemn Galileo). You will also find how Dr C answered the &quot;killer  question&quot; -- namely, why care a fiddle or a fig about the makeup of  Jupiter's moons, when people are suffering on earth? (Dr C mentions he  briefly gave up science, joined the Peace Corps to directly help starving  people, wound up teaching science to Kenyan students, and came away  convinced that scientific development can provide one of the soundest  foundations for preventing ignorance and starvation. It can also provide a  sound foundation for religious understanding). Dr C discusses how the  established church helped found modern science and scientific thinking  (Galileo's trial was a correctable aberration, just like the regrettable  dark alleyways occasionally taken by scientific minds). The established  church and science have traditionally been partners in seeking  methodological and insightful understanding, appreciating truth in our  world, and combating ignorance and superstition.  I did have some  editorial quarrels (examples: there is no index and no bibliography, and  Father Lemaitre did not &quot;invent&quot; the Big Bang theory; he  &quot;proposed&quot; it). Nevertheless, when I closed this book, I had  improved both my understanding of why a sane person would risk his life for  science, and why a sane scientist would want to become a good Jesuit.son would risk his life for  science, and why a sane scientist would want to become a good Jesuit.	2000-05-22
