US	52274144	RKTEBFNO54U8M	0521458676	537079508	Theory of Moves	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating Analysis of Possibilities and Results	Steven Brams' Theory of Moves is a fascinating publication that supplies qualitative and quantitative mathematical models used to explain the merits and deficiencies in the logic of hypothetical and anecdotal decisions of various types (economic, political, social, etc.).    Brams intermittently isolates two-party conflicts and  highlights each conceivable resolution by using a 2x2 matrix that gives a variety of possibilities provided in ordered pair combinations, where the numbers range from a 1, which translates to a worst case scenario for the party concerned, to a 4, which is the best possible outcome. For instance, a (1,4) would be interpreted as a two-party game where the deciding party, who receives a 1, ends up with the theoretically worst possible outcome, leaving the opponent, which receives a 4, with the best. As another case, a (3,2) would be read as a pairing where the 3 represents a next-to-best outcome for the decision making party, whereas the 2, on the other hand, would be the next-to-worst outcome for the opponent.    Brams looks at various situations, comparing and contrasting, for instance, the fictional works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, whose most famous character, the detective Sherlock Holmes, always comes out one step ahead of his arch nemesis, with those that display what is referred to as the Minimax Theorem, which espouses that \\"[i]n a two-person constant-sum game,[it] guarantees that each player can ensure at least a certain expected value, called the value of the game, that does not depend on the strategy choice of the other player\\". Among the works in this latter category is William Faulkner's Light in August, where a chase scene is partially deconstructed by Brams in such a way that argues that, unlike Doyle, whose protagonist is portrayed as a character with computational abilities that are superior to those of the antagonist, who never, in turn, makes the necessary adjustments to place himself or herself at an unequivocally victoriousstage, Faulkner understood the mixed strategies involved in a two-person sum game where, perhaps, a decision made by the inferior might have the silver bullet effect to overcome the superior.    As a relevant case that might be brought forth, sports analysts paid special attention to the selection of players for the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team. After the best American players, even at the top of the National Hockey League, had previously been beaten by the Soviets time and again, the hopes of ever defeating Russia, especially in 1980, were dim. What transpired to be the Miracle on Ice was regarded by sports historians as essentially this. Though decision making officials were inclined to put together what were deemed the very best of the best, the U.S. coach used, as I recall, a counterintuitive approach by forming a team that largely consisted of players with, perhaps, less talent than the hockey elite but, nonetheless, an overall determination to win which could not be denied. In other words, the U.S. probably did not have its best team that day, but it had, more importantly, the right team.    Throughout Theory of Moves, Brams portrays various situations where diplomacy and compromise are the appropriate, realistic approaches to dealing with an opponent. For instance, if the outcome is ideologically next-to-best, it might, in reality terms, be the applicable best, especially in cases where the opponent has interests that run counter to those of the decision maker. In those particular scenes, Brams provides further outlets of analyses, expounding upon where it is not worth pursuing the attainment or maintenance of the best possible state; in discussion, Brams introduces us to magnanimity, which is a transfer of moving from what was the best possible state to the next-best possible. Magnanimity, according to Brams, is essential, especially if what was regarded as the best possible situation devolves into a worst case Status Quo, where the opposing party, over time, grows resentful and decides to rise up in hostile action.    What have been provided in these few paragraphs are only a handful of terms that Brams gives in these roughly 215 pages, for there are so many angles for the reader to look upon. In fact, the information and explanations are so thorough and detailed that once a person gains a more refined appreciation or understanding of the decision making powers or adjustments necessary for optimal outcome in game theory, he or she can apply it in life, especially when making personal decisions and effectively dealing with the dilemma that we often put 80% of our energies into what amounts to only 20% of what is really of immediate importance.    Theory of Moves is a definite must have. Quite a bit of the language is technical, but there is enough induction applied where one can draw enough analogies and parallels to what is discussed so as to relate to the points that Brams is getting across.	2004-08-07
US	52274144	R3TPSO01C38MK2	0871230836	801469703	Christian Perfection: Devotional Reflections on the Christian Life (Classics of Devotion Series) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Perhaps the Best Devotional Book Ever for Christians	I have the 1947 Harper & Row publication of the book Christian Perfection. It is arguably the best devotional masterpiece ever put forth on this planet. It is a shame that this book is so hard to find. Contemporary translations, including Meditations on the Heart of God and Talking with God, are quite inspirational, but they only provide a taste of the heartfelt, scholarly elaborations that only the pious Francois Fenelon could put forth.      Though this clergyman lived centuries ago, Francois Fenelon could deliver religious themes that are irrespective of time. Christian Perfection is a most apt title for this book. What makes it so special is that it brings to focus what it means to take up one's cross, what it means to seek the Lord in prayer, and what it takes to maintain a heart devoted to godly service, even when the human heart is inclined to do otherwise.      Fenelon touched on key points about human nature and how it can come into conflict with vows previously made to serving God with utmost zeal and fervor. His insights, to this day, communicate in this volume like letters to anyone who is faced with doubts about his or her dedication and commitment to serving the Lord; they essentially say, \\"I know your struggles, doubts, and fears, my friend; but know that the Lord your God loves you perfectly and will use His perfection to make good use of you, though you are imperfect.\\"      Lately, I have been reading classics about time management, priority organization, and the daily habits of mind that lead to success in life. If a Christian devotional publication could meld in these perspectives from a Scriptural point of view, it is this one.      For the past few years, there have been concerns about how people are suddenly finding a sudden, albeit maniacal, interest in religion or how some have become so involved with born again charismatic movements that they are \\"wearing their faith on their sleeve\\". I share those concerns, and I think that many of these latest trends are disturbing, for they seem geared to establishing legalistic modes of thought that are put forth by evangelists who have forsaken traditional doctrines and who want to influence the masses, telling them what to think and what to believe without giving them room to analyze or critique.      Fortunately, Christian Perfection teaches or communicates in a traditional tone that reveres God's holiness and that acknowledges man's shortcomings on a very intimate and personal level.       Francois Fenelon's humility is a trait that is lacking in so many circles of faith. I wish that this book could be in wider circulation, because it communicates in a tone that is of a sincere, caring person. Unfortunately, many of our so-called Christian leaders of today claim to have special visions or revelations about what is right while simultaneously undercutting public and private figures with the brand of almost Phariseelike behavior that Jesus preached against.       For anyone who is sick and tired of seeing in person or on TV those individuals, including the supposed followers of Christ who communicate to others that they are more entitled to forming opinions or pursuing happiness than those around them, this book is for you. Fenelon made an utmost attempt to make his writings compatible with the Bible, not the other way around.	2004-08-07
US	52274144	R1MCUJA4OPVGYV	0685920607	634429104	Batman from the Thirties to the Seventies	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perhaps the Best Volume of Batman Reprints Ever	I purchased this book when I was a kid back in 1977. I grew up loving the Batman character, thanks, in very large part, to this title. <br />  <br /> Throughout, you see the gamut of emotions and villains Batman and his alter ego, Bruce Wayne, must contend with as his character and storylines make various transitions from one decade to the next. <br />  <br /> It has become a trademark of DC Comics to hesitate from reprinting back issues of Detective Comics and Batman, and, perhaps, in consequence, I have yet to find a more recent, bound collection of the formerly golden and silver age stories featuring the caped crusader to equal this one. <br />  <br /> Batman from the Thirties to the Seventies is a very good, chronological, historical overview of the heroic Batman, from the introductory works of Bob Kane to the fun, lighthearted issues that ran concurrently with the TV series to the &quot;let's get back to serious business&quot; themes of Neal Adams and Dick Giordano. <br />  <br /> Again, this is possibly the best collection of Batman reprints in one volume. It might be the greatest composite collection in its genre, period. <br />  <br /> I lost this book back in the early 1980's to a house fire. After a long search at various stores and on the internet, I once again have this treasure. The process of finding it was a very long, continual search, but rediscovering it was worth the wait. <br />  <br /> For those who wonder why some Batman fans do not care for the Batman motion pictures or any of The Dark Knight series authored by Frank Miller, this piece of work will make their case for you.	2004-08-05
US	52274144	R21WRH4YDLY38C	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	5	4	12	N	Y	Great Source Introducing Basic Financial Perspectives	Several reviews have been conducted regarding this book, and I will try to add in my two cents. Kiyosaki does a masterful job highlighting, if not identifying, the many problems that several in the middle class, rat race trap are faced with. <br />  <br /> Refreshing is the almost simplistic, but tragically overlooked, layout of what constitutes an asset and what determines a liability. Quite simply, the former is what adds to your life or &quot;puts money in you pocket&quot;; the latter is what takes away from the quality of life or &quot;drains money from your pocket&quot;. <br />  <br /> Very frequently presented is the premise that unless you change, you will keep doing what you have always been doing. Though Kiyosaki's subsequent release, Cashflow Quadrant, touches more thoroughly upon the shortcomings of a traditional education, which he says does not equip one with financial intelligence, one overtone does reverberate in Rich Dad, Poor Dad, and it is this. We learn from our mistakes, and perhaps the key reason why people will typically become failures not only in school but in life is that they have become conditioned to fear failure to the degree that they are afraid of making mistakes. So they do not try and, in effect, have already resigned themselves to failure. Mistakes, Kiyosaki points out, are necessary not only for true learning but for any meaningful success. <br />  <br /> As somewhat an autobiography that centers around the contrasting viewpoints that Kiyosaki, throughout his boyhood and adult years, received from two different adults, one wealthy and the other middle class, Rich Dad, Poor Dad is a very thorough personification of the habits of mind that separate those who have more from those who have less or none. <br />  <br /> Kiyosaki does point to other recommended readings that are compatible with his works. From a historical perspective on wealth, Kiyosaki recommends Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith (the cornerstone of economics), and for those who want inspiration and encouragement, Kiyosaki also recommends Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill. <br />  <br /> Also as one of my personal recommended readings for the pathway to success is the essential How to Get Control of Your Time and Your Life by Alan Lakein, which effectively lays out the remedy to the 20/80----80/20 dilemma we are oftentimes faced with.  <br />  <br /> Combined with these other books and the like, Rich Dad, Poor Dad will be an effective tool for learning how to prioritize not only financial matters but life matters. A truly winning combination awaits you.	2004-08-05
US	52274144	R1BHKABK6YD70S	0739317067	786383328	My Life	Books	5	2	6	N	N	One's Proclaimed Search for a Dr. Jekyll in These GOP Hydes	The audio version of My Life is a six CD collection of some very interesting autobiographical excerpts read by the author, our 42nd President of the United States, Mr. William Jefferson Clinton. Just when I thought that Paul Begala's It's Still the Economy, Stupid was a blistering deconstruction of the Republicans because of Begala's bold proclamations that the right-wing agendas of W. and his fellow neocons have been and still are severely flawed, Clinton has shed a whole new level of darkness on key members of the GOP.      In his own accounts, Clinton intermittently brings to life how prominent Republicans would stoop to new lows to tarnish the image of those who did not agree with their style of politics. Frequently, Clinton portrays himself as a man who, as the governor of Arkansas and, subsequently, as President of the U.S., tried to carry out and better advocate the best interests of working class families in America. As a man on this overarching mission of compassion, Clinton would soon realize how the members of the GOP, especially Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich, would stand in the way of his policies and, in effect, prevent several innovative pieces of legislation designed for improving the lives of average Americans from being put into effect.      There are some highly disturbing notes in Clinton's accounts, regardless of who is telling the truth. For instance, long after it was concluded in the Whitewater investigation that Vince Foster's death was a suicide, there remained stories that, somehow, Clinton contributed to the death of Vince Foster. Those rumors, at first ignored, evolved to the extent that Clinton noticed how they were generating negative numbers on how the U.S. viewed his Presidency and how many continued to feel that there were extenuating circumstances about Vince Foster's death that the White House was keeping under wraps.       Quite chilling is Clinton's later accounts of why the buzz was circulating as it had been. He states that sincehe knew and respected Wyoming Republican Senator, Alan Simpson, for so many years, going back to Clinton's early days as Arkansas governor, that Simpson would be a reliable source of information of how the political rumor mill in D.C. operated. When Clinton asked Simpson why the lies continued, even when Foster's death was a suicide and nothing more, Simpson essentially replied, &quot;Oh! We know what the truth is! But the truth is not all that counts. What ultimately counts is how the American people see you, and many of your adversaries are trying to ruin your image!&quot;      If this account is true, then it must have felt like a punch in the gut to realize that, maybe, for once, the truth will not prevail. Again, this is quite disturbing. Also disgusting is Clinton's recollection of how easily he could have appointed an independent counsel to investigate some alleged, highly unethical practices conducted by Republican Congressman, Newt Gingrich, but did not, only to have Mr. Gingrich to not be so cordial, later on, when Monicagate arrived.      As one listens to Clinton, he or she cannot help but wonder to what degree it is true that the Democrats want to bring about change for the better and that the Republicans are a cynical bunch who want to do nothing but play politics. In comparing and contrasting the views of himself and of his political role models with those on the Republican side, Clinton states that Democrats have long shared the philosophy that government can be a purposeful tool in enhancing the quality of life for every citizen and that the Republicans do not share this optimistic view.       One thing is apparent. Regardless of how truthful or not Clinton is, many who either listen to or read this book will find that, for years, there have been pro-Clinton viewpoints and sentiments that never made it to several facets of American airwaves and that the members of the media are, perhaps, not so liberal. In fact, I bet that some will come to perceivethat the media is, on average, quite slanted in the other direction.	2004-07-22
US	52274144	R36RJYUTFZ97JF	1586482254	454148024	Soft Power: The Means To Success In World Politics	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Needs Commentary on Status Quo Preservation and Rejection	Soft Power, by Joseph Nye, Jr., is an interesting publication that blends together contemporary events and brief American history lessons to support his theme that America?s success in its war on terrorism must rely on properly balancing two types of power. The first is hard power, which Mr. Nye identifies as a state?s ability to use economic or military might to force other nations to comply with particular sanctions or directives. Mr. Nye declares that many in our government have mistaken this power as the only wielding influence that can be used to attain victory during times of war and that the other type of power is often ignored or never acknowledged. This second type of power, whose identification has been introduced and coined by Mr. Nye, is soft power. Soft power, which ?arises from the attractiveness of a country?s culture, political ideals, and policies? is the ability of that country to persuade other nations to share its objectives or desired outcomes. <br />At the introduction, Mr. Nye acknowledges that hard power, through force, can be used to conquer one state or, at most, a few states in the name of fighting terrorism. However, he asserts that it, alone, cannot create an international cooperation of governments to hunt down every person who serves as a threat to world peace. This latter objective, Mr. Nye proclaims, can be met by merging the coercive presence of hard power with the persuasive influences of soft power and that this combination is an effective approach to forming a coalition of nations. To draw a bold line of distinction between hard power, by itself, and the union of hard and soft power, Joseph Nye quotes Newt Gingrich, who comments that the measuring rod of success is not how many enemies are killed but, instead, how many allies are gathered.<br />Throughout the book, Nye reinforces that the overarching goal for America to effectively enact and establish its policies is to make the ideals of the United States as attractive as possible to the rest of the world. Though this extraordinary aim might be hailed as unrealistic, at worst, or as idealistic and Jeffersonian, at best, Nye contends, notwithstanding, that this intention is being panned because opponents misread it as appearing too soft. He subsequently reaffirms that the spread of any ideal is not often dependent upon hard or soft power, exclusively, but the proper melding of the two.  <br />To support why soft power is so important, Nye states that it can be used in capacities that hard power cannot and identifies tools in which it can be put into effect. For example, broadcast capabilities and the internet can enhance communication strategies to spread democratic sentiments to other parts of the world. Also, soft power can be an aid in establishing peaceful relations among countries; for instance, programs established to send civilians such as doctors, teachers, and entertainers abroad to provide the types of services that other nations are seeking are powerful, positive overtures for democracy.<br />Intermittently, Nye states that the effective use of hard and soft power will come to fruition if the goals are properly stated. He cites instances of key shortcomings, the most recent of which pertains to the War in Iraq. Though the United States is criticized from an international perspective for going into war without U.N. consent, Nye states that on the domestic front, there was no solidarity on why the U.S. troops had to engage in combat. He blames this lack of cohesion on the Bush team, who used a wide variety of themes that appealed to so many different groups to the degree that no unifying consensus was ever reached. <br />Not only does Nye criticize the Bush White House for not properly enforcing hard and soft power, he also places a notable burden of responsibility on the Clinton administration. Nye highlights that a critical mistake that weakened U.S. soft power was the decision of Clinton and Congress to cut budgets and staff forcultural diplomacy and exchanges by almost thirty percent after 1993. How might this be regarded as weakening? Nye points out that knowledge is power and by failing to maintain closer lines of communication with the states concerned, we reduce our ability to select relevant themes and modify our short-term and long-term goals so as to establish and maintain stable relations.<br />Soft Power, overall, is a very interesting read that cites themes that argue how our U.S. government needs to invest more of its budget in the State Department in order to exercise not just hard or soft power, but smart power. For those interested in other types of power mentioned in war and politics that are synonymous with, if not identical to, hard power and soft power, another interesting book about power is Steven Brams? Theory of Moves. Brams does not use the words hard power and soft power; instead, he applies the terms threat power and moving power, both of which run on a respective, game theory parallel to the aforementioned.	2004-05-11
US	52274144	R3M93AX35SXRNI	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	4	7	10	N	N	MORE ISSUES THAN JUST THE ECONOMY MENTIONED	Though one might argue that this book is a source of so-called liberal propaganda, Begala does present issues that are worthy of discussion. The title is somewhat misleading, because the American economy is only part of what is contained in these roughly 200 pages.<br />Among the other issues is the National Debt. When It's Still the Economy, Stupid was written, Begala referenced the National Budget Committee and its projections for a disastrous 2003 budget deficit of $300 billion. As it has turned out, what was then criticized by many as being an overestimate of the severity of our budget shortfall is now looked upon in retrospect as being a serious underestimate.<BR> <BR>Throughout the book, Begala raises concerns regarding Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education and quite notably, the environment, and as each issue is put forth, he boldly portrays the neo-Conservatives on Capitol Hill as a group of politicians whose agenda is to carry out the wishes of corrupt, big business lobbyists. For instance, Begala mentions that several of Bush's advisors have stocks and shares vested in corporations that have been notorious for emitting toxic pollutants into our air, land, and water. He then continues by saying that these same senior and junior officers turn around and cater to the CEOs and COOs who are pushing for environmental deregulations just so that their companies can make those extra monetary profits, regardless of how Mother Nature is affected. How is this catering done? Well, Begala states that the Bush administration has pressured our lawmakers to find ways to undermine the influence of both OSHA and the EPA.<br />As one continues to read this book, he or she might get the notion that the neo-Conservatives are not satisfied with just raiding the quality of our environment. He or she might believe that, because of the perceived prevalence of corporate greed, there is no such thing as a secure investment for the less-than-wealthy American.  In effect, onemight be convinced that George W. Bush and his Cabinet members are doing everything they can to dismantle every idea that has been contributory to twentieth-century progress in America. These ideas from the past would range from Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal to Teddy Roosevelt's fights against political corruption and the abuse of our natural resources. <br />If half of this book is true, then Bush is looking out for himself and his closest rich buddies. So long as he and those few others are happy, as Begala has implied, then why should he worry about the rest of society? <br />I say that, at worst, one might be so cynical of anything attached to political journalism that he or she might regard this book as a highly distorted piece of the liberal propaganda machine and state that Mr. Begala has done a first class job of cherry-picking the sources he quoted to support his arguments. On the other hand, one could retort that it, at least, highlights key issues that most Americans relate to in substantially more detail than what is put forth on many talk shows. <br />If it was Begala's objective to give those already ill at ease with our political process added reason to feel discontentment about keeping George W. Bush in the White House, then Begala perhaps succeeded in several cases. At the same token, however, Begala's critics and those who might have strong arguments to run counter to It's Still the Economy, Stupid at least have a reference that they can use to deconstruct several facets of what they might regard as the leftist thought process.	2004-02-08
US	52274144	R3SPE4U6URCL7C	0060014016	79853636	The Greatest Stories Never Told: 100 Tales from History to Astonish, Bewilder, and Stupefy	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	200 Pages of WOW!	In the past, I have typically not been one for advocating the idea of revising history as we know it, but this book has caused me to wonder if the lessons from the past that have been taught to so many of us have amounted to a series of partially distorted articles, at best, or a pack of lies, at worst.<br />In one account, there was a leading nineteenth-century American literary figure who wrote a fictional work on one of the most famous explorers from the late 1400's. It portrayed this particular individual as mainly a visionary who overcame the superstitions of his time in order to make great discoveries. Though this picture might be partly true, a key issue brought forth was entirely fictional. Nevertheless, this particular book became very popular as a required reading for schoolchildren and over time, because of the heroic elements espoused, the tales were so popular that people wanted to believe them to be factual. Since then, this author's version of this explorer's events \\"would long endure in the national consciousness\\" and be immortalized as history as it actually happened. Talk about a paradox: to be regarded as someone who would go down in history as someone who overcame myths in such a way that it, itself, is another myth. Sheesh!!<br />Though many a fact finder might wish that this particular legend could be isolated as the only fairy tale that has been misconstrued for truth, The Greatest Stories Never Told reveals to the reader that this is not so. There are other accounts that show that our significant historical events are not always due to forthright purposes set out by forthcoming, stout individuals. Sometimes random elements come into play à la The Butterfly Effect that can have a significant impact upon the outcome of a war. For instance, without giving away the details, so little as one piece of paper might have prevented General George Washington's rise to greatness against the British. <br />In sum, The Greatest Stories Never Told is a fascinating book. In my opinion, it can set forth arguments and debates covering other specialized fields, especially philosophy, political science, physics, and theology. I have always been convinced that we have a tendency to portray history the way we want to either remember it or learn it, but the manner in which some of these bits and pieces have been espoused for decades and centuries is quite disturbing.	2004-01-23
US	52274144	R3EXG5O5DVENRU	0262523329	380114240	Biblical Games: Game Theory and the Hebrew Bible	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Five Stars if Accompanied with Brams' Theory of Moves	Brams' Biblical Games is one of the most fascinating reads that I have encountered in some time. Presented are accounts of significant events recorded in the Old Testament, all of which are logically and mathematically examined by Brams, who uses aspects of game theory to determine the rationality of each person or assembly involved.<br />Throughout the chapters, Brams looks at every character as a player in a game, which, by itself, is touted as a challenge whose outcome is dependent upon the type of decisions executed. He subsequently utilizes payoff matrices, which are 2x2 geometric patterns that represent the outcomes of at least four different courses of action, where the results are weighed in as follows: 4=Best, 3= Next Best, 2= Next Worst, and 1=Worst. For each game, Brams places these numbers in ordered pairs; for example, (1,1) would be the result of a worst case scenario for both parties, a (4,2) might be interpreted as a situation where Player/Group #1 has the best possible outcome at the expense of Player/Group #2, who must settle for what is interpreted as next to worst.<br />In Biblical Games, Brams makes transitions from one decision-making conflict to another. Some of the so-called games exclusively involve bitter enemies, others concern those who typically have one another's best interests at heart, and some just implicate those who are essentially indifferent about the next person's fate or welfare. As he proceeds from section to section, Brams surprises the reader with scenarios that can run counter to one's expectations by showing that regardless of the nature of the game or conflict, there can potentially exist a win-win outcome between enemies and an unmitigated disaster that can be brought forth between friends.    <br />Interesting are the interpretations of the numbers assigned in each matrix. Brams often interprets a player's score of 1 (worst case) as being the result of that particular player's ineptness to make adequate decisions and that this insufficiency could be due to either recklessness or lack of fortitude, or both. A 2, on the other hand, though a next to worst, has the capacity to be esteemed as the outcome of a most logical decision made by a player who lacks the resources to put him/herself into a better situation but enough to avoid disaster. Not only does Brams weigh the outcome of what actually happened, but he also presents the logic, or lack thereof, of alternate decisions and how they all would likely have turned out.<br />Biblical Games is very thought provoking, even sobering. Ideally, it should help one to weigh more carefully and more wisely the consequences of the decisions that he or she makes.<br />On its own, Biblical Games gets four stars, but tied in with Brams' Theory of Moves, it easily gets five. From the latter book, you will have tied in with appreciating the logic of what actually happened and what might have otherwise happened à la Biblical Games a more refined, more exact analysis of potential moves and countermoves that can be applied to personal challenges in the distant future.	2004-01-21
US	52274144	RMMKJ7AZZGN9H	0130914657	338050736	Algebra and Trigonometry (6th Edition)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Very Good Precalculus Reference	With the sixth edition of this textbook, Sullivan has made significant strides since the fifth edition of the College Algebra portion. The interval notations used to indicate the regions where the value of a function is increasing or decreasing is so much more clear and concise. In contrast to the former use of frequently displaying number lines with pluses and minuses underneath, in which the readings of them were perhaps more of an exercise for the eyes than for the mind, Sullivan revised this mess using parentheses and brackets to indicate test intervals.<br />As a teacher, I say that this is not the most user-friendly book for an instructor who teaches one hour college algebra classes three times a week. Oftentimes, for me to quickly get the fundamentals across, I have to paraphrase what Sullivan lays out in many of the sections. The language is often too theoretical for several of my students (Many are in non-technical majors but have to complete college algebra as a last mathematics course requirement), and I have to put the symbolic logic sequences into terms that can cross over to applied mathematics. This is not meant to be a criticism, however.<br />Perhaps the main weaknesses lie in the shortcomings of applied problems, particularly in the sections concerning maxima and minima, and especially in the inequality segments. On a very positive note, however, I will grant that the sixth chapter, which involves logarithms and exponents is quite fascinating. For instance, you have applied problems involving the amount of interest that can be gained after so many years if, say, [money amount]is deposited into an account and accumulates interest at 6% compounded quarterly. Physics problems are also well presented. One interesting tidbit: if you wondered how long it would take for a 300-degree dish to cool down to 100 degrees in an environment that is at room temperature, the formula that can be used, namely Newton's Law of Cooling, is provided. As another example: suppose that a dead animal was discovered in a barn at midnight and its temperature was 80°F° ; the temperature of the barn is kept constant at 60°F; two hours later the temperature of the corpse dropped to 75°F; find the time of death. The formula for this type of problem is also shown.<br />As added kudos, I especially like the intermittent TI-83 calculator tips. The use of technology in mathematics classes is notably increasing in the community colleges. All in all, this is a finer, more updated version, and it is especially recommended for those who want to go beyond the call of duty and discover new ways of applying mathematics to their daily lives.suppose that a dead animal was discovered in a barn at midnight and its temperature was 80°F° ; the temperature of the barn is kept constant at 60°F; two hours later the temperature of the corpse dropped to 75°F; find the time of death. The formula for this type of problem is also shown.<br />As added kudos, I especially like the intermittent TI-83 calculator tips. The use of technology in mathematics classes is notably increasing in the community colleges. All in all, this is a finer, more updated version, and it is especially recommended for those who want to go beyond the call of duty and discover new ways of applying mathematics to their daily lives.	2003-08-05
US	52274144	R36VAR6N7GURFA	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Sometimes the Truth Really Hurts	Nickel and Dimed is an excellent reference for young minds who might want to reconsider any attempts to make it on their own as a minimum wage employee.<br />Barbara Ehrenreich possibly had a somewhat negative slant with the living conditions endured, but the facts and the numbers speak for themselves, And even from the most optimistic of perspectives, there is no pretty picture that can be painted and that will last.<br />Perhaps the main standout of her experiences is her ordeal in Minnesota, where vacancies for rent are next to impossible to find. Despite an economic boom at the time, the job in retail is paying little, gas prices have skyrocketed, and the best possible living arrangements are for several hundred dollars a month in quarters that do not come close to being in standard condition.<br />Interesting quotes comparing and contrasting the cost of living in the year 2000 with that of the early 1960s are provided, and they state that, over time, a larger portion of the monthly budget has gone to rent and a smaller portion to food.<br />As of late, this book has been under fire for being a required reading for freshmen at UNC-Chapel Hill. Young conservatives from this school have criticized it as being a reference of the liberal media whom they perceive to be carrying out a Marxist agenda to brainwash those who are trying to hold on to American, traditional values.<br />In response to their sentiments, I saw nothing overtly liberal in Nickel and Dimed. In fact, the experiences written about were during the Clinton years, when the economy was robust. To me, Barbara Ehrenreich was merely mentioning that there were hard-working individuals in this country who were being left behind and were not at a vantage point of being able to truly reap the benefits of prosperous times.<br />And besides, which is worse? 1. to tell the truth that there are hard-working people, some of whom are well-educated, that are not receiving decent pay and adequate health insurance, or 2. to give a young adult the notion that a $40000+/ year job, a Lexus, a cell phone with added features, and a dream house are automatic birthrights for the average American citizen?<br />All in all, I found Nickel and Dimed to be a much more engaging read than those boring, academic textbooks I used in my economics classes as an undergraduate.	2003-08-04
US	52274144	R2GDL29OSPJ8JZ	0060928069	912012941	How Could You Do That?!: The Abdication of Character, Courage, and Conscience	Books	2	8	25	N	N	THREE C'S BUT NO A	Don't get me wrong. I do believe in the attributes of character, courage and conscience, but in this book, the words seem to carry self-righteous overtones of \\"The Lord helps those who help themselves\\" or \\"I am a self-made man (or woman).\\"<br />In this day and age, it is almost as if levels of character, courage and conscience are espoused as the only primary measuring rods of each individual's worth. I will grant that they are essential, but what ever happened to faith, hope, and charity?	2002-03-06
US	52274144	R2TYMZMU4G9HUD	0883855348	793505931	The Golden Section (Spectrum)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A TOPIC TO TIE IN SEVERAL MATHEMATICAL SUBJECTS	The Golden Section is a very fascinating topic that is applied in several fields, both mathematical and nonmathematical. Why? Because this number primarily focuses on proportion, both in a physical and numerical context. <br />Somewhat to my chagrin, the author confines this subject within the realm of mathematics. For I wish that the Golden Section was discussed from a thematic or historical standpoint, such as how or why artists such as Da Vinci used this concept in order to construct or create works of art that were well-proportioned.<br />Nonetheless, the mathematics is delightfully presented. It is sketchy in some areas but is much easier to follow than several of the 50+-year-old-mathematical works that have not been revised or updated. Fascinatingly, this one topic alone synthesizes or ties in several mathematical disciplines, including: fractals, geometry, topology, number theory, trigonometry, and, strangely enough, probability.<br />I highly recommend this book. It is neat and concise, and it is a great reference for the mathematician who has been out of practice for a while to brush up on his or her skills.	2002-03-06
US	52274144	R3FQD8CPUKUE7D	0486252116	49179230	Entertaining Mathematical Puzzles	Books	5	23	26	N	N	A WAY TO GET WARMED UP FOR THE THINKING WORLD	I give this book five stars. Though the problems and puzzles were created several years ago, it introduces or, at least, reintroduces the reader to humorous and thought-provoking examples highlighting how intuitive and counterintuitive processes can collide into one another.<br />Martin Gardner's witty writing style makes this book a pleasant pathway to the realms of logic. Neat and concise with its stories and challenges throughout and with solutions at the very end, the book is a very ideal read, especially if you are a passenger with a very long trip ahead and who needs good quality entertainment that is also educational.	2002-03-05
US	52274144	R1P9H5EW46O9YH	0785102868	639608960	The Amazing Spider-Man (The Essential Spider-Man, Volume 1)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A VOLUME OF TRUE CLASSICAL GEMS IN COMICS	Very fine stories of young Peter Parker and his alter-ego super hero are present throughout these 400+ pages. The concept of creating a character whose human abilities of quickness, strength and agility are proportional to a spider was definitely a milestone for Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.<br />Each page is well laid out, consisting of several frames per page and with plenty of plot and dialogue to read. The stories were carefully thought out, and they presented the comic fan with plenty to enjoy. It is sad that in modern times, so many comics have big pictures (thus few frames) but few words; such publications are overpriced and are completely read in virtually no time.<br />It is both amusing and refreshing to see a young boy's triumphs and foibles as he is maturing into his added role as Spider-Man. Initially, he is idealistic and overconfident about his newly found super abilities and becomes bored with the criminal competition, but as the stories progress, the opponents become stronger and harder to overcome. Young Peter then begins to concede that maybe boredom wasn't so bad, after all.<br />From start to finish, Peter Parker, as a character, is very pure and innocent. These two qualities now seem inapplicable in the many ubiquitous graphic novels where you can't really tell the good guy apart from the bad one. <br />After observing how seemingly simple Peter Parker appeared in this volume and knowing that many of the stories were created before Kennedy's assassination and the Vietnem War, some may regard The Essential Spider-Man as outdated. I may agree, but only in the sense that you don't see very many works of art, comic book or otherwise, that contain messages or moments of inspiration that somehow communicate to the reader to, regardless of the difficulties that he or she is facing, NEVER, EVER GIVE UP! Somehow, this spark is widely present in this soon-to-be-forty-year-old collection, and it makes so many contemporary stories missing this element seem solifeless in comparison.	2002-03-05
US	52274144	R3M4LADZHOOUMX	0312185480	150643786	Calculus Made Easy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A TRUE CLASSICAL GEM IN MATHEMATICS	Calculus Made Easy is truly a well-written book. It divides into over 20 chapters thorough examples and applications of calculus as well as the development of calculus itself, and everything is surprisingly contained in fewer than 300 pages! Authors of many modern-day calculus textbooks twice its size try to explain the same fundamental concepts but cannot achieve Thompson's levels of triumph.<br />Topics in this work include: limits, maxima, minima, successive differentiation, compound interest, law of organic growth, and more. Though the subjects are frequently isolated for each chapter, Thompson has nonetheless provided insights to the degree that one could synthesize or put together these various concepts to formulate their own interesting problems and procedures.<br />With the great Martin Gardner to revise this classic and to provide further mathematical expositions, Calculus Made Easy is  highly recommended for the lover of mathematics as well as the teacher who wants to better present mathematics from a thematic standpoint.	2002-03-04
US	52274144	RR0CG62F88ERL	0312185480	150643786	Calculus Made Easy	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A TRUE CLASSICAL GEM IN MATHEMATICS	Calculus Made Easy is truly a well-written book. It divides into over 20 chapters thorough examples and applications of calculus as well as the development of calculus itself, and everything is surprisingly contained in fewer than 300 pages! Authors of many modern-day calculus textbooks twice its size try to explain the same fundamental concepts but cannot achieve Thompson's levels of triumph.<br />Topics in this work include: limits, maxima, minima, successive differentiation, compound interest, law of organic growth, and more. Though the subjects are frequently isolated for each chapter, Thompson has nonetheless provided insights to the degree that one could synthesize or put together these various concepts to formulate their own interesting problems and procedures.<br />With the great Martin Gardner to revise this classic and to provide further mathematical expositions, Calculus Made Easy is  highly recommended for the lover of mathematics as well as the teacher who wants to present mathematics from a better thematic standpoint.	2002-03-04
US	52274144	R31GBMQ4TPDGIY	0471534781	965937314	Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes	Books	2	14	23	N	N	NOT VERY SELF-EXPLANATORY FOR THE UNDERGRADUATE	Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes was the textbook I used in my very first engineering class many years ago. I was then a Chemical Engineering major, because I wanted an intellectual challenge; my course of study was then, and presumably still is, regarded as the toughest of all the academic fields in my school. With this work of Felder and Rousseau as the textbook that introduced so many of us into the world of chemical engineering, the reputation of the difficulty of this major was well deserved.    I graduated with a B.S. in Chemical Engineering, and instead of exploring the world of engineering well beyond my college years, I decided to pursue a different route by becoming a mathematics instructor. I also have a Master's in the field of Mathematics Education, and my added exposure to this realm has served me quite well.    Though I have left the world of chemical engineering well behind me, I just thought that I might reflect upon a portion of my past and chip in my few paragraphs pertaining to this reference.Over the course of time, being an educator has taught me that in order to get students to understand the content of the material, you have to communicate and express the ideas quite clearly. This textbook is not exactly successful in that department.     For instance, the sections referring to unit conversions were presented rather haphazardly. My knowledge of unit conversions has expanded considerably since my undergraduate days, but back then, I did not really know how to follow what the authors were trying to express. For instance, the approach to converting the unit ratio centimeters per square second to kilometers per square year is a procedure that should be well laid out in several steps. Instead, in this book, you have this type of unit conversion expressed in one line, and as opposed to having the steps displayed in an orderly manner, all that you really get is a shortcut full of exponential gibberish.    Looking back at it now, I think that unless one comes from a background that demands mathematical rigor, I honestly do not see how anyone who uses this textbook can really obtain the insight needed to progress to intermediate engineering courses and graduate.    All in all, this is not a good textbook for the full-time college student who has other topics to deal with. For me, too much time was wasted trying to translate this material into a context that would be readable for the engineering novice. There was too much material crammed into each chapter, and the pain of trying to find a clue to get from one level of mastery to the next could only be magnified by the pedantry often expressed by the impatient professor.    This review is not to minimize the academic contributions of the authors. In fact, they have served the engineering profession quite well. On the basis of other comments I have read, I am willing to concede that this book might be an ideal publication for those with an intermediate technical background and who are looking for cross-referenced data in refining highly systematic specifications. However, I am not in agreement that this is an adequate first engineering course textbook.	2002-02-28
US	52274144	R3MISGGKGJE58H	0785107606	870043593	Essential Spider-Man Vol. 4	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great 30+ Year-Old Stories That Seem So Relevant Today	The Essential Spider-Man Volume 4 is a very good collection of stories that place our super hero and his alter-ego into situations that, in a day and age over thirty years after their publication, seem so relevant to modern-day Americans.<br />Though Peter Parker was always busy being both an underappreciated crime fighter and a student trying to maintain an active social life, his attempts to keep his super hero identity a secret have taken their toll. Before, Peter's main secret identity challenge was to never let poor Aunt May know that Peter Parker is Spider-Man. In these stories, he is now faced with an added unsurmountable task of keeping this secret away from a much younger, less gullible individual in Harry Osborn, his college roommate.<br />Throughout the stories, Peter, because of trying to pull double duty as a full-time college student with a girlfriend (who constantly questions his motives and who does not and must not know his secret) and as the ever-loving Spider-Man is bombarded by working 'round-the-clock hours and facing lack of time necessary to keep his grades up. In the earlier issues, he could manage to fight crime and still be the top student in his high school classes; however, this time, he is sleeping less, and after he fights up yet another victory, he returns to a home that is a much smaller setting than Aunt May's place at much later hours and cannot change out of his costume until he has climbed in through the apartment window while Harry is either away or asleep. And in some of the episodes, Peter is so tired that he crashes and ends up falling asleep while lying across the bed as opposed to having properly tucked himself in.<br />In a day and age of holding down two or more jobs and multitasking each one, we cannot help but sympathize and empathize with Peter Parker's dilemmas. Not only do we feel Peter's exhaustion, but we, in our own way, are like Peter in the sense that it is sometimes impossible to reveal to others who question orcriticize us the challenges we put up with, because our situations are either unique or beyond their comprehension.<br />Pivotal points and issues also make these past stories so relevant. We have the inclusion of minority characters who are trying to improve their living standards through education, and even when they are in college or have just graduated, it seems that opportunities are few, since someone else higher up has already rung up the ladder of success. <br />Attempts to handle these circumstances, through student protests to improve living conditions and educational opportunities at Empire State University and through one's desperate attempt to take on a masked villain alter-ego to create fear, thus respect, from the big wheels of society, seem no less primitive in this day and age. And we still often wonder if there is any way that a pacifist can truly create change in a society where change is truly needed.	2002-02-27
US	52274144	R1TJFE5CL2YXCJ	0375507779	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	12-Year Journey to Complete a 12-Year-Old-Boy's Journey	I bought this book back in 1986 when I was in high school. The pages were so fascinating that I wanted to reach the last page. This desire came about during a time when I did not particularly like reading but yet wanted to develop a passion for exploring authors' adventures and works of creativity.<br />The chapters of Jack's travels between two universes and the encounters he faces are both numerous and memorable. Despite the several pages, I thought that this might be a quick read. However, as I continued further into the book, several personal obstacles would come in the way of my finishing it up. I would later fear that if I delayed my reading long enough, then I would forget not only where I left off but also where I started from.<br />This worry was to be unfounded. Despite the items that would come months and years later, such as: SAT preparations, college courses that were time consuming, the dedication required to obtaining my college degrees, lengthy job pursuits, and other personal goals that would leave me sidetracked, I could pick The Talisman back up after putting it away several months prior and then easily continue with the flow.<br />The delays to finishing up became longer, but the adventures of Travellin' Jack were so fascinating that they could stick fresh in my mind for a very long time. In 1998, almost 12 years later, I finally finished the book, and I found that my levels of involvement and enthusiasm were just as intense as they were at the very beginning.<br />I highly recommend this book. If you like the Lord of the Rings, then you will definitely appreciate this fantasy by King and Straub, and may you not have to take so long to finish it up as I did.	2002-02-24
US	52274144	RGHUDPKKQKQ5E	0062736868	957037891	Ordinary People, Extraordinary Wealth: The 8 Secrets of How 5,000 Ordinary Americans Became Successful Investors--and How You Can Too	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Extraordinary Gambling for the 21st Century	To me, this is not a very good book on money management. I could only interpret the author as saying to essentially: delay paying off your mortgage in order to continue having a tax-deductible item, spend very little time on your finances, and believe that the stock market will somehow fix itself.<br />I don't know about you, but this does not look like a recipe for long-term success. With a weak economy and a highly publicized ENRON scandal that seems to be tying in our Commander-in-Chief more and more, America has reached a point where I'm happy to go with a more conservative route of money market accounts, CD's and government-issued bonds. This approach may not yield a high rate of return, but the returns are nonetheless positive.<br />Yes, we would like a quick approach to wealth, but folks, some people just happen to be at what might appear as the right place at the right time. <br />If you want to learn fiscal responsibility and know what to do if your monetary assets head south, go with Your Money or Your Life by Dominguez and Robin as well as internet resources with informative links such as The Dollar Stretcher. At least these items have an extraordinary wealth of information with sound advice for people, ordinary or not.	2002-02-23
US	52274144	R2DGSUKJBUCBE	0849916275	587745235	Ten Lies About God And How You Might Already Be Deceived	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A FINE ATTEMPT TO EXPLAIN THE HUMAN CONDITION	Ten Lies About God is a fine, modern-day summation of several years of studies that leading Christian authorities have undertaken in order to explain who God is and isn't. Throughout the chapters are themes or lies embraced throughout the world that contain messages that either misidentify or misappropriate the attributes of Almighty God. For instance, in our Western society, there is such a primary focus on the so-called good life that God is a god of materialism and financial prosperity, and many have come to believe that this God is described in the Bible. However, Lutzer offers a serious rebuttal to this concept; on page 7, he cites, \\"It would be difficult indeed to convince the martyrs of the church that it was actually their God-given right to be healthy and prosperous; they would have been content with poverty, if only they had been delivered from the lion's mouth or the assassin's sword.\\"<br />Not only does Lutzer point out each lie and then contrast it with the viewpoints of the 1st Century Christians, he also attempts to explain, whether it is from a scriptural or sociological point of view, why so many false ideas have come to exist. He says that, in essence, we are of an idolatrous nature and that the kinds of ideas about God that one constructs or misconstructs is a reflection of the condition of his or her heart.<br />Though Lutzer does not take on the burden of expaining the myriads of hardships and sufferings that have existed throughout man's history, he nonetheless states that God has our best interests at heart and that His ways are not always to be comprehended. In sum, Lutzer says that this is where the elements are faith are drawn, for it is when God is acting in such a way that seems contrary to our perception of His nature that we must acknowledge that He loves us and that many of His purposes will continue to be a mystery until the next life.	2002-02-14
US	52274144	R19XSQX5129YS3	0486613488	132081450	100 Great Problems of Elementary Mathematics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	100 Mathematical Triumphs of Genius	100 Great Problems of Elementary Mathematics is such a goldmine of ingenuity that it is hard to comprehend how it could be sold for so low a price. Ten dollars is practically a steal.<br />This publication, which was translated into English back in 1965, is a concise summary of some of the greatest works of mathematics throughout mankind's history. The problems contained are quite challenging. Many are such that if you understood any one of them, then you would probably know something that even the best math professor nearest you would not. This may sound like an overstatement, but in a day and age where some PhD's in math have either forgotten or never really learned how to determine so little as the square root of a number by just pencil and paper, it is probably not.<br />It is from analyzing the book's passages of Bernoulli's Power Sum Problem that I was able to achieve a great mathematical triumph after discovering the following challenge found in William Dunham's The Mathematical Universe: determining a precise mathematical formula to figure out how Jakob Bernoulli could take all the positive integers from 1 to 1000, raise each of them to the tenth power, and then add them up to where the sum came up to over 30 digits! I tried to develop algorithms that would work but failed each time, until I, once again, read this volume.<br />The situations presented are quite difficult to grasp, but once you get to where you know how to apply any one of them in solving mathematical puzzles, you feel elated. I know I did. <br />For the individual who enjoys looking at mathematics in a historical context and who wants to approach problems that are perhaps not entirely solvable with the use of the calculator and/or the computer, I recommend this book.	2002-02-10
US	52274144	R2Y93EVNAJGOZ3	0881845264	617387374	Personal Fouls: The Broken Promises and Shattered Dreams of Big Money Basketball at Jim Valvano's North Carolina State	Books	1	16	33	N	N	Glad the Sales Rank is 1,084,586	Not long before Personal Fouls came into existence, there was a question-and-answer survey in a leading magazine that tested how much you, as a man, fit into the cultural mainstream of society and how likely you were to come out on top. I do not remember all of it, but there was one part that had since stuck in my mind, and it consisted of four items (only one was THE CORRECT ANSWER) to choose from: It is not how you win,__________________. Guess what that so-called response was supposed to be?! IT IS WHETHER YOU WIN!    This, among other factors, is why I never grew particularly fond of the 1980's, and I was an NC State student at the end of that decade. Yes, Jim Valvano was a successful coach when it came to winning numbers, and yes, Jim Valvano would take chances with his coaching decisions in order to maintain those figures. Though Jim Valvano came up short on pleasing everybody, Golenbock's assertions that his failure to make everyone happy is because he was corrupt and Golenbock's attempts to tie him in directly with the win-at-all-costs mentality from the past are both out of place.    I am not going to say that Jim Valvano was a saint, but I think that he was an individual who, in his own capacity, tried to give those from lower socioeconomic statuses an opportunity to better themselves. It is unfortunate that though many from these groups would later come to be success stories, there were still those self-destructive individuals who would take a turn for the worse and end up as personal and financial fiascoes.    I conclude by saying that perhaps, at the very worst, Coach Valvano was a good man who faced enormous obstacles to maintaining his level of success and thus decided to try dealing with the pressure-mounting circumstances by making promises which, over the course of time, were becoming increasingly difficult to keep.	2002-02-10
US	52274144	R1Z2SAG2P11TXU	0201384078	785125327	A Survey of Mathematics with Applications (6th Edition)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	EXCELLENT REFERENCE FOR BEGINNING &amp; ADVANCED UNDERGRADUATES	I have been teaching out of Angel &amp; Porter for the last three years. It has quite a few good examples, though I agree with the first reviewer's comment that it does need more challenging problems.<br />Among the topics I have covered are: inductive reasoning, set concepts, symbolic logic, truth tables, algebra, applied geometry, probability, statistics, and mathematics of finance. Though the examples are laid out fairly well for those who are mathematically inclined, the teacher who happens to have quite a few students with weak mathematical skills is often finding himself or herself in situations of having to create ways to become an effective expositor of mathematical theorems and applications. In other words, by trying to explain what the authors are providing in their examples, the instructor is frequently shouldering the added burden of making this book come to life not only from a mathematical perspective but also from a communicative standpoint.<br />On a positive note, however, there are several excellent applications, and the range of topics is quite broad. Oftentimes there is a gap between the level of advanced high school mathematics and that of a four-year university that is so serious that even a student who performed A's in high school will struggle in the type of college math course he or she is placed in. Fortunately, Angel and Porter have been able to fill in quite a few of the missing pieces.	2002-02-06
US	52274144	R7IDEXASIJJCB	0805401970	771067905	Experiencing God: How to Live the Full Adventure of Knowing and Doing the Will of God	Books	3	30	59	N	N	A BIT TOP-DOWN AND OVER-THE-TOP-DOWN	Though this book frequently mentioned that God is omnipotent and that He can take care of us in all our circumstances, I felt that the authors' themes revolved too much around the lingo of modern-day charismatic evangelists and televangelists. Who ever coined the term God-sized task, anyway?    The main problem I had with this book is that the authors' logic seemed too linear in achieving what constitutes a perfect, or nearly perfect, Christian lifestyle. In my opinion, Blackaby and King presented an abrupt raw material to finished product approach without a thorough analysis or discussion of the growing Christian faith as a process.     Let me draw out a parallel. One problem I see in American education is that many students are in a hurry to get from step 1 to the final answer in step 10 without attaining the self-discipline to look at the interplay of steps 2 through 9. In similar fashion, Blackaby and King, despite mentioning that we are to wait for God's response, have too many times given the impression that if we do not quickly respond to God's call for a certain task by taking a point A to point B approach, then we will miss the boat (that is, his fullest of blessings)entirely.     I do agree that, because we are sinful creatures, we will not entirely fulfill our potential in life. However, God is a God of love which, according to the Christian faith, means that He is also a God of patience. Once we internalize this can we then, as Christians, be patient, ourselves, and be able to analyze and rectify our situations with His divine help. Now that is what I call Christian growth.    All in all, this is not a bad book, for it is actually quite good in many instances. It just needed more commentary and analysis about the process of growing Christian faith and the consequences of rebellious sin in our lives.	2002-02-05
US	52274144	R20VSVWM0DB1OY	076150186X	987262630	The Einstein Factor: A Proven New Method for Increasing Your Intelligence	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Interesting Roadmap for a Creative, Intellectual Spirit	The Einstein Factor is a fascinating book with bold claims of cognitive exercises that can dramatically increase intelligence and enhance academic performances. Wenger outlines and discusses each of them, and all of his ideas are worthy of reading.<br />The topic of image streaming is quite noteworthy. I agree that it is amazing how, while you are in a relaxed state while recording your thoughts, your mind works. For instance, you might recall names and events that were not discussed in years, or you might see objects that mysteriously \\"appear in your mind\\" and upon exploration realize that it is an important  connection to an essential that could be so significant as being either life-changing or life-saving, or even both. Sometimes, you might have moments of clarity that almost make you want to cry, \\"EUREKA!\\"<br />As an educator, not only did I find the topic of image streaming fascinating, but I was also impressed that Wenger so much as tackled the term Socratic dialogue. He discussed that if one is an advocate of this educational practice, then he or she must deem it important to not only be able to think critically and independently but to also deepen investigation while searching for truths. Wenger goes on to suggest that many so-called pedagogy reformers and administrators have unfortunately eliminated it from classroom settings and should possibly be regarded as culprits of a failed modern-day American school system.<br />The topics and viewpoints are interesting. However, I did find the suggested idea of \\"putting yourself inside a noteworthy genius\\" and then following through with an approach based upon some interpretation of what he or she might have done quite disturbing. There are perhaps those geniuses whose cognitive achievements can leave one in awe; however, many of them have, unfortunately, also exercised habits that reflected not those of a great thinker but, instead, those of an individual with little or no character.<br />All in all, it is a fascinating read. The exercises are mind-expanding, but they can be potentially quite time-consuming . They can demand that you find a quiet place when you actually have no choice but to remain in a public area.<br />If you are a student and you need to develop cognitive exercises that can be used in both open and closed settings, I recommend Brain Building: Exercise Yourself Smarter by Marilyn vos Savant. For those who want to read accounts of how one's genius and creativity have overcome obstacles to make great contributions to society, I suggest The Creative Spirit by Goleman, Kaufman, and Ray.	2002-02-03
US	52274144	R3KQIX70BM2LQP	0553353489	15583629	Brain Building in Just 12 Weeks: The World's Smartest Person Shows You How to Exercise Yourself Smarter . . .	Books	5	38	48	N	N	AT LEAST CONFIDENCE BUILDING	There are two books that come to mind that, though they do not fall in the realm of religious inspiration, are so thought-provoking that they are life changing. They are: 1. Your Money or Your Life by Joe Dominguez and Vicki Robin and 2. Brain Building: Exercising Yourself Smarter, the latter of which I will comment on.<br />I purchased this book about 4 years ago when I was working a full-time job and going to graduate school to earn a Master of Education degree in Mathematics. The math courses suited me for the most part, since they pertained to both my major and my interests in working with numbers. The education courses, on the other hand, were intimidating, because I grew up with an inferiority complex about my abilities to perform in courses that demanded both extensive amounts of reading and the ability to comprehend several themes and passages.<br />It was during this period that, because I was going to school and working full-time simultaneously, on many days the only opportunities I had to study were either during my lunch hour or right after I arrived home late at night with thoughts of having to be back at work the next morning. Fortunately, it was also then that I was already enthralled enough with Marilyn's books and Parade column to buy this publication.<br />Among the several helpful suggestions Marilyn pointed out in this book is that when reading, do not hesitate to write your thoughts and opinions in the margins alongside key paragraphs and sentences. This particular approach, in a manner of speaking, places you on a more equal footing with the professor or author, and it is a valuable reminder that your interpretations and viewpoints are just as important as, if not more important than, the material you are trying to focus upon.<br />Despite my limited time and resources, this piece of advice helped me to participate adequately in classroom discussions. Except for a couple of B's, which I received before I even bought this book, I ended up graduating with A's in every course. <br />Thank you, God! And thank you, Marilyn!	2002-02-03
US	52274144	R61ULAPVKFXCY	0967812607	313481533	Know Your Fats : The Complete Primer for Understanding the Nutrition of Fats, Oils and Cholesterol	Books	5	45	48	N	Y	A New Perspective on the Proper Diet	I first learned of this book about two years ago when listening to The People's Pharmacy on National Public Radio. Dr. Enig was the special guest that day and talked with hosts Joe and Terry Graedon about Knowing Your Fats and its recurring themes revolving around the essential roles that fats and oils can play in our daily diet.<br />One of her themes was that diets have been so badly stereotyped in the West that many Americans, including nutritionists and physicians, have come to propose that the only healthy diet is that of a strict vegetarian. She then stated that,in contrast to this widely held opinion, the typical diet in China, where the citizens are regarded as typically healthy by these same individuals advocationg strict vegetarianism, is far from free of animal products and by-products. She said that, in fact, a  main cooking additive in the Chinese diet is lard, a fat that has been labeled, perhaps mislabeled, as a contributor to heart disease and obesity.<br />Dr. Enig then continued that consumer activists who are trying to eliminate animal fats and coconut oils from food products either have been or still are misinformed. She stated that many of these advocates, despite their good intentions of contributing to a healthier American population, want the food manufacturers to replace animal fats with partially hydrogenated oils and fats that, according to the studies of her and her colleagues, are even more harmful than the former. For instance, their findings concluded that trans fatty acids from partial hydrogenation can further contribute to heart disease in the following ways: 1. decrease the amount of HDL cholesterol (the good cholesterol), 2.increase the amount of LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol), and 3. hamper one's ability to keep insulin levels under control. <br />All in all, the above are just a few of several topics well-detailed in Knowing Your Fats. Included in the book are charts that categorize the types of fats and oils that can beused in cooking and how each can be beneficial and/or harmful for one's health.<br />Dr. Enig has done an excellent job with this book. I highly recommend it.	2002-02-02
US	52274144	R2NIYCQYD94LG4	1557251819	214896926	Meditations on the Heart of God (Christian Classics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Theologian with Insights Ahead of His Time	I have found Fenelon's  spiritual insights to be quite <BR>exceptional. Though most of his works are at least two and a half centuries old, they seem so relevant to current Christians who seek spiritual guidance. It is often interesting to compare and contrast his views with those of contemporary ministries. For instance, Fenelon has conducted expositions on taking up one's cross that I think stifle the logic expressed by many of today's clergymen.<BR>     <BR>Just as C.S. Lewis espoused how forgiveness should not start with the Gestapo but with more basic contentions, Fenelon upheld that to take up one's cross does not begin with threats to physical safety or health as many twentieth-century theologians have asserted. He wrote that taking up one's cross meant the following: to live in humility and not be proud, to deny the world's wisdom and to accept God's counsel, and to never seek worldly advancement, for only by obeying God can we obtain the highest places. In essence, Fenelon has established that only by following God's advice at the expense of denying ourselves the world's delights that are not compatible with Scripture can we take up our crosses.	2002-01-30
US	52274144	R1NI38SKRG0NRK	0849916674	598364971	Why Good People Do Bad Things	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Truth=The Increasingly Bearable Lightness of Being	Pastor Lutzer has written a masterpiece on what it takes to be a true Christian. Often throughout the chapters, Lutzer refers to the opposing directions we must choose between: either continue to live in sin and thus enter further into darkness and despair or opt to change course and enter God's light and discover His very best. <br />Throughout the book, Lutzer does not offer senseless pop psychology frills. He instead gives accounts of what some have had to go through in order to repent of their past mistakes; among these testimonies are recollections of the peace that many reformed Christians are now experiencing, thanks to their ability to trust God enough to admit to others the ugly truths about their pasts and present situations and ,in result, come into the light.<br />Lutzer points out the consequences of our choices. He says that if you want to experience the joy of being a Christian, you may have to admit some very painful truths that you are ashamed of. He goes on to express that if for the sake of God telling the truth or just being honest is squeamish, it is not going to be so painful in the long run in comparison to what we will otherwise endure.	2001-10-18
US	52274144	RJSGP2AXWHOE	0688178928	735377492	The American Dream: Stories from the Heart of Our Nation	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	So Many Life Stories in So Few Pages	This is an excellent book. Even the conservative thinktanks who despise the so-called liberal Dan Rather will have to agree with the often recurring theme that America uniquely provides opportunities for one to not only dare to dream but also to actively pursue those dreams.<br />Rather has presented a nicely condensed volume depicting stories that are summarized in less than 10 pages, but if each had been given full analytical treatment, a good number of them could possibly be 200-page parallels to Behind the Urals.<br />Neat. Concise. Concrete. A reminder that though freedom is almost second-nature or common sense to those of us born in America, it is a virtually ill-conceived notion for those who were not, and many in this latter group, despite obtaining U.S. citizenship, have already suffered economically and psychologically after growing up and living for several years under spartan conditions in other countries whose governments have turned both a deaf ear and a blind eye to them.<br />After reading these testimonies of overcoming hardship or oppression, or both, I, myself, am reminded that the U.S. is a great country and that even though there are so many unresolved issues here, we are at least, by all present-day standards, free to attempt to bring them to the forefront.	2001-08-06
US	52274144	R2AH1A5M9C5PPJ	1576735982	417281995	And the Angels Were Silent (Chronicles of the Cross)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Nice Depiction of Christian Attributes	As this book presents concrete examples of how one can live a Christian life, I have come to find it more disturbing than ever how young individuals have come to regard Christianity as obsolete in their search for spirituality. Perhaps they have been exposed to legalistic dogmas of shoulds and should nots and have come to think that these are what Christianity is all about.<br />How sad. Lucado points out that Christianity is not a to-do or not-to-do list, it is a life of choosing to see the beauty in others and to treat people equally and fairly regardless of social or economic status.<br />It is especially profound the many ways he points out that for those who want to find Jesus, they must serve those in need and to live according to the teachings of the Apostles. He goes on to say that you will much more likely find God by offering your unconditional love and support to your fellow man than you will reading a horoscope or trying to summon a spirit.<br />Yes, perhaps a little outreach and a little love can do more wonders than any mystic or materialistic pursuit of the so-called good life.	2001-05-23
US	52274144	R1VCZLJCA9MKOA	0849911389	626106391	A Gentle Thunder	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A Thunderous Ovation for Lucado	Max Lucado has written a devotional masterpiece that can attract the attention of any philosopher who is searching for the meaning of life or give insight to any clergyman who is in search of material that can supplement his or her preparation for a thought-provoking sermon.<br />I am generally wary of those who attempt to use individual biblical quotes to postulate their personal opinions and then  formulate themes that they call daily devotions. In other words, beware of those who attempt to use scripture to &quot;fit&quot; their points-of-view.<br />Lucado, on the other hand, does the opposite. He presents a variety of stories that range from moral tales to historical accounts of triumphs and disasters, all of which parallel the fables and parables of ancient times, and while reading each chapter, one should conclude that if there is any point that Lucado is trying to get across, it is not for his own personal benefit; instead, it is this: we fail to realize that there are so many modern-day events in our world that make the works of the gospel writers just as relevant today as they were in the past and that many of these happenings brought to life are just as applicable to the so-called ordinary individual as they are to the famous figures who headline our daily news.	2001-05-03
US	52274144	R240K6TF53NHB9	1562920995	285267848	God's Little Devotional for Graduates (Gift Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delightful Source of Insight and Inspiration	This is a very well-packaged book that correlates Biblical scripture with personal experiences. It is another heavily thought out attempt to show that the Bible is for all ages. <br />A verse from either the King James Version or The NIV Version of the Bible begins each chapter and is followed by a combination of fables, tales and accounts of historical events to supplement one's study of the Word of God.<br />God's Little Devotional Book for Graduates is not just for those who either will have or already have exited high school or college . It is for all walks of life. I am a college-level instructor who wants to succeed personally and professionally, and there are times when I need encouragement and direction in making decisions and giving my students advice. Along with the Bible, this and any other references, such as the ones authored by Max Lucado, have given me, I believe, added insight and wisdom.	2001-04-28
US	52274144	RMU9U27Z2K4QQ	0140237771	15402132	The Beatles Album: 30 Years of Music and Memorabilia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Perfect Blend of Nostalgia &amp; Memorabilia	This is definitely a well presented volume I would highly recommend for those interested in music from that particular era.<br />It is a brilliant summary of a large portion of the musical genres, formats, and marketing  strategies that existed during the 1960s. Even a reader who is not  particularly a Beatles fan will likely find this book fascinating and  enlightening.	1998-12-10
US	52274144	R3F4TJG7XTLGEM	0140167153	355880617	Your Money or Your Life: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial MORE	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Sound Advice for Living and Spending	This is a most dynamic piece of work. Not only does it give sound advice on money management and priority organization, but it also reminds individuals of how important it is to take time and reflect on where they  have been and where they want to go.<br />The portion concerning investments  and bonds was, however, overemphasized. Though I earn money in savings, it  would take a very long time and a lot of luck for me to obtain a yearly  interest income that would equal that of a full-time job. If I were to  follow this book to the letter, I would definitely benefit monetarily, but  I do not think that I would achieve the kind of financial independence that  is described. But perhaps anything is possible.<br />Nevertheless, it is one  of the most outstanding works I have read on human nature. I praise the  concrete examples it has given on how we can repair our finances and to  become more conscious of our spending habits (many of which if we think  about will come to realize that our fiscal disparities are mostly created  by our lack of focus and good judgment).<br />The sections about how  Westerners have lived before, during and after the Industrial Revolution  were very well-presented. I found it quite noteworthy that it is because of  our human nature in this part of the world that we have allowed high  standards of living to breed even higher standards and that this pattern  has been destructive economically, environmentally and socially, as  well-depicted by Dominguez and Robin.<br />All in all, I give the book 5  stars, because it provides a whole new way of looking at our world and  ourselves. Perhaps the most stark question I have asked myself during and  after reading this bestseller is: Do I want to reorganize and restructure  both my finances and my time to provide myself opportunities to be the kind  of person I want to, or am I doomed to spend too large a portion of the  most healthy and productive years of my existence doing someone else's  agendas on someone else's terms?	1998-12-03
