US	52283113	R102DYCQDWTKW6	1560976322	313092247	The Complete Peanuts 1950-1954 Box Set	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Fantastic Collection of Where it all Started	I loved Charles Schultz's 'Peanuts' strip when I was young. My parents owned perhaps a half-dozen paperback collections of strips that I read over and over again in addition to his daily strip. As I reached adolescence, however, Peanuts seemed to become less relevant and amusing and I drifted away from it, losing track of a childhood friend. Occasionally I would see a strip in the paper and get a chuckle out of it, but it was no longer a daily fix. Not until Schultz shocked the world by ending the strip as his health problems grew worse in early 2000 did I take the time to go back and look at just what I'd been missing over the years, at which time I was disturbed to see that even fifty years after starting the strip, Schultz's work was funny, topical, and even occasionally poignant. <br /> <br />With that in mind I decided to go back to where it all began with this beautiful collection of the first five years of Peanuts strips, and I'm quite glad I did. Peanuts tends to fool the reader with its use of children as primary characters; we assume that it is a strip written not just about, but for children. Nothing could be further from the truth. Schultz uses children, yes, but the themes he explored with those characters went far beyond typical childhood troubles. Schultz's everyman, Charlie Brown, speaks to everyone who has ever doubted themselves for a moment, which is to say, he speaks for us all. <br /> <br />Going back to the beginning not only demonstrates why Peanuts quickly took off, it presents a marvelous look into the evolution of the strip. Who knew that some of the characters we know so well today were absent from the early years? We get to see the arrival of Lucy, the queen fussbudget, her brilliant younger brother Linus, and the prodigy and Beethoven fanatic Schroeder, as well as the developing relationships between Charlie Brown and the neighborhood gang. The two books are a treasure trove for all, but will be of particular interest for readers unawareof how Charlie Brown and the rest got their start. The strips are augmented with numerous essays and interviews about Peanuts bookending each volume and serving as a kind of cultural barometer for the wide-ranging influence of Charles Schultz. <br /> <br />The books themselves are well-made and packaged inside a handsome slipcase, making them an attractive addition to your bookcase when you're not poring over them. Both volumes are hardcover with sleeves and should last a lifetime of reading.	2005-05-08
US	52283113	R1GY47J012V6O1	0684846659	704670488	The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Some New Information Packaged With Lots of the Old	Stephen Covey's \\"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People\\" remains a milestone in the history of personal development literature. Unfortunately, after developing such an effective paradigm, Covey has spent most of the last 20 years simply restating his original thesis. \\"The 8th Habit\\" is much of the same, although it does contain some valuable new material. <br /> <br />The thesis of \\"The 8th Habit\\" is that greatness is achieved by not only learning how to live by the seven habits, but by helping other people to do so as well. Covey delves into how organizations can use the seven habits to become more effective in great detail, but where he falls short is actually helping the reader to get where Covey is trying to lead him. For all the verbiage about finding one's voice and discovering one's purpose, ultimately the reader is left to discover how to do this on his own. While it is true that each person's voice is unique, it's also a necessary precondition to the following steps, so without that discovery, most readers will find this book less than helpful. <br /> <br />Covey is clearly aiming this work at the business market, but there's little here that isn't already familiar to the average MBA, albeit packaged somewhat differently. Worse, it's packaged in extremely long form, forcing the reader through close to 400 pages to discover what could easily have filled 200 or less. <br /> <br />Covey's writing is reasonably clear. He has an annoying habit of recycling anecdotes, however, that can be quite frustrating for those who have read his previous works. If you read an anecdote in a previous Covey book, the odds are you'll see it again in here, and Covey even manages to use one anecdote twice in this book alone. They are, to his credit, generally germaine to the argument he's trying to make, so if you're not already familiar with his work you won't notice it, but if you're looking for more than what Covey has already offered, this may get on your nerves. <br /> <br />All in all, Covey is probably onto something here, but the work needs an editor willing to cut it down to size to make it more effective. Without that, the reader is left to his own devices to pare out the new material from the old.	2005-03-17
US	52283113	R2DQ79R0OTBJ2U	0761534040	897968670	The New Thought Police: Inside the Left's Assault on Free Speech and Free Minds	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Disturbing Look at the Wages of Extremism	Sinclair Lewis talked about how it could happen here almost a century ago. Now Tammy Bruce outlines just how it is happening here in this excellent book. <br /> <br />Bruce spent most of the 1990s as the head of the Los Angeles chapter of the National Organization of Women. Perhaps foolishly, Bruce believed that her mission as chapter president was to increase the size of her chapter and to raise awareness of women's issues. Instead she got a painful lesson in groupthink and the politics of exclusion. For her efforts in expanding her chapter and her success in raising awareness of domestic abuse by piggybacking on the OJ Simpson case, Bruce was virtually hounded from office by the national leadership of NOW. <br /> <br />The New Thought Police takes a look at how the left has left behind the original meaning of liberalism and replaced it with a stultifying groupthink that has undermined many of the very causes they once claimed to champion. It is a depressing look inside a number of movements that have proud histories, yet have today rotted from within thanks to this new way of thinking. From NOW's refusal to accept men who support feminist goals or women who choose to pursue traditional goals to the NAACP's brutal attacks on blacks who refuse to think the way the left wants them to, Bruce highlights the disturbing totalitarianism exemplified by many leftwing organizations and how it is damaging the causes the left claims to fight for. <br /> <br />Bruce's writing is very clean and quick, making The New Thought Police and interesting and easy read. Her reports of various incidents she endured make for consistently interesting, albeit disturbing, reading, and the entire book is well-constructed to lay out and support her thesis. It is unfortunate her work hasn't received greater attention, as the phenomonon she documents hurts all Americans regardless of their political persuasion.	2005-03-09
US	52283113	RNGLU6ZOHGE5X	1932100407	787027901	Choice: The Best of Reason	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Great Collection of Rational Articles	I should probably disclose at the outset that I received a copy of _Choice_ gratis, presumably because of my weblog. However, I've been a Reason subscriber for several years and I am generally favorably disposed to a magazine whose tag line is free minds and free markets. <br /> <br />_Choice_ collects some of the best articles from Reason from recent years and packages them with a pair of introductions from Drew Carey and Chris Hitchens. The editors did a great job of collecting articles, as this collection gathers a number of favorites I recalled from my own subscription alongside older articles I was quite pleased to have the chance to read. The philosophy of each article is generally consistent in favoring a more libertarian view of government, laying out the case in generally calm and reasoned tones that pursue argument rather than simple shouting. The various authors have their own roads to this goal, making the book a quick read even at 300+ pages. <br /> <br />_Choice_ is a great read regardless of political persuasion because the articles do a good job of following the facts to a conclusion rather than cherry-picking facts to support a conclusion. Liberals and conservatives will each find things to support and decry here, and they will all be challenged. _Choice_ also includes a number of interviews with luminaries like Norman Borlaug and Milton Friedman (and even Drew Carey). <br /> <br />If you're looking for something to support your point of view, _Choice_ may not be for you. But if you're looking for a collection of articles that will challenge you, this is the place to start.	2005-02-23
US	52283113	R260DZX01H0UP8	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intriguing Look at America's First Hero	Everyone knows about George Washington. Father of his country, wooden teeth, couldn't tell a lie...the list goes go and on. Much of the list is inaccurate, though, and most of the rest misunderstood. Joseph Ellis has done a fine job of setting some of that to rights. <br /> <br />\\"His Excellency\\" sets out to examine what Washington was like as a person, and while it necessarily cannot completely succeed, it does an admirable job of helping the modern reader grasp what went into America's most essential citizen. Ellis takes the reader through Washington's life with an assessment at each turn of how certain events effected or were effected by Washington's personality. The portrait which emerges is far more interesting than the stereotypical lore most Americans are familiar with, and the reader is likely to come away from \\"His Excellency\\" with greater respect for Washington as he truly was than one could ever respect a mere icon. <br /> <br />Ellis possesses an enviable flair for prose, making several hundred pages fly by. Washington's life becomes an intriguing story under Ellis's care, almost reading like a novel rather than history. More historians should write so cleanly. <br /> <br />\\"His Excellency\\" should be high on the reading list of anyone seeking a better understanding of just how precarious America's emergence from thirteen colonies was, and just how important one man was to our eventual success.	2005-01-30
US	52283113	R3UQEBA1HGXV6V	078521187X	731086189	Blog: Understanding The Information/Reformation That's Changing Your World	Books	5	78	96	N	N	Excellent Guide to Using the Blogosphere	If the blogosphere had a press agent, it would be Hugh Hewitt. He has flogged the potential of the blogosphere for over a year on his website, and \\"Blog\\" attempts to bring the word to people who don't get their news from the Internet. <br /> <br />Like his previous work, \\"If It's Not Close, They Can't Cheat,\\" \\"Blog\\" is an eminently readable work you can devour in an afternoon. Hugh's writing style is conversational and transmits information quickly and clearly. This makes \\"Blog\\" a good read regardless of your position on blogs and blogging. <br /> <br />Hugh's thesis is simple: blogs are the next wave in the information revolution, as important to the dissemination of information as the printing press was to the Reformation. While Hugh touts a number of blogs (oddly enough missing yours truly, but I'm sure that was an oversight), his discussion isn't about any particular blog, but about how the technology of blogs is changing how information reaches the public. He cites four significant instances of the blogosphere influencing the public discourse: the removal of Trent Lott from his position as Senate Majority Leader, the fall of Jayson Blair and Howell Raines at the New York Times, the takedown of John Kerry by the Swift Boat Veterans for the Truth and Dan Rather's immolation following the 60 Minutes forged National Guard documents scandal. Each case illustrates how the blogosphere was able to keep stories percolating (and even breaking, in the latter two cases) until the national media had no choice to take what the blogosphere was giving them, and in each case the results were markedly different than what would have occurred prior to the rise of the blogosphere. <br /> <br />Naysayers will probably ding Hugh for what notes as blogger triumphalism, but I think such readers are missing the point. Hugh is not arguing that any one blogger or group of bloggers is able to have this effect, but that the blogosphere as a whole is distributing the flow of information in such a manner as to make it far more difficult for anyone to control that flow. That will make life far more difficult for people accustomed to keeping tight control over information, but it also represents a great opportunity for people willing to take advantage of this new medium's strengths. And this is what Hugh is trying to sell: those people and businesses that jump into the blogosphere now are going to gain a serious competitive advantage on those who continue to stick to older methods of communicating. While this process in likely to move in fits and starts over the next few years, it is coming nevertheless, and \\"Blog\\" offers some good advice to those people looking to get out ahead of the blogosphere rather than ending up in trouble due to a failure to understand this new technology. <br /> <br />The definitive work on the blogosphere is yet to be written, because it's still too early in the development of the system to chronicle it all. But Blog is a good start and a valuable resource for anyone looking to understand more about what the blogosphere is and how it can help or hurt your business.	2005-01-16
US	52283113	R2C61ZWGUMO23E	0974930407	3304154	Seize the Work Day: Using the Tablet PC to Take Total Control of Your Work and Meeting Day	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Critical Asset for Using Your Tablet PC	If Microsoft really wants the Tablet PC O/S to take off, they should package a copy of Michael Linenberger's book with every Tablet PC. Tablet PCs are unlike any other PC, and learning how to use their unique qualities is a time-consuming process. Taking the time to read Linenberger's work can eliminate most of the difficulty and ensure that users get better use from their PC. <br /> <br />I have owned my Tablet PC for over a year, but it wasn't until I picked up this book that I really began using it effectively. Rather than taking advantage of the strengths of the Tablet, I used it almost as two different systems: as a simple notebook I could take notes in, and as a regular laptop computer. While it did mean I had my notes all in one place and ensured that I had my laptop when I needed it, I wasn't really seeing a significant improvement in my productivity. Until I read this book. <br /> <br />Linenberger starts by reviewing the Tablet PC operating system and the types of Tablet PCs. If you don't already own one, this is a great section for helping you decide which type would work best for you. It's arguably the best buying guide I've seen on Tablet PCs, in fact. <br /> <br />Linenberger does an excellent job laying out a simple set of techniques to take advantage of the Tablet PC. While he clearly has his favorite types of software, he examines all available software for each task and explains how to use it to best advantage. While some of the software information is already dated, most of the principles remain the same, and he has updated at least one chapter already on his web site. Linenberger covers task management, handling e-mail, note taking, power documents (important documents you refer to often), brainstorming, editing, presentations, and goal setting, each time demonstrating how to use the Tablet PC's features to your advantage. <br /> <br />The book is cleanly written and easy to read. You can read it from cover to cover, but it's also easy to use asa reference work, allowing you to flip back to areas you find of particular use. <br /> <br />All in all, the book has too many valuable tips regarding the use of the Tablet PC for anyone who owns a Tablet not to pick it up today.	2005-01-02
US	52283113	R22AM222VERO9E	0670892750	246948554	American Dream: Three Women, Ten Kids, and a Nation's Drive to End Welfare	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Well-Written and Frustrating Look at Welfare Reform	American Dream chronicles the effects of the welfare reform bill on three women in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Deparle has done an excellent job of pulling together a history of black poverty and welfare, knocking down a number of shibboleths en route to his conclusion. No matter which side of the argument you find yourself, Deparle's research will probably undermine certain things you thought were true, and force you to rethink how to approach the brutally difficult problem of poverty in America. <br /> <br />American Drean is at turns inspiring, frustrating, and unsatisfying. The hard work and occasional successes of Deparle's subjects cannot fail to remind the reader of the amazing ability of humans to overcome obstacles placed in their path. The dismal job done by welfare, whether pre- or post-reform to actually help people will infuriate the reader, as even people who believe that government has no business trying to support the poor would like to see such programs that exist do well, and to see the poor given every opportunity to improve their lot. Ultimately, American Dream cannot help but be unsatisfying to the reader, because Deparle offers no false ending to his story: these women continue to struggle even today (George Will recently mentioned one of them in an op-ed piece), and their struggle will undoubtedly be with them to the end of their lives. <br /> <br />Deparle deserves credit for neither sugarcoating the problem nor penning a jeremiad. His story simply presents a collection of successes and failures, painted against the backdrop of welfare and welfare reform. American Dream notes the massive obstacles the poor face in attempting to break out of poverty, obstacles those of us in the middle class often have no familiarity with. Yet Deparle does not counsel hopelessness, nor does he forget to note what successes his subjects have. <br /> <br />Ultimately, however, the reader will be hard-pressed to finish American Dream without feeling the dull ache of wonder: America is supposed to be the land of opportunity, yet true success seems to reside just outside the reach of all too many people. Is there any way to reopen those doors? Deparle wisely leaves that to his readers. His contribution has been to bring a better understanding of the problems faced by America's poor to light, and for that Deparle deserves great credit. American Dream is by no means an upbeat work, but it is a very valuable one.	2005-01-02
US	52283113	RFFYJEEYIZE5Q	0553299921	659608977	The Passing of Armies: An Account Of The Final Campaign Of The Army Of The Potomac	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Fascinating View Inside the Closing Days of the War	Joshua Chamberlain is probably the most famous 'minor figure' of the American Civil War. While history has remembered an amazing number of Civil War generals (quick, name three generals from America's Revolutionary War), Chamberlain never rose to a position high enough to be generally considered important. Except, that is, for his amazing work on July 2, 1863, when his regiment, the 20th Maine, held the left flank of the Union army against repeated Confederate attacks, culminating with a bayonet charge when the regiment ran out of ammunition. For his actions on that day, Chamberlain received the Medal of Honor. <br /> <br />But while Chamberlain's heroism at Gettysburg was amazing and vitally important to the survival of the United States of America, they were hardly the only important actions Chamberlain took during the war. Chamberlain would go on after Gettysburg to be wounded six times, twice declared dead in The New York Times, and rise to the rank of Brevet Major General and division commander. During his time with the Army of the Potomac, Chamberlain had a front row view of the battles that ended the American Civil War, and he was on the field at Appomattox when Robert E. Lee finally accepted the inevitable and asked Grant for terms of surrender. Chamberlain was then selected to accept the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia. <br /> <br />Given those exploits, Chamberlain had quite a bit to report on, and in The Passing of the Armies he offers his views on the final campaign of the war and the disbanding of the Army of the Potomac. Chamberlain's writing is fascinating, although the style is appropriate to the 19th century and can appear a bit cumbersome to the modern reader. It is nonetheless a gripping read as the reader travels with Chamberlain across the last battlefields of the American Civil War, feeling the excitement and horror of the first industrial war in history. Chamberlain's perspective was at once close enough to feel the heat of the battle yet removed enough that he is able to describe the larger picture relative to the battlefield. All the book is really missing is a few better maps; it can be difficult to follow the battles given the limited maps included in the book. But that is a minor point, and the reader will be caught up in the battles even if unable to place them on a map. <br /> <br />Despite all the excellent books written on the Civil War, only those who actually experienced the war can provide a feeling for what it was like to survive the battles. Joshua Chamberlain's memoirs give the reader an opportunity to actually get inside the head of a true American hero. As such, they are invaluable reading for anyone interested in the American Civil War, war in general, or leadership.	2005-01-02
US	52283113	R1WR3QRFW1WSGE	0306813416	234475016	Planet Simpson: How A Cartoon Masterpiece Defined A Generation	Books	4	12	20	N	N	A Leftist's Guide to The Simpsons	Chris Turner makes two things abundantly clear right from the start of this homage: he's an obsessive Simpsons fan, and he's firmly planted on the far left of the political spectrum. Both perspectives heavily color this extensive look at The Simpsons. <br /> <br />This is a book for people who like The Simpsons already. Only true fans are going to enjoy an examination this extensive; the casual fan is likely to find the volume far too daunting, reading more like a cultural history of the 1990s than an explanation of The Simpsons' popularity and longevity. <br /> <br />If you don't subscribe to the left's view of the world, that means you're probably not going to enjoy Turner's numerous jaunts into trendy political issues (global warming is a particular favorite) as he tries to tie The Simpsons to awareness of these issues. These jaunts can be somewhat annoying, but Turner is remarkably creative in his use of The Simpsons, so if you're a fan of the show you may find yourself entertained by Turner's Simpsons allusions even if you consider his political agenda silly. <br /> <br />For people who are fans, however, the book should offer more than enough references to classic Simpsons moments to make it worth reading. Turner is a reasonably good writer, so the book is an easy read, and Turner's choice of episodes to illustrate his points is very well done. If you're not a member of Turner's generation, you will probably disagree with him on a number of his contentions regarding The Simpsons' popularity, but the book helps you to consider why you like them, which makes it a worthwhile read in my book. <br /> <br />Does Turner actually speak for a generation? I doubt it; he and I are only 4-5 years apart in age, but we are worlds apart in our politics and outlook. Nonetheless, we both love The Simpsons, part of a massive fraternity that surpasses nationality, politics, or almost anything else. Turner may not have the definitive answer for that popularity, but he's done a good job of explaining many sources of its appeal.	2004-12-30
US	52283113	RFBX9H3QD0FCN	0767046153	282271435	Founding Brothers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fascinating Look at America's Start	The basic outlines of America's founding are well-known to every American schoolchild.  Looking back on the American Revolution, the Constitutional Convention, and the first years of our republic, it is easy to assume that everything transpired as it was supposed to.  Joseph Ellis takes a look at six of the critical personalities involved in America's launch and finds that many of the fault lines that divide us today were visible even then.  Far from being inevitable, the American experiment was a precarious undertaking that could easily have foundered on the many strong personalities guiding it. <br /> <br />Founding Brothers is six short vignettes that examine critical events in the lives of Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, John Adams, Abigail Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and George Washington, each of whom made critical contributions to our nation in its infancy.  Ellis weaves the stories together to illustrate the challenges we faced as we took our first steps as an independent nation and to identify some of the key fissures that continue to divide us today.  In so doing, Ellis provides a view of the founders that, while far less reverent, demonstrates the value of their accomplishments were far greater than many today realize. <br /> <br />Ellis selected six stories that, while their basic outline may be well-known, include numerous details that paint a far more interesting picture of the turbulent times at the end of the 18th century.  From the infamous duel between Burr and Hamilton to the feuding and long friendship of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, the stories provide a great sense of the fault lines that America was built upon, as well as how the founders managed to set a republic in motion despite those faults. <br /> <br />For those looking to better understand America today, you would do well to start by looking at how we got started.  Ellis' work provides a valuable service in reminding us that how we started helps to show how we got where we are today.	2004-09-12
US	52283113	R1O5DUD13DHNLZ	0618126988	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Marvelous Exploration of Middle Earth	Anyone familiar with The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings is familiar with just how much work J.R.R. Tolkien put into the world he created, Middle Earth. Songs and poetry extolling ancient heroes, tales of the history of Middle Earth and the Ring...Middle Earth always seemed alive because of those details (even if, like me, you skipped over most of the songs and poetry). The time Tolkien spent building that massive backstory was a big factor in the success of The Lord of the Rings, because the tale held together as if it truly were history rather than fiction. The Silmarillion helps flesh out a lot of that backstory.<br />Somewhere between a Bible of Middle Earth and a history text, The Silmarillion is not a story in the sense of The Hobbit of The Lord of the Rings. The Silmarillion is more like a collection of short stories telling about the history of Middle Earth leading up to the War of the Ring, from the creation of the world to the wars against Morgoth and the destruction of Numenor. The Silmarillion helps to flesh out the world Tolkien created and provides a great deal of additional depth to the stories told in The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, as well as helping the reader to more fully understand Tolkien's magnificent creation.<br />If you're looking for a ripping good read, you should look elsewhere: this is pure exposition, as another reviewer noted. But if you enjoyed The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings and would like to understand more about Middle Earth, you'll enjoy The Silmarillion.	2004-03-31
US	52283113	R23OHCTJC2STPH	0060186321	616906424	The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture, and Consciousness	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fascinating Look at How and Why Style Matters	Upon first hearing of Virginia Postel's new project, I confess I was somewhat taken aback.  After her fascinating analysis of political thought in The Future and Its Enemies, what was she doing writing about something as ephemeral as style?  I therefore approached her new work with some trepidation, as I wasn't sure where she might take such an odd (to me) topic.  I needn't have worried.<br />The Substance of Style is one of those books that is almost annoying, because in it Postrel has identified a trend that is so pervasive that once you've read the first few chapters, you look around you with new eyes, noticing things that have been there all along but that you accepted as simply part of the backdrop.  As products have become better and better, Henry Ford's famous dictum (You can have any color as long as it's black) can no longer hold.  When the average product can easily accomplish its intended purpose, function no longer holds the same relative importance.  Form, once an afterthought, becomes more and more important, because we can afford to consider it.  And so we face a world where we can change the color of our cell phones and lap tops to match our mood, and Apple's latest computers are seen as works of art as much as functional systems.<br />Better yet, Postrel ties this age of aesthetics to her prior work in The Future and Its Enemies.  As in politics, she identifies the aesthetic conflicts between those who want to leave people free to determine what works best for them, and those who prefer to determine 'one best way,' whether in housing, fashion, style, or whatever else.  Postrel clearly comes down on the side of those who prefer fewer constraints, and she defends her position very well, particularly when noting how many things we all take for granted today were spawned by the near free-for-all of dynamic creation and competition.<br />Postrel's writing is concise and clean, making the book a very easy read.  Through her use of numerous contemporary and familiar examples, she is able to tie her points to common experiences, making the work that much more powerful.<br />Like it or not, the age of aesthetics is upon us.  If you have any interest at all in understanding how it will affect you, read and enjoy this terrific work.	2003-09-08
US	52283113	RQ9TPR6QLSA9Y	0452284279	815056968	Breakdown: The Failure of American Intelligence to Defeat Global Terror	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Stunning Indictment of America's Intelligence Community	September 11th came as a great shock to most Americans.  Probably the greatest shock, of course, came from the sheer unexpectedness of the attack; who would dream of such things?  Yet Bill Gertz points out how our intelligence community consistently dropped the ball in the years leading up to September 11th, in part by ignoring the signs that would have led them to the al Qaeda plot.<br />Any intelligence agency will inevitably make errors and miss some things.  The best anyone can hope for is an agency that will do the best it can with the information it has.  Breakdown conclusively demonstrates that America's intelligence services failed to meet even this standard.  Clues were consistently missed or misinterpreted, near-breakthroughs were quashed, and the intelligence community seemed generally to be more interested in feathering their own nests than in protecting the United States.  The results were, as Gertz points out, inevitable.<br />Worse, Gertz follows the agencies after September 11th, and his work indicates we haven't made much progress in improving things since then.  While the failures prior to September 11th could be laid at the feet of multiple administrations, the Bush administration's failure to take the lessons of September 11th to heart and resolve at least some of the problems of our intelligence services is all the more damnning in light of Gertz' book.  Heads should roll over this, as another reviewer noted, but it doesn't seem that many will.<br />Breakdown is well-written and backed with excellent research.  Readers will be horrified by much of what Gertz details in the book, but at least they can read about it in cleanly written prose.  Gertz work is a tour de force and should be required reader for America's leadership.	2003-07-31
US	52283113	RPYEBLM860MY8	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Good Movie, but A Superb Book	For those of us who missed the Depression, we'll never really understand just how hard the times were on the people who survived them.  Older relatives may often seem only parsimonious to us, when their memories of the Depression simply make it impossible for them to consider spending money in any but the most careful of ways.  Whenever times are tough, people look for heroes.  During the Depression, people needed something more, and Seabiscuit was just what the doctor ordered.  At a time when almost one-quarter of all Americans were out of work and most of those who were working could hardly be called well-off, a castoff horse captured the nation's imagination, not just with his prodigious physical talent, but with his drive to succeed.  Such a great story deserves to be told well, and Laura Hillenbrand deserves great credit for giving the story the craftsmanship it merits.<br />Seabiscuit doesn't just tell the story of probably the greatest horse ever to take the field; Hillenbrand ties the story of the horse to its owner, its trainer, its jockey, and its country.  Each character is painted with vivid detail, warts and all.  Seabiscuit is no hagiography; these were men with many faults as well as virtues, and Hillenbrand doesn't flinch from portraying them.  Yet in the telling, the characters become greater rather than worse.  And none greater than the title character, whose incredible exploits seem to gallop off the page, particularly in the magnificently-detailed descriptions of Seabiscuit's races.<br />Although very detailed, the book reads more like a novel than a history.  The pages fly by as Hillenbrand's prose brings historical figures to life with such detail it's impossible not to be drawn into their lives.  Better still, though Hillenbrand writes like a novelist, she cites sources like a historian, reminding the reader that, while Seabiscuit's exploits may seem legendary, he was absolutely real.  And the reader will be absolutely awed to read of all thatSeabiscuit accomplished.<br />For those who've seen the movie first, there's still plenty here for you.  The book goes into so much more depth than a movie can, reading this will only increase your enjoyment of the film.	2003-07-31
US	52283113	R32QQQVSIFYY3Z	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stellar Look into the Inside Game	For close to a decade, baseball Commissioner-for-life Bud Selig has been wailing and gnashing his teeth over the 'fact' that only the richest teams have any hope of winning.  After all, look at how well the Yankees do...the game's all about money, now.  Except for those pesky Oakland Athletics.  Despite one of the smallest payrolls in the majors, Oakland has been one of the best teams in baseball over the past five years.  How can this be?<br />Michael Lewis explains the art of winning baseball Billy Beane style, with a book that's as beautifully written as it is informative.  Lewis has a gift for prose that makes this nonfiction work read like a page-turning novel.  His review of Oakland's transition from a traditional team to the standard-bearer for a new breed of baseball is a must read for anyone with the slightest interest in how a business can take advantage of their competitors through a better understanding of the game.<br />In other words, Moneyball isn't just for baseball fans, although they'll certainly love it.  Billy Beane has brought the business equivalent of asymmetrical warfare to baseball, and Lewis's telling of the tale can help anyone involved in business.  Are there necessarily always holes like those Beane exploited in baseball in every line of work?  Probably not, but learning how to look for them is still a valuable skill for anyone.<br />As for baseball fans, the details Lewis unveils alone make this book worth the price of admission.  Among the recounting of how Oakland succeeds, Lewis weaves a net of the short stories that make baseball such a wonderful game.  And he's even given away the most basic secrets of how any General Manager can make their team better, if only your local nine will take the hint.	2003-07-22
US	52283113	R1BZ7NCGJ9UEYC	0802713122	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Marvelous Account of Unknown History	I had never even heard of or realized how important the ability to determine one's longitude is to navigation, in this age of the GPS.  Yet the issue cost many thousands of lives and millions in treasure before one lone genius cracked the code.  Dava Sobel's telling of the tale reopens this fascinating era in history, but it's not just the history that makes this a great book.<br />Sobel's clean, crisp, writing makes this work zip by.  Rather than a historical text, reading Sobel is more akin to listening to a skilled storyteller spin a tale by the fireplace at night.  Sobel mixes historical facts with entertaining asides to give the reader an always entertaining, yet also educational experience.  (Edu-tainment, as Homer Simpson might say.)  In doing so, Sobel recreates this vital event in history in such fashion to perhaps even return knowledge of the event into more common knowledge.<br />Longitude should be read because it recounts an important historical event.  But Longitude deserves to be read because Sobel has written a damn entertaining story.	2003-07-15
US	52283113	RNAX1YJDGYU39	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting Story, But Where's the Beef?	Bill Sammons has written a fascinating tale of the events of the presidential election of 2000, focusing on the alleged attempted theft of the election by the Gore campaign.  Sammons' book presents a damnning tale of deceit and dishonor such that Al Gore should hang his head in shame until the day he dies; if it's true.  Unfortunately, Sammons forgets one small detail in telling his tale: evidence.<br />I don't know if Sammons' tale is accurate or not.  And there's no way to find out, because Sammons' book contains not a single footnote, end note, or even a bibliography.  Direct quotes, damnning stories, and the rest are related as fact without, in most cases, even attribution.  The reader must take Sammons at his word, or the story counts for little.<br />If what Sammons is saying is true, the Gore campaign acted in a shameful manner throughout the post-election battles.  But in making such an accusation, Sammons owes us more than his word of honor that the incidents occurred.  As can be seen by many of the reviews here, many people are prepared to damn Gore simply on the basis of these accusations.  However tempting this approach may be, (as certainly I have no particular brief for Gore), for this book to truly be taken seriously, it requires some evidence.  Sammons fails to provide any.<br />Sammons is a reporter for the Washington Times (the right-leaning paper of our nation's capital), and as a reporter he may not be accustomed to footnoting his columns.  His writing is entertaining, and the book is an easy, entertaining read, in any case.  If you're looking for an interesting story, this book undoubtedly provides it.  But if you're searching for the true story of Florida 2000, without more documentation, this book won't help you any.<br />(7/21/03) A minor update for those who say there's plenty of evidence to bolster Sammons' case: I agree, but I'd sure love to know why Sammons couldn't bother himself to annotate any of it.  Sammons makes some pretty damnningstatements about Gore here.  He owes it to his readers to back them up, unless he cares more about preaching to the choir than in establishing the true story.  Were I a betting man, (and as a man who voted for Bush), I'd say At Any Cost is telling the real story.  But history demands a little more than belief.	2003-07-04
US	52283113	R2CRFKOXF3DS1V	0425094995	682788101	Plain speaking: an oral biography of harry s. truman	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Fascinating Look at the words of a President	A compilation of interviews with President Truman originally intended for a television series, _Plain Speaking_ offers some interesting insights into the mind of Harry S Truman.  I'm not sure this is necessarily a good thing, as Truman was a man of strong convictions who had little patience for those with opposing views, based on his own words.<br />That doesn't hurt the book, however, as presumably the reader is looking to learn more about what drove Truman.  But Merle Miller's severe case of hero-worship of the President does tend to get grating, as it would appear, based on this book, that Miller believes the country would have been better off to elect Truman President-for-Life, because he apparently could do no wrong, and Miller wants to be sure the reader understands this.  Miller's hagiography aside, however, the book's primary focus remains on Truman's words, and those are well worth reading.<br />You may not consider Truman a great President or even a great man after reading _Plain Speaking_, but it will be hard not to respect Truman's willingness to say what he thought.  Anyone looking to understand Harry Truman should start here, to hear things in his own words.	2003-06-21
US	52283113	R59TP8WY0BMD4	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Interesting Read, Won't Make the Case for All	Bernard Goldberg's years as a journalist shine through in this work, half-memoir and half-expose.  Goldberg's prose makes it an easy read, and his discussion of many of the bad habits of the media makes for very interesting reading.  However, Goldberg's collection of anecdotes doesn't add up to a conclusive thesis.<br />I'll concede my own bias up front: I do think that the mainstream media tilts to the left in the manner described by Goldberg.  However, my own personal beliefs don't add up to a proven case, and while Goldberg's book provides some good food for thought, it's not going to convince anyone who isn't already leaning in that direction.  Then again, given that a majority of Americans already believe that, it's hardly surprising the book has done so well.<br />To his credit, Goldberg doesn't use his book to call for an attack on the media.  Instead, he simply asks the mainstream media to at least admit the possibility of bias and take a long hard look at itself.  However, if Goldberg's account is accurate, it's unlikely that will happen any time soon.<br />In the interim, _Bias_ provides an interesting insight into the media from a man who spent close to thirty years as a reporter.  For readers looking to gain some insight into the mainstream media, _Bias_ is a good reference.	2003-04-21
US	52283113	R3B3114C28F3XF	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An Extended Newspaper Column	In _Bush at War,_ Bob Woodward has assembled an impressive account of the Bush Administration's reactions to the September 11th attacks.  Based on a series of interviews with the principles, including the President, the book provides a number of fascinating details about how the administration chose to deal with the crisis.  Internal politics, arguments, and the unexpected problems of the war all are brought to light.<br />What Woodward fails to acknowledge, however, is that these accounts are all based on interviews, not from his actually being there.  Even if human nature were not part of the equation, it's unlikely such recollections could be 100% accurate.  When the fact that all of the people interviewed are members of a political administration that will be seeking reelection in a year, it's hard to believe they were fully candid with Woodward.  What areas might have been over- or underemphasized cannot be known with any certainty, but it's probably safe to assume any major problems that would reflect poorly on the administration were not discussed as candidly as issues where the administration did well.  Therefore, this work can hardly be considered the definitive work on the post-9/11 reactions of the Bush administration.<br />That having been said, it is a fine read.  Woodward's prose is clear and the work moves along rapidly from event to event.  Descriptions are vivid, providing the illusion of the reader actually being present for the events being discussed.  And while the reader is almost certainly not getting the whole story, the story provided includes enough details to cast a new light on the actions of the administration leading up to the Iraq War.  Well worth a read.	2003-04-17
US	52283113	RW9QC9L60U01H	0312263112	460172206	The Decline of Males: The First Look at an Unexpected New World for Men and Women	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Fascinating Thesis, Not So Great Conclusion	Lionel Tiger sets forth a fascinating theory regarding the future conduct of human relations in the book.  Tiger suggests that the creation of massive government bureaucracies has fundamentally altered the family concept.  I won't get into any more details, as I don't want to misstate his position, which he does a good job of laying out.<br />His writing is clear and relatively easy to read, which is always a plus in an academic work.  The book can be read in a few days without difficulty.  Tiger carefully lays out the evidence behind his theory, with each supporting leg bolstered with carefully detailed facts.<br />Where Tiger falls short, however, is with his conclusion.  After laying out his thesis, Tiger offers only a cursory conclusion that comes as a great disappointment after the work he did laying out his theory.  The reader is left asking the hard question: 'so what?'  The book is still worth reading, as the thesis is provocative and well-argued, but Tiger really fell short by not offering a more comprehensive conclusion.	2003-03-28
US	52283113	RLEIGXADDE2ZN	0156106981	600092502	Basic Judaism (Harvest Book.)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Solid Introduction to a Fascinating Faith	For those looking for an in-depth analysis of one of the world's oldest religions, you're in the wrong place.  But for anyone looking to gain a basic understanding of the tenets of Judaism would be unlikely to do better than this work.<br />Rabbi Steinberg lays out who the Jews are, what Judaism is, and some of the various interpretations of the faith using clear, concise language and a well-laid out chapter structure that walks the reader through the history and conceptions of Judaism as it has grown over the centuries.  Although the book does not go into great depth in any one topic, the scope of the book gives the reader a fascinating perspective on an often misunderstood religion.<br />A reader who knows little of Judaism may or may not finish this book with a new respect for Judaism, but it will certainly ensure that the reader leaves it with a much greater understanding of it.  Required reading for any hoping to gain some understanding of a the great religion that begat Christianity and Islam.	2003-01-01
US	52283113	R6QH7XS79D8LY	0399525130	280938250	In Their Own Words: Founding Fathers	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great Start Point for Learning about the American Revolution	TJ Stiles has done a marvelous job of assembling an array of primary source documents from the period leading up to and through the American Revolution.  Reading works not only by major historical figures of the time like Washington, Adams, Clinton and Cornwallis, but also diary entries from soldiers on both sides and political commentary, the reader has a chance to understand a little more of what both sides experienced during the war.<br />Stiles weaves an excellent summary of events with the primary source selections, allowing the reader to at once gain perspective on the history of the war and zoom in on what many of the participants were experiencing.  Although the book can only grant an overview of this conflict, it's a terrific starting point for anyone interested in learning more about this fascinating period in American history.<br />Stiles's writing is very easy to read.  The book flows very nicely, with smooth transitions between sections.  Even the primary source documents are reasonably easy to read, particularly with the editorial asides conveniently added by Stiles.  History that reads like a story, the objective of any good historian.	2002-12-27
US	52283113	R2LJCM55DDTAS	0375756787	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well written introduction to an amazing man	Edmund Morris did significant damage to his reputation with his bizarre biography of Ronald Reagan, _Dutch_.  But reading this work, it's easy to see why he was selected for the work.  Morris' review of Theodore Roosevelt's life prior to his presidency is a tour de force of great writing.  Morris uses natural prose that seems more suited to a novel to amaze the reader with the accounts of young Teddy Roosevelt, a remarkable man irrespective of his ascent to the presidency.<br />Morris starts right at the beginning, addressing the turmoil that helped shape Teddy during the American Civil War and the political infighting that Roosevelt blamed for the death of his father.  A son of privilege, Morris doesn't shrink from the advantages Roosevelt had during his life, and he's more than willing to address Roosevelt's mistakes as well as his successes.  But Roosevelt was such a driven man, he managed to overcome his mistakes and be consistently successful for most of his life.<br />Morris has done a great job of packing this volume with information without making it overly wordy.  Instead it's an easy read that fairly flies by.  I'm looking forward to reading _Theodore Rex_.	2002-04-01
US	52283113	ROK8R70AX0MAZ	0684806975	568576361	The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Essential Reading for any Fan	Bill James has done it again, with a marvelous history of baseball that includes dozens of vignettes, baseball history new to all but baseball scholars, and a fascinating look at the 100 best players of all time.  This is a book that is three things at once: an essential reference work when you're learning about players of the past; a book you can pick up, open to any page and read a few paragraphs when you've got the time; and a book you'll want to read from cover to cover to ensure you don't miss any of the great information it contains.<br />Although it draws the most attention through its ranking of the 100 greatest players of all time and the 100 greatest players of all time at each position, that's only a fraction of the book.  James follows the history of baseball, decade by decade, that talks about how, where, and by who the game was played.  For each decade there's also a chart with notes on attendance, home field advantage, which teams were having their best and worst decades, and much more.  If you're interested in the history of baseball, this is the place to start, to get a baseline for how it evolved.<br />James also has scattered tens of short demi-articles discussing various topics relevant to each decade.  What will baseball be like in the future?  Why were the 1910s baseball's decade of greed?  The answers to these questions and dozens of others are covered in James' work.<br />James has an easy to read, conversational writing style that makes the book a pleasure.  And while James does cover his share of sabrmetrics, his love of the game covers far more than statistics.  If you love baseball, you'll love this book.  If you enjoy baseball, you'll love it even more when you're done here.	2002-03-27
US	52283113	RBQOR49CYFHME	0767904664	649000501	Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Suggestions for Reviving Baseball	As most baseball fans are painfully aware, our sport is slowly losing market share to football and basketball, and perhaps even hockey.  Much of this degradation is due to the sport's inability to adapt to the changes brought on by free agency and the gradual separation of teams into large and small markets.  Bob Costas has sat down and put together a modest plan to resolve these problems and start making baseball fun again.<br />Costas correctly identifies the major problem facing baseball today: that there are three groups of interested parties, rather than the two that negotiations always assume.  Rather than just owners and players, owners further subdivide into large-market and small-market owners, and the large-market owners have different interests than small-market owners.  Costas recommends first getting the owners on one sheet of music, then asking the players and owners each to make sacrifices to improve the overall system.  His suggestions seem logical, and might work very well to make baseball America's National Pastime again, but I doubt either the owners or the players would be willing to make the sacrifices necessary, even when they're in their best interests.<br />Costas writes in a relaxed, conversational style, so much so that you can almost hear his voice as you're reading.  It makes for a pleasant read you can complete in an hour or so, and the material will certainly make you think.  Even fans who've lost interest in baseball might well find Costas' views interesting, and certainly all fans who would like to see competitiveness return to baseball would be well served to assess Costas' argument and make their own decisions about his ideas.	2002-03-27
US	52283113	R5P399NN7BC5S	0066213711	63693352	Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great Look inside a Presidential Campaign	Frank Bruni followed George W. Bush throughout his presidential campaign, and was able to see the candidate up close and personal for months on end.  This experience gives him a number of insights into the President's character and personality and has allowed him to write a fascinating insider's view of the campaign.<br />Bruni's assessment of the Bush Campaign's strategies and of how the candidate acted and reacted to his life on the campaign are excellent reading.  Even more interesting is Bruni's candid assessment of how the press covers campaigns, and how the press tends to distort the campaign for the sake of keeping things interesting.  He makes no excuses for this, and is refreshingly critical of a number of much of the press coverage.<br />His assessment of Bush is equally even handed.  He doesn't try to cover up Bush's flaws, but neither does he try to bludgeon the reader with personal attacks.  The picture of Bush that emerges is one that would be familiar to most of us, a person with strengths and weaknesses, who works to overcome his weaknesses and take advantage of his strengths.<br />The one area where the book fails, in my opinion, is when Bruni discusses September 11.  Bruni attempts to use his knowledge of Bush from the campaign trail to assess Bush's actions following September 11, an assessment that seems remarkably premature.  Bruni admits he hasn't seen Bush since his inauguration, yet he makes significant assumptions about Bush's behavior and the rationale for it based on his campaign experience.  This detracts from the more interesting parts of the book, because he's replaced reporting and analysis with speculation.  Still, it's a book well worth reading.	2002-03-27
US	52283113	R13LG3HKSR41T7	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Biography about a Fascinating Subject	If there's a more terrifying affliction than mental illness, an inability to control the one thing that truly belongs to you, your thoughts, I can't imagine what it would be.  Sylvia Nasar's carefully researched and very well-written book takes the reader along on such a horrible journey, following the slow descent of mathemetician John Nash into a devastating paranoid schizophrenia that, in many ways, robbed Nash of close to a quarter-century of his life.<br />Nasar begins with Nash's childhood and follows him through college and graduate school, introducing us to a man at once awe-inspiring and yet in many ways wholly unadmirable.  Nash was an arrogant, unpleasant, in some ways reprehensible human being who frequently treated other people as little more than tools for his use or objects for his entertainment.  Yet he was also an incredible genius whose ability to solve incredibly complex mathematical problems and his breakthrough that would lead to his Nobel prize marked him as an intellect that might well have rivaled Einstein and Von Neumann.<br />Then Nasar forces us to follow this fascinating man into the terrifying world his illness created for him, where aliens sent him coded messages and where Nash became convinced he was a religious leader sent to save mankind.  Watching his descent, it's impossible not to shudder at the realization this could well happen to anyone.<br />But, through what Nash now argues is his ability to choose not to listen to his paranoid ideations, Nash overcame his schizophrenia and managed to rejoin the mathematical community.  Nasar follows Nash back to respectability, and provides a fascinating look behind the scenes of Nobel politics as she examines the circumstances surrounding his prize.<br />In all, Nasar has created an excellent work that is well-researched, easy to read, and worthy of any reader's time.	2002-03-25
US	52283113	RO0O32JLWP7PF	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Excellent Tribute from a Commander to his Soldiers	Lieutenant General Harold Moore and Joseph Galloway have written what is probably the definitive book on the soldier's experience in Vietnam.  Covering the American campaign in the Ia Drang Valley in 1965, the book focuses in on two battles: the Battle of LZ X-Ray, where an American battalion held off attacks by a People's Army of Vietnam division, and the Battle of LZ Albany, where another American battalion was decimated by other elements of the same PAVN division.<br />The Ia Drang campaign set the tone for Vietnam, demonstrating both American solders' fighting abilities and the strategic failure of American planners who could never take the initiative away from the enemy.  When the battle was joined, the Americans would fight well and inflict devastating losses on PAVN forces, but the battles were almost always fought on their terms, at times and places of their choosing.  American willingness to fight the war on their terms ensured the North Vietnamese would win in the end, as long as their will to fight persisted.<br />But while Moore and Galloway touch on these factors, their focus is firmly on the young men who fought and died in the Ia Drang.  Moore, the battalion commander at LZ X-Ray, and Galloway, a UPI reporter who rode into LZ X-Ray to cover the battle, have done meticulous research to produce a well-written, easy to read account of the two battles that drags the reader headlong into the terror and tension of the fighting.  We are introduced to each soldier in turn, and the book is careful to note the circumstances of each American death as best it can.  The result is a gripping read, impossible to put down.<br />Moore and Galloway are to be commended for their hard work and dedication in writing this book.  There's no way to understand how it truly feels to be trapped in a desperate firefight when people you love are dying all around you, but this comes as close as humanly possible.  After decades of propaganda calling Vietnam veterans either emotional wrecks or horrible baby killers, \\"We Were Soldiers Once...and Young\\" finally puts out the truth about the Americans who fought and died for their country in a war few cared about.  It is a fitting tribute to all those men.	2002-03-25
US	52283113	R2OLS3930IKNYO	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Riveting Portrayal of Bravery and Disaster	Mark Bowden deserves applause for his carefully researched account of the Battle of Mogadishu.  Black Hawk Down is an excellent account of the battle, drawing on numerous interviews with the men who fought the battle to paint a vivid picture of the fighting.<br />Black Hawk Down sets the stage first, explaining what had happened in the year leading up to the battle and how both sides had come to their respective positions.  Then he rolls right into the battle, taking the reader from the preparation (and the numerous errors made then) to the fast rope into downtown Mogadishu, and how things started going wrong right from the start.<br />Black Hawk Down is a portrait of the valor and courage of the American soldiers who managed to fight off attacks by an enemy who outnumbered them by ten to one, and who were ready to finish the job they'd started before the Clinton Administration chose to end the mission.  It is a fitting tribute to the soldiers who fought and died in the battle.	2002-03-20
US	52283113	RLELQ31238T6Z	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Well written volume about an amazing life	Roy Jenkins has done an incredible job of boiling down the incredible life story of Winston Churchill into a single volume, albeit one spanning just over 800 pages.<br />Although I had some familiarity with Churchill prior to reading this, I was amazed by the amazing breadth of Churchill's accomplishments.  From his early service in the British Army, to his escape from a POW camp during the Boer War, from his early times in the British Cabinet during the First World War, his fall from grace between the wars, and his triumph in 1940, when the world trembled before Hitler's seemingly unstoppable armies, ending with his second premiership and his final years, Jenkins covers it all.<br />Although Jenkins' style is sometimes difficult to read, the book is very well researched, and he is careful to annotate almost every one of his claims.  Although he is clearly impressed with Churchill, as was I after reading the book, Jenkins is careful not to whitewash Churchill's life.  He is as meticulous in his attribution of Churchill's many mistakes and failures as with his triumphs.<br />Jenkins has extensive service in the British Parliament and Cabinet government, which allows him to provide many useful insights into the British government process, and helps a reader like myself, without much understanding of the parliamentary process, better understand the issues Churchill dealt with.<br />Jenkins has written a book worthy of his subject.  Although it can take a little work to get through it all, it's quite worth it.	2002-03-20
US	52283113	RXAZ6BG616N8V	0764551531	543620360	Philosophy For Dummies	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Useful Stepping Stone to Learning Philosophy	Thomas Morris has done a good job of making philosophy understandable, although he necessarily only scratches the surface of most philosophic topics.<BR>Morris covers the basics of what philosophy is and why it should be studied, then moves into some basic philosophical questions.  He covers how we can know things, what 'the good' is, freedom, death, God, and the meaning of life, addressing several popular takes on each issue as well as his own personal take.  Morris then closes with a list of ten great philosophers and ten great philosophical questions.<BR>Morris' style is conversational, making the book easy to read.  He interjects humor throughout, ensuring the reader doesn't take anything too seriously, while still providing convincing arguments.<BR>If you're looking for a basic primer on philosophy, this is an excellent start.  While it won't get you deep into any particular philosophy, it should provide you with better grounding to move on to more in-depth works.	2002-03-15
US	52283113	R2JDDBGBI3JCHJ	1583761691	442314370	So You're New Again: How to Succeed in a New Job (The Managing Work Transitions Series)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A valuable asset when changing jobs or positions	Whenever you move from one assignment to another in your professional life, whether due to a promotion or a complete career change, the move carries with it a requirement to relearn some parts of your job and how you act at work.  This book attempts to establish a template to help you through that process.<br />The book does a good job of laying out the basic requirements you need to address when entering a new job, laying out a one-year, twelve-step plan to ensure you are accepted by your co-workers and supervisors, all of which is designed to make sure you do a better job at your new position.  The authors first define the problem, pointing out how newcomers are generally perceived in organizations, and pitfalls they tend to encounter while trying to gain acceptance.  They then take you through their twelve-steps, which are prioritized to take you through your first year at work while increasing your credibility with your new co-workers.  By working through their twelve steps, you present a better image to the outside, which helps get you accepted into the organization more quickly.  And once that is done, you will be far more effective in executing your duties and helping your organization improve.<br />The book is pretty slim, and some additional discussion of each step would make it more valuable.  As a baseline, however, this book provides a good way to approach any new position.	2001-12-02
US	52283113	R8ULYGW0VT7JG	158574297X	436615641	Twelve Days of Terror: A definitive Investigation of the 1916 New Jersey Shark Attacks	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good research, Spotty Writing	In July 1916, five people along the New Jersey coast were mauled by a shark (or by sharks), four of them fatally.  Dr. Fernicola has devoted many years of his life to researching the attacks, and this devotion to research is a mixed blessing in the book.  He uses the data he has gathered to make a compelling argument for the identity of the attacker(s) and the reasons behind the attacks.  However, Fernicola's writing style tends to try and bring in far too many details about his research that have, at best, tangential relevance to the shark attacks.  The book therefore tends to meander from topic to topic, with frequent discourses into how he found witnesses, German sabotage in the United States, and so on.  These forays detract from the book, and make it a more difficult read than it should be.<br />In all, Fernicola has laid out a convincing argument to explain the 1916 attacks.  He would have done better, however, to get a better editor before releasing the book.	2001-12-01
US	52283113	R3IYENKZUAHULF	0767904133	8015663	Close to Shore: A True Story of Terror in An Age of Innocence	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great way to learn about the 1916 attacks	In July 1916, five swimmers along the New Jersey coastline were mauled in a series of shark attacks. Four of the swimmers died of their injuries. These attacks terrorized the Atlantic coast and spawned one of the most famous horror movies of all time, Jaws.<br />Michael Capuzzo ties together historical vignettes of the time with detailed sketches of the victims and their families to make the attacks come alive. Using a narrative style possibly better suited for fiction, _Close to Shore_ provides a good overview of the attacks before moving on to Capuzzo's thesis regarding the attacks.<br />Tying together modern shark research with his own research into the 1916 attacks, Capuzzo presents a compelling thesis to explain the attacks.<br />If you're interested in sharks in general, or the 1916 attacks specifically, you should find this book well worth your time.	2001-12-01
US	52283113	R3EWJWNG4F8KOT	0684862697	215865364	The FUTURE AND ITS ENEMIES: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A must read for anyone interested in our future	Virginia Postrel sets a high standard for herself with her title, but her work lives up to its name.  She addresses the question of what has driven the human race forward throughout history, and what will be required to improve the human condition in the future.<br />     Her separation of dynamists, those who advocate finding new solutions through creativity and competition, and stasists, those who either want to keep everything as it is now (reactionaries) or who want the future to unfold according to their conception of 'one best way,' (technocrats) provides an excellent paradigm for viewing today's political conflicts.<br />     Using an array of questions about the future ranging from human cloning and stem cell research to zoning laws and terrorism, Postrel's work takes the reader through the conflicts between dynamism and stasism and establishes 'ground rules' for dynamism that allow humanity to find the best solutions to the problems of today while preparing us to face the problems of the future.<br />     Well written, and with clear and varied examples, The Future and its Enemies is easy to read and understand.  More importantly, it illustrates the fundamental conflict that faces us every day, whether in the halls of Congress, or in the war against terrorism.  Anyone who follows politics or who is interested in the forward march of humanity would be well-advised to read this book carefully.	2001-11-27
US	52283113	R61IA8NS52P1L	0966899415	927966693	PassPorter Walt Disney World 2000: The unique travel guide, planner, organizer, journal, and keepsake!	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent Guide to Walt Disney World	Although not necessarily the best of the many guides to Walt Disney World, the PassPorter unquestionably ranks near the top.  The authors have done a reasonably thorough job of reviewing Walt Disney World from top to bottom, informing the reader on everything from the parks to hidden treasures of Walt Disney World many visitors never find.  Although the text is rather sparse, given the vast subject matter, it covers most of what a visitor to Walt Disney World will want to know.  And this book offers added value with its unique method for maintaining a record of your trip.  The back of the book includes roughly a dozen pockets with a series of questions to be filled out.  It asks you to write up favorite memories from each day, places you went, things you saw, and so on.  If used properly, the PassPorter therefore is not just a guide, but a storage place for memories of your vacation.  This guide is an excellent book for anyone planning a Walt Disney World vacation, both to prepare for the trip, and to remember it for years afterwards.	2001-04-13
US	52283113	R22JYGRHEGLHO1	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Mediocre work despite an interesting premise	Clancy appears to have decided not to put a great deal of effort into his latest work, borrowing liberally from one of his first efforts, _Red Storm Rising_.  Unfortunately, this book doesn't quite match up to that earlier work.  This is a long book, not just in the number of pages, but in the feel.  Unlike most of his past efforts, it's in no way a page turner, but instead you read on simply to get to the end.  And when you get there, be prepared for disappointment.  After setting up an interesting premise, Clancy wraps everything up more neatly than most Christmas presents.  The only plus to the work is the characters long time Clancy readers have grown to know so well--they remain generally the same, and are fun to follow, but their talents could be much better used.  Perhaps it's time for Clancy to start a new series, as he appears to be tired of dreaming up new problems for Jack Ryan.	2000-10-28
US	52283113	R2K4G6YBA5W41U	0613033361	506174805	Executive Orders (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	3	14	22	N	N	Entertaining, but hardly spectacular	Clancy's great gift as a writer has always been his ability to tell a good  story, and he does a fair job with this one.  However, this isn't a great  story, and it's not very well written.  Although the concept is quite  interesting, Clancy's writing fails in two critical areas: characters and  continuity.  His characters are generally simple and one-sided: the  villains are easy to hate, and the heros are easy to love.  Nobody wears a  hat, but you get the idea nonetheless.  Other than the characters that  Clancy has developed over multiple books, there isn't anyone here who  really feels quite real.  Clancy fans will still root for Jack Ryan and  John Clark, but they don't really have much competition here.  As for  continuity, Clancy loves to pack his novels with subplots, which can be a  good thing, but here he apparently bit off more than he could chew, as one  subplot is rather arbitrarily cut off.  Losing it does not hurt the book,  but if he wasn't going to use, Clancy could have improved the book by  simply omitting it entirely.  Overall, the novel offers an interesting look  inside a fictional presidency and is a fun read, but little more.	2000-07-09
US	52283113	RJ8T1W5OMO0E3	1889927015	763786575	Once an Eagle	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great primer on leadership	Anton Myrer has written a book for the ages with this impressive work.  The book follows two officers from just before America's entry into World War I all the way to the opening days of Vietnam.  The officers are  archetypes of leadership: Sam Damon leads by example, cares for his  soldiers and always strives to do what's best for the mission, while  Courtney Massengale works equally hard to do whatever is calculated to  advance his career.  The book both shows how to be a great leader and  provides the reader with an excellent look at America's Army, particularly  in the interwar years.  Anyone interested in leadership, regardless of how  they need to apply it, would do well to read this book.  Although it is  unlikely any of us can live up to the example set by Damon, simply making  the attempt can help make anyone a better leader.	2000-07-05
US	52283113	RXP4S3J3YE5EM	0671657224	135054732	Nixon, Vol. 1: The Education of a Politician 1913-1962	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Fair, Balanced Look at a Controversial Figure	Ambrose has done a great job of examining Nixon's first fifty years in great detail while linking the information to later events in Nixon's life.  Ambrose does not sugarcoat Nixon's many failings, particularly his  difficulty moving beyond campaigns and his massive vicious streak in  political campaigns.  However, nor does Ambrose appear to have an axe to  grind.  He points out Nixon's virtues as well, such as his early and  principled support of civil rights.  The reader, if willing to begin the  book with an open mind, is left with mixed feelings regarding Nixon.  On  the one hand, it is easy to wonder how much good the man might have done if  he could have overcome a relative few character flaws.  On the other hand,  it is equally easy to wonder how such an evidently intelligent man could  mislead even himself with his chronic hyperbole and dissembling.  Overall,  the book does an excellent job of showing who Nixon was and how he came to  be that way, without trying to lead the reader to a conclusion about the  man himself.  Anyone interested in learning about Nixon would do well to  read this work, although readers who have already made up their mind about  Nixon will not walk away changed: there is plenty here for those who  despise Nixon and those who revere him.	2000-07-01
US	52283113	R49671HSP2X8N	0684801566	400377280	Who Stole Feminism?: How Women Have Betrayed Women	Books	5	33	43	N	N	A Daring but Dangerous Book	Sommers has done an excellent job of demonstrating some of the problems with what passes for current feminist advocacy studies.  Her analysis of what, and more importantly how, things are being taught on many American  campuses is cogent and frightening to consider; the idea that colleges may  no longer consider teaching students how to think, but rather what they  should think.      But Sommers book also poses a danger, because many  readers who come in with their own opinions firmly established will assume  that Sommers' work intends to show that women face no problems in the  world, or that all feminists are deceitful or simply wrong.  Even a cursory  review of the work will show that she in fact acknowledges that there are  still problems to be resolved for women, particularly for women who are not  currently well represented by prominent feminists: women who are poor or  who live elsewhere than the United States.      Although this book does  speak specifically and well about how a certain brand of feminism (what she  calls gender feminism) is alienating many who otherwise support the goals  of traditional feminism, it is even better as an example of how advocacy  research can twist public policy.      Unfortunately, this book is most  likely to be used by opponents of any feminism to drag down any attempts to  remedy real problems that exist for women.  That is a real shame, because  Sommers has clearly put a great deal of thought and effort into this work.	2000-06-29
US	52283113	R3G7A4P81V7XK3	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	5	53	58	N	N	An excellent means to understand the whole of the battle	While most books regarding Gettysburg focus on the three days of the battle, Coddington takes the time to review the entire campaign, helping to explain why the battle was fought where and when it was.  His analysis of  Lee's difficulties with his new command structure provide an excellent  explanation of the consistent failures of the Army of Northern Virginia to  take advantage of the slow Federal arrival at the battlefield and Meade's  errors.  In short, if you're looking for a comprehensive review of the  Gettysburg Campaign and the Battle of Gettyburg accompanied with incisive  analysis, try this book.	2000-04-11
US	52283113	R2EXJNE5W66SC6	0395656680	1817676	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent work--the standard for Antietam.	Sears does an excellent job combining a first-rate overview of the battle, a solid analysis of the combatants and their actions and keeping the book a good read.  Landscape Turned Red reads quickly and is very informative,  providing great detail in the text as well as copious footnotes.  Any  student of Antietam should begin study here.	1999-12-11
