US	52283845	R2XJSUD3SAA5S7	0684871599	110011583	Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	1	25	32	N	N	Miller's Motive For Bad Reporting	This book came out at the same time that Judith Miller was doing the incredibly bad reporting for the NYTimes that lead the US into the Iraq War. Much of her reporting on WMD spurred interest in her book and increased its sales. I wonder how much her incredibly bad reporting that the Times has now repudiated as false and misleading can be credited to unconscious credulousness centered on the knowledge that more WMD fear would increase her book sales?	2004-05-27
US	52283845	R1E2R7Y4FZG9EN	0553109731	177332054	And Justice There Is None	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Dependably Fine	I think it's clear that you can count on Crombie to come through with a fine, serviceable and well-crafted mystery. She is not going to win the Nobel for Literature since mysteries are only appreciated by those who &quot;get it&quot;, but Crombie is a first-rate practicioner of good mysteries.	2003-05-29
US	52283845	R2W8F4CUFMYVEH	0679727914	325130492	In My Father's House	Books	1	0	8	N	Y	Inadequate and Inexplicable Characters	This is a bad book. The plot is melodramatic and implausible. The characters are one-dimensional and implausible -- in fact, down right unbelievable. The dialogue is stiff, moralistic, hyperbolic and implausible. <br />It reminds me of the picaresque novels of Spain -- without the humor . The main character rushes from conversation to conversation -- many without forwarding the story one whit. There is no reason for the conversations except to fill paper.<br />To be honest, I cannot think of one redeeming feature of this book.	2003-05-29
US	52283845	R3D5JP5HRJIGW0	0553579274	687453166	A Finer End (Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James Novel)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	You can depend on Crombie	You can depend on Crombie for consistently excellent -- high quality, well-crafted and fair mysteries.	2003-05-29
US	52283845	R2MRX2BMDF6YC	0679727914	325130492	In My Father's House	Books	1	2	8	N	Y	Inadequate and Inexplicable Characters	This is a bad book. The plot is melodramatic and implausible. The characters are one-dimensional and implausible -- in fact, down right unbelievable. The dialogue is stiff, moralistic, hyperbolic and implausible. <br />It reminds me of the picaresque novels of Spain -- without the humor . The main character rushes from conversation to conversation -- many without forwarding the story one whit. There is no reason for the conversations except to fill paper.<br />To be honest, I cannot think of one redeeming feature of this book.	2003-05-29
US	52283845	R2YU3R8XZBXDKQ	0465030491	190590158	Why Orwell Matters	Books	3	18	61	N	N	Great Subject by the Wrong Author	George Orwell is a worthy topic. This is an era that begs for reminders of his ethics and values. However, it's also typical of this era of decadent and deceitful journalism that the book on Why Orwell Matters is written by Christopher Hitchens, a purported journalist whose McCarthyite abuse of slander and biased and misleading language to malign his opponents would be soundly condemned by Orwell. Of course, Hitchens may be indulging in the same error that lead Orwell to spy on and inform on his friends and colleagues -- turning them in to military intelligence. That is the one and only place where Hitchens and Orwell overlap in values, ethics and behavior. Of course, Orwell recanted and regretted his sins -- but Hitchens revels in them.<br />That's the problem with this book. It's impossible to separate what is a relatively well-written book from the knowledge that the author is a liar, a propagandist and a practicioner of the worst sort of commentary -- calling it journalism is ignoring its utter lack of truth and balance.	2003-05-29
US	52283845	R2RKS2I4BQF1DK	006000438X	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Small Story - Fine Book	The Death of Vishnu is a fine book. It tells the stories of the many inhabitants of an apartment building over the course of the few days their odd job man, Vishnu, slips into a coma and dies. <br />There are many inter-familial conflicts that bring humor and levity to the story -- though that humor comes from our privileged position where the theft of a couple spoons of ghee in not a big deal, so we are amused by the pettiness of the squabbling. In the face of scarcity, however, these matters are not petty. It's humorous that a woman hauls out a long treasured imported gourmet food item to impress her friends -- and it turns out to be Kraft processed cheese. But for her, it was an unattainable, one-of-a-kind item of immense worth.  <br />The book falls apart by introducing several threads of story and failing to weave them together. There are several stories introduced and dropped, never caught back up and woven into the fabric of the novel. This is frustrating because some of those threads appealed more to me than the ones we ended up following. <br />If you like challenging yourself with many novels about other countries in general, India in particular, then this is a fine book. and you should read it -- and enjoy it.  If, however, you are unlikely to read more than 1 or 2 novels by Indian writers -- then skip this and go to the significantly better A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry or A Suitable Boy by Vikram Seth.	2002-04-26
US	52283845	R1LZEQQOBWJZ3D	0440224071	64914490	Los Alamos	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Transcends Genre Fiction	I thoroughly enjoyed Los Alamos, reading it into the wee hours. What's more, it's a mystery I can recommend to non-mystery readers because it so thoroughly rejects cliche and convention -- even its spies are unique.<br />Michael Connolly is assigned to Los Alamos to investigate the murder of Karl Bruner,one of the site's security personnel. He could, and is encouraged to, take the easy route and call it case closed when local cops \\"persuade\\" someone to confess, but he keeps digging until he roots out the truth - though, to be completely accurate, he never <i>detects</i> the truth. He uncovers the spy by accident -- however, his detecting gives him the information needed to form the correct conclusion when he stumbles on critical information. <br />The mystery is fair -- so fair that you share Connolly's frustration that there are no clues to the spy's collaborators. The entirety of the story, however, transcends mystery novels. There is an excellent romance sub-plot with a more complicated and original woman than you usually encounter in mystery/espionage stories. There is also the wonderfully executed historical backdrop complete with the small details of life that make for a true sense of place. Even minor characters have depths that surprise, such as Mrs. Weber's moments of insight that save her from being a stereotypical gossipy hen.  I think the character of the spy is the most intriguing and wonderfully drawn in the book. There is a complexity and subtlety to this character that is rarely seen. In fact, that is where the book really shines, in subtlely facing the moral question of what they were doing there, what gave them permission to seek such destructive power, Kanon never preaches, but he makes you think.	2002-04-19
US	52283845	RDAEPXDVZ6EJ6	0440225345	648790483	The Prodigal Spy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Predictable Resolution  Wastes Great Potential	The Prodigal Spy begins well with the McCarthyesque trial of Walter Kotlar experienced through the eyes of his son, Nick. Nick's certainty in his father's innnocence he discovers his father has one shirt the size the star witness claims to have sold him and rushes to get rid of the \\"evidence.\\"  Thinking he has fixed the problem, he is devastated when Walter flees after the suicide (murder?) of the key witness against him to turn up much later as a defector in the Soviet Union. Nick may be a bit precocious, but his actions seem plausibly childlike and realistic in his naive belief that getting rid of the shirt got rid of the problem. There is tremendous emotional power in this section of the book and it draws the reader in with its promise.<br />Years pass and and the adult Nick is asked by his father to help him come home by finding the important, and still active spy, who orchestrated Walter's defection in order to protect himself from discovery.  This sets up what should be a satisfying and intriguing mystery, except the clues are too obvious and Nick to obtuse to see them.<br />The older Nick isn't as clever as the young Nick or surely he would have solved the mystery of who was the important spy as soon as he discovered his father's lighter was found at the scene of the suicide - now surely a murder. His equally obtuse inability to understand the witness's letter and discover who was the prime mover in this family tragedy was just as frustrating to this reader who wanted to shake him and tell him to just stop and think for one minute.<br />Over all, this is a fine story. It's well-written. The dialogue is credible and it's emotionally satisfying. However, as a mystery it lacks subtlety.	2002-04-16
US	52283845	R2EDKY8IRQKKRB	0374105014	588283644	An Obedient Father	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Good Writer Creates Horrible Book	This book is hard to review. If you consider the quality of the writing, it is a well-done book. It is rich in those little details that give a setting authenticity. The on-again, off-again water and electricity that are integral to daily life, the daily humiliations and aggravations of living in overcrowded, impoverished conditions -- these details create a strong sense of place and reality.<br />Unfortunately all that skill is wasted on a tawdry story of private and public corruption. The author is trying to demonstrate that public corruption leads to private corruption -- the sins of the office brought home to the family. However, the story doesn't bear that out. As Ram becomes more publically corrupt, he is more tormented by his private corruption -- the reverse of the author's intended theme.<br />The crime at the heart of this book is incest. The blurbs and reviews on the cover dance around that, bundling his petty corruption as a bag man for a bureaucrat with his crime against his youngest daughter by labeling both corruption. Well, yes they are, but if a book is about incest, reviewers should say so.<br />What is so disturbing about this book is not the incest itself, but how the author writes about it. It's prurient in its detail, nauseatingly so. Others have written frankly and in detail about incest without seeming to enjoy it so much. There are some fine books that deal with this subject --- but never once in reading them do you get the sense that the author is exploring in print what he dare not do in life. In An Obedient Father, that is the sense the author conveys -- a fascination and attraction to this crime that is disturbing and corrupt.<br />Worse, the author portrays the victim of the crime, the hapless daughter, as more unsympathetic and disturbed than her father. She becomes the villain of the piece, abusing her daughter psychologically out an obsessive need to protect her from her grandfather.<br />Yes, this book is about corruption - public and private. Even more, the book itself, is corrupt at heart in its prurient fascination and empathy with pedophilia.lic and private. Even more, the book itself, is corrupt at heart in its prurient fascination and empathy with pedophilia.	2002-04-08
US	52283845	R1XXF24OLN0XJA	0375758267	45103098	Kingdom of Shadows	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rich details make this a winner	This book is rich with detail, not just of sight and sound, but of the richness of life: music, books, conversation and politics. All this detail is seamlessly and unobtrusively added, bringing this historical espionage into a three-dimensional liveliness that makes it a standout novel. <br />Morath is not your usual spy. In fact, he's not officially a spy. He's just doing a few favors and interestingly and realistically, not privy to the details -- so that the favors he performs aren't always exactly on point -- as far as what he thinks their purpose might be. This is the story of a man moving from casual engagement in a cause to making a decision to become an active player. It's not your typical, solve one dilemma and win the day story. It's about one man actually commiting himself -- and to what, that's for another book another day, or for you to decide.	2002-03-28
US	52283845	R2A4ER7N6XGSF5	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rashoman comes to 17th Century England	Fabulous mystery, a Rashoman story of a murder, trial and execution from four viewpoints...all with information to add to complete the picture of events that would not be recognized by any one of them alone. <br />Fingerpost is a great book. Rich in historical detail, the time and place of the story is as essential to the story's development as its characters. It's 1663 and much of the story centers on medical practice and knowledge -- and the book is filled with grizzly, sometimes nauseating medical detail. At the heart of the story is a fascinating woman who remains a mystery to all the narrators and the reader -- a woman whose mystery is augmented by the false perceptions each narrator has of her. I enjoyed every bit of this story with the exception of the mystical ending -- an aberration in an otherwise wonderful narrative -- and an aberration that can be discounted as historically likely due to the reliance on the supernatural during that time. <br />This is a smart book, a mystery of ideas and intellect as well as murder and mayhem. It's startlingly complete in its excellence: well-plotted, well-reasearched, well-written, well-disciplined. It's even more startling when compared to Pears other works who cannot claim even one of those virtues.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R27FXSEO308NGR	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Shallow, Glib, but entertaining	Well, after reading this, I will never order fish on Mondays. Actually, I picked up a few useful tips that I will be grateful for. I expecially appreciate the tips on avoiding food poisoning in restaurants, having experienced it once, I want to avoid it at all costs. <br />On the other hand, the book is full of glib machismo posturing, at times relentlessly shallow. Since shallow has its place and it was entertaining, I rated it a respectable C.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2U2LKWXNGY07W	0375753052	221254919	Topper (Modern Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Madcap haunting	I loved this book the first time I read it. This time it was less charming, though still fun. It all begins when Cosmo Topper, the epitome of Humdrum Life buys a car -- and discovers too late that it is haunted. Yes, haunted, and by outrageously adventuresome ghosts as well. Ghosts that drag poor Cosmo from one scrape to another and convert his Humdrum to Mayhem.  Great Fun!	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R30EN888Z1M21X	0440224608	501876974	Siberian Light	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Uneven, but worthy	This should have been great. It had a new conspiracy - the theft and enslavement of US prisoners shipped to Siberia to work on a pipeline. The slaughter of Siberian tigers by poachers and the tremendously exotic setting of Siberia. Instead, it was okay. The detective was complex and a well developed character, but the author tried too hard to hammer home her point about the endangered Siberian tiger, even falsifying her facts as reported by the zoologist. I agree with her position and believe that the truth is bad enough and exaggeration merely undercuts her position.<br />Three years ago, Gregori Nowek--a geologist whose criticisms of Soviet oil-drilling got him banished to frozen Irkutsk--was elected mayor of his new town with the slogan ``Can I Do Any Worse?'' How can you resist this sort of hero?<br />His wife is dead, his daughter a typical teenage and he's making do in the incredibly corrupt new Russia when he's assigned to solve a murder, probably because it's assumed he will fail. His inquiries lead to an American-Russian business venture that no one wants disturbed -- so his continued search for truth is discouraged. But he's in love!!!  So of course, he becomes SuperDetective and saves the day for his daughter, the Siberian tigers and his one true love!!!  <br />At times it's quite funny and reasonably enjoyable, but the heavyhanded political message coupled with the improbable success of our hero put this high on the top of the As If! list.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R1PEO70OWIY3K0	0151008469	927332338	The Company of Strangers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Literary Espionage	At last there is an espionage writer to rival LeCarre, Greene and Maugham. Smith, like the trinity of fine writers he rivals, does not rely solely on plot to win his readers. He creates remarkable, unforgettable characters who draw the reader into their lives. <br />Anne/Andrea and Karl Voss are truly original characters who don't always behave as expected and who think for themselves. This increases the suspense in the story because the reader will not unfailingly predict their every move. <br />The plot is complex and tightly structured; the narrative covering three eras in espionage: WW2, the late Cold War during the beginning of detente and after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Anne and Karl come together during these three eras, forging a lifelong impossible love affair as they carry out their spycraft. There is genius in the plotting. <br />Above all, there is genius in the prose. Wilson uses new and arresting metaphors that will give the reader pause to appreciate their finely-tuned perfection. Unlike, for example E. Annie Proulx who is known for original metaphors, Wilson's are not only original, they are apt. In one example, he describes a character covering his face with his hands and wiping down his face, crumpling his tirednes like paper and tossing it to the floor. If you read that, you not only see it visually, you will recall doing the same motion. He makes you see things through a new lens. The book is filled with this kind of original writing -- making it one to reread just for the pleasure of his writing craft.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R3QG0XA86JFOCA	1559212322	90323773	Mapp and Lucia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best of the series	This is the highlight of the series, pitting Lucia against her less able, but equally ruthless counterpart, Elizabeth Mapp  - two ladies who both consider themselves social queens of the village of Tilling. The ensuing war includes Fete's garden parties dinner parties and climaxes with the crafty Miss Mapp attempting to steal the recipe for Lobster ala Reisholme and being caught by Lucia, they are then caught in a flood and whisked out to sea on a kitchen table. Oh my!	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2R7FCKQNK8ANG	0553579525	121142412	The Moor (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a superbly rich read that would please Doyle himself	Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes return to the moors of the Hound of the Baskervilles, investigating another haunting hound. This one may be the death of Holmes. A great story with tremendous sense of place. It got me cruising the web looking at pictures of the sites described in the book. Dare I say I like this series better than Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's?<br />It's great to see Holmes matched up with a woman who is his equal in brains, curiosity and ambition. Her independence delights. I have always been disappointed that Conan Doyle deprived Holmes of the incomparable Irene Adler and though Mary Russell is not quite Irene, she is quite something<br />It's back to the Hounds of the Baskervilles for this case, but in this case, the relationship between Holmes and Mary Russell overwhlems the mystery. It's okay this time, but just this once.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R27Z6SYMJHVHSC	0805064222	101663882	The Good German: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Moral Ambiguity	This ironically titled novel will disappoint those suspense readers attracted to Ludlum and the like. This is not a hold-your-breath suspense novel; it's an exploration of character, motivation and history. The author, through the reporter Jake Geismar, explores how Germans came to do the things they did during the war.  Not content with that, he also looks at American complicity before and after the war -- particularly in protecting Nazi scientists in order to advance our atomic research for our post-war confrontations with Russia.   <br />Ostensibly, The Good German is a murder mystery. Jake finds a murdered American soldier and when the official version doesn't fit the facts, he decides to solve the murder. Someone reading merely for the mystery will be frustrated by the twists and turns and meandering path to an anti-climactic solution. However, the anti-climax of the solution is very much to the point - Geismar realizes that all are tainted by the war. There is no outrage for the murder - only his own willingness to use his knowledge for his own purposes -- the solution to the mystery an exemplar of what he has learned about our own complicity in protecting Nazis, about the Germans he has known in the past participating in the war and the Holocaust and the entire moral morass that war inevitably becomes. <br />Only two characters survive untainted by compromise and corruption  - an American Jew who is gathering war crimes evidence for the Army and the father of one of the Nazi scientists.  Everyone else, from his lover, his colleagues, the Russians, the Americans and the Germans he had known before the war and most of all, Jake, himself are tainted.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R3SJQ4RT08FMJ1	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	well-oil, ten-gear narrative	Hieronymous Bosch, exiled to Hollywood Division for giving a superior a well-deserved smack in the nose, is on the trail of a new designer drug ``black ice.'' He's certain that it's a key to a suicide (NOT! in Bosch's opinion) of a Narc. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Harry's pencil-pushing no-neck boss assigns Harry a bunch of open cases worked by a dipsomaniac detective named Lou Porter who could not detect his way out of a laundry chute. Harry is supposed to solve them all in the next week, cleaning up the murder file to neat and tidy proportions by New YEars.<br />Improbably, one of the Porter cases ties into the Narc suicide. This suspicion is confirmed by the murder of Lou Porter, the dipsomaniac. So Harry heads off to Mexico where all the clues are pointing. There things really become improbable (if they weren't alreaday), but Connelly makes it easy to suspend disbelief.  There are also sorts of goings-on and derring-do including an eyebrow raising scene with el Gran Torero, Harry Bosch. If you are still taking this story seriously by now, you clearly need a humor infusion. <br />Unfortunately, despite it's inventive prankery, the story ends with a thud -- as a wholly predictable \\"surprise\\" ending plays out. Folks who are surprised haven't been paying attention. <br />Still, I loved this book, but only by looking at it as a great piece of humor.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R38GK2S4AIR4R9	1559212772	728457051	Lucia in London	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I like Lucia in the country	I prefer Lucia in the country, though it is fun to see her get her comeuppance so regularly. Using her best social-climbing instincts and refusing to be embarrassed, Lucia sets out to conquer London and mingle with the beau monde. Soon a secret group of &quot;Luciaphiles&quot; springs up; the social climbers who make up its rank never tire of watching her get into and out of all kinds of trouble.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R1ZZ4HWNY2BHOB	0553571672	765490328	Night Frost	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Relentless and compassionate	Frost is a new series character for me and I will enjoy following him in this series. He is brash, rude, profane, obscene, callous, rough-edged, filthy minded and has poor personal hygiene. Nonetheless, he is also relentless and compassionate. He gets his bad guy and also shares the credit. <br />Most of the police have the flu and -- of course that's when a whole series of crimes take place, piling up on the exhausted Jack Frost. (Would someone's parents really do that to a child?) meanwhile, his vicious and incompetent superior is looking over his shoulder trying to find an excuse to scrape the Frost out of the force.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2OMAF881UAQOY	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Half a school of red herrings	Harry Bosch is back from an \\"involuntary stress leave,\\" and his first case is clearly a mob hit. The trail seeems to a case-closed sure as shooting guilty party -- until it turns out he's an FBI mole with an iron alibi. The list of who Connelly's up agains tin this story goes from the real killers to the FBI to Internal Affairs to a long lost love.  This is one of his toughtest cases, but Bosch always pulls through.<br />Connelly's books seem a lot like Chander in their noir exploration of corruption and sordid seamy scenarios, but Bosch is less cynical and less \\"sexy\\" than Marlowe.  Still, the series is entertaining and satisfying.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	ROD72DDXR2KI5	0375727361	810767101	White Jazz	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Ellroy does better elsewhere	Disappointing considering it's an Ellroy. If it were written by someone else, it would be a great book, but I hold him to a higher standard since I know he's capable of it.<br />Like all of his books the plot is an intricate web of corruption and nefariousness whipped up to the nth degree of complication.  The \\"hero\\" is the usual motley mix of petty corruption and feeble instincts for good. The prose is standard Leonardese, chopped up, manic sentience fragments that should fail utterly but come together in a weird poetry of immediacy and power.  Still, despite all that, this book disappoints utterly and completely.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R189RTB4R8ABAZ	0440225310	430978167	No Good Deed (Sonora Blair Mysteries)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Fair - nothing special	A fair mystery, nothing special. Sonora Blair, tough-but-vulnerable Cincinnati police detective, knows the father of 15-year-old Joellen Chauncey is involved somehow in his daughter's mysterious disappearance. But Sonora's boss, partner, and colleagues think she's crazy. Dixon Chauncey is a devoted single father of three, and a mild, self-effacing milquetoast who's much too \\"squishy\\" to be a suspect. Sonora doesn't buy the official line--that Joellen got caught between two feuding scam artists involved in a thoroughbred swindle--not even when the girl's body turns up, along with an empty, blood-spattered horse trailer. Sonora won't ignore what her gut tells her. And when Joellen's diaries open up a whole new line of investigation tied into a missing children's network, she renews her efforts to find the crack in Dixon's faade. The plot is full of seductive McGuffins: the owner of a riding school who lands in the hospital minus a finger; a mysterious and sexy stranger hanging around the barn. The narrative meanders a bit, taking in Sonora's failings as a single mother to her own kids, her impulsive decision to buy a horse, and her overactive libido (which fastens itself on three different men in a little over 300 pages).	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R1JAEU9H821NOO	0684850265	872057611	The Fall Of A Sparrow	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Making sense out of senseless violence	The Sixteen Pleasures was wonderful and that made this book even more disappointing. A man is haunted by his daughter's murder - a terrorist bombing of an Italian railway station that killed her with many others during a Christmas vacation. The perpetrators are finally brought to trial and he goes to see justice (?) done. Great potential story that drowns in morose self-pity.<br />The Fall of a Sparrow opens in Italy, under siege by terror. A Midwestern family is one if terror's victims, their daughter slaughtered in an rail station bombing.  His life at home falling apart, her father, Woody, goes to Italy to witness the the trial of his daughter's killers --- which doesn't quite go the way he expected. <br />Woody is looking for the sense behind the senseless -- not just his daughter's murder but also the collapse of his marriage. He hopes to find answers in Italy, but only finds more uncertainty. This book had great potential and Hellenga proved with The Sixteen Pleasures that he has the art, but this time it was Hellenga, not the reader who was seduced by his free-ranging imagination.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R24SHRMCRCX6HS	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of Connelly's best	Crime reporter Jack McEvoy's brother Sean commits suicide, depressed over a unsolved murder. There's a suicide note - a note drawn from an Edgar Allen Poe poem. The case is closed. But Jack knows Sean wouldn't kill himself -- he knows it the way family knows those sort of things, so he launches his own investigation, uncovering a series of police suicides with Poe-inspired suicide notes. Aha! Sean is not a suicide, but the most recent in a series of serial killer victims. This research puts him on the trail and brings him into the FBI search for the Poet.<br />So begins a great mystery and a great new undertaking by Connelly. I enjoy his Bosch mysteries, but am always pleased to see authors try new approaches since sticking to one character forever can turn a good series into a self-parody.  It's encouraging that Jack is not Harry with a safari jacket and notebook, but a newly imagined and well-crafted new person. In some ways, he's a little more intuitive than Harry, more depressed and not quite as quick on the uptake. However, he is also more cynical and wry.<br />This could be the start of a good new series. There are some been-there, done-that elements to the story, but it's well constructed and imaginative.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R3S49XAVT2W47E	055357759X	88261938	A Test of Wills (Inspector Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Imaginative, original, outstanding	Test of Wills is about Ian Rutledge, a Scotland Yard inspector and a survivor of World War I shell shock. The war has destroyed his engagement to the weak Jean who is unable to deal with this returning soldier and dumps him while he is still recovering. Worse yet, he is haunted by the soldier whom he ordered shot for desertion, a Scot named Hamish, who reminds Rutledge often of his widowed bride left alone...thanks to Rutledge. <br />Rutledge cannot shut out Hamish' voice but manages to continue his work as a sleuth. And he is quite imaginative in untangling the complex threads of deceit and murder when he takes on tracking down who killed Colonel Charles Harris - a local leading light of whom everyone has nothing but good to say. <br />As Rutledge pokes about, carrying on conversations with folks, it's his uncanny insight into human nature that leads him toward the solution -- an insight augmented by his tortuous relationship with his own personal ghost.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2AQRUVEE0B0CE	1559212527	950423252	Queen Lucia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pure Pleasure	Lucia is wonderful - a reread of a great series of humorous looks at British country life.<br />Queen Lucia, the first in the series, introduces us to Mrs. Lucas, Lucia to her friends. Of course, the novels friendships are accompanied by bushels of backbiting, gallons of gossip and mountains of malice -- all with a lighthearted, humorous and loving touch. Does that sound unlikely?  Just try one of these series and see how successfully Benson plies his wit.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R32FQ78KXQI5I	0380726297	516722500	Sacred	Books	5	0	0	N	N	devilishly twisted	Another Kenzie and Gennaro mystery - though slightly less satisfying that what I expect from Lehane. I continue to like the relationship between Kenzie and Gennaro - a relationship that avoids the sterotypical male-female detective team scenarios. Lehane is outstanding at managing that relationship and developing these characters into remarkable people. I particularly like their dialogue. <br />What distresses me is that it seems each book in this series drags us deeper into the mire of human perversity and evil. There is a fascination for evil in Lehane's writing that sidles up to the prurient. This is not true of Kenzie and Gennaro's reactions which exemplify horror, disdain, sorrow and pain. It's in the narrative explicating the next new horror that this seems so troublesome. <br />Don't get me wrong. Clearly if I weren't fascinated by this sort of thing, I wouldn't be reading books by Lehane. On the other hand, writing about such evils is risky. In the hands of  a bad writer like Philip Margolin, this fascination with evil borders on pornographic exploitation where the reader senses that the author is more excited than merely fascinated by the brutalization of human beings. Lehane does not cross that line, but with each book he steps closer to the line.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2TE57SB5K0Z27	0375702024	537031843	The Man Who Ate Everything	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Great Fun - Gastronomic Gusto	This book is hysterically funny and informative at the same time. The chapter on Salad the Silent Killer cracked me up. I will read this one again.  Whole sections had to be read aloud, just because they were so funny. <br />When Jeffrey Steingarten was made food critic of Vogue in 1989, he began by systematically learning to like all the food he had previously avoided. From clams to Greek food to Indian desserts with the consistency of face cream, Steingarten undertook an extraordinary program of self-inflicted behavior modification to prepare himself for his new career. He describes the experience in this collection's first piece, before setting out on a series of culinary adventures that take him around the world.<br />It's clear that Vogue gave Steingarten carte blanche to write on whatever subjects tickled his taste buds, and the result is a frequently hilarious collection of essays that emphasize good eating over an obsession with health. &quot;Salad, the Silent Killer&quot; is a catalog of the toxins lurking in every bowl of raw vegetables, while &quot;Fries&quot; follows a heroic attempt to create the perfect French fry--cooked in horse fat. <br />Whether baking sourdough bread in his Manhattan loft or spraying miso soup across a Kyoto restaurant, Steingarten is an ideal guide to the wilder reaches of gastronomy, a cross between M.F.K. Fisher and H.L. Mencken.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R3ITST8P7MNHYF	0553571699	349407151	A Touch of Frost	Books	3	1	15	N	N	A caricature of the series	Another frost mystery. Not so well done. This series may develop into a caricature of itself if the author is not careful about exaggerating the faults  and pettiness of the commanding officers. Frost is investigating a local junkie's death, unpopular Detective Inspector Jack Frost watches things go from bad to worse as he stalks a runaway teenager, a burglar, a hit-and-run driver, and a tabloid criminal known as the Hooded Terror.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R3SZDMNPV2F76I	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of those books you finish and say WOW	This is an original and fascinating book.  The writing is outstanding and the book explores important themes: greed, evil, corruption, justice and man's inhumanity to man. <br />When Wm. Kemp loses money in his cotton shipping, he decides to go for the big money and enter the slave trade. He sends his nephew, Matthew, along as ship's doctor. Disgusted by the horror on ship, he leads a revolt and an attempt by the seaman and slaves to form a utopia -- but his idealism is disappointed by the realization that suffering doesn't teach compassion, so much as it teaches how to inflict suffering on others. <br />This is a marvelous exploration of greed-the sacred hunger- and how it affects people and society.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2VNXS8JYE5HIK	0061013617	71314820	No Human Involved	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Munch is great, but the others are horrible	Serannelle's mystery has an interesting main character at least, a homeless woman, a desperate junkie, who is, of course, the main suspect. Other than that bit of originality, this is nothing but trite tripe. <br />As far as the Venice PD is concerned, the murder of lowlife dealer ``Flower George'' Mancini is a clear case of AVA, NHI- -``a****** versus a******, no human involved.'' So it's no big deal when Mancini's daughter Munch, the chief suspect in his killing, gives Sgt. Mace St. John the slip and disappears into the San Fernando Valley. But when the gun that shot Mancini  is linked to a grisly series of dismemberments, Mace wishes he'd paid closer attention to Munch's moves  while he had the chance. Even though he squeezes some personal details of her horrible life (her father got her hooked and repeatedly sold her for drugs) out of her attractive probation officer, he has no way of tracing her to Happy Jack's Auto Repair, where she's working as a lippy mechanic and assiduously building the new paper trail that'll bury her old identity for  good. While Mace is wrestling with his own father's problems, he has no compassion or understanding for others. <br />I would be interested in seeing another story with Munch, but Mace St. John can take a hike.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2DNWOGLZPSGOA	0312200269	178515130	The Story of My Disappearance: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Watkins always pleases	What happens to spies whose country seizes to exist? This happened to those Stasi spies who were abandoned in America and elsewhere at the end of the Cold War. Paul Wederkin is just such as spy. The story tells how he came to be there, through his Afghani war experience, his friendship and the death of his friend. However, the real surprise is in the beginning when his dead fried walks into a Rhode Island bar and murders someone in front of him. <br />This story packs just a little too much action into too small a space for me. Its pace is a bit frenetic. However, the depth of character and prose lyricism remains strong as in all Watkins' books.<br />To give you an idea, before the story even opens, our hero, the East German Paul Wedekind has been a promising engineering student who has been recruited (coerced) by the secret police to spy on his friend, has served in Afghanistan, has been taken prisoner by the Afghans and has at last come to America as a spy for the Russians. Whew!  And before dinner, too!. <br />But that's only the intro: the real story is about his work in America. The Cold War is over and he hopes he has been forgotten but that's overly optimistic. The adventure is grand and utterly amazing, but that's okay, because you love the story anyway. <br />His crisp and disciplined prose continues to delight me and I predict the day will come when folks quit comparing him to Hemingway and begin compariing Hemingway to him.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2I0UMI4X7NJZM	0395925010	779462827	The Jump-Off Creek	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Not the Romantic West	A woman homesteads by herself in eastern Oregon. There are the standard dangers, problems, terrors and tragedies. This is saved from being trite by the stoic and undaunted character of the woman. Gloss also avoids the usual romantic happily-ever-after with the man next door.<br />Gloss has used journals and diaries of women in the West in hopes to draw out some of the nontraditional women's roles in the West, \\"I hope their strong, honest voices can be heard in this book.\\" Showing that gender roles weren't fixed as many choose to believe, we see Lydia doing hard, manual labor, and Tim cooking and doing the wash. Lydia, the heroine of the book, abandons typical women's roles in the very beginning when she picks up and moves West alone to start a new life. \\"I'd rather have my own house, sorry as it is, than the wedding ring of a man who couldn't be roused from sleeping when his own child was slipping out of me unborn.\\" <br />Gloss attempts to break down the Western stereotypes for men. Tim and Blue are like real men we could meet if we were on the frontier, not larger than life heroes that commonly dominate Western myths. Unlike heroes admired for their independence, Tim and Blue are dependant on others and each other on the frontier . They become almost like children in their dependence on others, \\"He turned and looked at her, ducking his chin.\\" Things don't come easily for them and they struggle like any human being would have, \\"Tim put the gun down in the mud and went, shaking, across the bloody wallow on his knees.\\" Even being a cowboy is rejected in this book, \\"He said he'd seen years when a good cowboy couldn't by himself a job, but a good cook could pretty much always find work.\\" <br />Besides narrations from characters, Gloss utilizes Lydia's journal entries to make the story more real, personal, and familiar. This helps us recognize and remember Lydia's real identity, while the central narration builds the events of her daily life in a flowing form. Dreams ofeasy success are shot down in The Jump Off Creek. Giving a truer picture of the West, The Jump Off Creek is not a romanticized myth of adventure and easy success. Gloss establishes a view that shows the desperation of lives in a West where there is nothing new and glorious to see and experience every day. We see the miserable and wretched hard lives that one might have encountered. Fantasies of ease and comfort in the West are gone in this novel. It isn't a fairy tale like the traditional Western, where the good guy always wins, and the hero can handle any problem successfully. This book doesn't contain a lot of action, but instead it brings out the monotonous daily life of establishing a new home in the West and centers on the domestic side of the West. Gloss tells us of the every day grind and challenges of lives where sometimes people fail and hours of hard work are only the beginning of more hours of hard work.	2002-03-24
US	52283845	R2A2A3M7RMTFHV	0349100667	476965048	Truth About Lorin Jones (Abacus Books)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The hazards of biography	The Truth About Lorin Jones is a happy farce about Poor Polly's attempt to write a biography about her hero, Lorin Jones, with whom she has formed a metaphysical connection. She's all prepared to write the definitive story of female artistic genius stifled, exploited and doomed by the male chauvinism of the art world. <br />Of course, to write this, Polly has to interview these MEN who played these shamefully destructive roles in Lorin's life. This requires something called tact -- since once an interviewer makes clear the intent is to portray the interviewed as [bad]Incarnate or at least MCP Extraordinaire, the interview might come to an early end. There are some hysterical interviews in this book. <br />What's more interesting, however, is the exploration of what biography is. Polly faces the true test of all biographers -- should she write the story to fit her thesis - selectively deleting unconvenient facts - or should she revise her thesis to fit those unconvenient facts and what about the contradictory facts?  Who is telling the truth, everyone or no one?  It's a conundrum and Lurie's solution in it's creativity, is more honest than many biographers choose. Just think of the underwhelming attention McCullough recently paid to John Adams signing of the Alien and Sedition Acts and you will find a fabulously successful biographer who goes for the first option. <br />To top it all off, Polly has personal problems of her own. She's divorced, thinking about discovering she's a lesbian or at least trying to be a lesbian (considering the men in her life at the moment, that seems the easiest path to romance) and wondering if her son is being seduced by her ex-husband's Colorado Rocky Mountain High. <br />Through it all, Plucky Polly perseveres -- with wit and mayhem in equal measure. This is a fun book -- with some serious questions about writing and truth - and I recommend it highly.	2002-03-11
US	52283845	R2NKCVDZ6D6L1X	0060932619	519675334	Mrs. Chippy's Last Expedition: The Remarkable Journal of Shackleton's Polar-Bound Cat	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Endearing, but bring Kleenex	Let me first say that this book was given to me as a marvelously thoughtful gift after I put my cat to sleep. The giver, knowing how much I like reading about Scott, Franklin and Shackleton, discovered this marvelous little book about a cat on Shackleton's famous South expedition.  It was amazingly thoughtful, except the giver had no idea what happened on the South Expedition. <br />Now, I must confess to dunderheadedness in reading this book the minute I received it. I knew what happened. Still, thanks to Alexander's marvelous writing I so fell in love with the  indomitable spirit of Mrs. Chippy that I fully expected Alexander would fudge the story a bit and take Mrs. Chippy along. Mrs. Chippy meets her fate with grace and dignity -- as peacefully as my beloved cat. It's not horrible, not maudlin, but very emotional. <br />This is definitely a better book to give to an expedition enthusiast and cat lover whose cat is still living. Even then, the reader is bound to shed a tear or two. The reader who has just put their beloved cat to sleep is going to cry her heart out.	2002-03-11
US	52283845	R14DD2LAA26TFM	0060932619	519675334	Mrs. Chippy's Last Expedition: The Remarkable Journal of Shackleton's Polar-Bound Cat	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Endearing, but bring Kleenex	Let me first say that this book was given to me as a marvelously thoughtful gift after I put my cat to sleep. The giver, knowing how much I like reading about Scott, Franklin and Shackleton, discovered this marvelous little book about a cat on Shackleton's famous South expedition.  It was amazingly thoughtful. <br />HOWEVER, this is a better book to give to an expedition enthusiast and cat lover whose cat is still living. Even then, the reader is bound to cry. The reader who has just put their beloved cat to sleep is going to cry her heart out.	2002-03-11
US	52283845	RNXG91YC5D0AO	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	2	11	29	N	N	Biographers Should keep their distance	I usually like McCullough's work, but am disappointed in this one. McCullough seems to have become infatuated with Adams, therefore he highlights his good points (admittedly there are many) and so minimizes his errors that the result is historical distortion and misrepresentation. <br />McCullough completely fails his job as biographer in minimizing the dangerous Alien and Sedition Acts. Adams signed this anti-democratic tyrannical bills and must be held accountable. McCullough sloughs them off as though they are piffle. Clearly, he is not thinking as clearly as he usually does.	2001-07-24
US	52283845	RL6DL746BD7DC	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	2	79	109	N	N	Like candy, sweet without substance.	Botany of Desire is to good evolutionary biology and natural history writing what Curious George is to Gorillas in the Mist.<br />The stars Michael Pollan gets are for his lyrical writing, for making me think a little more deeply about a few plants for a couple of hours. He gets no stars for the natural history or for substance. This was an essentially substanceless book. A few funny anecdotes strung together without interior logic or any constancy of theme.<br />What's his main thesis? He wants us to consider that plants evolved in order to attract our participation in their propogation. Well, that's pretty ho-hum since it's standard evolutionary theory. Of course, we as humans have a greater effect than the bees do, but the selfish plant gene is operating under the same restraints whether its seeking a human or an apian propogator.  So, he has no truly novel concept to deliver. Nor is it novel to suggest that plants shaped human evolution. This reciprocity of effect is old news.<br />Good natural history doesn't have to deliver something new. Many successful natural history books take solid, long-known ideas and put them across to the public in an effective, way. However, Pollan doesn't do that either. In fact, he merely collects a few observations, speculations and his own personal circumperambulations of, about and around a plant and tosses them into the hopper. His chapter on marijuana was so incoherant I began to think it was deliberate - an exemplar of marijuana's effect.<br />This bricolage of a book is pretty to listen to, but lacking much of value to say. A bon bon, a froth and frosting, lacking any substance. In other words, Pollan doesn't have much to say, but he does say it rather well.	2001-07-24
US	52283845	R1Q76RIYUOJ30E	0312206127	697502631	Water Touching Stone (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Even better than The Skull Mantra	After reading The Skull Mantra by Eliot Pattison, I hoped he would write another quickly. Well, it took him a while, but it was worth the wait. In Water Touching Stone he returns to Tibet and Shan, his intrepid detective who is now out of the gulag, though undocumented and at risk of arrest outside the county where he was freed by the grateful Chief Prosecutor in The Skull Mantra.<br />In Water Touching Stone, Pattison takes Shan not only out of the gulag, but out of Tibet into Xianjiang, the westernmost province of China, a territory filled with ethnic minorities who the government is assiduously working to assimilate. Reflecting the &quot;new market economy&quot; reforms that are much touted in the West as excuses to trade with China, government oppression is replaced by corporate oppression, as the corporate licensed in this province gives khazachs shares in exchange for their herds and reassigns them to work units that effectively disperse clans, completely the eradication of old cultures under the benign cover of corporate privatization.  The struggle of the people to retain their ethnic heritage is the background to this fascinating mystery.<br />A teacher of minority orphans is murdered and her students are being picked off one by one, killed by a &quot;demon&quot; who is eating children. Shan is dispatched by the lamas to save the children and find the murderer. He is accompanied by two lamas from Tibet. All three face immediate arrest and dispatch to the gulag if they are discovered. Along the way, they are assisted by the many people who are resisting assimilation. Khazach, Uighur, Elousi and Tibetan find common ground in resisting assimilation. <br />The mystery is complex and fair. The characters are multi-dimensional and authentic. Some may criticize the book for having too many characters who are too-fully realized since many people are more comfortable with keeping track of just a few folks. However, I appreciate it when a writer does justice to his characters by letting them achieve their own complexity and ambiguity and am frustrated by authors who develop only a few characters, leaving the rest to lie one-dimensionally flat on the page.  I thought Shan was a bit slow to come to the realization of THE SECRET about why the children were being murdered...though THE SECRET is pretty amazing.  Still, I began to suspect long before he did...though of course, he had more to distract him than I did, as he raced from one end of the frontier to the other.<br />I loved this book. In many ways, it was even more fascinating than The Skull Mantra though I anticipate that many will find it difficult. There are so many characters and so many sub-plots that this is not a book for lazy readers.  This is also a book that demands re-reading, not only because of the complexity of plot, but for the richness of discovery and of place. Shan roams all over Xianjiang from one remarkable site to another in the ultimate road trip to sites that are indescribably wonderful. Reading this book, I yearned to see these hidden treasures of the world, buried cities, monasteries in mountains, sanctuaries in silos. There is an unearthly beauty in that part of the world and Pattison writes with lyrical tenderness about the geography and the people.<br />This book is heartbreaking, though how can a book about ethnic minorities in China not break your heart?  Though Water Touching Stone has a &quot;happy ending&quot;, it's the happy ending of survival in an oppressive society with full remembrance of those who were lost. This is a profoundly compassionate and moving book and I recommend it highly.	2001-07-04
US	52283845	R3VQF5A0QX0ZZ6	0140296476	263289727	Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Should be required reading in school	I wish I had read this book back in high school or early college, back when I was struggling to see the point to the endless equations in calculus and understand some value to the seemingly endless required math classes. The work was dull and I was infused with a belief that I would never need to know one bit of it once I walked out the door after my finals. <br />That last sentence is more true than false, but if I had read Zero -- and really got the sense of wonder behind calculus, I might not only have enjoyed the class, but also found reason to use it. <br />Seife has the journalist skill of making the complex simple without eviscerating it. He also has the ability to take something so potentially dull as math and turn it into a fascinating examination of history, culture and life.	2001-06-06
US	52283845	R29M9F4UYCZP1M	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Roth Can Do Better	I am glad Philip Roth has his admirers; it take the pressure off me. To be fair, I liked some of his early books. I first read Goodbye, Columbus in 1977 and I still recall the sense of awe his writing gave me. He said so much with so little. Even the names of the characters were rich with significance, making it a book to read on many levels. In that slight book, Roth said tenfold more than  in the hugely overwritten and dull American Pastoral. Actually, I consider it quite an accomplishment for Roth to make a book with political terrorism in it into something so completely boring.<br />It's knowing what Roth can do that makes the vast, undiscipined logorrhea of American Pastoral so painful. If I had not been obligated to finish this book for my book group it would have been thrown across the room within Part One, probably in the third or fourth imagined conversation between Levov and his daughter Merry.  This book reads as though Roth sat down, typed without pausing and walked away, never once rereading to edit a sentence. It is self-indulgent, undisciplined and completely, almost unremittingly terrible..<br />Occasionally, Roth aspires to his old brilliance. There are flashes of true insight that are about as plentiful as the chicken  in Campbell's soup. When he writes about the drinking neighbor woman and people simply getting tired of themselves....that had a ring of truth. When he wrote about Swede sensing his wife Dawn still loved him, but was rejecting him because that could make her new -- a woman without a terrorist daughter -- that was beautifully compassionate and empathetic. But Roth was stingy with his genius in this book and most of it is a thin gruel.<br />Roth uses Zuckerman as his narrator -- a mistake, in my opinion. Zuckerman is the ultimate unreliable narrator and it's clear that the entire narrative is nothing but the product of Zuckerman's own obsessions. It reveals more about Zuckerman than Swede -- of course -- and focuses on the least interesting element of Swede's life. <br />American Pastoral is a Job-like inquiry into why bad things happen to good people -- to be specific, how did good parents like Swede and Dawn produce a daughter who was sweet and loving until adolesence and who then became a terrorist bomber.  Of course, the answer is unknowable and it takes Zuckerman forever and a day to concede that point.  A much more interesting story to me would be how does a man, who loses everything in such a horrible, soul-searing way find the courage to try again. How, after having a child go so hideously wrong, does Swede get the courage to do it over, risking disaster not once, but three times with three sons.  However, Zuckerman doesn't spend one paragraph on the question of how one finds that courage. His interest is completely absorbed in finding the one point where everything went wrong -- a fruitless,impossible quest that took altogether to many pages to accomplish.	2001-06-06
US	52283845	R1CMHDXBBKX0RN	0767902912	236185551	An Equal Music	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Just one more rewrite, please	I loved A Suitable Boy by Vikram Seth  so I really expected this book to be a complete pleasure to read. I regret to report that it was not.<br />I would have to say that An Equal Music is perhaps the most uneven book I have ever read. There are large parts of the book that are lyrical, filled with prose that sings. Seth uses every technique to bring music and rhythm to his words, alliteration, assonance and rhythm. Some of his sentences are made of syncopated short stabbing words, others are lento, with long, languorous words filled with vowels. You can hear music when you read.<br />That's a good thing because he is writing about music and he does that beautifully. <br />An Equal Music is an interesting story about Michael Holmes, a second violinist in a respected, but not famous, quartet who has two loves in his life. Julia, a woman he loved when he was a student in Vienna, and his violin, a Tononi that is his only on loan from his childhood music teacher.<br />His life is filled with music, he makes a living doing what he loves and he is relatively content, but for his regret at losing Julia (through his own actions, mind you) and his love for his violin that isn't truly his. His life comes to a crisis when he meets Julia again and at nearly the same time learns that he will have to relinquish his violin to its owner, who is planning to pass it on to her nephew.<br />There's a lovely story here. You will care about Michael and Julia and the violin and want and hope for the best for them -- though they may have different ideas on what's best. This isn't a book with a great happy ending,  but it's not a tragedy either. It's more life-like and alive than that. It's resolution is a messy and compromised as life is and is, because it seems so true, a satisfying conclusion.<br />Moreover, it's a pleasure to read most of the time. I love reading books where I sense the author thought about the words he put down -- thinking not just does this word express my intent,but also how does this word sound and how does it relate to the words next to it, do they sound well together. Is is beautiful? For most of this book, the writing is beautiful.<br />On the other hand, I would like to tear entire pages out of this book and toss them in the trashbin. Most of the sections I would excise are tedious conversations that do not carry the story forward, do not reveal anything new about the characters and are, in fact, just plain alien to the story.<br />In fact, every bit of this book that I thought tedious and humdrum was dialogue. <br />Some examples, a pivotal scene between the main character Michael and Julia, his one true love, veers into a fracas with a policewoman about stepping on the grass. There are more than a half dozen scenes where Michael acts like a total jerk with stewardesses, ticket attendents, waiters, wrong number dialers and policewomen. Perhaps Seth wants us to know about the immature and selfish side of Michael, but he already made that point in Michael's actions toward his current lover at the beginning of the book, his Vienna music teacher and with his fellow Maggiore Quartet members. His ability to be a jerk from time to time needed no reinforcement with these tedious scenes.<br />Some of his conversations with the Quartet are interesting and illuminating insights into how musicians perceive music, but the vast majority are banal. Perhaps Seth wants readers to understand that artists can be banal, too. He could do that with a few conversations, but he overdoes it to the point that the dialogue often seems pointless.<br />I would also like to tear out about half the sections of the book where Julia and Michael are alone together. Their dialogue is often inane and repetitious. Some of that may be Seth trying to authentically represent conversation with a hearing impaired person, but it's still tedious. In any case, the worst of the repetition is not the misheard words, but the simple repetition of the same idea over and over and over. In fact, some of their conversations could be cut and pasted seamlessly into one another.<br />Seth brilliantly lays out the pattern of their relationship in their tourist jaunts in Vienna and Venice. They head off in expectation and delight to see a sunrise and miss the boat and thus see a pretty sunrise, but not one framed with the absolute perfect beauty they were anticipating. One or two illustrations of anticipation, frustration and disappointment would be a brilliant exposition of their relationship, but Seth can't stop with a few examples. He packs each day of their trip with them. It was repetitious and, I believe, indicative of Seth's belief that his readers can't understand his point unless he hammers it into the ground. <br />Seth writes in an afterword that he can hardly bear to read his first draft over again. I think he should take some aspirin and plunge in and do it because then he would see his tendency to repeat himself and, I would hope, ruthlessly excise those repeated patterns, the redundant and dull dialogue and the pointless fracases with bystanders. Then this book would be outstanding. As it is, it is good and worth reading, but it really needs one more rewrite.	2000-11-20
US	52283845	R3JUB0CDCFO38E	1856954870	670337308	The Cloning Of Joanna May	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Appalling book	Can one find another collection with this many despicable characters in one plot? I don't think so. I cannot think of one decent character in the book, not even the chauffeur.	2000-10-16
US	52283845	RI0FXO6DVIMSR	1856954870	670337308	The Cloning Of Joanna May	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Appalling book	Can one find another collection with this many despicable characters in one plot? I don't think so. I cannot think of one decent character in the book, not even the chauffeur.	2000-10-16
US	52283845	R2VW8XRYTVA99O	0374230781	331169416	Perlman's Ordeal	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Art or Science	Sometimes I sympathize with those authors whose first novel is brilliantly original and alive. After all, they have expectations to fulfill that must be daunting.  They must fret whether the second book will be thought as  good, fret that readers will find it too similar and say they are formulaic  or too dissimilar and feel betrayed  They must fret that they will become a  one-book-wonder.  <br />Brooks Hansen's first novel, The Chess Garden, was  such an original and inventive book, that he must have been a real fretnik.  Judging by his second book, Perlman's Ordeal, he needn't fret anymore.  <br />This book has its similarities to the Chess Garden. It is fantastic in  the original sense of the word. It is saturated with myth and fable. It is  delightfully original. It is also very different. Perlman, the protagonist  in this book, is a crabbed and limited in his personal life as Dr.   Uyterhoven was generous and open. Perlman finds his security in routine and  in not taking risks. Dr. Uyterhoven would have smothered in the small life  Perlman carved out for himself. However, Perlman is forced out of his  routine and cast bewilderingly adrift in Atlantis, of all places. This  Atlantis, however, is not the real Atlantis as Dr. Uyterhoven's Antipodes  are The Antipodes. This Atlantis is in the mind of his patient, Sylvie Blum  -- or more accurately, in Nina the &quot;shard&quot; personality that has  taken over Sylvie Blum.<br />Dr. Perlman is an eminent practitioner of  &quot;clinical suggestion,&quot; the science of curing people through  suggestion during a hypnogogic state. He is most definitely NOT a mere  hypnotist nor something so bizarre as a mesmerist. Sylvie Blum is brought  to him, completely out of protocol, since he prefers patients to ask for  his services themselves...meaning patients who are ready for suggestion and  success. She is dehydrated, refusing water and positively phobic in her  fear of water.  She is brought to him, sedated and is being forcefully  hydrated. He is upset and expects failure since this patient was brought to  him in such a disorderly way. <br />However, he is intrigued when he brings  Sylvie to consciousness (he thinks) and discovers that there is a healthy  young girl inside there who not only doesn't fear water but practically  craves it. Unfortunately, that healthy young girl says her name is Nina.   There begins the tale and what a tale it is, taking you from late 19th  century London to the days when gods and goddesses walked the earth with  humanity. <br />The ordeal is Perlman's struggle within himself, for he must  break free of his routines and his regimens of treatment in order to  successfully treat his patient. For once in his life, he must let events  take their course and go along for the ride.  And when it all comes back to  him, when he must finish the tale, what will he do? Will he follow his  regimen and his protocols, his science, or will he let himself fall into  the story and be carried by it? Who will win Dr Perlman, art or science?   <br />Dr. Perlman may not agree with me, but I think he did the right thing.	2000-07-06
US	52283845	R280R8ZQFSIVVN	0312261861	63965419	Judicial Whispers	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Authors Should Show, Not Tell	First, let me vent a little about the marketing. The cover blurb mentions Rumpole of the Bailey, implying the book will be similar. Not hardly. This is not a mystery, there is no mystery to be found in this story whatsoever.  The legal machinations that the reader sees are merely part of the  background, setting up ways for characters to meet, to work together and to  inhabit a life. No case is followed and no case has any bearing on the  events of the story other than as a plot vehicle to move A to B and so  on.<br />However, just because I felt misled by the marketing doesn't have  anything to do with the book itself.  The plot is interesting, the  characters are sufficiently complex that I should want to know what  happened to them, though I didn't engage as fully with them as I could have  if the author had more discipline. <br />Authors should show, not tell,  allowing a reader to infer the character's motivation. By leaving that up  to the reader, the author will draw the reader in to the story, breathe  life into the characters and make the reader care about the characters.  This is because the reader has played an active role in coming to  understand the characters' motivations.  <br />When the author, as Caro Fraser  does relentlessly, leads you through the characters' motivations step by  step, explaining everything as fully as possible, then you don't have to  actively engage to understand the characters. Inevitably, you are not going  to care as much about the characters as when you have to think about why  they are doing something.<br />One example will suffice. A senior clerk in the  chambers fears that he will be shuffled off into retirement if Leo takes  silk.  How does the reader know that?  Because Caro Fraser puts the reader  into the clerk's mind while he thinks about this and decides to try to  derail Leo's application.  <br />How could she have presented this  differently?  She could have had the clerk find out about the application,  talk about it with someone who points out the possibility of this affecting  his own supervisor, and then a conversation where he stars his whispering  campaign against Leo.  Then the reader would wonder why he did that and try  to understand. If Fraser wanted to insure that the reader got it, she could  then insert another conversation with the clerk spreading some gossip, the  recipient of that gossip wondering why and then going AHA, you think that  if Leo gets the.... This way, the reader who wants to be engaged in the  story will have an opportunity to figure it out and the AHA will confirm it  and the reader that can't figure it out would still get the motivation  handed to him or her, but not before having time to think about it a bit.   Instead, it's all laid out in one fell swoop, a shortcut that cuts short  any possibility of fully engaging in the story.<br />He's a minor character  and taking a shortcut with him is okay, but when altogether too many  characters and every single one of the main characters have their actions  explained it's tiresome and, as I have said, disconnects the reader from  fully caring about anyone.<br />This story has great potential. Many of the  characters are written to be likeable, even Leo whose actions are motivated  by single-minded and selfish ambition.  I think, however, that I would like  him better if I was left alone to work out his motives.<br />As a reader, I  dislike it when an authors tells instead of shows. It implies that the  author doesn't trust her readers to &quot;get it&quot; without her  intervention.  <br />If you have nothing better to read, you can spend a  couple mindless hours with this book without coming to any harm. However,  reading it as written is an exercise in detachment. I prefer to read books  that more fully engage me and it is a testament to some subtle skill on  Caro Fraser's part that I bothered to finish it at all.	2000-07-02
US	52283845	R20BKVNOWM0DHS	0553575821	358510128	In Guilty Night	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good writing but preachy	Well-plotted mystery with a dark mood and plenty of red herrings. A child is found dead, possibly a suicide, though McKenna suspects murder. One thing is certain, the young boy was sexually assaulted though the folks at  the children's reformatory claim that he was sexually active and provoking.  <br />I would give this a higher rating except the Taylor's writing gets  preachy implying that social workers don't care a tinker's whatever about  abused children. She also perpetuates the myth that gays are pedophiles,  peddling the worst homophobic claptrap. <br />It's well-written and I will  give her another chance, but there are several places in this book when her  ill-informed polemics made me want to throw it across the room.	2000-07-02
US	52283845	R3VGDUFUWVQ4Y1	0312156081	346949454	Night over Day over Night: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great Novel by a Great Writer	Sebastian enlists in the SS less than a year before the war will be over. He goes through basic training, an ordinary soldier in ordinary training, doing ordinary exercises, with ordinary hopes and fears. But of course,  there's nothing ordinary about any soldier in any war.<br />The story follows  him from country innocence to the evils of war, from hope to damnation.  With clear and simple prose, written with such simple artistry, Watkins  again delivers an outstanding novel with fully realized characters. <br />The  day will come when people stop saying he follows in the footsteps of  Hemingway and admi that Watkins surpasses him.	2000-07-02
US	52283845	R2R41XNUNMCKJ3	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Colonialism Condemned	Adam Hochschild has written a riveting, meticulously footnoted history of the Belgian Congo and the evil perpetrated by the colonial power on the people who lived there. <br />While I appreciate the particular nature of King  Leopold's colony (it was owned by the individual King Leopold,not by the  country of Belgium) This certainly made its rule more arbitrary and less  likely to be reined in by common sense and general humanity.<br />However, the  book failed to make its case that the system itself created the environment  where atrocity was not only possible, but likely. He tried, but reading  through the reviews here, it's clear he didn't communicate that well  enough.<br />As an antidote to the &quot;Bad Belgian&quot; impression some  readers may get despite Hochschild's effort to show it was the system of  colonialism itself that made it possible.  The atrocities didn't occur  simply because Leopold was evil (no matter how evil he was) but because the  system itself by putting one people over another, creates the necessary  structure for mass murder, slavery and genocide.<br />Another reviewer  mentioned Exterminate All the Brutes. If you are interested in this  history, you should read that as well. It's a small gem of a book that  shows that the dehumanization of colonialism was widespread and not just  practiced by the Belgians.	2000-06-30
US	52283845	R1VRR9L4A0STZU	0679758364	883912242	The Wonder Book of the Air	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A book that begs to be read aloud.	Cynthia Shearer does a masterful job of weaving together the stories and perceptions of three generations of the Durrance family, friends and relatives. The narrative voice switches from chapter to chapter, but each  voice is so distinct and so well-drawn, that the reader will have no  difficulty with the changing voices.<br />This is an outstanding book, one I  have read twice and look forward to reading again.	1999-07-09
