US	52280026	R2FDLOLE8ULAUW	0385335768	956346567	The American Heritage Dictionary: Fourth Edition (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	50	54	N	N	from a lexicographer	I'm a lexicographer and computational linguist by profession -- I have very nearly read this book (and a couple others) cover to cover. I just have to say that AH is a superior dictionary for everyday use.     I work for companies that maintain online dictionaries, and am, among other things responsible for comparing the contents of these lists with the latest published dictionaries to ascertain which entries should be deleted and which new ones included. I find that AH very rarely has bad judgement with respect to selection of entries.     Perhaps the reason another reviewer didn't find Carl Gauss or Reimann is because their names are actually Karl Gauss and Riemann. And I appreciate the fact that AH has gone a long way toward rectifying the perception conveyed by most older biographical dictionaries that all great people have been white, European and male. We need Gauss in there of couse, but we also need Robeson and St. Vincent Millay who won a Pulitzer Prize just like Frost, and who wrote just as beautifully.     Its goal obviously is to both be a desktop dictionary in a single volume, and yet include the words that educated American speakers are likely to encounter in modern, non-technical publications. (And yes, it is an American dictionary, which is why colour is defined as 'Chiefly British, variant of color'.) This objective becomes harder and harder to achieve as the base of English-speaking people expands, and the Internet makes so many more things available to the average reader. The average person may use words like 'alacrity' less often than they did 200 years ago, but in point of fact, the average person's active vocabulary is expanding.     I prefer the way they organize their word senses to what Webster does. (I never compare things to the OED, because that is a work of art, deserving of veneration.) It reserves entirely new entries for an entirely unrelated sense. AH will give iris(flower) and iris(of the eye) two different senses, but Webster's gives (though not entirely consistently) the nominal and verbal senses of, say, 'claim' entirely different entries. AH includes them under the same entry, because they are semantically very closely related.     The etymological Appendix of AH is also kind of famous among linguists. They have very nicely systematized and cross-referenced their entries against their hypothesized Indo-European roots. It's quite well researched, and also a lot of fun.	2005-10-14
US	52280026	R27JRYPWJQ3EBN	0395825172	956346567	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition	Books	5	25	26	N	N	from a lexicographer	I'm a lexicographer and computational linguist by profession -- I have very nearly read this book (and a couple others) cover to cover. I just have to say that AH is a superior dictionary for everyday use.     I work for companies that maintain online dictionaries, and am, among other things responsible for comparing the contents of these lists with the latest published dictionaries to ascertain which entries should be deleted and which new ones included. I find that AH very rarely has bad judgement with respect to selection of entries.     Perhaps the reason another reviewer didn't find Carl Gauss or Reimann is because their names are actually Karl Gauss and Riemann. And yes, they're both in there. And I appreciate the fact that AH has gone a long way toward rectifying the perception conveyed by most older biographical dictionaries that all great people have been white, European and male. We need Gauss in there of couse, but we also need Robeson and St. Vincent Millay who won a Pulitzer Prize just like Frost, and who wrote just as beautifully.     Its goal obviously is to both be a desktop dictionary in a single volume, and yet include the words that educated American speakers are likely to encounter in modern, non-technical publications. (And yes, it is an American dictionary, which is why colour is defined as 'Chiefly British, variant of color'.) This objective becomes harder and harder to achieve as the base of English-speaking people expands, and the Internet makes so many more things available to the average reader. The average person may use words like 'alacrity' less often than they did 200 years ago, but in point of fact, the average person's active vocabulary is expanding.     I prefer the way they organize their word senses to what Webster does. (I never compare things to the OED, because that is a work of art, deserving of veneration.) It reserves entirely new entries for an entirely unrelated sense. AH will give iris(flower) and iris(of the eye) two different senses, but Webster's gives (though not entirely consistently) the nominal and verbal senses of, say, 'claim' entirely different entries. AH includes them under the same entry, because they are semantically very closely related.     The etymological Appendix of AH is also kind of famous among linguists. They have very nicely systematized and cross-referenced their entries against their hypothesized Indo-European roots. It's quite well researched, and also a lot of fun.     Finally, it's one of the prettiest dictionaries on the market. These days you can look up most words on the Internet. I buy a book in part because it's nice to touch and hold.	2005-09-29
US	52280026	R1PW7O26UFV48V	0374524971	762916649	Fighting Terrorism: How Democracies Can Defeat Domestic and International Terrorists	Books	4	5	9	N	N	on safe havens	Upon reading this book, I couldn't help feeling the Bush administration was influenced by it. US foreign policy has acted consistent with Netanyahu's recommendation and position.    Netanyahu distinguishes between two brands of terrorism -- domestic and international. Domestic terrorism, of which the Oklahoma bombing is an example, can be dealt with readily within the context of a democracy, and is therefore not an imminent threat to civilization as we know it. International terrorism IS a threat to civilization. The difference is that domestic terrorists are bred in democracies where the government and citizenry do not support the terrorist economically, psychologically or legally. International terrorism is made possible only by dictatorial regimes, which by their nature implicitly (and sometimes even directly) support terrorism. His formula for getting rid of international terrorism is to get rid of the dictatorships where they can grow and thrive in a safe haven unencumbered by a rule of law and a non-supportive citizenry.     The current brand of international terrorism most prevalent today, is due to what he describes as a very archaic interpretation of an otherwise great religion (Islam) -- one which even centuries ago was responsible for many of mankind's artistic and scientific innovations. But terrorism in his view is only incidentally an Islamic phenomenon. While Russia was still a dictatorship, for example, it too served to support terrorism. Under Yel'tsyn, it no longer supported terrorists.    Neyanyahu makes a case against getting all psychological and complicated about the motivations for terrorism. He says we should just recognize that blowing up 3000 people in cold blood is immoral, that there is no excuse for it. His position is that it's up to the historian to psychoanalyse Hitler, but the statesman must simply recognize that his behavior is unacceptable, whatever drove him to it, and stop him.    I feel there were a lot of helpful distinctions drawn in this book, and it lays out a position very clearly which many people share and which has legitimacy. However the book is as its title suggests -- a formula for beating terrorists, not a place from which to gain a global, historical perspective on the situation. For example, I ran these views past a very liberally-minded Lebanese friend of mine. He's glad the Syrians are leaving Lebanon. He regards the US as a force for good in the world. He regards Israel as far more benign and democratic than Egypt or Iran or Syria. But unlike Netanyahu, he doesn't regard Hizbollah as a terrorist organization... merely the only way these people can think of to get Israel off Lebanese turf after the illegal 1982 invasion. In his opinion, Hariri's Lebanon was a democracy, so what is Israel doing there? But don't look in Netanyahu to find any intimation of this point of view, to find any particular nuance in the various undercurrents in Arab society.	2005-03-27
US	52280026	R1SUNYMU2YDXLA	0316713597	967161947	Flawed Dogs: The Year End Leftovers at the Piddleton "Last Chance" Dog Pound	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Brilliant	My kids are all grown up, but I grabbed this off the new acquisitions shelf at the local library because the pictures were so great. And then we spent an evening at home with a bunch of fully grown, respectable (sort of) adults admiring the illustrations. It's written for a dog shelter in Piddleton, Vermont, and the poems contributed by the poetry club of that aspiring metropolis aren't at all bad. But the whole concept of these flawed dogs and the illustrations are just brilliant. Being a flawed dog myself, albeit of a different species, I appreciated the implied permission to get on with my life in spite of it.	2005-02-03
US	52280026	R2ZWGPWGIQ85P3	1893554856	45375245	Anti Americanism	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	Thank you, sir	My first thought upon finishing this book was echoed someplace by another reviewer: \\"God Bless You, M Revel\\". I read it a second time just because it felt good. I've lived in the Soviet Union, and spent years in Western Europe 'but, but, butting' them too. Revel is such an apologist for the United States, it's almost embarrassing, but I agree with him completely about what's going on in Europe. He sees it so clearly, and nails it right on the head without apology or equivocation. <br /> <br />Revel was editor of the French political weekly L'Express and is a member of the Academie Franaise.	2005-02-03
US	52280026	RCTX6LWLKGE38	0451528123	857677473	Democracy in America (Signet Classics)	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Written at age 24?	De Toqueville was a French aristocrat in his early 20's (early 20's!!!) who came to the US in order to report to France on the conditions in American prisons. I read this book unabridged many years ago, and I still find myself referring to it regularly and shaking my head in amazement.   Somehow this man saw into the nature of our nation more deeply than than the majority of us see it ourselves. He discusses every aspect of our government and society, from political parties to the women, from slavery to war to farming to elections. There's just something about the way he discusses these topics insightfully, in depth, and fairly -- assessing our flaws as well as our virtues -- that leaves me still today feeling like he has placed a benediction over the American people, a sort of divine authorization to proceed with this dream of ours, despite the fact that we stumble and sometimes even fall, and he knew in advance that also that would happen.  One thing that can't help but bowl the modern reader over is the accuracy of his predictions. America will face a great civil war, he predicts, and although they've chosen a bunch of numskulls for president before, don't be fooled. In time of great need, they will elect a great man. They just don't want busybodies in power unless they need them. I know America has only a small percent of the GNP and population of France, but in 100 years, its population will be around 200,000,000. And the world will be split between two great powers, Russia which will gain its preeminence by the sword and America which will gain it by the plowshare. Now I know Mexico just translated America's Constitution word for word into Spanish, and aspires to establish a society just like theirs. And I know their current populations are comparable. Still America will gain preeminence, but Mexico will not. And here's why. And I know the number of Negroes and the number of natives is about the same, and they are both comparably subordinate to the whites. Still the natives will fade as a single identifiable social and economic force, compared to the African. And here's why.  ?????????????????  Not bad, huh?  The one big thing he didn't predict was the technological revolution. But it was, after all, 1844 or something, and folks were carrying muskets and using kerosene lamps, so I cut him a little slack for not guessing we'd land on the moon.  I long to go on, but I shut up now.	2004-11-13
US	52280026	R12WAS0UT4POIV	1572316950	952707462	Programming Windows with MFC, Second Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	who says it takes longer?	I managed to muddle my way through simple dialog-box based applications with hardly any documentation -- just advice from colleagues. When I got assigned to write a real live multi-threaded, multi-document app, I tried the books lying around the office which had helped me considerably with the simpler apps, but which left me much confused about things like device contexts. Why all of a sudden CClientDC instead of CPaintDC? And what is a DC anyway exactly? They say, \\"See, if you do this and this, then you can draw an ellipse that wiggles around.\\" So I do that, and then try changing parameters, and am left only able to draw that ellipse. I can't make it purple. <br /> <br />I hate feeling like I don't really, REALLY know why I'm doing what I'm doing. And Prosise was an effective (and therefore quick) book which left me feeling like I knew. After about 2 days of reading and working with the examples, I felt I understood device contexts mapping modes, why I don't tell the Ellipse() routine what color ellipse I want. Prior to that, I'd spent 2 weeks with other books, not really getting it, not effectively able to modify the examples in the book. <br /> <br />Something about the way he organized it just got me to a point of clarity quicker, without nearly as much frustration. So don't let the 1300 pages throw you. It's not hard to read.	2004-08-26
US	52280026	RX8QEL689JYTW	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	my first great book	I'd read Dr. Suess, and still love Dr. Suess. And I'd read a lot of Nancy Drew and other stuff that 4th grade girls read. But Mrs. B. (my 5th grade teacher who otherwise terrified me) read a chapter from this book every Wednesday, and I would wake up Wednesday mornings with such anticipation that I still remember how I felt 35 years later. That was the first time I understood the power of the book and became a serious reader. It's really written for children, and doesn't have the same hold on my mind at 40 as at 10, though I still do love to read her. But no child should be allowed to graduate from the 6th grade without having read this book... we should introduce a Bill into Congress.	2004-07-04
US	52280026	RKTKERI6VWE36	0192824252	336336269	The Histories (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	29	36	N	N	Herodotus	I don't think any other work I've read has allowed me to live into how it was to live in a time so remote from our own. This really strikes me as an astounding achievement. I don't have a very good oversight over what other resources are available to historians about the daily goings on in in Greece and the Middle East at that period, but I find myself thinking as I read, \\"What if he had just decided not to write it?\\"     I had a very hard time with the place names in the first version I borrowed from the library, so I'm very glad for the maps in this edition. Also now some years later, I've forgotten all but the biggest names (but I still remember Cyrus!), and there are a daunting number of names in the book. But for all that, it's sort of an easy read, because it's anecdotal. I remember what happened, and more or less what order it happened in. I remember the major nations and what they were like -- the Persians, the Scythians, the Lacedaemons,...) More importantly, I remember the tenor of the book and of the times. I have a sense for the role that the gods and oracles played, the number of wars an average person experienced in their lifetime, the consequences of war, the relationship between men and women, the sort of thing which motivated nations to do what they did. (I detect no bigotry or chauvenism in Herodotus.) And it's just replete with very good 'histories' of all sorts, which will stay with me forever -- the circumnavigation of Africa, the Babylonian queen who diverted the river in a huge engineering project to protect the city, the Scythians rites, his impressions of the amazing Egyptian labyrinth, the fabulous hearsay about what the Northern climates were like.     And I'm left with a different perspective, I think, than I was before. I don't think, for example, that I could ever be a full blooded pacifist after reading Herodotus. (It's very hard to picture how a pacifist would have survived very long in that world, it seems to me.) I think I also havea better sense for the human psychological need for religious devotion. And I'm convinced that religion is an excuse for war rather than the real motivating factor, because although they had plenty of wars, he doesn't seem to suggest that anyone believed in a right or wrong religion.    Anyway, it was way more fun than I expected.	2004-05-19
US	52280026	R1A740Q1ASTIBT	0743219198	645778158	The Mythic Tarot	Books	5	15	15	N	N	the interconnectedness of things	I picked this one up along with the deck randomly at a yard sale, and tried learning the Tarot with it. It was actually a great deck to learn with. I've since read other books explaining the meaning of the Tarot. I think this author has a deep understanding both of human psychology and of Greek mythology, not to mention the Tarot itself. She seems to have been through these various life situations and seems to speak out of them from personal experience -- how true Strength is immunity from the 'Thou shalt', how true love is made manifest only after one has experienced betrayal, etc.. She doesn't simply say, \\"The ten of Wands means oppression and this and that.\\" She explains HOW the process of pursuing the high adventure results in the final card being oppression. She explains WHAT is common to the 10's in all the suits, etc.. She also does quite a good job of explaining the difference between similar cards that are easy to confuse. The High Priestess and the Moon are both sort of feminine and otherworldy in nature. What's the essential difference? One has the sense she has thought it through and solidified it in her mind. And now when I go out and read other versions, I have a good basis from which to understand what I read.    This book is not really about how to read various spreads, though she does offer a couple examples. I understand she has written a workbook for that purpose.	2004-04-15
US	52280026	R2I9OLBXXI0WJ7	0375709177	706701041	The Iceman Cometh	Books	2	20	51	N	N	pessimism vs genius	There's a tendency, particularly among 20th Century males to confuse pessimism with genius. And then we self-consciously award him a Pulitzer prize or two so the Europeans will think we're as insightful and negative as they are... It seems to me that it doesn't take genius to observe that we kill and eat or we die -- that life necessarily involves pain and suffering. The average 4-year-old can see that. Genius, it seems to me, involves moving past the recognition of suffering to an affirmation of life, a willingness to participate wholeheartedly in spite of it all... not by lying to yourself nor by simply putting a good face on it, but by way of seeing through to the Ground that lies beyond mere suffering and illusion, to the Ground from which all genuine vitality springs. A good Disney cartoon is closer to genius than this. And it's not that I dislike all pessimistic works -- I love Hamlet, for example. <br />So all dreams are pipe-dreams. Yet we must cling to our lies lest we go mad. That position, as far as I'm concerned, is itself madness. True sanity is completely happy. I agree rather with Roald Dahl's James of Giant Peach fame, that all good things start with a dream. I agree with Thoreau that we SHOULD build our castles in the air, and only then can we put the foundations under them. Losing heart is part of the process. It's human and completely forgiveable, but it's not genius.	2004-01-01
US	52280026	RHPI9MBF8DC8X	0375751475	397972214	Bulfinch's Mythology: Includes The Age of Fable, The Age of Chivalry & Legends of Charlemagne (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	126	134	N	N	Serious flaws, but still can't quite replace it	It is an anthology of mythology I often use simply to look up the major myths, because it's easy to find things in Bulfinch. If I knew of a modern alternative which filled the same role as well, I might rank Bulfinch a 3. It's a fairly good reference for Greek, Roman and Arthurian legends. He pretty much paraphrases e.g. Virgil's Aeneid and Ovid's Metamorphisis. He also provides the basic Egyptian and Viking myths. But anything East of the Levant is given very short shrift, probably because at the time this was written, those myths were not so available in the West.    There's no question he loved these stories, but I can't say I'm left with the feeling that he has been truly struck by the Myth, that the Myth has truly destabilized him the way it has Frazer, Jung or Joseph Campbell.    And no doubt this collection would not have been published at all at that time were he not willing to leave out significant facts that the book might be readable by well-bred ladies. Any castrations are left out or (worse) revised. Cronos was deposed. Theseus slays the Minotaur, but the part about how the Minotaur came to be in the first place is omitted. Attis comes across as a romantic story. You find neither the factual story behind it as laid out by Herodotus nor any intimation about the nature of the fantastical cult which arose around it as described in Frazer.    At the same time, although most major bookstores now have whole sections devoted to mythology, and hundreds of anthologies have come out, I've never quite found anything that takes the place of Bulfinch, and so I keep it on my shelf.	2003-12-07
US	52280026	RB5GIMCCN7PFO	0684826305	379927993	The Golden Bough	Books	5	143	149	N	N	For Myth and Anthropology, start here	This is Frazer's own abridgement of a mere 750 pages. The original work is 12 volumes. I've started in my lunch hour writing a few reviews here on Amazon of things which either really struck me deeply, or which I feel are underrated or overrated... or which I happen to have read recently and therefore are fresh in my mind. This one is of the deep-striking, perspective-altering kind.    The book feels to me somehow to be the most central work on mythology, ritual or anthropology that I have read. The reason for this, I think, is that Frazer had a clear vision of some central Fact which he needed to convey. The book is therefore very well organized, doesn't lose its focus amid the masses of data -- and I mean masses of data -- which he brings to bear. And this Fact which he conveys is not really about something external to man -- even something external which man has created; it is about something internal and fundamental to man. Its fundamental point concerns a changeless Fact about the nature of things, more than any myriad of facts -- however amazing -- which have resulted from historical circumstance.    After 100 or so pages, I was thinking, \\"All right already, I get the point about sympathetic magic and a dead guy in a tree. When's the next topic?\\" But he just kept going on, and about 300 pages into the book, I felt a sort of chill in the base of my spine... maybe I hadn't gotten it about the dead guy in the tree... and then Frazer just keeps going on and on and on for another 450 pages.    The sheer volume of data, and the effectiveness with which it is organized somehow sunk through. Had I read a yet more abridged volume, I might not have been left with this stunned sense of the unbelievable pervasiveness and power of this one central Myth which runs through all humanity.    There's a lot more one could write about that Myth and the evolution of religions and consequently societies, but I suppose I'll leave that to Frazer. However, for those who have been struck by the Myth or the Dream, I would say that this is the place to start... more than Freud, Jung or Campbell... all of which should be read at some point. I feel like what Frazer presents is fact more than a perspective or theory, which is why I wish I had read it prior to Freud or Jung. I read Joseph Campbell over and over more than Frazer, but his scholarly works are not as easy to penetrate or as unified as are Frazer's.	2003-12-06
US	52280026	R3YM13L7PT7N4	0679783229	187226213	The Essential Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	311	331	N	N	Waters that keep me afloat	My daughter sent me one of these e-mail questionnaires intended to reveal your personality. One of the questions on it was, \\"What person, living or dead, would you give $10,000 to spend an hour with?\\" In that moment, I typed in \\"Ralph Waldo Emerson\\". He's not the only one, but I certainly would beg, borrow or steal $10,000 for an hour with him -- not Thoreau, not Whitman, not Schiller... but Emerson I would. And Goethe I would. Still my simple heart lies closer to Emerson than to Goethe.    30 years ago, when I entered high school, we studied the Transcendentalists in a basic lit class, and something about Emerson just glowed in my mind. The teacher told me that with time I'd get to know other authors better, and Emerson would take his place alongside a legion of others. But he was in a degree mistaken. Emerson never did diminish. I have never fallen out of love with him. And the relationship is a serious one. When the shadow of doubt creeps over me that my presence on this planet might be some kind of horrendous mistake, I still crack open a volume of Emerson. And he has never failed to recall me to myself.	2003-12-04
US	52280026	R2VJFRNZ0OC9ER	0875423183	963441628	The Key of It All-Book I: An Encyclopedic Guide to the Sacred Languages & Magical Systems of the World (Llewellyn's Sou) (Bk.1)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	helpful reference	This book is essentially a large collection of numerological, astrological and similar tables correlating, for example, letters of the various alphabets with planets, their qabbalistic meanings, body parts, etc.. I find it very helpful as a starting point because of it's sheer volume. I occasionally come across correlations which differ from those provided in the book, although I have not attempted to look into this in any systematized way. The book is different from something like Manly Hall, in that it does not discuss, for example, the symbolism of various versions of the cross in text. Nor is it intended as a dictionary of symbols. I use it specifically when I want to cross-reference symbols of various types -- tarot cards with alphabetical letters or astrological signs with colors. Its primary weakness, I would say, is that it doesn't provide as much information about its sources as I would like. When I encounter a conflicting interpretation of some symbol, therefore, I find insufficient basis from which to proceed to research the matter on my own terms -- I just have to accept or reject Hulse at face value.	2003-11-19
US	52280026	R2J95ASEZF8NRO	0451199871	188735593	The Body in the Library (Miss Marple)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Miss Marple -- enlightenment British style	As a teenager, I devoured one Miss Marple mystery after the other, feeling all the time slmildly uneasy for wasting my time on such fluff. But as I grow older and read more and better, and as I'm less influenced by the opinion of the powers that be, Agatha Christie grows in my mind.<br /><br />Miss Marple is one of the most popular literary figures of the 20th Century, and yet she does not have the literary status of Sherlock Holmes. She's not required reading in high school literature courses, and she should be.<br /><br />Agatha Christie created an entire litererary genre, which is not the same as the genre created by Conan Doyle (whose unabridged Sherlock Holmes I'ver read with great pleasure cover to cover three times). I think it's fair to say that in some significant way, her mysteries are more similar to the novels of Jane Austen  than to those of Conan Doyle. Austen and Christie are fundamentally all about the motivations in human psychology. Where Holmes looks at a person's fingernails and deduces she is a musician, Christie watches a couple quarrel, and deduces they are really married, though they pretend otherwise. For her, such evidence is as solid as a footprint, and based on it, conclusions can be drawn.<br /><br />Nevertheless, she does revert to simple forensic evidence before convicting anyone. Her plots are always complicated, but Christie always provides a unique solution. If she did not, she would not be great. In th case of the Body in the Library,  there is as usual all sorts of evidence floating around to confuse you and occupy your mind, but 3 pieces of evidence in the end identify the murderer uniquely.<br /><br />An inattentive reader might finish the book concluding that had Christie modified the plot just a little, the outcome might have been different. Not so. Not any more than Dorothy could have stayed in Oz or Hamlet survived. Christie creates an entire self-consistent and carefully planned microcosm of motivations. However, in this case, the identities are veiled, the dynamo which drives the plot is the who-done-it. In this regard, her genre, of course, is in Doyle's tradition.<br /><br />And I so much like Miss Marple as a literary figure -- the enlightened being, British style. She lives in British society with its commoners and gentry, but is somehow neither. She easily consorts and sympathizes with both. She seeks neither wealth nor fame. She is content, fearless. Her mind and emotions are steady without being cold. And she does not pass judgement on her fellow man, though she stands unflinching in the face of justice -- Nemesis, she is called in one novel. She always knows who did it at the precise moment when all the evidence is in. In this case, that happened when the little boy showed her the clipped nails. Inspector Slack dismisses him as irrelevant. Marple does not. To her all men are created equal. Yet each is unique and understood on his or her own terms. Best of all, Christie accomplishes this through a truly endearing personality -- one with a penchant for tea and herbaceous borders, and a tendency, like most of us, to slip a stitch, though most of hers are literal rather than metaphorical	2003-11-19
US	52280026	RZEXOPBDCB67C	0201379260	29748572	The C++ Standard Library: A Tutorial and Reference	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favorite STL reference	In learning STL, I started with the irreplaceable Stroustrup, but it was Josuttis who got me functioning the most quickly. Things are very easy to find. It's straightforwardly organized in a way that takes the mystique out of STL. At the office, this is the most borrowed of my C++ books, and the one that lies open on my desk all day.	2003-11-07
US	52280026	RF5KEV5CHE44G	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Good Reference, Fair, Focussed on the Evolution of Civilizations	I initially listened to this book on tape, and then decided I wanted to have it lying around as a reference. Roberts, I understand, is an Oxford professor. I don't really know enough history to judge to what degree his views are colored by a Western European perspective, but it was very helpful to me, particularly in his early coverage of areas whose history I didn't know that well -- Arabia and the Far East. I finished the book feeling I had a considerably more solid understanding of things like why Russia is like it is, and what actually happened between Sumeria and modern Iraq... what the world looked like to a person from the Middle East in various periods of history.    In the preface, he states as one of the primary criteria of a good historian is his or her ability to write from an unbiased perspective. He doesn't lie about the brutality of the Spanish conquistadores, but he also doesn't present a falsely idyllic or nostalgic picture of the Aztecs. And he doesn't villainize anybody... reasons for successes are always sought in climate, geography, circumstances -- not in the inherent superiority of one people over another. Throughout all of Part I, he calls Europe, the 'barbarians', and I don't think uses the word 'England' until well into Part II (of III). I don't think, therefore, that it can be claimed that at least England gets more attention than its due. The ancient near East, 15th-20th C. Europe, ancient Rome, and Arabia prior to the fall of the Ottomans get more press than do ancient China and India, though these are both given two extensive chapters each. They get more than Egypt. He certainly favors those places which carry 'civilizations' more than those which don't. His perspective seems to be that civilization is what's interesting, and he follows its centers around. Very little is said, therefore, about early Sub-Saharan Africa. Almost nothing is said about the North America prior to the coming of the Europeans. And virtually nothing is said about Western Europe north of Greece and Italy until Charlemagne or so. Perhaps that's just because his subject is history, not archeology, and history by definition needs to be written down.    What I liked best about the book were his little insights into the mindset of people at various points in history. For example, he effectively conveys that a 12th Century European wouldn't know what you were talking about if you spoke in terms of 'nations' the way we understand them. He describes nicely the difference between the mentality of the Russian tzarism vs. Western European kingdoms at the same point in history. I wish he'd done more of these flashes into the mindsets of various peoples and times, actually.     And I suppose I would have been interested in more detail about how ordinary people lived. Kings and generals got a lot more discussion than the peasants and artisans. I'm thinking, for example, that one of the most revealing 'histories' I read about the settlement of the American West was simply a collection of diaries written by women in the wagon trains. I felt in this way (or even by reading Black Elk Speaks) that I sank much more fully into the place and time than by reading about Custer or Louis and Clark (though these too are interesting). So if I were to venture a criticism, it would be that it's a little bit traditionally male in its focus more on externals -- governments and battles -- than on the internal minds and experiences of ordinary people.	2003-11-05
US	52280026	RKEABKBKVNIMY	0385418957	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom: A Triumph (The Authorized Doubleday/Doran Edition)	Books	5	18	23	N	N	War as Art	The is a book about men for men... About 7800 names appear in the book, half of them 'Ali' and all of them male. And it is in a way a glorification of terrorism -- at least terrorist tactics, albeit devoted to an arguably noble end. So I think I might never have read it had I not been urged on by a close friend...  But it's one of those few books which has genuinely altered my perspective. I find I keep bringing it up in conversation. Whatever one may say about the veracity of the statements made -- I gather they are to some degree in doubt -- there is no doubt about the depth of Lawrence's character. He writes beautifully.    The book is a sort of combination of psychology, history and fabulous anecdotes -- many of the best of which did not appear in the movie, by the way...     Lawrence, of course, loved Arabia, and clearly had very profound reservations about what he did. He questioned the validity of involving himself in the future of the Arabs to the degree that he did. He clearly felt it might have future unforeseen consequences. And he spends a fair amount of time candidly exposing his own motivations and doubts.    The picture he presents of the Bedou is generous. Nevertheless, it's hard not to be left with some sense of amazement at the extent to which diplomacy was necessary and the skill with which Lawrence was able to pull it off. Auda after being insulted on one occasion has to be physically tied down for a half hour -- otherwise everyone felt sure he would have killed several people. Such people in most Western nations are locked up. But what we throw out in this culture, Lawrence regards as material that he uses to create a sort of work of art -- some of Lawrence's reservations about his actions were rooted in an awareness that it was to some degree a form of self expression. So Auda gets untied and put at the head of an army composed of men some of whom he would otherwise have shot on sight.    As a woman, I'd feel a little less left out if it were alittle less great.	2003-10-01
US	52280026	R14LXVAOMMJ52O	0848805623	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Arabia	The is a book about men for men... About 7800 names appear in the book, half of them 'Ali' and all of them male. And it is in a way a glorification of terrorism -- at least terrorist tactics, albeit devoted to an arguably noble end. So I think I might never have read it had I not been urged on by a close friend...    But it's one of those few books which has genuinely altered my perspective. I find I keep bringing it up in conversation. Whatever one may say about the veracity of the statements made -- I gather they are to some degree in doubt -- there is no doubt about the depth of Lawrence's character. He writes beautifully -- completely beautifully.    The book is a sort of odd combination of psychology, history and fabulous anecdotes -- many of the best of which did not appear in the movie, by the way...     Lawrence, of course, loved Arabia, and clearly had very profound reservations about what he did. He questioned the validity of involving himself in the future of the Arabs to the degree that he did. He clearly felt it might have future unforeseen consequences. And he spends a fair amount of time candidly exposing his own motivations and doubts.    The picture he presents of the Bedou is generous. Nevertheless, it's hard not to be left with some sense of amazement at the extent to which diplomacy was necessary and the skill with which Lawrence was able to pull it off. Auda after being insulted on one occasion has to be physically tied down for a half hour -- otherwise everyone felt sure he would have killed several people. Such people in most Western nations are locked up. But what we throw out in this culture, Lawrence regards as material that he uses to create a sort of work of art -- some of Lawrence's reservations about his actions were rooted in an awareness that it was to some degree a form of self expression. So Auda gets untied and put at the head of an army composed of men some of whom he would otherwise have shot on sight.    This is one of the greatest books I have read.	2003-08-29
US	52280026	R1JMOL47HLR8D8	0672321017	680992613	Alison Balter's Mastering Access 2002 Desktop Development	Books	5	20	20	N	N	My Favorite Intermediate Access Reference	I figured out the basic structure of Access (basic Tables, Queries, Forms, Macros) from the online Help files (not including the VBA and ActiveX and linking to outside data sources and stuff). Then I went to Amazon and looked for another text and bought Getz, Litwin and Gilbert. When I first got it, I didn't understand it. So I went to a local store and browsed through the books on the shelf and decided on this one. It seemed to be at about my level -- 1/3 to 1/2 of it I already knew. And having now worked with it for a few weeks, I find it to be quite good. Two other people in the office started by borrowing my Getz, and then borrowed Balter instead for the same reason. Things are pretty easy to look up in it if you're not the type to read these things cover to cover. She covers everything clearly once (not 47 times), and you can find where that place is. She doesn't assume you know what ActiveX and ADO vs. DAO are. And there are a fair number of solutions to common needs which don't have obvious solutions...    I recommend it.    BTW, for you others who are new to VBA through Access, one things she doesn't say loud and clear is to avoid Access specific stuff where possible, and revert to good ole SQL. Go to the underlying table and do an update query with DoCmd.RunSQL query_name.	2003-08-28
US	52280026	R2IKGZXDNLDNY3	1558219730	634394343	We Die Alone: A WWII Epic of Escape and Endurance	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Strange Tale	I'm not a compulsive reader of fantastic true survival stories, but this one was available on tape from the public library, and I have some Norwegian in my genes.    It started with a lot of bullets over the head and exploding boats and boots lost in the snow and frostbite -- many, many good people who risk their lives for something intangible. The book, I feel, is very good at expressing the states of mind of the people involved -- it's not a simple recounting of events.    But there's one major event that starts about 2/3 of the way through the book, which was so fantastic that I sort of didn't believe it... until I met two of the people involved in the organization that rescued him. That event says so much about the power of the human mind -- how much our thought and will do, after all, determine whether we live or die.    One other thing that sticks in my mind concerns the Lapps. The Norwegians are good skiers and strong people by modern civilized standards (I mean that itsy bitsy  country beats the whole world in the winter Olympics). The story tells how they tried several times to get Jan across the Swedish border, but just couldn't get the sledge far enough given the time constraints, the weather and the topography. They tried to involve the Lapps early on, but the Lapps have a different approach to such things. Like most nomads, they won't leave their herds, but they do leave their weak behind to die in the snow. Then after a month or two, a Lapp migrates into town and decides to check out the situation. Horwath describes how he just stands there for 3-4 hours staring at him in the Arctic snow, and then finally resolves to take him across into Sweden. He and his friend receive some brandy in gratitude, drink several bottles in one night and seem none the worse for it, and then the following morning kind of non-chalantly pull off what the Norwegians could not. That combination of ability to do what their more sophisticated neighbors could not combined with the lack of sense of urgency interests me.	2003-07-16
US	52280026	R38UG8593LFYUP	0879757051	724452350	Wealth of Nations (Great Minds)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	The Tao of Economics	This is one of the truly great books produced by the Western world. Although much has been written on economics since, it considerably broadened my perspective to read it in the original.<br />I can't help feeling that those who pan Wealth of Nations as an apology for exploitation simply haven't read it. Thats simply not what the book is about. For if you really do care about the underpriveleged masses -- and it's imminently clear that he really does -- then you better consciously organize your state in such a manner that money will flow naturally where it's most needed.<br />I'd been told before I read it by several people that AS was, for example, apologizing for the East India Trading Company? Does his apology for EIT include the lengthy chapter which discuss in full detail how and why the East India Trading Company was responsible for an wide array of abuses in the Far East, and why no similar company would be legal if a society were fully moral and knew its own best interest?<br />Nor is it a blind apology for laissez faire economics, though it does recommend non-intervention by the government insofar as that is possible. Still he fully recognizes the need for social services, rightly understood and rightly executed.<br />In fact, I can't see how anyone who reads it could view it as an apology at all -- it's simply a statement of fact. Adam Smith is not the one carrying an ideology around on his shoulder. You may not like it that the world works this way -- that's another matter. But that IS the way it works... you are made to see that for yourself. It is not imposed on you as dogma.<br />And after reading AS, I'm left feeling very happy that that's the way the world works.<br />I think the most fundamental idea I am left with after reading all those pages, is that wealth is a verb, not a noun. Land and labor (i.e. food and farming) are the bottom line of economics. Treat your farmers well. Unjust practices in trading will ultimately backfire.<br />The dynamo which runs the machine that creates wealth lies within each individual - it is the individuals will to better his or her condition. To the degree that this aspect of human nature is given the power to express itself , the nation will be vitalized internally.o which runs the machine that creates wealth lies within each individual - it is the individuals will to better his or her condition. To the degree that this aspect of human nature is given the power to express itself , the nation will be vitalized internally.	2003-05-14
US	52280026	R1ZSVJ0LNU8PZ1	0553569074	758251476	Wouldn't Take Nothing for My Journey Now	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Essential Maya	This is my favorite of the books I've read in which Maya Angelou sits around contemplating life, though it's perhaps not the most representative of her work. For the moment she sets aside her intellectual self, her history, her issues -- anything by which you might identify her as anything but a fellow member of the human race. In this book you're left with the essential Maya -- the wise woman with the great heart and the steady mind who speaks out from timeless space. It's an easy read, and life feels better when you're done. And if you're at the end left in doubt whether she's also a world-wise and savvy intellect, then anything else she has written will put your doubts to rest.  I love Maya Angelou.	2003-05-14
US	52280026	R1KA9MUHC5BX8H	0140432086	724452350	The Wealth of Nations: Books 1-3 (Penguin Classics) (Bks.1-3)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Tao of Economics	This is one of the truly great books produced by the Western world. Although much has been written on economics since, it considerably broadened my perspective to read it in the original.<br />I can't help feeling that those who pan Wealth of Nations as an apology for exploitation simply haven't read it. Thats simply not what the book is about. For if you really do care about the underpriveleged masses -- and it's imminently clear that he really does -- then you better consciously organize your state in such a manner that money will flow naturally where it's most needed.<br />I'd been told before I read it by several people that AS was, for example, apologizing for the East India Trading Company? Does his apology for EIT include the lengthy chapter which discuss in full detail how and why the East India Trading Company was responsible for an wide array of abuses in the Far East, and why no similar company would be legal if a society were fully moral and knew its own best interest?<br />Nor is it a blind apology for laissez faire economics, though it does recommend non-intervention by the government insofar as that is possible. Still he fully recognizes the need for social services, rightly understood and rightly executed.<br />In fact, I can't see how anyone who reads it could view it as an apology at all -- it's simply a statement of fact. Adam Smith is not the one carrying an ideology around on his shoulder. You may not like it that the world works this way -- that's another matter. But that IS the way it works... you are made to see that for yourself. It is not imposed on you as dogma.<br />And after reading AS, I'm left feeling very happy that that's the way the world works.<br />I think the most fundamental idea I am left with after reading all those pages, is that wealth is a verb, not a noun. Land and labor (i.e. food and farming) are the bottom line of economics. Treat your farmers well. Unjust practices in trading will ultimately backfire.<br />The dynamo which runs the machine that creates wealth lies within each individual - it is the individuals will to better his or her condition. To the degree that this aspect of human nature is given the power to express itself , the nation will be vitalized internally.o which runs the machine that creates wealth lies within each individual - it is the individuals will to better his or her condition. To the degree that this aspect of human nature is given the power to express itself , the nation will be vitalized internally.	2003-05-14
US	52280026	RZAVZULHD1T8F	0943914558	393799017	Plotinus: The Enneads (LP Classic Reprint Series)	Books	5	57	68	N	N	A River of Thoughts	It seems to me that the previous reviewer just doesn't like books in this  genre at all... Why review a Western - even the best Western ever written -  if you hate Westerns?    Anyway, I think most people who likes the writings  of Rudolf Steiner, Jacob Boehme, Plato, Meister Eckhart, Madame Blavatsky,  Manly Hall and the like will value this book. It's in an intellectual  style, so although what he thinks is similar to what Krishnamurti or Joseph  Campbell think, the style will put some people off... I personally can take  either style depending on my mood, and find a certain kind of precision is  won by addressing things to this extent from the intellect and another kind  of poetic or musical precision is lost in this intellectual style. But then  I'm basically a very nerdy sort of person trying to disguise myself as a  citizen. I think just by reading a sentence here or there from the book,  you can judge in a few moments whether the style and content are for  you.    Plotinus is a mystic. He believed the transcendent realm to be more  REAL than this material realm. He believed the material realm to emanate  from the transcendent realms... or to be more accurate, he didn't BELIEVE  this, but he SAW this through mystical insight. And this book is just a  series of some of his notes regarding the nature of things from the  perspective of this higher consciousness.    I just read this book for the  first time a couple weeks ago at the local university library, and it  immediately fell in with my favorite books. I'm the sort of person that  spends a couple months preoccupied with a certain range of questions, and  when I reach a certain level of clarity about them, my curiosity drifts to  something else. Plotinus struck me as a wellspring of perspectives on the  kinds of issues that interest me... something I'll keep returning to.    If  you will indulge me, let me offer a case in point... recently I have found  myself interested in the question of what the relationship is between  events that happen sequentially in time and the general laws of nature  which govern them. My brother is a nuclear physicist. I was telling him  about a couple premonitory experiences I had, and he started musing about  how the current laws of physics would have to be modified account for  travel backward in time... I didn't follow what he said entirely, but he  did mention that the only major physical law which presumed that time moved  in one direction was the second law of thermodynamics. He said that the big  problem with backward motion in time was that there would have to be some  kind of constraints to prevent obvious paradoxes... like you go back before  you were born and kill your mother. He said that perhaps stronger  constraints could be applied to the wave function to allow for this. ???  Then we started discussing how a lot of people are uncomfortable with the  'counter-intuitiveness' of quantum theory. Our tendency is to ask which  particle hit which particle when, and from the perspective of QED, that  question makes no sense. You just have to calculate probablities over all  possible paths and not ask what exactly happened - who the guilty party is,  so to speak. We like a knee-bone-connected-to-shin-bone sort of  outlook.    This whole range of questioning concerns (to my mind) the nature  of the relationship between motion in time and general laws which govern  it. In order to 'explain' or understand certain kinds of phenomena in  nature, you have to back away one step from the specifics and fly up into  the realm that transcends them. This was Plotinus' specialty.    Well, a  couple days later, I ran across Plotinus in the library and in the 4th  Ennead, I found a whole range of questioning that joggled my thinking  relative to this in some way I can't define. I saw, for example, that this  is similar to the linguist deSaussure's distinction between langue and  parole. (I'm a linguist.) A whole range of questions on the structure of  language might be profitably viewed from this perspective.    So I can't  say, \\"Read this book because it's fun and it will help you build a  better bridge.\\" But I'm absolutely convinced that the guy was for  real, that he spent a lifetime patiently wandering through certain realms  which seem the most irrelevant to us, but are in fact the most relevant...  that he was unquestionably an expert in what he did.    An example of  Plotinus writing to give you a flavor:    \\"No doubt the task of the  soul in its more emphatically reasoning phase is intellection: but it must  have another as well, or it would be indistinguishable from the  Intellectual Principle. To its quality of being intellective, it adds the  quality by which it attains its particular manner of being... It looks  toward its higher and has intellection toward itself and it conserves its  particular being, toward its lower and orders, administers,  governs.\\"    (Website removed)	2000-09-06
US	52280026	R2FG6HJUIWG2WG	0670869759	165779256	A Course in Miracles	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Third Testament	This book has probably had more effect on my life and thinking than any other. It occupied much of my life for a full two years, and still, many years later, I read in it with a smile, like I listen to the works of Bach... somehow remarkable and hopeful that it happened at all. It is one of the truly great works of civilization -- not just a New Age fad.<br />It is not a work to be accepted on faith, but of inner science -- I have little patience for things that want me to accept premises just because somebody said so. Everything in this book led me from conclusion to conclusion in a manner I could verify from my own internal processes... And the book did most certainly lead me through a process of increased awareness relative to the foundation of my being.<br />For example, I always instinctively felt mind to be prior to matter, but I was always confused about the dichotomy as well. I now feel solidified in my understanding. The material realm is truly a thought... it cannot be otherwise. Love is literally the foundation of all things. There is no attainment other than forgiveness (rightly understood), through which all things are accomplished.<br />And then when the Interent happened, I learned about all these power struggles, organizations and discussion groups relative to the book. I feel thoroughly disconnected from most of them... at the very least, the effort to restrain the populace to the one true interpretation of the work seems to my obviously counter to the work's nature. The way I read it, the very gesture of trying to impose a forcible limitation on someone's natural process in order to produce the desired Result runs counter to the achievement of this Result -- the achievement of it is guaranteed to be frustrated.<br />Oh well. I suppose it's inevitable... but don't let the nonsense fool you. This one is for real. This one is Great.	1999-03-30
