US	52289955	R357SZMP8S7CTU	0804115974	401923673	The Ghosts of the Highlands	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting story - could have used some writing help	This is an interesting book about some highly skilled and brave soldiers who worked in small numbers in dangerous areas gathering intelligence on the ground in the Vietnam war.  They were an elite, hand picked group which took extraordinary risks to make it possible for their combat partners to be able to find high value targets and destroy them.   <br /> <br />The only reason I limit the book's rating to four stars instead of five is that I felt the author lacked the writing skill to be able to truly tell the story in a way that helped the reader appreciate the things these soldiers did.  Great writers paint word pictures that put readers \\"in the scene\\" and enable them to visualize what happened and to feel like they somehow know the characters.  This writer did a credible job of reporting the story, but he didn't truly bring it to life.   <br /> <br />If you're interested in the history of the Vietnam war or military operations, you will probably enjoy this book.  It's brief and interesting.  It just doesn't fully develop the potential of the story.	2005-07-13
US	52289955	RXUNB9YJPTOC8	0316608211	350037876	Drama City	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Top quality; a little low on quantity	This is a small masterpiece from my favorite and, as far as I know, America's finest crime writer.  My only complaint about it is that it's not as long as Pelecanos' typical book.  Maybe he's stretched too thin working on HBO's The Wire or some other project; but, doggone it, I wish he'd author up more work for my enjoyment. <br /> <br />And, \\"doggone it\\" is the right phrase relative to this book because the main character is an animal control officer and an ex con.  The author has a terrific knack for producing characters who have everyday kinds of jobs - bartender, cook, electronics salesman and here the \\"dog man\\".  He weaves these jobs into the fabric of the character and enriches the story with the ways they carry out their work duties and their outside work adventures.  This is a great story - rich characters, suspense, revenge, redemption.  I just wish it were longer.  If you don't read it, it's your loss.  If Pelecanos doesn't write another book soon, it's my loss because I've already read all his others.	2005-04-28
US	52289955	R2XD2B64TCHL5M	0767911784	137552265	Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Easily the best of the Enron books	I've read all or most of the Enron books and I believe this one is clearly the best of the bunch.  If you're only going to read one, this is the one to pick.  I think the author did a good job of reading and analyzing all the prior work and used some of it to shape this tome.  He also did a far better job than most of the other Enron writers of writing a readable, entertaining book.  It's long, but it's not boring or lacking in substance. <br /> <br />The only weaknesses I would highlight about this book are related mainly to a fairly obvious reliance on a small number of key sources who were undoubtedly trying hard to make themselves look as good as possible - Kaminski, Bowen et al; and to the book's light treatment of some of the key business details that led to the mess - the crazy compensation system, for example.  But, there's a lot more strength than weakness in this book.  The author is clearly both a gifted writer and a dogged investigator.  That's just the right combination for this story.	2005-04-10
US	52289955	R27L57IB3TPBY9	1400062675	605204353	The Fearless Man: A Novel of Vietnam	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Probably a better story than the storytelling delivered	I seldom rate a book that I've read all the way through as less than a four star book, because if I don't think they're that good, I don't finish them.  This book was an exception to that loose rule in that I felt sure early in the book that it was going to be very good, but I became more and more disillusioned with it as I plodded to the final page.  My fundamental problem with the book was that I never felt the author did a good job of clearly describing what was going on so that the reader could follow and visualize the story.  At first I thought that might have been a writing style, but as it repeated itself, I just concluded it was a writing flaw.  In my opinion, great writers put the reader into the story so that they can see and feel what's going on.  This author either couldn't or chose not to do that for me in this book. <br /> <br />And, that's a shame and a lost opportunity for me, because the story of this book is a pretty interesting one about a very strong combat leader and his friend, the chaplain.  Their personalities and experiences in life and in combat provided a sturdy skeleton of a story that might have become what I'd rate as a great book.  Instead, because of what I see as a failute to clearly describe what's happening, especially in the combat scenes, I found this book to be more and more of a chore to read rather than a joy.  You may read it and have a totally different view, but, if you ask me, I'd say you'd be better served to read anything written by James Webb rather than this book.	2005-02-27
US	52289955	R1UEOYHCKWY7S1	0446674060	833316395	A Is for Admission: The Insider's Guide to Getting into the Ivy League and Other Top Colleges	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Well written and well organized; useful and informative	This book struck me as being just as advertised.  An admissions officer who also has the benefit of being a graduate of the school that employs her, Dartmouth, set out a road map for anyone interested in understanding how highly selective schools evaluate prospective students.  She was careful to point out which of the rating formulas and techniques were specific to Dartmouth or the Ivies and which were generally used by most or all of the highly selective schools.  She explained the philosophy behind various subjective rating factors without being strident about their social engineering purposes.  She covered all the major topic areas concisely and in a well organized fashion.  The writing style was straightforward and easy to read. <br /> <br />If you're interested in this topic at all, this book is well worth reading.	2004-09-16
US	52289955	R374J60CNR2ZF3	0345457587	306699785	Shadow Account (Frey, Stephen)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	What, he couldn't work the Mafia or Bigfoot into the story?	To me, this book seemed a lot like Exhibit A in favor of story lines that are narrower and have more depth instead of broad story lines that don't really take the reader inside the story environment.  Frey threw a lot of ingredients into this story stew - Wall Street crooks, accounting crooks, big business crooks, political crooks, stripper crooks; whew, let me catch my breath.  And I guess that's my primary complaint about this book - it lacks focus.  I mean, couldn't you put together a good story with some compelling characters and a couple of surprising plot twists that would be better than one with a bunch of superficial characters and so many plot twists that the reader gets dizzy and throws up on his shoes?  I'm just asking. <br /> <br />So, here's a suggestion and a poison tipped dart kind of complaint about this book:   <br />1.  Suggestion - if you think you'd like to read good crime fiction, read anything by George Pelecanos or Scott Thurow. <br />2.  Poison tipped dart complaint - at one point in this book which specializes in white collar type, fancy dan accounting crime, the author drops in a scenario where the corporate bad guys cut their capital expenses by two billion dollars and increased earnings by the same amount by selling assets and leasing them back.  You might check with your local CPA, but that ain't the way it normally works.  Typically, the old expense item would have been the annual depreciation on the capital assets and the new expense item would be the annual lease payments.  Both of these items are about an order of magnitude lower than the full amount, so his dollar for dollar trade off doesn't make sense. <br /> <br />Which, puts that nonsense in line with the nonsense storyline - a junior investment banker outsmarting the system and loving his helpmate accounting sweetie while the chess playing Washington nerd outsmarts senior White House staff and political money cronies while the jilted girlfriend stalker helps the crooked insidetrader who works for the same boss as our banker hero who..... HELP! I've lost my balance and am in danger of falling down.  And I didn't even mention the crooked accountant or corporate crooks or stripper crooks.  So, I ask you this:  in a story this convoluted, why wasn't there room for the Mafia bad guys and Bigfoot?  And, I'll ask you this:  why am I giving this book three stars?  Just soft hearted I suppose.	2004-08-23
US	52289955	R2STN5UCM5IKCO	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An inside look at the administration of Larry, Curly and Moe	I'm still trying to figure out how George W. Bush and the people who get paid to do his thinking could not have been able to figure out that a close, inside look at the inner workings of his administration would show what a mess he has made of the presidency.  Woodward doesn't have to use venom or invective, the straight story will do just fine, thank you.  And I suppose when you bring together a reporter with Woodward's skill and credentials and a cocky, stubborn president who lacks intellectual vigor, you have the ingredients that can lead to a book like this.<br />And, what a book it is!  Apparently the Bushniks let Woodward run loose among them gathering so much truth about what happened within the administration leading up to and during the Iraq war that they'll have a hard time covering up the embarassing story about what a bunch of shallow thinking, simple minded mutts they really are.  I think their problem is that they spend so much time in their cocoon where no one dares utter a discouraging word or dares question the direction the true believers have already decided to take, that they really expect people to agree with them in spite of the stupid moves they make.<br />And, guess what?  I voted for George W.  I just wish I would have had an idea, confirmed by this book along with Paul O'Neill's, about what an intellectually bankrupt administration he would run.  I never though W. was smart or accomplished, but I did think he would hire good people, listen to reasoned arguments about issues and make good decisions.  As Woodward and O'Neill tell it, Bush, in spite of having no academic or work record that would suggest he knows what he's doing, already has all the answers (shaped only by Cheney and Rove) and doesn't have the time or energy to examine options or take the time to get it right.  Ready, fire, aim!!<br />I congratulate Woodward for getting this far inside the administration and doing a great job of serving as tour guide for readers through the administration of Larry, Curly and Moe.  Or is it Bush, Cheney and Rove?  Same difference.  Happy reading.	2004-06-01
US	52289955	R18YWQ6FWW2GIM	0060520736	558684870	24 Days: How Two Wall Street Journal Reporters Uncovered the Lies that Destroyed Faith in Corporate America	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting book, but fails to really exploit its strength	This is a pretty decent book.  It gives a fairly good overview of what went wrong with Enron and a fairly good look at the process the authors worked through in reporting on Enron for the Wall Street Journal.  So, why don't I rate it a 5-star book?  Mainly because it doesn't excel in either area.  As an Enron story, it's far less revealing than &quot;The Smartest Guys in the Room&quot;.  As a book about what it's like to be reporters breaking a huge story, I think it fails to convey the sense of excitement and accomplishment they must have felt.  So, in my opinion, they produced a good, interesting book that fell far short of its potential.<br />My memory of the events unfolding around Enron's spectacular failure places The Wall Street Journal in a leading role in terms of pressuring the company to start to be more forthcoming in its public dealings.  Surely there was a lot of intrigue and tension involved with being the reporters driving this story.  But this book doesn't really give the reader a feeling about what that was like.  Maybe it was as nearly routine as the feel of the book suggests, but I have to believe it was more gripping than that.  And as far as telling the Enron failure story, this book gives a decent overview, but there are better chronicles of that story.<br />So, was I disappointed that I read this book?  No, it was pretty good.  I just felt it could have been a lot more.  I think I'm coming to the conclusion that writers for periodicals don't tend to write the best books.  They're good at &quot;just the facts, Ma'am&quot; storytelling, but to deliver a really outstanding book, a writer has to be able to use the larger canvas to paint pictures that he can place the reader in.  These authors don't do that and, I'd say that unless you're pretty interested in the Enron story, you could skip this one.	2004-05-09
US	52289955	RNOQMRFBT85ZN	1591840082	853464652	Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The most informative Enron book; could be more readable	I've read most of the major Enron books that have been published and, in my opinion, this one is best in terms of delivering clear information about what happened to cause Enron's apparent success and its inevitable failure.  The authors show how Enron parlayed some very bad policies and practices:<br />1.  paying huge compensation on the basis of overly optimistic projections for projects that were really bad deals; <BR>2.  booking and reporting income by marking-to-market overly optimistic estimates of future purchases and sales;<BR>3.  creating a byzantine structure of special purpose entities built on a massive conflict of interest with its own crooked CFO and designed to keep the Ponzi scheme going to hide real results from investors and lenders; <BR>4.  paying its supposed overseers of directors, accountants and lawyers enough to get their greed to overcome their professional responsibilities;<br />into one of the most astounding and tragic business stories in American history.<br />Having praised the authors for their coverage of the story, I only rate the book as a four star effort because of the writing.  The writing is straightforward, efficient reporting as one might expect given the authors' background with Fortune magazine.  But, I believe that truly outstanding books are written by wordsmiths who are so good at telling a story that a reader finds the book hard to put down rather than being hard to pick up and slog through.  Too often for my taste I found myself working at reading to the end of this book rather than savoring it.  To me, that's the difference between a well chronicled story and an exceptional book.<br />Should you read this book?  I'd say definitely yes if you're interested in the Enron story.  Just don't expect to be entertained very much while you're being informed.	2004-05-02
US	52289955	R2S6YTFGM49C8W	0060555602	126822241	Confessions of a Tax Collector: One Man's Tour of Duty Inside the IRS	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An interesting look into a strange world	I enjoyed this book because it gave me a look into the world of an IRS revenue officer.  I had never really thought very much about why people took these jobs or what they were like, but this author provided a well painted picture of his experience as a revenue officer.  He seemed to be a little off center and the job placed him with coworkers who also were kind of strange.  But, becoming good at the work and making a decent living at it gave Yancey a platform to grow into a person who could excel at a job and pursue personal growth in body building and romance.<br />I thought the author did a good job in describing his quirky coworkers and the battles he had to fight to collect revenue from delinquent taxpayers.  He learned to play the game he had to play to succeed in his job and he used his job to form a relationship that enriched his life.  If you have any interest in how things work inside the IRS, I think you'll find this book to be well worth reading.	2004-04-17
US	52289955	R3G54GHKYWRCLD	0316608971	863990662	Hard Revolution: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great crime novel wonderfully set in a historical context	I'm a huge Pelecanos fan and this book further solidifies my admiration for this exceptional writer.  I can't imagine that any reader who enjoys crime fiction wouldn't love this book.  It brings two major components that make it so outstanding - a well spun crime story and a context of historical significance.  <br />The crime story involves the prequel for one of Pelecanos' main characters in some of his earlier work, Derek Strange, and lets us know how he came to be the private detective he is in those books.  In this story, Derek is a pioneering young black police officer in Washington, D.C. in 1968 before and after Martin Luther King's killing and the subsequent civil unrest.  He winds up working two big cases with a veteran detective, one involving Derek's brother.  He works the other case also with his young white partner.  <br />There are many racial currents in this book and, in my opinion, the author handles these very well and completely without any phoniness.  There are good and bad black guys, white guys, Greeks, Jews, etc.  The story lines are intriguing and the word pictures the author paints put the reader right in the scene.<br />I'd rate this book right up with The Big Blowdown as one of Pelecanos' best efforts (A Firing Offense is my favorite).  Both of these fine books have an earlier historical setting that he uses to great advantage.  So, I'd say if you haven't read any of Pelecanos' work, this book would be a fine place to start.  And, I'll bet that if you start, you'll enjoy much more of his work.	2004-04-04
US	52289955	R2QLGPCV7Q54KR	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	234	267	N	N	Pablo's Truth Telling about W and the Mayberry Machiavellis	In spite of my whimsical review title, I believe this is a very, very important book that every voter in the country should read.  O'Neill is the first guy who's left the administration and is \\"old enough and rich enough\\" to tell the truth about how the current adminstration operates.  I think most of us who voted for W last time did not expect him to be smart or hard working - after all, he had no history of success at anything other than being the son of President Bush 41.  But, I do think we expected him to surround himself with wise counsel, listen carefully to their analysis and advice, lead his team to a consensus on the best path and then act.  As this book makes crystal clear, Bush is just a dim, lazy leader who does what Cheney and Karl Rove tell him to do.<br />Having spewed that venom, I will say that through much of this book I found myself irritated with O'Neill.  It seems like he took the job of Treasury Secretary more to feed his own ego than any other reason.  Yes, I believe he's interested in doing good, but could he really be so naive as to take this job so quickly without more due diligence on his role and how things would work?  And after he clearly saw what a screwed up operation he was part of (\\"kids rolling around on the lawn\\" reference), why didn't he take a policy stand then when he had some real political capital to spend and make some hay with?  My guess is that he wishes he had done both of those things, but since he didn't, writing this book was one thing he could still do.  And, I got back on his side based on the way he handled his firing.  I do believe he's a \\"truth teller\\" and the truth is that this administration is run by ideologues named Rove and Cheney who have a powerful toy named W who does what they tell him to and pronounces it to be leadership instead of puppetry.<br />O'Neill's book gets me to this point by explaining how ideas and analysis and debate are not part of this administration's operation.  Cabinet secretaries have roles to play and lines to read, but they aren't supposed to nay say about anything the Mayberry Machiavellis have already told W to do.  If they dissent, they aren't team players and they will be trashed in the press and eventually \\"resigned\\".  With no analysis and little experience or smarts, is it any wonder W makes so many dumb mistakes?  I think not.<br />If you want to learn some important things, read this book.  If you prefer to lazily continue to think W's doing the job right, keep on snoozing.  After all, he is.	2004-03-18
US	52289955	R2B70MGXLI8DXK	0684815095	867634714	The Last Shot: City Streets, Basketball Dreams	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good story, could have been a great book with better writing	I found this to be an interesting story and a pretty good book.  I thought the descriptions of the coaches' recruiting antics were very enlightening and well written.  Being able to use some of the real names, particularly very well known ones such as Stephon Marbury and Jim Boeheim, added a lot to the credibility of the book.<br />Where I found this work to be lacking was in the descriptive writing.  Really good writers construct word pictures that are vivid and allow the reader to better experience the story being told.  I didn't find the writing quality in this book that would have made me rate it a 5 star effort.  This author's style seemed to me to be more like a newspaper reporter's - limited to a fixed amount of space and more focused on the basics than the aesthetics.  Outstanding books also need to deliver the aesthetics in the form of well painted word pictures.  I wish this book had been stronger in that area.	2004-03-13
US	52289955	R3TU72HGX6ARB6	1400061563	942724151	Death by Hollywood: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It's a better story than a book	If you could round up a good director, some good actors, a good cinematographer, etc., I bet you could make a heck of a movie or tv show out of this story.  It has a lot of nifty twists and turns and surprises, with a fair amount of sex and intrigue mixed in.<br />But, this is a novel.  And, as a novel, it's not that great.  Great novels are written by authors who can paint a word picture of the scene that puts a reader right in the middle of it.  This book is more like an outline - it's pretty short - that might have been turned into an outstanding book by someone who can really write.  George Pelecanos comes to mind, or maybe Turow.  Bochco is gifted for sure.  Just not as a novelist.  I think he'll do fine if he sticks to writing material for tv or the screen.  Otherwise, I'll feel free to skip any more of his books and spend my reading time on works by authors who can deliver the entire package with words on a page.	2003-11-12
US	52289955	R1TGD4DTBHLIGA	0471237604	670945541	Enron: The Rise and Fall	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A &quot;fair and balanced&quot; treatment that can cure insomnia	I've read several Enron books, from Cruver's poor product to Lynn Brewer's silly treatise, and I have to say that this one is probably more accurate and balanced than any of the others, but..... it's a real snorefest.  Any author that can take a fascinating story like this and put a reader to sleep with it is not really overachieving in my view.<br />I guess Fox couldn't get anyone significant to talk to him and maybe that held him back some, but it didn't keep Cruver and Brewer and Swartz from producing more entertaining stuff in their efforts which were similarly unencumbered by input from people who were really making it happen.  Oh well, he produced a &quot;fair and balanced&quot; treatment that just might help you with that insomnia thing.	2003-09-18
US	52289955	R3VI9L96380D3K	1589392485	183728855	House of Cards: Confessions of an Enron Executive	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Am I the only one who wonders how truthful this book is?	I see that this book is getting glowing reviews and I'll admit I did enjoy reading most of it.  But, there are some things about it that just gave me a feeling that the picture the author painted may have been distorted, exaggerated and not really very objective.  I can't say I'm sure this is the case, but there were just a lot of flags that kept popping up that made me wonder.  <br />To begin with, the book is supposed to &quot;Confessions of an Enron Executive&quot;.  The only thing she &quot;confessed&quot; was that almost everyone at Enron she dealt with was dishonest, crooked, mean spirited and/or incompetent.  She, on the other hand, was a paragon of hard working virtue.  Next, she wouldn't fit any reasonable definition of an executive.  She was a contract administrator and a fairly high level administrative assistant.  She also had a number of very strange situations from her personal life, many of which predated her Enron job.  She may have presented all of them in a fair and honest light, but there were some that were hard for me to believe happened just the way she described.  She mentions an online search she did on Mark's husband, Jusbasche, and the indictment he had been under, but I couldn't duplicate that with Google or with a multiple search engine tool.  I'm not saying he wasn't indicted, but I wonder where she really got the information.  This is rambling, but I just kept getting the feeling that I was maybe getting a highly biased and possibly very distorted account of what happened.  Maybe that's why &quot;Harper Collins Signed then Refused to Publish&quot;.  Maybe their bs detector went off too often.	2003-09-06
US	52289955	R2MBIDRRH1XENF	0963518569	609245138	The Sunshine Soldiers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	the army's "got some 'splainin' to do"	I thought this was an entertaining book, but I think I'd have enjoyed it more if I could have better placed it in context.  By this, I mean that I didn't understand whether the type of Keystone Cops training that this group of reservists and what not received was the same as that given to more \\"regular\\" soldiers.  If so, as Ricky might say to Lucy, the army's \\"got some 'splainin' to do.\\"  Troop levels in Vietnam were still high when this took place and it's hard to imagine putting people at risk with this kind of incompetent training.<br />Having said that, the book is pretty funny if you overlook the pathetic training regimen.  The author and several of his cohorts seemed to have a great time thumbing their noses at the discipline.  I find it hard to imagine the army letting them get away with what the author says they did.  But, if they did as he wrote they did, the army needs to answer Ricky's question.  The rest of us are free to just enjoy the humor.	2003-08-14
US	52289955	R105ST72BQ9KCG	074320400X	862885340	This Ain't Brain Surgery: How to Win the Pennant Without Losing Your Mind	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An interesting and entertaining guided tour of baseball	I enjoyed this book greatly.  Larry Dierker is a very bright guy who seems to have a gift for looking at situations and seeing them from angles that other sports figures would never find.  An example of this is his telling Darryl Kyle to improve his pitching by playing a lot of serious golf in the off season.  He also has the capacity to be self critical in ways that appear to be quite honest. He has real writing talent, which I always enjoyed when he wrote columns for the Houston paper when he was in the broadcast booth.  He comes across as a guy you'd love to tip a few with.<br />I like the way the book is organized, with chapters dedicated to individual baseball topics like spring training, scouts, etc. and relating Dierker's experience in the area.  There's enough humor to generate plenty of smiles and enough serious stuff to let a reader get a feel for what baseball players, managers and broadcasters go through.  <br />In my opinion, if you have any interest in baseball you should enjoy this book.	2003-07-30
US	52289955	R11V22247FGXDW	0385488858	724143692	Who's Your Caddy?: Looping for the Great, Near Great, and Reprobates of Golf	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The great chapters carry the day over the dullards - read it	I've enjoyed Rick Reilly's writing for years and this book adds to that history.  Rick is a solid writer by all standards, but the area where I believe he really distinguishes himself is in writing inspirational pieces.  In this book, that pattern is continued through the chapter in which Rick caddies for Bob Andrews, the blind golfer.  If that chapter doesn't touch you, you need to reevaluate what you're doing.<br />The book also includes solid chapters about Rick caddying for Jill McGill, John Daly and Tommy Aaron.  I could easily have skipped some of the others - Tom Lehman and David Duval had to have been two of the dullest possible options from the pro golfer ranks and is anybody really as interested in Donald Trump as he is in himself?  But, you have to take the mediocre to get to the really good in this book, and the really good here is truly exceptional.  Skip the dullards if you like, but at least read the best chapters.  They're solid gold.	2003-07-06
US	52289955	R31BOSZCS65FHC	1588341038	787776597	When Thunder Rolled: An F-105 Pilot over North Vietnam	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A workmanlike effort that could have been a masterpiece	This is a really nice book - a meaningful story told in a simple and straightforward manner.  The author and his colleagues had a very high risk job flying combat missions in the Vietnam war.  Every successful mission brought them one closer to their magic number of 100 which would complete their tour and take them to a safer assignment.  But every mission carried the danger of death or a POW camp.  This book tells that story in a workmanlike fashion.<br />I guess that's why I gave it 4 stars and not 5.  The writing is workmanlike; good grammar and proper English, but lacking in the artistry that can be employed by gifted writers who know how to put a reader in the scene and have him truly see the sights and feel the emotions that are there.  I think you have to fault the publisher for this shortcoming.  If the author had been given some first rate writing help, this book could have been a masterpiece.  As it is, it's a solid effort, well worth reading, but not all it could be.	2003-06-29
US	52289955	ROHEBMW12OFZK	0807843911	263698554	Working-Class War: American Combat Soldiers and Vietnam	Books	3	20	46	N	N	Author credibility issues turned me off;  book not all bad	This book turned me off early when, in the Introduction, the author states:  &quot;No one knows how many veterans have committed suicide as a result of theeir wartime experiences, but most specialists who have worked closely with veterans believe the number of suicides far exceeds the number of men who died in the war itself.&quot;  That seemed wrong to me, so I followed his supporting footnote which stated &quot;As early as 1971 the National Council of Churches estimated that 49,000 veterans had died from various causes after returning home.&quot;  Since 49,000 is less than the more than 58,000 who died in the war, and since there's no indication that a majority of the 49,000 committed suicide, I thought the author had already lost his credibility.  I also had to wonder about his academic advisors who were supposed to be overlooking this doctoral thesis at Harvard.  Based on this, I decided not to read the book line for line, but to simply skim it to find areas of interest.<br />And, I did find some.  The chapters in the book that dealt with direct military experiences in basic training and in the war were pretty good.  They are worth reading.  But, once you drift into the author's interpretations, I'd recommend you skip or read with skepticism.  I think the author has a clearly antiwar, liberal viewpoint and is willing to embellish to help express it.	2003-06-25
US	52289955	R2PHXD0RWT3PST	0743457579	156753577	The Village	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A great story dulled down by the author's writing style	I am glad I read this book because it is an important story to consider regarding the Vietnam war.  It's important in that by describing the experience of a fairly small number of effective Marines posted permanently in a village area, this book makes a reader think about how the war effort might have been more effective if this strategy would have been employed on a much larger scale.  For that reason and because of the admiration I have for the author's service, I hesitate to be critical.  But, I think this book failed to reach its potential.<br />To me, the book is weak in writing style.  I read some praise for the author's plain style and I typically favor that style as well.  However, in this book, I thought the descriptions of the people, the places and the actions to be so spare that the book bordered on being dull.  It was an effort for me to finish it and I don't think it should have been.  I just didn't feel like Mr. West helped us to know the people and what they went through very well.  I think if a great soldier/author like James Webb, Tim O'Brien or Charles Anderson had written this story it would have been an incredibly powerful book.  As it is, it's a great story dulled down by the writing.	2003-06-18
US	52289955	R1QEPD2EAEDWNP	0385507879	172781303	Power Failure: The Inside Story of the Collapse of Enron	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Faint praise for a pretty good, fairly well written book	This is the third Enron book I've read and, in my opinion, this one is clearly superior to the books by Bryce and Cruver.  Power Failure had things going for it that the other two did not - an insider who had been at Enron for quite a while and who was at least high enough up the ladder to have some contact with a few of the key players and a professional author to do the writing.  Also, the insider here is a knowledgeable enough business person to keep this book from making some of the silly points found in the other books.  The result is a pretty good book that is fairly well written.<br />Does that sound like faint praise to you?  I suppose it should because that's pretty much the way I feel about Power Failure.  I didn't find major flaws, but I also didn't find myself savoring the book even though I'm obviously interested in the subject.  I can say that I've read other work by Mimi Swartz in Texas Monthly magazine and generally had a similar reaction - she can take a great topic and produce an OK, but not outstanding story.  In this book, perhaps I just didn't share her stated great admiration for Ms. Watkins.  I think she did something that took courage, but she was always acting in her own best interests (and inside the organization) and does not, in my view, deserve to be grouped with the whistleblowers from the FBI and Worldcom as she has been.  I also think Ms. Swartz missed the mark in her description of the Boxer/Skilling exchange in the Senate hearings and its aftermath.  I watched those and didn't find Boxer's comments nearly as powerful as Ms. Swartz recounted them (maybe Ms. Swartz likes liberal Democrats, particularly if they're female?) and I thought the comment about Skilling's red or teary eyes could well have been due to the exchange about Baxter's suicide and not about the whupping he took from Watkins and Boxer.  <br />Anyway, enough said - if you're interested in the Enron story, this book is worth reading.  At the same time, there's still room for a really good book on the subject.	2003-05-19
US	52289955	R20DBFQ88KPYQD	0679764100	936565463	Sacrifice	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Admire the author, but lukewarm about his novels	I've now read 3 Vachss novels, all early works, and at the end of each one I wrestled with the question of whether or not to read another one.  I picked this one after reading the favorable reviews here and I did find it to be better than Blue Belle and Strega.  All of these books have had some appeal to me.  They present some hard boiled guys like the main character Burke who have been to prison and are still criminals, but who now mainly just take advantage of [child stalkers] and other creeps in various scams.  This frees them to do what they really like to do which is bring certain of these creeps to rough justice.  I find that to be an entertaining and appealing story theme.  This book goes into an unusual direction in that there is an abused multiple personality child who is a killer.  This leaves room for lots of interesting and edgy action.  <br />My problem with these books is that while I admire the author as someone who works to help abused children and writes stories that can educate others about what kind of evil people operate in these areas, I just don't find his writing ability to be at the level of top crime authors.  The word pictures just aren't as clear, the character development is so-so and there are usually a few over the top features that detract from the overall realism of the story.  So, my 4 star rating is given mainly for the good features I listed, while my conclusion is that I'm not now leaning toward reading any more Vachss books.	2003-04-07
US	52289955	R3EDIHK4WVWRML	0316608432	664665730	Soul Circus	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another home run for Pelecanos	Once a person establishes a solid track record, you begin to feel confident that they will deliver when they step up to the plate.  That's the way it is with A-Rod and Barry Bonds and that's the way it is with George Pelecanos.  With Soul Circus, big George again goes yard with a solid crime novel.  Drug dealers, good and bad ex cops, illegal firearms and street smart operators on both sides of the law populate this well written story set, as always, in the Washington D.C. area.<br />The main thing you need to know about this book is that if you like crime fiction, you ought to read this.  Pelecanos is an emerging superstar writer and this is prime time work.  My only problem with him is that he doesn't write as fast as I read.  I'll try not to hold that against him as long as he keeps writing great stories like this one.	2003-03-22
US	52289955	R171UVM8HBB2LF	0679761683	758179399	Blue Belle	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Vachss should mix in a little decaf	In my opinion, this is almost a very good book.  What I think primarily keeps it from being one is the &quot;over the top&quot; nature of so many characters and so many story elements.  For example, in this book one of the villains is Mortay, a hooked up martial arts killer.  No problem so far, but - he can dodge bullets??  Too much.  Pretty much everything about Belle is overblown as well.<br />I think if Vachss had just toned down things in general, he would have gained a lot of realism and delivered a fine book.  He has the elements, he just seems to lack the confidence in his story to not oversensationalize it.  <br />I've now read two of Vachss' books and I find I have the same feeling after reading this one as I did after Strega - I'm having a hard time deciding whether or not to read another one of his works.  He delivers some very intriguing, gritty crime material, but he burdens it with some negative baggage.  I think I'll browse the reviews for his other works and see if one of them sounds promising.  If so, maybe I'll check it out.  Otherwise, I think I'll move on.	2003-03-07
US	52289955	R1GCEHAXUFEJ4P	0679764097	75483092	Strega	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Lots of strength of story, a little weak on presentation	This book definitely held my interest and had a number of qualities that I like in a crime novel - tough characters, a moral direction, gritty urban scenes, a clear conclusion, etc.  The reason I only gave it 4 stars is that I didn't feel that the author did a very good job of character development on the main character or some of the supporting characters.  I also found the scene descriptions to be less vivid in terms of what the surroundings were like than they could have been.  In other words, an interesting story, but one not presented as well as some other authors (Pelecanos, Turow, Leonard) might have done.<br />I plan to read at least one more Vachss book before I decide to continue with his work or move on to other authors.	2003-01-28
US	52289955	R1IXIEX6D6FZJJ	0552127825	390476141	M	Books	3	1	6	N	N	An easily forgettable book	I thought this was going to be a good book about Vietnam, but, now that I've read it, I can see that my hopes were too high.  Did you ever read the beginning of a book and think to yourself, \\"it'll get going here shortly...\\"?  Usually, when I feel that way, I read a respectable portion of the book and then decide whether to finish it or drop it.  With this book, since it was so short, I finished it, but never stopped wondering when it would get going.  <br />I think the author needed to either write a longer book and better develop the characters and story or pare his effort down to a smaller focus on maybe one character.  As it is, he produced a not very well developed story populated by not very well developed characters.  A formula for a forgettable book, in my opinion.  I've read a number of excellent books about Vietnam, but I can't say I'd rate this as one of them.  I really can't recommend it.	2003-01-13
US	52289955	R3SC073EUJHU8Y	1852427167	68627565	Down by the River Where the Dead Men Go (A Five Star Title)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A very entertaining book, but not one of Pelecanos' best	I've now read all of George Pelecanos' novels and I loved them all, including this one.  If there's a better crime thriller author out there, I haven't found them.  Gritty seems to be the operative word in describing his work and this story is no exception.  His stories are all set in Washington D.C., with lots of great word pictures of places there and lots of music references.  It's an outstanding formula and Pelecanos works it very, very well.<br />Having said all the preceding, I will say that I'd rate this as clearly one of his lesser works.  If you haven't read the other books with Stefanos et al, I don't believe this book really gives you all the character development you'd like from a stand alone novel.  This book is fairly short and maybe that's why I felt that the characters and the story were a little short changed relative to other books by the author.<br />To sum it up, definitely read Pelecanos and you'll almost surely want to read this book and all his work, but don't select this as the first of his books - go with The Big Blowdown, A Firing Offense or Nick's Trip.	2002-12-31
US	52289955	RSGWE7LQYEXVX	0670031356	380324382	The Gatekeepers	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Decent, not very thorough book on a sorry process	I guess the author did a pretty good job of covering a limited subject - following one admissions officer and colleagues at one liberal, Eastern college.  My issue with this is: why not expand the coverage to contrast what happens at Wesleyan with what happens across a range of other colleges.  To not try to do that seems lazy and self limiting to me.  That's my general complaint with the concept of the book; otherwise, the author did a credible job of writing and closely following a number of student/applicants.<br />I also would have liked to have seen the topic expanded to get an idea of whether or not the process is as pathetic at other colleges.  What I saw here was a group of unqualified \\"social engineers\\" trying to feel good about themselves by discriminating against qualified candidates in favor of unqualified candidates that fit their idea of who their college needed to embrace to achieve diversity or whatever.  It seemed to me that the process was crying out for some adult supervision.  The admissions officers had no particular skill set or clear guidance from university policy makers from which to make their decisions.  So, you have people right out of college (or who may go from this work to be a flight attendant) making important decisions very, very subjectively.  That's great news if you're a popular minority or whatever, but it's maddening to everyone else.  If minority representation is a goal of the school, let them come up with an objective point system and boost the scores of those groups, but keep these lightweights from having so much subjective power.  Reverse discrimination is still discrimination and I don't know why anyone would appoint this motley group to be in charge of it.	2002-12-14
US	52289955	R2W21DY9EUD707	158648138X	14000679	Pipe Dreams: Greed, Ego, and the Death of Enron	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Lightweight fare flawed by author's lack of knowledge	I enjoyed a lot of this book, but, at the same time, it irritated me with the author's conclusions based on a woeful lack of fundamental understanding of business.  At the end of the day, it's just not a very credible analysis.  I think the author was misled by the people who would talk to him into telling a story they wanted and he wasn't sharp enough to figure out he was being duped.  Why can't publishers have experts read these books beforehand and clean up some of the junk that drag them down?<br />A couple of points:  I know a number of the key people in this story and worked with them (I was not at Enron) and did transactions with them.  I am not defending them as a whole.  In my opinion, the main players deserve the scorn and lawsuits they face as a result of their over aggressive and under principled actions at Enron.  But, a good book on the subject would be more accurate than this one and not so obviously distorted by the few people who would talk to the author.<br />Some specifics:  the author spends great time detailing the 1987 trading scandal that he says would have broken Enron if not for the cunning and heroic actions of Mike Muckleroy.  On page 41 he describes how if Enron had to take a $1.5 billion increase to its existing $3.5 billion debt, its debt would be greater than its $4.7 billion equity and thus the company would be broke!  In other words, he's saying any company with debt greater than 50% of total capital is broke!  In my opinion, any author who's this clueless on finance has no business writing a book of this type.  He goes on to describe this as Muckleroy \\"saving the company\\" and later describes how they could've been also sunk by having to cash collateralize their deals without his brinksmanship.  What a load of crap.  The 1987 trading losses hurt Enron, but clearly weren't big enough to break it.  The short term trading deals that were losers were not subject to being cash collateralized after they were made like the later longer termdeals were.  Muckleroy didn't save the company, but he did sell a naive author a bill of goods and get himself written up as a hero.  <br />The author also spends great time on the mark to market provisions, but he doesn't understand how they really work.  He makes it sound as if Enron just made up all the prices in the contracts.  That would very rarely be true as most contracts had more specific and fixed prices.  Another major distortion.  And former President Bush as an \\"employee\\" of Carlyle Group?  Please.  <br />Other than totally discounting the author's credibility, I found a lot of the book to be chatty and entertaining.  But, based on a few things I know about, I can't really treat those I don't as having much credibility coming from this author.<br />If you're interested in Enron's meltdown, you may find this entertaining.  Just take it with a grain of salt and stay tuned for a better book later.	2002-12-12
US	52289955	R22RP3T44TOLMB	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Kind of interesting, but not well done or an insider story	This book had some interesting stuff in it and mostly held my attention, but it should be no great surprise that it wasn't an outstanding book.  First, the author was not even close to being an \\"insider\\".  He was a mid to lower level employee in a startup function who didn't even encounter any of the key characters and who wasn't around long enough to provide much personal experience as background.  Second, he acknowledged he didn't have a clue about writing a book, and it showed.  He filled a lot of pages with material from readily available public information.<br />In addition to the basic criticisms above, I found the anecdotes to be questionable.  A book should be fact or fiction or fiction based on fact and it should be clear what it is.  What's this book?  I've read that \\"Mr. Blue\\" is not an individual, but rather a composite of several people.  Cruver presents Blue as a long time family friend.  Was he?  I doubt it.  I'd guess he just made up the meetings with Blue to fill pages and try to earn his author's advance (he got one?).  I'd bet he just took some rumors and wove some fictional meetings and calls with Blue to make it look like he had access to some inside perspective.  And why couldn't he use real names for his co-workers?  Were they ashamed of what they did?  Or were they made up?  It really boils down to a lack of credibility.  Like Enron, to me this book doesn't have much.	2002-11-22
US	52289955	R2H7X0BI8IISOR	0394436172	479472670	Military men	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Interesting, but kind of a lazy? effort	Maybe it's unfair to rate a book in 2002 written about the U.S. Army circa 1970.  Trying to keep that in mind, I still come to the conclusion that this is only about a 3 to 3 and a half star book for reasons that don't seem to me to be related to it being out of date when I read it.  <br />My criticism of the book has more to do with its outline and depth and its space allocation than its time frame.  In my opinion, the author wrote a book that was easy for him to write rather than a book that seriously attempted to address his stated topic - the state of the army as an institution.  To me, a more meaningful effort would have taken a much broader look than this book did.  I'm sure it's easy enough for an author to interview one maverick colonel (supposedly David Hackworth), three sergeants, one major, a few generals and other officers and use these to produce half the chapters of the book.  But, he didn't do much to show me that these individuals were representative of the state of the institution.  Anecdotal data is fine, but it really needs to be set in a clearer context to be meaningful.  <br />I also found his chapters on Futures and Machines to be rambling, sometimes boring and not persuasively pointing to substantive conclusions.  On the other hand, I did enjoy the chapters on West Point and the two bases, Hood and Lewis.<br />That's probably enough for you to get my drift.  I was disappointed in this effort particularly because I've read one very fine Ward Just book - A Dangerous Friend, so I know he can do great work.  I'm just not sure he put in the effort needed to make this a fine book. If you're really interested in military history, you'll probably enjoy this book.  Otherwise, there are probably a lot of other better books for your reading time .	2002-11-11
US	52289955	R3CM8D5FEDJ6Z9	0394735595	875447976	One to Count Cadence	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Lots of grit and extra edgy, but not a great book	I like gritty, edgy stories and this one is about as gritty and edgy as you can get.  But, I can't say I felt it had much more to offer.  The characters are pretty over the top and not well enough developed that you feel like you can relate to them.  The same criticism would apply to the story.  I also never really felt like I was in the scenes as their descriptions were not vivid enough to put me there.<br />I'll try at least one more Crumley novel before I write his work off and move on to other writers.  I think this was his first work and I also believe most of his other work is detective related.  Maybe he can bring the grit and the edge a little more fluidly to that genre.  It was simply too much of a chore to get myself to finish this book.	2002-10-23
US	52289955	RIR3LANBWWDWW	0743200705	357272213	Bud, Sweat, And Tees: Hootie, Martha, and the Masters of the Universe	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A light, fun read for any serious or casual golf fan	I found this to be an enjoyable book.  Like many others, I probably wouldn't have read it without Rich Beem winning a major championship this year and beating Tiger Woods in a truly great, clutch performance.  If you're a golf fan at any level or just a sports fan, I think you'll find this book worth reading.  It's not an award winning type effort, but the characters are interesting, as is the story.<br />I think what keeps this from being a 5-star book is that, in my opinion, the author did a journeymanlike job on it, but not an exceptional job.  I think he committed too much space to the caddy and not quite enough on the player.  The caddy's story is pretty simple - Steve does an outstanding job when he's into it, but he's such a disorganized screwup that he can't be counted on to show up, much less perform at a high level.  I didn't see him as a typical caddy, or worth as much space as the author gave him.  Rich, the pro, carried the book by being interesting.  He also has issues with not being professional, but he's such an interesting and likeable guy I enjoyed reading about him.  The author could have probably improved the book by adding to Rich's space and subtracting from Steve's space.<br />So, to sum it up, I think you'll like it if you have any interest in the subject matter, but don't expect a great book.	2002-09-27
US	52289955	R1K5LW5XSSN7QY	0312110618	56509702	Shoedog	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If you like crime fiction and can find a copy, read it	I've now read all but one of Pelecanos' books and, while I wouldn't rank Shoedog as even one of the top five, I still rate it a five star book.  The author has so many tools to work with that he can produce a terrific book even if he's not hitting it on all cylinders.  I thought this book was a little short, which limited the character and story development a bit.  And, several of the heist characters were also not as interesting as many others I've encountered in this author's books.<br />Having stated my criticism, I'll have to say I loved reading the book anyway.  Randolph, the Shoedog character, was superb.  The planning and execution of the robberies was gripping.  The Washington, D.C. and music references were characteristically well done.  The story had enough twists and turns and the ending was not that predictable.  If you like crime fiction and can find a copy (it's kind of scarce), I think you should read it.	2002-09-14
US	52289955	RBH3526W1Z6J9	1852427159	50954136	A Firing Offense (A Five Star Title)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Worth reading for the Johnny McGinnes character alone	Given that this is the author's first book and that it might not be quite as polished as later work, should you read this book?  My answer is:  yes, definitely.  In fact, I'd recommend that you read this as your second Pelecanos book.  I'd recommend The Big Blowdown as your first because it is set in an earlier period.  There are some key characters in this book who show up in later works and I would have enjoyed having read this for background about them.<br />Generally, this book has the standard qualities I love in this author's work - gritty crime stories, interesting characters and great scene development.  Besides that, this book would be worth reading for the Johnny McGinnes character alone.  He's a sidekick rather than a main player, but he is one wild and crazy and hugely entertaining guy.  Check him and this book out if you like crime fiction.  I don't think you'll be disappointed.	2002-09-06
US	52289955	R3ER9XS0OLCCBO	0440225957	325575522	King Suckerman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Below average for author, way above average for the genre	I've read most of Pelecanos' work and, in my opinion, King Suckerman would rank as one of his weaker efforts.  It's one of the earlier works and is worth reading for background on some characters who will show up in later books.  It's also worth reading because it's a slam bam, gritty crime novel.  It may not be one of the author's best books, but it's still one of the best crime novels I've read.  <br />As usual, Washington, D.C. is both the setting for the story and a living character in the book.  There are plenty of tough and weak, cunning and stupid players in the twisting story.  If you have a pulse and like crime fiction, I don't see how you can skip this book or anything else Pelecanos writes.	2002-09-01
US	52289955	R3VZQMI1VT6DVC	0312242913	219518729	The Big Blowdown	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great period piece of crime fiction by a superstar author	Pelecanos continues to amaze me.  The thing that particularly struck me about this book was the way he is able to transfer his scene writing skills to an earlier era.  He's just as effective in putting the reader in a scene in the 1940's as he is in writing more modern material.  Other than that, this book is just what I've come to expect from this author:  great character development with complex personalities, gritty people and places, a twisting, hard story that truly holds your interest, etc.  <br />I particularly liked the way the author worked World War II service into the lives of these characters, along with the fear of the big bomb being dropped on Washington, D.C.  Also, as usual, the good guys are not even close to being all good and not everything turns out OK in the end.  <br />Let me just sum up my thoughts on this book and this writer like this:  If you think you like crime fiction and you're not reading everything Pelecanos has written, it's your loss.	2002-08-18
US	52289955	R680KRK2L4SCT	0060082194	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A 3 and a half star book rounded up to a 4 star rating	This was my first Elmore Leonard book and I found it to be a pretty good, not great, effort.  The story had enough twists and turns and different ways to turn out to keep things interesting.  However, I did not find the character development or the scene descriptions to be as good as the story.  Hence, a four star rating - I'd give it three and a half if that were an option.<br />I may read another Leonard book, but probably not until I've read everything written by Pelecanos and Turow.  All their crime mysterys that I've read are better, in my opinion, than this book.	2002-08-07
US	52289955	R24VR1MZOFLGZB	0226051900	786320419	Franchising Dreams: The Lure of Entrepreneurship in America	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A worthwhile book, but not based on much of a data set	First, let me say this is a book worth reading for anyone who may ever consider buying a franchise or becoming a franchisor of a business model or for anyone else who might have an interest in how franchising differs from other business arrangements.  The author picked three fairly small franchise businesses for his study - a muffler shop, a cleaning business and a sign making business.  By interviewing and observing the franchisors and a group of the franchisees he makes observations and draws conclusions about franchising overall and characteristics of the key players - those who sell and administer franchise business opportunities and those who buy and operate the franchise sites.  I thought he did a pretty good job overall and his writing style was engaging.<br />Now for my criticism.  This really wasn't much of a sample to work with to make a broad study and draw the kind of broad conclusions in the book.  It would have been interesting to me and valuable to the study to have a lot more data - bigger enterprises like McDonald's and many restaurants, other industries and types of business, etc.  Without more data, I'd analogize this study to a study of the stock market based on the performance of 3 small cap stocks.  Interesting, but not really that much of a study of franchising overall.<br />Still, read this book if you have stars in your eyes about buying a franchise.  You'll learn a lot - widely used and greatly overblown claims about success of franchises versus individually started businesses, wildly one sided franchise contracts, hard to deal with franchisors and franchisees, etc.  You'll also learn how some have succeeded and see if you can project yourself into that scenario.	2002-07-30
US	52289955	R9MENRKOLR6J2	1555716156	97343441	Rockets Like Rain: A Year in Vietnam (Hellgate Memories Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A pretty good little book, but suffers from poor editing	I enjoyed this book and almost gave it four stars because I found the author likeable and found his story to be quite a bit different from many other Vietnam experience books I've read.  But, I had to mark it down because of the editing.  From a form standpoint, I'm not sure when I've read a book with more misspelled/misused words.  From a substance standpoint, I had a big question which the author didn't answer well for me and I think his editor should have pressed him to address it better than he did:  Why was he so widely disliked and trampled on by the other soldiers?  Was it because he was a virgin who didn't smoke dope?  Because he wouldn't stand up for himself?  Because the other guys thought he was goldbricking his medical time out of the field?  Because the other guys were just total losers?  I could reasonably draw any or all those inferences from what was written, but I think good editing or good writing would have forced him to address the issue directly.<br />It's a short book and an easy read and I don't regret reading it at all.  But, I think if you're looking for a really good Vietnam book, there are lots of better choices.  I'm very surprised to see all the 5 star ratings here.  Maybe I'm all wet or maybe they are.  Read the book and see what you think.	2002-07-30
US	52289955	R2KM1MNZEIIP1Z	1852427140	732966612	Nick's Trip	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A good place to jump on the Pelecanos bandwagon with me	Another fine effort by Pelecanos.  I had run across Nick in some of the author's other work, but I didn't really appreciate him until I read Nick's Trip.  Nick Stefanos is a strong character in his own right - witty, versatile and resourceful.  He handles a pretty tough situation in this well crafted story.<br />Better than any other crime mystery writer I'm familiar with, Pelecanos knows how to develop characters, paint interesting word pictures of what's going on and produce a fine story.  If he writes it, I'm reading it and I'd recommend you check him out.  This book is as good a place as any to start.	2002-07-30
US	52289955	R2DXEU2PJXSRUS	044023493X	882170667	The Sweet Forever	Books	5	9	10	N	N	What else would you be looking for in a crime novel?	This is a flat out terrific book.  Pelecanos weaves an intriguing story about a search for some stolen drug money, a battle for control of a neighborhood and a number of characters looking for a different  direction for their lives.  The scene descriptions are vivid and the character development is superb.  Exactly what else would you be looking for in a crime novel?<br />As a confirmed Pelecanos fan now after reading several of his books, I'd recommend a couple of things to anyone considering reading his work.  First, if you like tough, gritty crime novels, definitely read his work.  It is excellent.  Second, I think you're better off by reading the old stuff before the newer work.  The reason for this is that a number of the characters appear in multiple books and if you know a character will show up in a later work as an older person, you know they didn't get killed in the earlier work.	2002-07-13
US	52289955	RB20OVHR6KYPA	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great contribution to the historical record of Vietnam war	I think a reviewer has to give this book its warranted praise for the contribution it makes to the history of the Vietnam war.  Choosing to write John Paul Vann's history allowed this book to offer insight about the political and military mismanagement of the war which proved to be so costly.  The author is also due great respect for the comprehensive research he obviously put into this great effort.<br />Having praised the book and rated it highly, now let me list a couple of criticisms which may be important to readers looking for something from this book that it may not deliver.  First, the book is probably longer than it needs to be to deliver its most important points.  I think the author could have been more selective about what he put in the book and trimmed a couple of hundred pages without impairing its value much, if at all.  I got tired of reading it, which suggests the writing could have been more engaging, particularly given what an interesting and flawed subject Vann was and how interested I am in this history.  In other words, unless you are seriously interested in Vietnam war history, I'd be surprised if you finish this book.  Second, I didn't feel he gave as good an explanation as he might have about what was going on around Vann during his final assignment as a civilian \\"general\\".  In contrast, the author did a great job in this area for Vann's early service as a military advisor.<br />Overall I'd call this a great historical work which is readable if your interest level is high enough.	2002-07-03
US	52289955	R1E1DBN1TSSY9T	0440236355	602258802	Shame the Devil	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pelecanos is a genius at writing about bad guys	I would almost rate this a 5 star book based only on the descriptions and the dialogue of the bad guys in it.  I don't know how an author could develop such an intriguing way of writing about bad guys and their interaction.  Has Pelecanos spent time in prison or has he been an active criminal?  I doubt it, but he had to have some way to sharpen his writing skills beyond just reading others' books and watching movies, etc.<br />In addition to the virtues of the book which are mentioned above, there's a pretty good story going on here as well.  Maybe not as good as in some other Pelecanos books, but good enough to keep me wondering what was coming.  My only reservation about the book was that there were so many characters that I could have used a character list to help me keep track of who's who.  That's a feature I've seen occasionally and would like to see more often.<br />Overall, I'd rate this an outstanding work by an outstanding writer.  I can't wait to get into another one of his books.	2002-07-02
US	52289955	R1OAV2IFMDK488	0446610798	851439685	Right as Rain (Derek Strange/Terry Quinn)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	What a great movie this book would make!	This was my second Pelecanos book, after Hell to Pay, and I liked it even more than the first.  This guy can really write a mystery!  Again I found the character development to be outstanding and his way of painting word pictures of the scenes to be exceptional.  If you like gritty, edgy crime mysteries, I think you'll love this one.<br />I couldn't help thinking what a terrific movie could be made from this book.  Samuel L. Jackson or Danny Glover (mentioned in the book) would be great as Derek.  Matt Damon could be Terry.  I see Gary Busey as Earl, but haven't figured out an actor to play Ray.  If you read this book as I think you should, see what you think about my casting suggestions and how you can improve them.	2002-06-13
US	52289955	R21BYJKHE8V7RK	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great writing turns ordinary story into terrific book	If you share my belief that a really good author puts the reader in the scene with the characters, you'll probably appreciate the writing in this book.  Pelecanos knows how to paint the word picture so the reader can see it and feel it.  In this book, he takes what I'd rate as a fairly ordinary story and weaves it into a terrific book with great writing.  <br />This was my first Pelecanos book, but it won't be my last.  I'm eager to see what he can do with other story lines.  His character development is strong and his way of working current references to sports and music appealed to me in this book and I want to see how they play in some of his older work.  In summary I'd say that if you like urban crime books, you ought to do yourself a favor and read this one.	2002-05-28
US	52289955	RA92I1J0LB3AU	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good, but not overwhelmingly so;  Not a Turow quality book	I read this book because it got a favorable mention in Frank Bruni's book about George W. Bush, Ambling Into History, and I enjoyed it while I was reading it, but I have to say I was a little underwhelmed by it overall.  I thought the character development was good, but not great.  I thought the story was good, but maybe a little formulaic.  I have no major criticism for the book, but I didn't enjoy it enough to make me want to start another Connelly book soon, if at all.  <br />If you are a huge murder mysteries fan, you'll probably like this book just fine.  If, like me, you're a fan of excellent murder mysteries, you may also find that this one is not at all bad, but not excellent.	2002-05-21
US	52289955	R1POEUZD1UJTO0	0395488893	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great writing and story overcome unsatisfying ending	Well written and fascinating are the descriptions that first come to my mind in reviewing this book.  The main characters are interesting, but not very likable.  The story is suspenseful and terrifying, but not resolved.  I gave the book 5 stars for the quality of writing and its unusual style, but I have to admit that the conclusion did not add to my enjoyment of it.  Maybe it had to be the way it was because the main character was a magician and we could not really know the secret to his trick.  Still, I'm not generally a big fan of the \\"pick your own ending\\" writing style.  And, I have to admit that the ending of this story left me disappointed.<br />However, I so enjoyed the journey to the ending and so admired Tim O'Brien's terrific writing that took me there, that I have to recommend the book.  I don't think it is as good as If I Die in a Combat Zone, but it shows a versatility of writing that is quite impressive.  References to My Lai are probably better appreciated if the reader has done other reading about what happened there and who the real characters were.  Otherwise, the storyline should appeal to almost any mystery fan.	2002-05-11
US	52289955	R2KC59S6O8VISC	0066213711	63693352	Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Unbiased, evenhanded and well written - well worth reading	I thought the author did a fine job on this book.  In my opinion, he was about as evenhanded as anyone could be.  He pointed out things that Bush is criticized for and gave examples and contradictions to both highlight and test the criticisms.  He highlighted areas of praise for Bush and cited specifics where Bush earned the praise and others where he did not.  Throughout, he criticized without seeming biased and praised without seeming to be fawning.  Interviews with Bush, his parents, his wife and other key players are woven nicely into the mix, adding background and perspective.<br />Bruni also did a nice job of explaining how the candidate's handlers manage the press coverage and access to their man.  He had a nice, lighthearted tone about the plight of the overfed, overmanaged, overtraveled press.<br />All in all, I don't see how a reader could ask for a lot more from a book of this type - unless they are looking for total praise or total criticism.  If that's what you want, this book's not for you.  If you want a fair, entertaining look at our president and his campaign to win the office, I'd recommend you read this one.	2002-05-05
US	52289955	R222TNZPX70NTH	0671688774	20412244	Season on the Brink	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great Bob Knight story couched in so-so Feinstein writing	In reading this book, two things jumped out at me.  The first was that, to my surprise, the book made me like Bob Knight.  After all he's been through and all the disapproval I felt for some of the things he did, I just didn't think I could like him.  But, after reading this book, I think I understand him better and can see his good side as a coach and as a man much better.  He's made some big mistakes, but he does a lot of good work and a lot of great coaching. <br />The second thing that jumped out at me was what an ordinary job of writing John Feinstein did in this book.  Yes, he reported what happened, and he used language I understood, but he just didn't write in an interesting style.  Instead of developing characters on the team or among the staff to report around, he just basically ground out what happened.  I had to push myself to finish the book even though I'm a big basketball fan and was highly interested in the story.  This dullness surprised me because I hear Feinstein on the radio and see him on the tube frequently and almost always find him very entertaining and funny.  Maybe he hadn't really developed as an author when he churned this one out.<br />If you like basketball and have any interest in Bob Knight or Indiana, I'd say read this for sure.  Just don't expect to be captivated by the writing.	2002-04-19
US	52289955	R2R408M9QCAMJ	0684856212	21714705	Burn Rate: How I Survived the Gold Rush Years on the Internet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent writing + pretty good story = 4 star book	The main thing I took away from this book was how impressed I was by Wolff's writing skills.  He has a very absorbing way to describe people and events.  His ability to question and criticize his own ideas and actions makes his cutting descriptions about other characters more credible.  I'm sure some of the people in this book were none too thrilled to see it (Machinist and Rubin especially).<br />I would have rated this book 5 stars if the overall story had been just a little more interesting to me.  Some sections tended to drag, but they were offset by others that were exceptional.  If you have any interest in the tech boom and bust, I think you'd enjoy reading this book.  I can't imagine there are many other choices out there written by someone with as much perspective and writing skill as Wolff.	2002-04-18
US	52289955	R2TPG58TL4F9DG	038549226X	287222394	Loose Balls: Easy Money, Hard Fouls, Cheap Laughs and True Love in the NBA	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fun, light read for any basketball fan	I think most any NBA fan or casual follower will find this book entertaining.  And it's certainly interesting now, given the trouble Jayson's in for some of the same kind of wild behavior he talks about in the book.  It's hard to think of him as anything other than a fun loving guy who (allegedly) caused a horrible accident through wreckless actions.  In the book he talks about partying at his home so no one gets in trouble or fights.  <br />The anecdotes in the book are usually funny and offer a close and lighthearted insight into a lot of things big time basketball players encounter.  My instinct is that there's a lot of exaggeration in the stories, but I suspect they're generally true.  Jay comes across as a good guy, as you'd expect, and he seems to be genuinely thankful for his family and his talent.  It's hard to not like him and it's easy to enjoy this book.  Not great literature by any means, but a fun, light read.	2002-04-02
US	52289955	RLWLX7MBITN7K	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	3	1	3	N	N	I've read a great O'Brien book, but this isn't it	In my opinion, Tim O'Brien is an outstanding writer who authored a great book about Vietnam, If I Die in a Combat Zone.  He also wrote a highly acclaimed book, Going After Cacciato, which I tried to read, but just couldn't get into well enough to finish.  This book, The Things They Carried, fell between those two for me.  It was good enough to read, but not really good enough to rate very high.  <br />It's probably easier for an author to pull together a collection of fact and fiction stories than to write a regular book, but the results are a little harder to judge.  In this book, there are several very well done pieces, but, in my view, they were not enough to lift the other mediocre selections.  That left me viewing this book as a hodge-podge of good and mediocre material which was good enough to finish, but not really good enough to praise highly.  <br />...you may well like the book better than I did.  Still, I'd say that if you want to read a great Vietnam book by this author go with If I Die in a Combat Zone.  It's truly praiseworthy.	2002-03-11
US	52289955	R2AXIFM5PKTFM9	0446365505	524581926	Pleading Guilty	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Story + Mediocre Characters = Pretty Good Book	This is the third Turow novel I've read and it was the third he wrote.  It also ranks third in quality of the three I've read.  It's not a bad book at all, and it is well worth reading.  It just lacks the higher quality of characters I found in the other two novels, Presumed Innocent and Burden of Proof.  The story has plenty of Turow style surprises and is quite interesting.  To me, the thing that pulled the book down was the character development.  I just didn't find Mack or Brushy to be interesting or well developed.  Toots was the most interesting character and he was a bit player in the story.  So, overall I'd say read it, but if you only have time to read one or two, I'd pick his earlier novels.	2001-12-24
US	52289955	R3JZVLMBQDCUNY	0374117349	756714989	The Burden of Proof	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A well woven tale	This is the second Turow novel I've read and I'm hooked.  He's an excellent story teller and really knows how to take a plot through unexpected twists and turns.  This book is solid evidence of his skills and I recommend it heartily.<br />I know how popular Grisham is and I've enjoyed some of his writing, but I'd rate Turow as easily the better writer.  This book has plenty to help me reach that conclusion:  family and business deceit, awkward romantic liasons, legal and personal grudges and jealousies, securities fraud, etc.  Try it, I'll bet you'll like it.	2001-11-16
US	52289955	R1QT2OF8M8KSU6	0385497237	210106277	The Money-Whipped Steer-Job Three-Jack Give-Up Artist: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worth reading if you like Dan Jenkins, but not his best work	I like Dan Jenkins' humor a lot.  He seems like a guy you'd love to spend time with and I have enjoyed reading all of his work I've read.  And, I enjoyed this book.  But, I can't say I found it to be close to his best work (I really liked Baja Oklahoma, among others).  It just didn't quite seem like Dan's heart was fully into writing this one.  It took me quite a while to finish reading it, even though it's a short book stretched across 261 pages.  The characters weren't all that interesting and there wasn't really much of a story, so all I had to savor was the humor and use of language.  That's enough for me to read it, but it needs more to be a 5 star book.	2001-10-15
US	52289955	RTL5FZ6D50SQL	0306804492	633305503	The War Managers (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Author wins survey battle, but loses book war/ skip this one	The premise of this book sounded appealing to me:  the generals who managed the Vietnam war giving their views on what was done right and what wasn't.  And, the author himself was one of those generals.  However, in my opinion, this author may have won the battle of getting a broad response to his questionnaire, but he lost the war of delivering a good book presenting an insightful set of conclusions and supporting data.<br />Here's where I think this author and publisher missed the boat:  they designed this book to be more of an academic thesis with a focus on a survey's results and less of an interesting book which took themes from the results and enlarged on those with specific interviews, other supporting data and anecdotes.  That might have been a good book.  This one really isn't.  <br />Further, the author's data collecting tool, his multiple choice survey, allowed for some fairly close gradations in answers which seemed to blur the results.  And, there was no analysis of results sorted by grade of general (1 star input same as 4 star) or what type of command they had.  In other words, the author looked for data, the generals were kind enough to mostly reply, and he presented the data.  It just wasn't a study or effort that was successful in adding much insight or much of interest to a reader.  It's probably a fine book for an Army war college or a West Point course, but not much else.	2001-10-01
US	52289955	RXW6AR0S0FXG3	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good enough to make me want to read Turow instead of Grisham	If you like murder mysteries or legal thrillers or have ever read a Grisham book all the way through, you ought to read this book.  In my opinion, it's clearly better than the Grisham books I've read, which makes me wonder why Turow is not as big as Grisham.  Well, for whatever reason, this book is good enough to convince me to look for more Turow books and to encourage you to read this one.  The story is very well constructed, the writing appealing and the characters interesting.  Plenty of surprises and enjoyment.	2001-09-21
US	52289955	R3A6LZA7KBKZ52	0553802143	90165554	Lost Soldiers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very good, but not quite as good as Webb's other books	This is a very fine book - a 5 star book by a first class author. The story, centered around the search for remains of Americans left in Vietnam, is intriguing and the characters are engaging. The plot is well developed, even if it does come out of the blocks a little slowly. <br />Having said all that, let me water my praise down a little with the following: I am a huge James Webb fan. He's one of my favorite authors and I've greatly enjoyed all of his books. I looked forward to getting this book, particularly after his last book, The Emperor's General, which I thought was spectacular. As good as it is, I have to rate Lost Soldiers as the least of Webb's books; not nearly in the class of A Sense of Honor, Fields of Fire or The Emperor's General, and not quite as good as A Country Such As This or Something to Die For. Maybe it's the story, which just didn't flow as well as the others and which had a few over the top features that didn't seem needed. Or maybe the characters weren't quite as interesting as those in prior works, but whatever it was, I feel there's a good chance you'll be a little disappointed if you expect this book to be as good as the author's earlier work.<BR><BR>In spite of the prior points, I write this to praise the book, not bury it. I heartily recommend that you read it. If James Webb never again writes anything better than this, I'll still gladly read it all.	2001-08-29
US	52289955	R3HIDAUZ7Q72FQ	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loved it so much I wish it were a lot longer!  Great Book	Even though I expected to like this book because I liked Bonfire of the Vanities, I put off reading it for a long time because it was such a lengthy tome.  Now that I've read it, I wish it hadn't been such a short book.  As good as it is, I could easily have enjoyed a few thousand more pages of it.<br />I guess some readers like to snipe at larger than life type authors like Tom Wolfe, hence a lot of lower ratings for it, but I don't understand how reviewers couldn't enjoy the great writing in this book.  What a storyteller this guy is!  The character development and the physical descriptions are fabulous.  The story is entertaining as all get out, even if it's not completely believable.  What it is, to me, is greatly enjoyable.  If you can read it and not enjoy it, I think it's your loss.	2001-08-19
US	52289955	R26P5XY2DWSZM4	1586480375	91737945	Saving Milly: Love, Politics, and Parkinson's Disease	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A hard story to read, but a very worthwhile important one	I found this book hard to read, but definitely worth the effort.  It was hard for me to read because this true story about a remarkable woman devastated by Parkinson's Disease put a lump in my throat and tear in my eye throughout.  I greatly admire her spirit and grieve her lost capabilities.<br />This is a 5 star book and well worth reading because of what a reader can learn from Morton Kondracke about courage, faith, love and doing God's work in a very political struggle for more funding for Parkinson's Disease research.  It's hard to imagine anyone being more openly and honestly critical of their own perceived and real shortcomings as a person and husband than Mort is.  I've always liked him as an astute political commentator, even though his views are often more liberal than mine.  Now I admire him as an author and a crusader for a great cause, but mainly as a human being.  <br />Everyone should read this book.  It's very well written and doesn't avoid anything I could imagine.  It won't entertain you, but it will present you with a picture of a struggle you may be a part of someday and will give you a chance to consider whether you'll be able to deal with that struggle as well as Mort and Milly have.  They're both on my hero/heroine list now and in my prayers.	2001-08-04
US	52289955	R27UEA21BXCZNW	0891416064	748053548	Platoon Leader	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Very worthwhile, interesting story; not quite a 5 star book	This book is worthwhile reading.  It's fairly brief and recounts the interesting experience of the author as a platoon leader operating near an important contested village in Vietnam, Truong Lam.  He details his own struggles and triumphs as he takes control of his platoon and his responsibilities.  Since his service was fairly late, starting in August, 1970, he had his share of problems due to the general war weariness of everyone involved.  He spared the true identities of the other characters, which I'm sure was appreciated by his company commander and several others.<br />I didn't rate this a 5 star book because I didn't find the quality of writing to be in the same league as I'd expect from a professional writer.  McDonough did a respectable job of writing and used a simple, straightforward style.  Still, I thought his experiences would have been more gripping and interesting if he'd had some help from a professional writer.  As such, I didn't find it hard to put the book down and was glad it wasn't longer.  Basically, I found the writing to diminish the story rather than equal or enhance it.  No disrespect to the author, who seems like a fine Army officer and a decent writer.  It's just that I think the book could have been better if there had been some writing help.<br />I'd recommend this book to be read along with On Point by Roger Hayes (spelling?).  Platoon Leader is a low level officer's experience and On Point an enlisted man's experience.  The two books are similar in strengths and weaknesses and the two authors seem to share a lot of the same attributes.	2001-07-24
US	52289955	R222XD8K7K6S94	037550544X	891968631	A Soldier's Duty: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I loved the first 90% of this book; thumbs down on last 10%	I was in love with this book for the first 90% of it.  I thought it was as good as and as well written as James Webb's two great political/military novels, Something to Die For and The Emperor's General.  The story and characters are well developed and the writing style is straightforward and appealing.  I told my wife that the author was wasting his talent writing anything other than fiction, based on how good I found this book to be.<br />But, a funny thing happened to the book as it ended.  In my opinion, the author lacked the self confidence to close out the book with events that were as believable and credible as he had used up to that point.  He inserted a couple of critical story lines that made the book more spectacular, which it didn't need, and less believable.  More like what you'd expect a Hollywood script writer to insert into a great author's story to make a more commercial movie.  I felt like the author sold himself out by putting those elements in his story.  Without giving away the story, I'm specifically referring to the events surrounding retired Colonel Petrosky and to the very last part of General Ames' story.  There was some other marginal material near the end that I could accept, but the two I just referenced were too much.<br />Still, if you like military/political stories, you should definitely read this book.  Enough of it is very good to make it worthwhile and you may not be as put off by the last part of the book (not really the ending, which I had no problem with; just the way the author got to the ending) as I was.  I hope Ricks writes some more books and I hope he gets some help with finishing them.  I found the way he finished his nonfiction book, Making the Corps, to also drag down that book's quality, as he shifted gears from reporting to philosophizing.  He may yet become a great writer.  He certainly has great talent and maybe maturity will bring him better judgement on how to finish his books.	2001-07-18
US	52289955	RWEXAPJN91IP0	0891417095	435166304	On Point - A Rifleman's Year in the Boonies: Vietnam 1967-1968	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A worthwhile book by a regular citizen/soldier	There's a lot to like about this book.  It's honest and direct and the author doesn't seem to have a big ego or an interest in trying to impress anyone.  He simply recounts his year in Vietnam as he lived it.  It's an interesting and informative piece of work.  I found myself really liking the author.  He seems like the kind of person you'd like to have in your family or in your neighborhood.  I wonder why he didn't stay in the military.  It seemed like a good fit for him and he seemed to have an aptitude for it and seemed to thrive on the experience.<br />I didn't give the book 5 stars because, understandably, the writing is not of the quality of a top writer.  Maybe if the publisher had helped the author with this they could have put out an even better book and one worthy of a top rating.  I also didn't like the author's avoidance of using profanity in quotes or wherever - it just seemed to make the account a little less real.  Probably that hurt the book a little, but maybe made me like the author a little more as a nice person.  Overall, I'd heartily recommend this book.  It's not the best one I've read in this area, but it's well worthwhile.	2001-07-13
US	52289955	R3PHB8KLY3MKLQ	0684848171	403320766	Making the Corps	Books	4	0	0	N	N	First rate reporting, lower grade philosophizing	In terms of the reporting done by the author in following the boot camp platoon, I feel this is a truly first rate effort.  The writing is crisp and descriptive and I found the story to be very interesting.  I'd recommend it for anyone who has any interest in the Marine Corps or today's military.<br />I knocked my rating of the book down one star because I found the writing toward the end of the book where the author takes on the question of where the Marines Corps is headed to be of lower quality.  It didn't seem to me to be as well organized and researched as the rest of the book, and I thought it dragged.  Still, I'd easily recommend the book and I'm looking forward to reading the author's new military novel, A Soldier's Duty.	2001-07-09
US	52289955	R17TQ6XE12URC2	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not too bad, but not much of an inside story &amp; not timely	This book frustrated me because as compelling and gripping as the real world events it covers were, this book didn't really add much to the story.  It just didn't seem that the author had many good inside sources to draw on.  Most of what the book covered was on the news channels at the time, so how much did this book add to my appreciation of what happened?  Unfortunately, I had to conclude not much.  It's really not very timely, either, now is it?  If he had cranked this out and had it on shelves 90 days earlier I could have overlooked a lot of its shortcomings.<br />I also found the writing to be OK, but not top drawer.  This may be an author who is used to working against a word limit and isn't as effective writing for a book format.  For whatever reasons there were, this book left me wishing it were better.	2001-06-26
US	52289955	R33IOP89C1B3FK	0891411372	79465226	Vietnam: The Other War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly recommend this book and its companion &quot;The Grunts&quot;	I don't understand why this book and this author's other book, The Grunts, are not more highly acclaimed.  I've read a fair number of books about Vietnam and, in my opinion, these are two of the very best.  Anderson's writing style is straightforward and highly engaging.  He knows how to tell a true story in a very interesting way.  He also has a sharp wit.  I wish he had written more books - about Vietnam or anything.  I hated to finish this book because it's so good.<br />I'd recommend reading this book first, as it covers the author's first 6 months of duty &quot;in the rear with the beer&quot;, and then reading &quot;The Grunts&quot; which covers his next duty in a field combat role.  The two combined will give a wonderfully written perspective on the Vietnam war from a highly literate Marine officer.  You can learn a lot and be well entertained in the process.	2001-06-20
US	52289955	R25HWWPSIQU67	0306809265	257196190	The Real War: The Classic Reporting On The Vietnam War	Books	4	5	7	N	N	First essay (The Real War) is great; others are just good	I probably have quite a minority view on this book, even though I found it to be clearly worth reading.  To me, the best part of this book is the first essay &quot;The Real War&quot;, which, even though it's the title of the book, is presented as more of an introduction to the other two stories.  This essay contains writing which is so good (even though I disagree with some of his left leaning political conclusions) it had me saying out loud 'this guy can really write'.  It also had some very thought provoking material which any serious student of the Vietnam War should read and consider.<br />I also enjoyed his presentation of &quot;The Military Half&quot; and his experience flying with the Forward Air Controllers.  It gave me an idea of just how these pilots worked with the air arsenal and the ground commanders to wreak havoc on the ground.  However, I found this story and &quot;The Village of Ben Suc&quot; to be somewhat repetive in theme and content and maybe not organized as well as it could have been to make the author's points.  As a result, the enthusiasm I had for reading this book and its first essay didn't survive to the end of the book.  In other words, I relished reading the first essay and didn't have nearly as much enthusiasm by the time I finished the book.	2001-06-04
US	52289955	R246VMBU3FYAFA	0060193174	897674071	Duty First: West Point and the Making of American Leaders	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Well worth reading if you have any interest in West Point	I found this to be a good, solid effort that achieved the goal of describing the current way of life at West Point.  The writing was good, not great and the organization was the same.  It was definitely worth reading, but not quite a five star book in my opinion.<br />If you're interested in West Point at all, read this.  It clearly tells how the Army has changed the system at USMA, and  made it easier for plebes to survive, but doesn't explore the pros and cons of these changes in very much depth.  It selects certain cadets to track through the year, but doesn't really get the reader close to them.  In other words, this good book could have been a great book with some better, or luckier, choices of cadet subjects and presentation style.  Still, I'd gladly read another effort by this author on any topic I have an interest in pursuing.	2001-05-17
US	52289955	R2KB1WCQDPS9OS	0425104036	219272398	The Grunts	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Extraordinary Book for Putting Behavior in Context	I thought this book was a real sleeper.  I bought it as a used paperback and based on its title and cover, I expected a &quot;pulpy&quot; style blood and guts novel.  Once I looked at it closer, I realized it was a true story.  And once I read it, I realized it was an exceptionally well-conceived and well-written book.<br />The book is in two parts - the first part being about the tour of duty in Vietnam for an infantryman and the second nominally being about &quot;The World&quot;.  I thought the first part did a fine job of describing the physical and mental hardships imposed on the grunts by the climate, the terrain and the unpredictable boredom/terror nature of the conflict.  Following that, Part Two takes the reader through what I believe is the material that really distinguishes this book as one that anyone who studies the Vietnam war should read.  Anderson presents a thoughtful and straightforward discussion about the attitudes of Americans who served and those who did not and the forces that shaped those attitudes.  He does a great job of relating these to the struggles the servicemen faced in reentering civilian life and to the struggles they faced in dealing with Vietnamese society and their own combat leaders.  Placing the veterans' homecoming adjustments, atrocities and fraggings in this context was what moved this book from the very good to the extraordinary class.<br />Easy to read, hard to put down.  Read it - you'll enjoy it and you'll learn some interesting things.	2001-05-04
US	52289955	R326WUVZRJ80N6	0140127615	603106256	Paco's Story (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	What a letdown	I read this book with eager anticipation because I had read Heinemann's Close Quarters, which I rate as a great book.  I had also read that Paco's Story was a National Book Award winner.  What a letdown.  Even though Heinemann's considerable talent at writing text shines through, this story just didn't seem very good to me.  <br />Heinemann's a veteran, so I hesitate to write this, but the feeling I got in reading this book was that it's like tabloid sensationalism.  It seemed like the war part of the story was overblown to appeal to people looking for that kind of story and the back home part of the story was either mindnumbingly dull or voyeuristic.  Not a great formula for an appealing book - and it wasn't, in my view.  I'd recommend Close Quarters heartily, but I only gave this as high a rating as 3 stars because the text writing is well done - it's just wasted on this story.	2001-04-22
US	52289955	R306DA7K7BAHIN	155850527X	871188826	King of the Cowboys: The Life and Times of Jerry Jones	Books	3	4	4	N	N	More like a long magazine article than a book	This is not a bad book and I certainly recommend it for Dallas Cowboy fans or Jerry Jones fans, if there are any.  But, it seemed to me to be more like a really long magazine article than a good book.  That may largely be because it is written in the mid 1990's and lots of things have happened since that really belong in a book about Jones' life.<br />Overall it is a pretty good read and informative, but I found myself making an effort to finish it rather than having to make an effort to put it down.  Dent's book about the Junction boys and Bear Bryant is a much better effort and one that was written at a better time - afterwards rather than during the story.  That one was hard to put down.	2001-04-16
US	52289955	RKAC9RMDRB3IU	0226268861	914016942	Fragments (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Worth reading, but just barely	I rate this as a mediocre writing effort.  To me, the characters were not really well developed and the story, while emotional, was not that interesting.  It was worth reading, but I wasn't really sorry to finish it, so I can move on to something better.<br />If you want to read a better, even great, Vietnam novel, I'd recommend you try Fields of Fire by Webb, or Close Quarters by Heinemann, or Better Times than These by Groom.  Fragments pales in comparison to those works.	2001-04-16
US	52289955	R27EDO39Q69ZFC	0395901383	812566143	Echo House	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Plenty of sublety and nuance - not much of a story	I only slogged through this snoozer because I had read A Dangerous Friend by Just and thought it was very good.  Therefore, surely this book would eventually become interesting to read rather than the chore it proved to be.  Not so.  <br />I found this to be a book that doesn't do a good job of developing its characters or its story.  Even though I'm interested in Washington and its inside baseball, this book just didn't tell enough to be interesting.  Everything was vague and cloaked in secrecy and dullness.  Not a very good formula for a book in my view.  The author is clearly a gifted wordsmith, but he failed me as a &quot;storysmith&quot; in this effort.  I'd recommend you skip it.	2001-04-05
US	52289955	R1N0OXR3L9WF73	0395856981	988344616	A Dangerous Friend	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well Constructed Story + Gifted Author = Quality Literature	I rate this as one of the better novels I've read.  It presents an interesting look at civilian/government involvement in Vietnam.  Tension, intrigue, good and bad guys and lessons to be learned can all be found in this book.  <br />A well constructed story presented by a gifted author elevates this book to literature class.  Just has an elegant, simple way of writing that I found quite appealing.  If you have any interest in the range of America's involvement in Vietnam or simply would enjoy a well written book and a good story, I'd recommend you give this book a look.	2001-03-17
US	52289955	R32UT9GBFE48JU	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Liked the Book Better than I Liked the Author	This is a very good book for anyone who is interested enough in the military and its shortcomings to commit the time it takes to get through this very long effort.  The Vietnam portions were much better than the rest of the book.  <br />As much as I liked much of the book, I was turned off by Hackworth's massive ego.  His attitude seems to be that he knows so much more than anyone else that whatever he does is justified and anyone who disagrees with him is stupid, or a coward.  For example:  <br />1.  His leaking information to journalists in Vietnam about Cambodia;   2.  His showboating a risky troop march back to camp when his men didn't get the first wave of helicopters and the best heroes' welcome there; 3.  And ultimately his &quot;Issues and Answers&quot; rant against the army while still an officer,<br />all seemed to me to be examples of poor judgment, or even much worse, by a guy so in love with his own opinion that there was never room for any reflection.  <br />So, I don't love Hackworth as much as he does (even though I greatly admire his abilities as a warrior and a charismatic troop leader), but what does that have to do with a book review?  Just this:  his ego led to this book being longer than it should have been to be a great book and he never had room for any other views, which might have been interesting.  Still, a lot of it is very good reading.  I think I just liked the book better than I liked the author.	2001-03-06
US	52289955	R3LJ4HYB6HKDV4	0688174914	593386884	The Final Season: My Last Year as Head Coach in the NFL	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting, but seemed like a &quot;mail it in&quot; effort	I found this to be a pretty good book with some interesting comments by Parcells, but I had the feeling throughout that the book was the result of a &quot;mail it in&quot; effort.  In other words, I don't think Parcells (or McDonough?)was willing to put in the work required to produce a really good book.  It was short, not particularly well organized and certainly not comprehensive.  Maybe Bill lost any true enthusiasm he might have had for writing about coaching as he lost his enthusiasm about continuing to coach.  In any event, I enjoyed a number of the  candid observations he did include, but I felt cheated by what I perceived to be a lack of commitment to this book project.	2001-01-30
US	52289955	RKPS5XRYWDJA5	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	2	34	52	N	N	Mediocre book by a politically naive author	Where's the beef?  This book is supposed to be &quot;The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment&quot;.  But, it seemed to me to be mostly filled with information already widely known and published or televised.  The &quot;inside story&quot; material that Schippers shares with us seemed mostly to involve insignificant anecdotes about the political maneuvering that he believes frustrated his and the House Managers' efforts to remove Clinton from office.  <br />In my opinion, Schippers fails as badly as an author of this book as he did in support of the impeachment.  Now before you ditch this review as being a biased view from a Clinton supporter, let me say that I believe Clinton should have been removed from office as a result of all he did to abuse and dishonor the presidency.  And, I think he could have been removed if the impeachment had been handled better and presented to the public in such a way that they demanded he be removed.  But, I think politically naive handling of the case by Starr, the House managers and Schippers kept that from happening.  Poor handling of a good case can get an O.J. acquitted and can keep a Clinton in office.  And, from what I can gather from this book, it wasn't that Schippers knew what to do and how to do it, he was truly naive enough to fail to see they just weren't doing an effective job of selling their story.  Likewise, this book doesn't add much to the historical record unless you're interested in whining from an author who just didn't get it done in the impeachment and just didn't get it done in this book.	2001-01-24
US	52289955	R18IZ1H94KM1FX	0671522663	866159976	Better Times Than These	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A fine Vietnam war novel - easy to read, hard to put down	This is a very fine novel - one of the best about Vietnam.  It has a good, authentic story line, interesting and well developed characters and solid writing.  It's easy to read and hard to put down.  I think anyone interested in the Vietnam war experience would find it well worth reading.	2000-12-14
US	52289955	RMQYC3885U2XK	0316547077	957194275	In the Combat Zone: An Oral History of American Women in Vietnam, 1966-1975	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Did She Check Out the Stories?	I thought this was a good concept for a Vietnam experience book - about 20 oral interviews with women of various Vietnam backgrounds.  However, I couldn't get through it.  As anyone familiar with Stolen Valor by B. G. Burkett knows, there's an awful lot of lies out there which are represented as true Vietnam experiences.  I got to the story from the lady who said it most disturbed her that &quot;her general&quot; and six other generals and aides were killed in her area.  I think the history shows that only one general in total was killed in Vietnam.  So, I don't believe the author/editor did any fact checking and I don't believe she had much of a knowledge base.  In another story she referred to a &quot;gunny&quot; sergeant as a &quot;gunship&quot; sergeant (although she got it right in a later story). <br />All in all I thought this was a pretty weak effort.  The concept is still good, it just needs to be better handled.	2000-11-29
US	52289955	R16TMSQS97KSUU	0688153887	331165566	Touring Nam: Vietnam War Stories	Books	3	0	5	N	N	A Mediocre Selection	There's a lot of great writing about all phases of the Vietnam war experience, so there's really no reason for editors putting together a selection of stories, chapters from books, articles, etc. to fail to assemble a fine collection.  However, in my opinion, Greenberg and Norton did a mediocre job of picking writing for this book.    <br />Rather than reading this book and getting a couple of chapters from Tim O'Brien (mixed in with some lesser quality writing), I'd recommend you read a full book by Tim O'Brien (If I Die in a combat Zone is a favorite of mine) or some other top writer.	2000-11-28
US	52289955	RM8QH79WLLZLN	0026271915	848160507	A Payroll to Meet: A Story of Greed, Corruption, and Football at SMU	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Good, not Great, Book	This is a good, not great, book about the SMU football recruiting scandal in the early to mid-1980's which resulted in the NCAA death penalty sanctions.  The book is written reasonably well, but it is not a real page turner.  The author goes into detail about the actions of key SMU administrators and board members, especially Gov. Clements.  I would have liked to have seen more detail about individual recruiting situations and competition in recruiting with other schools.  It almost seemed like the goal was to write a fairly short book instead of a great book.  In any event, if you're a fan of college football or SMU or interested in the struggle between athletic recruiting versus academics, this book is worth reading.	2000-11-20
US	52289955	R2C8QKCIBKGQS6	096670360X	281307387	Stolen Valor : How the Vietnam Generation Was Robbed of Its Heroes and Its History	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great, great research;  Average writing; Must read	I gave this book 5 stars for the great research done by Burkett.  This book is a must read for anyone interested in Vietnam, veterans' affairs or politics, accuracy of reporting or the antics of con artists.  I had no idea there were so many war hero frauds out there and Burkett does a remarkable job of exposing many categories of them and many individuals.  It is also amazing to learn about how many news organizations and political or veterans' groups have been tricked by con men who either inflate their war records or create them out of whole cloth.  I previously thought network news and newspapers did a better job of fact checking, but, based on specific instances in this book, I know better.  It's also amazing to learn that Burkett's research methods (mostly Freedom of Information Act requests) could have easily been employed by the people who were duped.<br />I was tempted to lower the book's rating based on the quality of writing.  It's not bad, it's just not that good.  At times I felt bludgeoned by the information rather than enjoying the great story that was unfolding.  In the end though I could not downgrade the remarkable research.  I just wish the writing had been more inviting.  In any event, this book should be read by anyone who's interested in reading any other book about Vietnam.	2000-10-26
US	52289955	R2EBGAOB37ML1J	1557509638	784715836	Fields of Fire (Bluejacket Books)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the Very Best Vietnam Books	This is an amazing work when you consider it's Webb's first book.  The writing is so compelling you may feel like you've been dropped into a rice paddy with Webb's/Hodges' platoon.  <br />In Robert Timberg's book, The Nightingale's Song, Webb is a featured character.  He describes Webb's experiences from the Naval Academy through his stint as Secretary of the Navy.  The real people who were main characters in Fields of Fire are discussed.  He also tells the amazing story of how Webb read Hemingway at the urging of a law school classmate and decided he could write like that.  I'm sure glad he did.  All of his books are among the best I've read.	2000-10-05
US	52289955	R3SVUQQ87O0CPR	0767900766	336167274	The Emperor's General	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Polished, Entertaining and Educational	As one who has read all of Webb's books, I found this one to be even more polished than his earlier works.  The guy is simply an amazing writer and it shows in this book.  He puts you in the scene with MacArthur through his fictional character Jay Marsh.  This is a great and highly entertaining way to enjoy an interest in history and learn about MacArther, WWII and the Phillipines and postwar Japan.  If you even think you might have an interest in any of these, read this book.	2000-10-05
US	52289955	R2SEG4O3T3XY73	0515106623	691190049	Maverick	Books	1	2	7	N	N	Embellished?	I couldn't finish this book because the overblown jargon turned me off.  I notice another reviewer questions whether the author is for real.  Refer to Stolen Valor by Burkett for his comments on that question - he says the author served, but the POW story is not true.  Makes you wonder how much of the rest is true.  Maybe it's better read as a novel?<br />I do recommend Chickenhawk by Mason.  It's a fine book  about a helicopter pilot's Vietnam experience.	2000-10-05
US	52289955	R9I9Z2S6NUJ5S	0684826739	923748360	The Nightingale's Song	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Fascinating and Enlightening Book	I found this to be a fascinating and enlightening book.  Timberg is a fine writer and he did a great job of telling the stories of these very interesting Naval Academy grads.  The book also shows how the military and foreign policy leaders interact and exposes a lot of feet of clay in high positions in the Reagan administration.  I'm interested in reading more of Timberg's writing.	2000-10-05
US	52289955	R1WOLCQ3ZQLZAY	0451193024	260016755	Combat Swimmer: Memoir of a Navy Seal	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A Great Story Hindered by Mediocre Writing	The author has some genuinely great experiences and stories to share with readers and in some chapters (mainly Vietnam experiences)he pretty well hits the mark.  Overall though I found the writing and editing to be pretty ordinary.  <br />Even though I was very interested in the subject matter I was glad to finish it.  I probably wouldn't have even started it had I known it would flow as poorly as it did in places.  I don't think the publisher gave the author enough writing and editing help to deliver a book worthy of the experiences.  It would be a lot to ask of a career SEAL to also be a terrific writer, so it's hard for me to criticize Gormly for not being one.  But, too much jargon and not enough quality writing keeps this from being the great book it might have been if a gifted ghostwriter or coauthor had been involved.  Four stars is really based more on my admiration for Gormly than my admiration for the book.	2000-09-21
US	52289955	RZRLBCD1GVF0O	1891620398	118875723	Taboo : Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports and Why We're Afraid to Talk About It	Books	2	41	48	N	N	Skip this book and wait for a better effort on the topic	This is a very interesting topic and certainly one worthy of a first class  book.  Unfortunately, this isn't it.  The author's plan for the book seems  to me to have been:  &quot;Patch together a bunch of anecdotes and ideas  and data generally on the subject&quot;.  Maybe he and his editor didn't  feel like they had time to do a good job of research and analysis and  present their findings and ideas in a well organized fashion.  <br />This book  has some interesting things in it, but I didn't feel it came close to  answering (or even clearly addressing) the title topic of &quot;Why Black  Athletes Dominate Sports and Why We're Afraid to Talk about It&quot;.  A  good book on the subject would look at the data, draw reasoned conclusions  and present them along with their supporting data in a persuasive fashion.   To me, this book doesn't do that.  It's just not tied together well. <br />If  I were you, I'd skip this book and wait for a better effort on the topic.	2000-08-29
US	52289955	RSOL1QIPD2IKF	0140085785	412027673	Close Quarters (Contemporary American fiction)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Exceptional Writing Effort	In my opinion, this is simply a first class story written by an extremely  gifted writer.  If you have any interest in reading about Vietnam, about  war in general, about men in extraordinary conditions you should enjoy this  novel.  I was sorry to finish it and look forward to reading more work by  the author.	2000-08-28
US	52289955	RF2WZFHTPQ6GC	0306808390	852755658	Strange Ground: An Oral History Of Americans In Vietnam, 1945-1975	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Many Intriguing Interviews	I thought this was a well conceived selection of interviews with people who brought perspectives on Vietnam from lots of different angles.  Other  books I've read do a better and more thorough job of covering combat  aspects, but this one excels by covering the experiences of other  participants - particularly the agriculture/education/medical volunteers  and the diplomatic/intelligence people.  <br />If you don't read the whole  book, at least read the interviews with John Ameroso (the International  Voluntary Services agricultural advisor) and Alan Carter (the U.S.  Information Service officer in the embassy).  Ameroso's story is inspiring  in terms of how much grass roots good could be done with a practical  approach to aid.  Carter's story is maddening in terms of how bad things  were in the embassy.<br />I notice that another reviewer of this book takes  the author to task for including an interview by a reported fraud.  If  that's true, the author deserves strong criticism.  If you're only  compiling interviews to construct a book, you owe it to the readers to at  least do a little checking up on those you include.  Still, there is enough  excellent material in this book for me to give it highest marks.	2000-08-20
US	52289955	R1EATOKULD63K3	0891417060	124157519	Hamburger Hill	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Good Combination of History and Compelling Writing	This is one of the best books I've read about war.  Many war books do a fine job of recounting the historical data, but are dry and hard to read in spite of the fact that the action they cover was very exciting.  Other  books do a fine job of presenting the action, but gloss over the historical  significance or hide key players behind fictitious names.  This author does  a great job of both drawing you into the action with good writing while  covering the history and politics you need to know to really appreciate  what happened and who (real names) did what.  I recommend it.	2000-07-28
US	52289955	R2MTT7WGNHRCI8	0060393408	962636193	The Case Against Hillary Clinton	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Disappointing effort by a good writer	I was looking forward to reading this book because I admire Peggy Noonan's gifted writing skills and I certainly agree with the premise of the book.  But, this book seemed to me to not present enough material to justify being  published.  I think she had enough good material to produce a very fine  magazine article or series of 2-3 articles, but, I guess she and her agent  had sold a publisher on a book deal.  By the time she gets through trying  to stretch her ideas into a short book, the result is not pretty.  Was she  just lazy or couldn't she come up with more solid material?  The travel  office material was very good, but, not much else was up to that quality  level.  <br />Overall, a lost opportunity to speak out well on the issues and  a lot of lost credibility for the author.	2000-07-20
