US	52282730	R1LUVHOCS08RC5	0525947248	682274061	The Other Woman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very realistic	Not very many male writers can write a book like this from a woman's POV, Dickey has done a wonderful job. BRAVO!  This was so realistic I couldn't put it down.<br /><br />One thing I like about Eric Jerome Dickey is, he writes honestly, never beating around the bush or trying to sugar coat anything. We know what Freckles feels even when the shoe is on the other foot.<br /><br />Freckles has it all, a nice house, a good paying job, and a loving husband.  But, all is turned upside down when David Lawrence enters the picture accusing Charles of having an affair with his wife Jessica.<br /><br />When Lawrence is able to show her proof, she is bent on revenge.  The bad part about revenge is, it always returns to its place of origin, biting the sender in the backside. Revenge is a dish best served cold, and Freckles certainly gets something served to her that way in the loft, then again at home on the computer.  Quite the double whammy. OUCH!<br /><br />She has every right to mistrust her husband after his indicretion with Jessica.  Yet Charles gets angry because she doesn't believe him when he tells her it's over and refuses to give her the details of their relationship by answering her questions.  Charles does see Jessica one more time, but over a different situation that could change all their lives forever.  Can the marriage survive or will it become another statistic?	2005-04-17
US	52282730	R5BNJMEGT99WA	0843941952	300040084	Desert Ecstasy	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Never judge a book by the first 4 chapters	When I first started reading this book, I thought it was going to be \\"the typical historical romance\\".  As a matter of fact, I almost stopped reading because of the stereotype I had expected. It just goes to show that one should never judge a book by the cover, or in this case, the first four chapters.<br /><br />If I were Christa Horton, I would thank Allah for my good fortune, and learn the old adage that \\"silence is golden\\".  Several times, her obstinate nature could have been her undoing.<br /><br />A lot of pirates like Redbeard wouldn't give half a thought to the pleading and protesting of a beautiful captive slave, once they tasted the sting of her acid tongue.  For once he used his brain when he made the decision he did!  I am surprised at Kalim's patience too.  Some men in the Middle East wouldn't hesitate to use the bastino to tame Christa's obstinance and acid tongue.  Elissa, the one character that needed taming didn't feel it's sting, thanks to Christa Horton and her pleading.<br /><br />I love the trick Christa used to stay out of Abdullah's reach.  His touch repulsed Christa so much, that she left him \\"wearing something to remember her by\\", not once, but twice.  That made me laugh. He was deathly afraid of being infected by disease. Her \\"illness\\" repulsed him so much that he lost interest in her.<br /><br />Brian Kent was repulsive, and so was Willow but some men and women are driven by lust the connections made by marriage.  Poor Willow was always scheming to snare Ahmed (Mark Carrington), but her weedily ways always backfired.  At least Ahmed was smart enough to avoid being trapped.  I wonder what her husband would have done if she went back to him with a disease?  Or if her in-laws followed through with their threat?	2005-04-05
US	52282730	R2CHNJKGVYIR5O	0671727583	67221443	Smart Women	Books	3	2	6	N	N	This book had me confused	There was so much going on in this book that I almost forgot who was going through what.  In the beginning, Margot had a pretty good relationship with B.B., until she decided to get involved with her ex-husband.  Michelle, her daughter, was a typical teenager with that \\"the world revolves around me\\" attitude.  I do think she showed remarkable maturity in showing Sara her tender side after she reached a milestone in her life and when she handled Scott's problem with Puffin.  Those were the only parts I liked about this book.	2005-03-12
US	52282730	R25KZI7ND50U7Q	0671693816	325520568	Wifey	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Definitely a winner!!	Take one bored wife, Sandy, add a routine, clueless husband, Norman, couple that with the motorcycle flasher, still unknown and the demands of the family and you've got the beginning of a conflict.<br />Sandy is a bored housewife who tries to discover herself. Unhappy with the routine life her husband seems to enjoy, she is lost when Norman enrolls her in tennis and golf lessons at the Club for the summer. To relieve her boredom, Sandy goes outside the safety of her family to relieve her itch for something new. It's a rollercoaster ride she is prepared to take, along with the consequences afterward in order to experience life.<br />Normally, it's the man who faces a midlife crises with a seven year itch, not the woman. I'm surprised Sandy stayed as long as she did as bored as she was. That's what makes this book different and not dated to me.<br />Norman did what he was supposed to providing for his family. Emotionally he was detatched. He also had certain ideas. His chauvinistic attitude sickened me. It was Norman who decided what they would do at the Club that summer. He decided what Sandy served for supper every night and what day he had his 'little something'. I mean, the guy was so scared of bacteria and disease that he wouldn't go to sleep till he washed. He even went so far as to track his dog's bathroom habits.<br />I recommend this book for anyone who is looking for something different, but because of the rough language I only recommend this book to those over 21.	2003-04-07
US	52282730	R2SV2UO6GHRDI8	0843943289	280456997	Sheik	Books	5	22	24	N	N	It definitely took my breath away....	Right from the time I saw the front cover.  Ok, someone was reading the story sitting by the pool and I fell for the picture.<br />One thing I enjoyed about this book is that Ms. Mason is not an average romance writer.  I have read several of her books, like Bold Land, Bold Love and was pleasantly surprised with Sheik and the other because the females in these books were headstrong.<br /> I actually expected Zara to inflict more harm on her master than just injure his pride emotionally.  Hey, the woman had plans, you can't fault her for that!In order to gain what she desired, she had to &quot;bargain&quot; with the man who held her fate in his hands.  As a Berber and a female, she was underestimated by Jamaal.  I enjoyed it when they sparred with each other.  Of course, the almond milk scene was funny too.<br />Jamaal was playing with fire.  He knew that he should turn the troublesome Berber leader and his beautiful daughter, Zara, over to the Sultan to stay in his good graces.  Irrational behavior and thought seized him when he saw her curves, and felt the softness of her skin under the blue robes.<br />This book has many interesting twists and turns, which also made Sheik a wonderful read.  Be prepared to get swept away by the words on the books pages!	2002-11-20
US	52282730	R1FO8E010LOOH5	0451190041	359442604	The Perfect Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A very entertaining book.	I never thought a romance would be so comical.  For someone who swore they'd never fall in love with a man, 28 year-old Amanda sure isn't doing very well with her vows of spinsterhood.<br />Neither is the one she is supposedly trying to avoid. Lord Sommersby has a &quot;battle plan&quot; to woo and wed her cousin Felicity Biddle, who has an over-active imagination to say the least.  He finds that every time he tries to activate his 'plans', thoughts of Miss Fitzhugh keep intruding.  Also, her direct manner knocks him off balance.<br />Could there be real desire for the young spinster or some other supernatural forces in the castle at work??  When Lord Ramsey shows up at Sommersby, Amanda finds herself in a 'pickle' so to speak. For once, she's at a loss for words.	2002-09-05
US	52282730	R32J0YZTFJFMVO	0590474774	509215459	A Whale Is Not a Fish: And Other Animal Mix-Ups	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Some things I didn't even know....	I like this book mainly because it went to extraordinary lengths to explain why a whale isn't a fish or the differences between a crocodile, an alligator a frog, and a toad.<br />The thing that surprised me the most is finding out the difference between a donkey and a mule. I never knew that mules couldn't reproduce. I did know that they were stubborn. I also didn't know that there was such a thing as the butterfly moth.<br />All in all, I found this book entertaining to read and would recommend it to young readers.	2002-08-08
US	52282730	R3U5K43RSV6Z0T	0440411270	783421867	Shark in School	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Interesting	I liked this book. Both Matthew Jackson and J.P. had problems.  Matthew had trouble with reading and J.P. is a basic tomboy with green eyes, freckles, inch-long hair, and strange habits.<br />Not only did they have to face their own problems but those they encountered at River Road School.  Matthew had friends back in New York and help with reading, something he missed in Ohio. J.P, just had to get through school without getting into a fight \\"just for looking different\\" and \\"acting strange\\".   <br />Miss Bass asked the class to read books during the summer, which frightened Matthew.  He couldn't read well and needed help with big words.  J.P. just needed a friend to understand her awkward looks and strange ways.  I liked that they complimented each other.	2002-08-06
US	52282730	R2OG3FTP2SETKM	0440411270	783421867	Shark in School	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Interesting	I liked this book. Both Matthew Jackson and J.P. had problems.  Matthew had trouble with reading and J.P. is a basic tomboy with green eyes, freckles, inch-long hair, and strange habits.<br />Not only did they have to face their own problems but those they encountered at River Road School.  Matthew had friends back in New York and help with reading, something he missed in Ohio. J.P. just had to get through school without getting into a fight \\"just for looking different\\" and \\"acting strange\\".<br />Miss Bass asked the class to read books during the summer, which frightened Matthew.  He couldn't read well and needed help with big words.  J.P. just needed a friend to understand her awkward looks and strange ways.  I liked that they complimented each other.  Even Miss Bass admitted to having a few problems of her own growing up.  J.P.'s grandmother was one smart cookie because J.P. was always quoting her throughout this book.	2002-08-06
US	52282730	R1P7MZE616BKP5	0698116097	855050037	Bully for You, Teddy Roosevelt! (Unforgettable Americans)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An Excellent Read!	This was such a joy to read.  I just couldn't put the book down.  I had no idea that Teddy Roosevelt had an affliction that he overcame, thanks in part to his ambitious father.<br />Until I read this book, I had no idea that Teddy Roosevelt thrived on adventure or that he collected specimens of animals.  It's amazing that he managed to survive all of his adventures like he did being as sick as he was.  Everything the man did was to test his endurance if not make history as well.<br />Now I understand his push for conserving the nation's natural resources.  By the time he became president, there weren't many wild animals left or trees for that matter.  At any rate, this book was fun to read, especially when Teddy Roosevelt climbed to the top of Mount Marcy before the death of McKinley.<br />It really amazed me how much energy the man had. Probably from all those treks out west when he was a boy to hunt or whatever.  The gym his father built was nothing like what he faced on his many sojourns out west and to Africa.  It made me dizzy to read about all those campaign stops and speeches.<br />At first, I thought this book a little slow when I read about his early life, but then it picked up when Teddy begin serving on various Civil Service jobs and eventually gaining the Vice-Presidency under McKinney and being elected to a second term as President afterward.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2002-08-05
US	52282730	R1LAFUPA2TKV0N	0440411394	305245044	Under the Blood-Red Sun	Books	5	1	2	N	N	very good book	Over all this was a good book, in spite of the time period it represented.<br />I felt for Tomi in the beginning, none of the racial tensions between the Japanese and Hawaiian people seemed to effect Tomi much, but he knew that tensions existed.  For one thing, he lived on the Wilson's property and had to endure the wrath of Keet, the middle son, on a daily basis.  Two, his mother worked for the Wilson's as a maid, so he was encouraged not to make trouble for the family by fighting. And third, his grandfather was a die-hard supporter of his homeland, displaying the Japanese flag any time he chose, making Mr. Wilson angry. I'd say there was plenty here to give any eight-grader a few grey hairs.<br />On top of all this, most of the boys Tomi plays baseball with, the Rats, are biracial, except his friend Billy, who managed to pursuade his father to stay at Roosevelt for eighth grade instead of going to private school with his brothers.  The Rats are a good team, beating the Kaka'ako Boys, a cross town rival.<br />It amazed me how quickly things changed after the attack on Pearl Harbor.  The Japanese were outright despised on Hawaii, most of the seniors at Roosevelt left, and at least three of the members of the Rats had to get jobs to support their families.<br />I cried over what became of the pigeons but laughed at what the pups ended up running across the field with.<br />I would definitely read more of Graham Salisbury's books.	2002-08-04
US	52282730	R2HF4HW6QUJ213	0802851428	6568883	A Stone's Throw from Paradise	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An honest portrayal of a preeteen.	Lizzie had the weight of the world on her little shoulders. A mother she knew little about, a stepmother who loved fake flowers instead of real ones, a gross baby brother, and a grandmother she thought was a saint.<br />To escape her worries, Lizzie decides to spend the entire summer at Grandma Zook's farm in Paradise, Pennsylvania working at the Zook Nook to earn a little pocket money and hoping to find out more about her real mother.  She finds a few other secrets  she hadn't been looking for either.<br />The rude awakening Lizzie got was that the Amish did things the old-fashioned way, getting up before the sun to do the farm chores and making the items for the Zook Nook.  I got a good laugh when Lizze complained about the chicken stink in the coop and the organic sounds and smell of an impolite cow.  I also laughed when she found out what scrapple was made of.<br />But, life on the farm wasn't all that awful, Lizzie also found out the missing pie pieces to the mystery of her mother.  She also realized that, even though the Amish tried to live perfect lives according to the Church Order, they were still human and fallible, even Grandma Zook.<br />After six weeks with Grandma Zook, Lizzie didn't think her life was all that bad either.  Now that she had been on the farm, things at home were like paradise.	2002-07-28
US	52282730	RFRPM1GFR7KMP	0451194799	966984995	The Defiant Governess (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This book was a real eye opener.....	Ordinarily, I don't read Signet Regency Romances, but this one opened my eyes and was rather enjoyable.<br />Take one meddlesome aunt, an outspoken daughter, one doting but worried father, and an older brother who encourages wrong doing and add a brooding Marquess with a seven year old ward.  Wow! What a mix here.<br />I really don't blame Jane Stanhope for running away from her father after he tries to force her into marrying someone she doesn't like.  I liked the way she stood up to her father before she decided to masquerade as a governess to Peter, the Marquess' seven year-old ward.<br />Yes, her bad temper and her mouth get Jane into heaps of trouble, but with no long-lasting consequences, except the aged look her father had when she finally did come home.<br />Any governess that spoke as Jane did to the Marquess would have been dismissed without references and unable to find work anywhere else.  I liked what Edward said in Jane's defense, &quot;I don't fire people for telling the truth.&quot; That only proved he could take as well as give.  Jane could too so this was a perfect love match.  Loads better than the intolerable bore her father chose.	2002-04-14
US	52282730	R2OCOG8D7Y4K3U	0671794086	913672144	Mistress of Sin: Mistress of Sin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ms. Rich had some very good twists and turns in this story.	I really liked this book because there was an obvious play on words, especially the title.  Moriah Morgan has an agenda of her own, in spite of her mother's wish that she marry someone of considerable means and temper her reckless ways.  An adventure is just what she gets when posing as a 'lady of the evening' to catch her sister, Sara Winslow's murderer.  Valsin Masters is a brooding, dark, mysterious man with a special gift and a painful past that he refuses to open up to Moriah about--at first.  Together they unravel the mystery behind the murders at Nassau, and discover a few mysteries of their own as well.<br />One thing I loved about Moriah Morgan is that, in spite of how naive she was in the beginning, she didn't let Sin dictate to her.  Sin was always used to giving the orders and expecting to have them obeyed.  Until Moriah Morgan came along, no one dared stand up to him except his overseer.<br />Valsin Masters had his own set of troubles.  First, he thought he was responsible for his father's death.  Munnando, the island voodoo priestess of 18, wanted to bare his child, but he refused to oblige, even after addicting the mulatto servant Callie on opium (tomcoo) and kidnapping Moriah.  This and the realization that he could actually harm someone with his special gift if his emotions got out of hand would make anyone a basket case.<br />When I look for books to read, this is the kind that excites me becausse it has a little bit of everything in its pages.  I encourage anyone who wants to read and experience an adventure to read this book.	2002-04-14
US	52282730	RVQAYTTECTMU2	0886776287	461369561	Sing the Four Quarters	Books	5	1	3	N	N	This book had interesting twists and turns......	I liked this book because it was better than If I Pay Thee Not In Gold, in that the main character Annice didn't spend the first quarter of the book feeling sorry for herself like Xylina did.  Another thing is Xylina knew nothing of the position her magic put her in when she won her woman-trial or went on the quest for the crystal for Queen Adria unless someone told her.  It was refreshing to find out that Annice was right about what to expect on the trip back to Ohrid.  It's more gratifying to bring a know-it-all down a few pegs then to read about a whiner that knows nothing and cares nothing for her lot.<br />First of all, there were three strong characters that stood out<br />Annice, Pjerin, and King Theron, ruler over the Seven Broken Islands.  Annice &quot;The Princess-Bard&quot; knows that she was born with the talent to sing all four elements: earth, air, fire, and water.  The highest magic a bard can attain.  When her brother, then Prince Theron, heir to the throne of Shokoder, requests that she join with Prince Rajmand, of Cemandia to form an alliance with that nation, she refuses on the grounds that she'd rather enter Bardic Hall and train to sing the kigh then bwcome a political tool for her brother to use.  Her brother, now king, makes Annice forfeit her rights as a princess, even her right to procreate. When the healer, Elica, told Annice she was pregnant, she had a real problem: to procreate meant death for her and her baby. It wasn't until the captain of the army told King Theron that the Cemandian nation executed anyone who had the gift that Annice took for granted, even the ambassador from Shokodor was executed for relaying the message that Annice could sing the kigh.  Pjerin, sixth Duc of Ohrid, was tricked into saying under command that he broke his oath to Shodoker by letting trade exist between the Cemandians and allowing their army to go through the pass and thus was condemned for treason.  Pjerin is also the father of Annice's baby, so she helps him escape from the dungeon to clear his name.<br />King Theron recognizes he may have made a mistake with his sister Annice after discovering her pregnancy and condemning the Duc of Ohrid to death for treason so he intends to have Pjerin in effect tracked down by Otik and his army and returned to Elbassan for retrial but Otik intends to hunt down Annice and Pjerin, bringing back his body, but it was Otik who was buried after Vidor and before Ohrid, after a blow to the head by Pjerin.<br />Now there were some really bad people in this plot to over throw the Duc.  Olina, the previous Duc's sister, wants to own some of the power her nephew has and open the pass at Ohrid with trade with the Cemandians, so she has her current boy-toy, Albek, a Cemandian by birth and an untrained bard, place a potion in the Duc's wine and hypnotizes him to repeat that he broke his oath to King Theron.  With Pjerin out of the way, his son, Gerek, a 4 year-old would be easier control with Olina as regent to guide him.  She wants to turn Ohrid into a prosperous trade center, make the kigh obsolete by executing all the bards, and eventually overthrow King Theron by war. Olina doesn't count on her plot being discovered by the Duc, Annice, and eventually King Theron.  She also doesn't realize that she has been betrayed by Albek.  Gerek is also pretty resourceful finding out that Lukas, his steward, and Olina, put Annice's friend Stasya in the dungeon after Lukas clubbed her over the head with a rock.  He also had enough sense to not tell anyone of his plan to search for his father.<br />Olina realizes that her nephew intends to kill her when he returns to Ohrid, so she runs toward the Cemandian border, seeking asylum by Prince Rajmand leaving Lukas to suffer Pjerin's anger.<br />The funniest part of this book was when Pjerin had to crawl through the sewers of Ohrid's keep to the kitchen while a very pregnant Annice walked through the castle gate as a trader.<br />Realizing he had a lethal weapon to use against the Cemandians, King Theron used the kigh to frighten them.  Annice's labor amplified the kigh's aggitation (LOL!)and it didn't cause the bards to break any vows about using the kigh against another bard.  I do think, however that there should have been a stiffer penalty for Albek using a potion to undo a bardic Command, but he already suffered a death, of sorts, because the Cemandians would have executed him if they found he could sing the kigh.<br /><br />There were some other good parts too.  Annice relishes the attitude that she is &quot;always right&quot; when she argues with Pjerin over the long trip back to Ohrid.  Even though he complains about their unfortunate lot, Annice manages to throw his treason in his face at least three times during the trip, but she refuses to listen when Pjerin points out to her the crisis that would occur if Olina discovered that Annice was the &quot;Princess-Bard&quot; and that she was carrying a baby.  Olina wouldn't hesitate to execute them both after getting the ransom from King Theron.<br />I intend to read more of Tanya Huff in the future.eapon to use against the Cemandians, King Theron used the kigh to frighten them.  Annice's labor amplified the kigh's aggitation (LOL!)and it didn't cause the bards to break any vows about using the kigh against another bard.   I do think, however that there should have been a stiffer penalty for Albek using a potion to undo a bardic Command, but he already suffered a death, of sorts, because the Cemandians would have executed him if they found he could sing the kigh.<BR> <BR>There were some other good parts too.  Annice relishes the attitude that she is &quot;always right&quot; when she argues with Pjerin over the long trip back to Ohrid.  Even though he complains about their unfortunate lot, Annice manages to throw his treason in his face at least three times during the trip, but she refuses to listen when Pjerin points out to her the crisis that would occur if Olina discovered that Annice was the &quot;Princess-Bard&quot; and that she was carrying a baby.  Olina wouldn't hesitate to execute them both after getting the ransom from King Theron.  <br />I intend to read more of Tanya Huff in the future.	2002-01-11
US	52282730	R27B3NDS36NDJ9	0679405828	363093333	Jane Eyre (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I LOVED this book	I loved this book because I felt the struggle Jane Eyre went through, being an abused, poor orphan forced to reside all year around at the Lowell School under a harsh headmaster.  Then being forced to endure the harshness of her employer, Mr. Rochester.<br />I pitied Mr. Rochester because he was &quot;stuck&quot; with a mad woman he locked on the top floor with Mrs. Pool.  In a sense, it was sort of like a living death.  As long as she remained alive, he could not remarry or have a family. I loved it when Orson Wells played this role because his large,  brilliant, black eyes really showed his torment in the film.  Joan Fontaine as Jane Eyre was no slouch either.  Her blank stare after ten years at the Lowell school was great. I really felt their emotions in the book too, especially after Jane Eyre's friend at Lowell died of pneumonia and when her wedding ceremony was cancelled after discovering Mr. Rochester was already married.<br />The tense part in the book and film was when Mr. Rochester's bed was set ablaze by his wife.  I don't know how a man could let his mentally ill wife remain under the same roof with a child and so many lit candles to be knocked over but Mr. Rochster did it.  I mean, the man must be as daft as his wife.<br />I thought this book was a thrilling read because both of the main characters over came their problems.  Yes there were consequences, but they were temporary.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-01-05
US	52282730	ROV3OPUJ9DX1C	0505524368	837820686	Brave Land, Brave Love	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I couldn't put it down.....	This was another one of my &quot;maiden voyages&quot; as I have never read anything by Connie Mason until this book.  I have another book by her that I intended to read first, Shiek, but wanted to test the waters with this book.<br />I was pleasantly surprised in Tia's character, who dressed as a male from the streets of London, complete with the foul language to match not once, but three times: once when she lifted Ben Penrod's wallet, again when she left his house for the bad side of London, and again when she escaped Damian Fairfield's abuse for the Austrailian Outback.  This says something about the type of security they had back in 1819.  I admire her courage for keeping her secret marriage to Damian Fairfield until chapter twelve,when her husband came banging on the door at Penrod Station, demanding she be returned to him.  I'm glad he was killed by Cress because Tia would have died by the time she was 21 if she remained with her abusive husband.<br />Ben Penrod's attitude toward women and marriage was appalling, even if his brothers had to fight to keep their wives, which was a bad example.  I mean, he was arrogant, self-centered, and self absorbed.  The woman he got caught in bed with, Caroline Battersby, was no slouch either being spoiled, coniving and down right rude to Tia during the dinner party.  She planned to trap Ben in bed when her father came home early.  No wonder he wanted to run.  I expected more of Caroline and her father.  Evidently, their tentacles didn't reach as far as Austrailia.<br />For someone who didn't want to be married, I find it amazing that Ben Penrod lusted after Tia's body and refused to let her leave once they were at Penrod Station.  Yes, he fought the desire to marry but lost when he found out he couldn't live without Tia or stand the fact that another man was touching her body.  I also found it ironic that the word love never exisited in his vocabulary until Tia came along.  He even refused to admit he was in love with her, even though the signs were there.<br />I admire Tia's strong character, which is similar to Perdita Lyford's character in (the late) Barbra Cartland's &quot;The Daring Deception&quot;.  Both women were running from abusive situations.<br />I do plan to read more of Connie Mason in the near future., even though the signs were there.<br />I admire Tia's strong character, which is similar to Perdita Lyford's character in (the late) Barbra Cartland's &quot;The Daring Deception&quot;.  Both women were running from abusive situations.<br />I do plan to read more of Connie Mason in the near future.	2001-12-31
US	52282730	R2QIBU08MW1PGI	0671876236	310094431	If I Pay Thee Not in Gold	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Kill or be killed..	Since this is my &quot;maiden voyage&quot; with the Anthony-Lackey collaboration, I will not bash the authors.  I will say that I have read better.  That's why I did not give it 5 stars.<br />I really got turned off by Xylina's &quot;poor pitiful me&quot; attitude both before her woman-trial and afterwards, I mean her constant whining about how life dealt her a terrible blow was sickening to say the least.<br />Ware never faced any true consequences for playing both sides of the fence, first as the Queen's agent at court then as Xylina's advisor-lover.  She could have destroyed him by kissing the Prince in the cave, but his advice was invaluable to her.  Even her slave, Faro seemed to have more horse sense than Xylina.<br />Queen Adria grossly overplayed her hand as queen by breaking the rules she set aside for her people by mercilessly attacking Xylina burning her home and sending those thugs after Faro.  She realized after Xylina's woman-trial, that she had some serious competition for the throne.  By sending Xylina off to retrieve the shard and guaranteeing her debt, the queen thought the girl would either die trying to attain her goal or naively turn over the shard.  This is where I have to give Ware and Faro credit for having the horse sense that they had.  Queen Adria was already a tyrant in search of more power.  Having the shard would make all those guarantees null and void, costing Xylina her life anyway.  Like I said, kill or be killed.  Also, the queen underestimated how battle-hardened Xylina would get on this quest.  Again my hat goes off to Ware, Faro, and Xantippe for their forsight.<br />One thing that bothered me was that, of the thirty men that Xylina took on this quest for the shard, only one man and a dog perished before they had to fight the spiders in the fourth realm and face the sorcerists storm, which gave Xylina and Pattee a severe headache.  I'm sorry to say this, but that was an obvious plot-hole to me. After the challenge was over, I had expected Faro to want his freedom at least.<br />Xylina did have enough sense to realize that the shard would eventually corrupt her as Queen Adria had been.  By returning to her home, and resuming the role as queen, the shard would be too close to the main part of the crystal jeopardizing her life and those of her people.  If it were joined, changes would occur in all magic realms.<br />I was looking for something different and that's what I got.  Even though I expected a lot more out of these two authors in plot and development, I am not deterred from exploring more from these authors seperately.I had expected Faro to want his freedom at least.   <br />Xylina did have enough sense to realize that the shard would eventually corrupt her as Queen Adria had been.  By returning to her home, and resuming the role as queen, the shard would be too close to the main part of the crystal jeopardizing her life and those of her people.  If it were joined, changes would occur in all magic realms.<br />I was looking for something different and that's what I got.  Even though I expected a lot more out of these two authors in plot and development, I am not deterred from exploring more from these authors seperately.	2001-12-29
US	52282730	R138KTESQPVXM6	0505522365	127800206	Across the Rainbow (Timeswept)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Victoria Chancellor did her reasearch well on this book...	I say this because some of the other authors I've read take for granted that readers don't notice obvious plot holes or easy outs that they take.  It disappointed me that both of my favorite authors, Bertrice Small(in &quot;Pirates&quot; I never found out who Old Woman was) and Linda Lael Miller(in &quot;The Love Slave&quot;, the daughter of the sultan died of an outbreak of spotted fever while visiting her father in his palace, which only received four sentences in the book)did this Most of the time, children of the 19th century died of an incurable illness, like measles.  It surprised me that nothing like this happened in the book even with settlers moving into the valley of Jackson Hole.  It was realistic that Analisa got a fever probably from one of the families that were passing through, namely the baby that sneezed on her.<br />This is the first book I've read in a long time that made me feel what both the main characters were feeling.<br /> Yes, Analisa Ludke was extremely naive about the world around her, especially the Scandinavian brothers that moved into the area. Also, she had a hard time getting over and discussing her father's and brother's deaths.  Before she met David Terrell she survived the long lonely winters mending clothing and tending to her zoo.  It wasn't until she was almost raped by the Olfson brothers that she began to appreciate David Terrell's need to &quot;smother&quot; her with protection.<br />That's another thing I like about this book. Both the main characters have flaws that are realistic.  David thinks he could have done something to prevent his wife, Catherine's, fall from the cliff where she was observing Eagles.  He jumps to all sorts of conclusions when Analisa goes to her favorite rock for some fresh air.<br />I like that, in spite of Analisa being a &quot;19th century woman&quot;, she speaks her mind after the walk to the rock.  With most of these so called Victorian women, we as readers expect them to be meek and accepting.  Analisa is not one of those women.  Of course. being on the other side of the world makes a big difference too. People tend to forget their Victorian ways in the West.  Along with the sexual tension, I could feel the iron determination when she stood her ground, &quot;I CAN'T live like this!  I WON'T live like this!&quot;<br />I also like that Ms. Chancellor shows where her aviation information came from and the detail she got from the people in Wyoming on the first settlers.<br />This is a definite must read for time travel fans.  I plan to read more of her work in the future.g.  Analisa is not one of those women.  Of course. being on the other side of the world makes a big difference too. People tend to forget their Victorian ways in the West.  Along with the sexual tension, I could feel the iron determination when she stood her ground, &quot;I CAN'T live like this!  I WON'T live like this!&quot;<br />I also like that Ms. Chancellor shows where her aviation information came from and the detail she got from the people in Wyoming on the first settlers.<br />This is a definite must read for time travel fans.  I plan to read more of her work in the future.	2001-12-16
US	52282730	R672O9K46GOAE	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book ia definitely a keeper.	I loved reading this book, in spite of it being a class assignment in college.  The prose flows smoothly as the tale of the runaway slave and her four children are told.  The descriptions of the master's son is unmistakable--moss green teeth, ewwww!!I especially like it when the youngest daughter finds out who the mysterious young woman is and the exorcist scene toward the end.  I plan to read more of Toni Morrison's books.	2001-07-08
US	52282730	RKKDNXDIMYN6Q	0679439242	2102068	Phenomenal Woman: Four Poems Celebrating Women	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I had to have this book!!	I bought &quot;Phenominal Woman&quot; because of the abbreviated poem, &quot;I Rise&quot;, which I heard Ms. Angelou recite on a television commercial. (I stood up too!)  About the same time, I was taking a college English course called Ethnic Voices in which the class read the poem she read during Clinton's inauguration. I like all of her poems that I have read and will continue to read.  She is a definite inspiration.	2001-07-03
US	52282730	R3DNTQOMXJOQ8U	0425140601	979048587	Forever and the Night	Books	5	9	11	N	N	I liked this book so much that I BOUGHT the others.	This book had me spell bound from the beginning, so much so that I was upset when I found I was missing the second book in this series.  Aidan's quest to become human again for the love of a female mortal who just happens to be running from her own demons--of sorts.  I loved this book because of its vivid description of certain time periods and the costumes they wore and the quick action by Aidain.  Actually, I thought that Lisette would  show up a lot sooner than she did in the story, especially after finding out that Adian went to the brotherhood for help on his quest.  This book was so good that I plan to read it a second time--after I finish the others in the series.  I think they are definite keepers.	2001-05-26
US	52282730	R3HA8M66J9N8WA	0345390792	861512320	Moment in Time	Books	5	1	3	N	N	I liked this book so much... I KEPT it!	The library will not get this book. I liked the fact that Ms Small had three different stories going in this book--which did not confuse me in any way.  I was unsure of the beginning when Brys of St. Brides tried to force a betrothal from Wynne (Rhiannon).  I was grateful when Nesta (Angharad) was able to tame his warrior spirit.  I almost stopped reading the book when Wynne (Kitty Williamson) went to Rys of Cai to try and force a truce between Madoc (Pwyll of Dyfed) and his half brother. Rys (Bronwyn) was even worse as a man, beating a servant girl to death for spurning his attentions, selling Wynne into slavery, and buying her son to raise in hatred as he was.  I was surprised that Madoc (Old Dhu) was able to find his wife, known as &quot;the whore if the hall&quot;, dressed in disguise as a half-wit.  The ending was sad. I got a good laugh when Caitlin who assumed herself the prettiest, got the cousin with the worst teeth.  (LOL) But she did pack her mother-in-law off to a nunnery after catching her with the baker.  I am keeping this book like I said.	2001-05-12
US	52282730	R2FMD2Y66KAM93	0451400666	606537322	Soul Flame	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I learned a lot from this book.	I never thought I would enjoy learning so much about herbal medicine.  I never knew the Egyptians were the first to have a surgery for cataracts and diabetes or that Hecates Cure, used in small doses in tea, was used in the reduction of fever.  I never knew that the upper classes had lead poisoning from the pipes where they got their water, which made it difficult to bear children.  I liked the historical tie linking Selene and  her brother Pindar to the Emperor Claudius and his family through Caesar and Cleopatra's son Cesarion, her father.  Being a healer woman made it easier for her in captivity.  It surprised me that the Grand Vizier let Selene and Wulf escape when he had planned to make her his wife.  The scene where Selene and Wulf had made love was tastefully done too.  I would definitely read this book again.  Ms Wood really knows her stuff.	2001-05-12
US	52282730	R11CU3WBI8TE9Z	0345385985	883837876	Love Slave	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It's All right, I guess.	I felt sorry for Regan in the beginning, being shoved aside by her mother as a baby and being forced to lie with a man who smelled of horses in her twin sister's place. Later, Regan was to be sold into slavery by the people  who ran the nunnery, but not before being raped buy the man who ripped her  clothes off. Regan does get what she desires in the end, but only after she  is forced to leave the palace, because of a jealous first wife who poisons  her twice, with her daughter, who conveniently dies of an outbreak of  spotted fever on one of the visits to her father.  This was an obvious  &quot;easy out&quot; that infuriated me because it only received four lines  in the book.  Okay, it isn't wise to have a daughter in tow when you want  to return to the one you love, (obvious plot hole!) but she didn't have to  die like that.  There would have been someone to care for her with all  those women around.	1999-11-12
US	52282730	R16XV9NP5MRJP5	0505519860	190128871	Christmas Carol (Love Spell Timeswept Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	I loved it!!	It's refreshing to see a classic such as this be written from a woman's point of view.  I've watched at least four different versions of A Christmas Carol, the last actually being a Disney cartoon titled  &quot;Mickey's Christmas Carol&quot;. Jacob Marley doesn't get a second  chance at redemption or love like Carol Simmons. He has all those chains  and has to live in hell for all eternity.  I think Carol made it hell for  those at Lady Augusta's funeral by taking her anger out on those from the  church who asked for a donation.  All this came from a man who destroyed  her innocence, Drummond.  I find it ironic that she meets and falls in love  with Nicholas in two of the places she visits, the third being at Christmas  in her own time. It's also uncanny that Drummond is the one who puts down  the rebellion in the future.  Even though Lady Augusta was miserly and hard  on all in her employ, she still got a chance to redeem herself through  Carol Simmons.  This is worthy of the Dicken's classic!!	1999-10-17
US	52282730	RD1YOSS6RSIMX	0380977257	752977287	The Present (Malory Family, Book 6)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A real page turner after the bickering stopped!!	What a wonderful gift Anna bestowed on her family's future generations.  I'm glad they found out who was in the mysterious grave at the far end of the estate.  I'm also grateful that Anna's grandmother had enough foresite  to marry her granddaughter to an English nobleman to keep her out of Ivan's  cruel hands.  The long time affair between the maid and a Malory was  well-known!!  Hell-lo, Amy saw them kissing and Derek is his son.	1999-10-15
US	52282730	R3B9BVM0NJWN0V	0449001806	172997404	The Innocent	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Eleanor was true to herself and others.	I take Elf's innocence as an occupational requirement of her chosen vocation along with her virginity.  I had no idea that she was such a strong character, especially when she dealt with her evil sister-in-law Isleen.  Elf was everything that Isleen wasn't, that's what made the story  so interesting.  Despite Isleen's schemes to ruin Eleanor and Aschlin,  Eleanor always came out the victor.  The story flowed easily, so easily in  fact that I couldn't put it down. A must read for die hard Bertrice Small  fans.	1999-10-12
US	52282730	RICRXY6OOBQLM	1557737665	511132662	Captive Angel (Diamond Wildflower Romance)	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Jake was very understanding	Even though the store clerk lied to him about Rachel being a &quot;soiled dove&quot;.  He gave her a chance to get used to life on a farm and the idea of sharing his bed.  The worst part of this book was when Jake decided to string the men along after they bought him another bride to view.  The  feud went on far too long between the two of them, which slowed the book  down a little.  But the dream sequences abou a raiding viking seemed to fit  the story quite nicely.	1999-10-12
US	52282730	RZUERAVR0JBK1	1551665506	303094412	Escape From Cabriz	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Vivid characters, great escape!!	One naive American woman, (Kristin) one adveture-seeking person, (Zach) one embarrassed Prince, (Jascha of Cabriz) and one over protective father.  Too many people in this equation when you consider the country Kristin is  in is in turmoil.  I like the fact that both Kristin and Zach were able to  escape from the Palace twice, the second time by helicopter.  I have to  applaud Kristin's character for finally standing up to her over protective  father after he dug into Zach's background and moving out of the house to  write a book on her experiences in Cabriz. Zach finally learned to open up  and Kristin's father finally learned that his daughter had a life and to  accept Zach as is.	1999-10-10
US	52282730	R1799XV97OBS9D	0441005438	308791177	Promised Land	Books	2	2	10	N	N	A slow read	There were a lot of \\"easy outs\\" with this book that made me score it so low.  Two things bothered me (1)the travel scenes were too long and (2)the ending wasn't what I expected.  The authors went overboard trying to describe every little nook and cranny during the journey to the lanze.  In this case, less is more, not the opposite.<br /><br />Delanna travels back to the lanze after the death of her mother to settle the affairs and finds a few surprises when she gets there, one being in the trunk found in her mother's bedroom. This part was an interesting plot twist. It gives the main character and the reader information they didn't have in the beginning.<br /><br />This is where I feel like my intelligence was being insulted. Remember the \\"easy out\\" I mentioned? Authors usually do this when they have to 'tie up' loose ends.<br />Toward the end of this story, Delanna only \\"discovered\\" her love for Sonny after they were stranded at the lanze because of a hail storm.  She didn't strike me as the type that fell in love like that. I wonder if it was out of a sense of obligation over what she read in her mother's diary??<br /><br />Cleopatra, her scarab,was declared a Royal Maderin to keep Doc Lyle from disposing of her. How convenient.  Here's the other plot hole--er 'easy out' the authors wrote themselves into.	1998-11-28
US	52282730	R2UVUMI7O46DU	1558001476	85986516	Stranger in the Mirror	Books	1	2	6	N	N	A victim of the seedy side of Hollywood	I read this book a long time ago and I think the casting couch image was grossly overplayed.  The movie was the same way.  I felt sorry for Jill Temple because she had it rough right from the start.  A mother who was poor and fanatical about her religion.<br /><br />Jill runs off to Hollywood hoping to make it big.  Well she does make a movie, but it wasn't the kind shown at a big premiere.  She also \\"performs\\" for others too but those don't necessarily end up on film.<br /><br />Tired of being abused, she meets and marries an up and coming comedian named Toby.  Hitched to his rising star, she uses her newfound power to pay backthose that caused her harm in Hollywood, unaware that her past will come back to haunt her.<br /><br />If one can get past the grossly overplayed casting couch image, they might enjoy this book.  I will say that the movie was better though.	1998-11-27
