US	52282928	R1J0P0N8WERJ99	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fascinating thesis and very well researched	&quot;Bowling Alone&quot; is an impressive book that examines why American's participation in social activities has been declining since the 1960s. It addresses all the reasons you might anticipate, effectively disproving some and reinforcing others with good evidence. Putnam's methods are solid. He gathers an extraordinary amount of data from across a wide range of fields, and is appropriately conservative about drawing conclusions from them. He is very mindful that he is dealing mainly in correlations, which don't prove causation. Given that, he is able to piece together some very interesting conclusions. <br />The first section of the book demonstrates how participation in social activities grew steadily from the early part of the century until the 1960s, with a dip during the depression, and then has steadily declined ever since. He looks at just about any activity you can think of, including participation in organized activities (religion, clubs, civic organizations, school-related activities, and of course bowling teams) as well as informal social activities (having friends over for dinner, socializing at work, hanging out in bars, even going on picnics). Across the board, every one has declined in just about the same pattern. He explains how the declines have reduced &quot;social capital,&quot; which is correlated with lower trust, higher crime, higher stress, and many other bad things. He makes a distinction between &quot;briding capital&quot; (light connections among people of different groups) and &quot;bonding capital&quot; (strong connections among those within groups), explaining that briding capital is more effective at bringing positive social effects.<br />In the second section, he takes on the reasons for the decline. Since this isn't a mystery novel, I'll give the interesting punchline (which should whet your appetite for more): Mostly it's because each generation since the pre-war generation has been less socially inclined -- the people haven't been changing, the generations have. WWII had a lot to do with this. The other big reasons is television. TV has sucked up most of our free time, and each generation has watched more of it, more often alone, and more often just to &quot;see what's on&quot; rather than watching specific shows. More minor causes are the entry of women in the workforce (since women do a lot more organizing of social events than men) and urban sprawl (since it takes a lot more time and effort to see friends or attend events). Most other explanations don't pan out at all.<br />The last section talks about the &quot;So what?&quot; He shows how social capital is the strongest correlate with quality of education (not government spending). Higher social capital is also related to safer neighborhoods, better health, more happiness, and higher tolerance. Earlier in the book, there is an interesting discussion of the use of technology and its relationship to social capital, although he rightly says that it is far too early to tell what effect the internet will have on social captial, since he is dealing in such broad trends.<br />I got a lot out of reading this book and it has made me think about the choices I've made in favor of independence over the obligations of social membership. Although well written, the book was a little more academic than I expected. I also wasn't quite clear on the &quot;why&quot; behind the generations finding. Surely the war did have an effect, but it didn't explain why the children of baby boomers are even more individualist than their parents. It seemed like there was more explaining to do. Putnam also has a silly last section that is a call to action that seems inappropriate for this book. Still, this is an impressive book that had changed my thinking. I hope it is used by public policy experts and other decision makers.	2001-03-06
US	52282928	R1I7Z5FBW4DTXB	0789723107	111838788	Don't Make Me Think! A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Engaging book about web design with excellent advice	&quot;Don't Make Me Think&quot; is an excellent book for those designing web sites. It's a great title, and a great motto for designing any type of technology, not just web sites. Krug calls it &quot;thinking&quot; when you have to stop focusing on your task to figure out the web site, even if only for a few milliseconds. <br />The book is very well written in an engaging, informal style that feels more like a conversation than a lecture (not easy for a book that is essentially preaching). The layout is wonderful and follows its own advice. Each page is designed to make one good point, and the gazillions of images are simple, clear, and effective in supporting the points. Although a lot shorter (by design) than Jakob Nielsen's &quot;Designing Web Usability,&quot; I found it provided a lot more specific, on-target advice -- both per pound and overall. Whereas Nielsen focuses mainly on page design and site design, Krug handles these as well as interaction design, which is missing from Nielsen's book. It has some good examples that you are encouraged to work through before looking at &quot;the answers.&quot; It's a good technique. He also has a terrific section that lays out exactly how you conduct a usability test, from greeting the person to interpreting their behavior. <br />Sure, there's a lot more to learn about good web design and about usability testing, and probably some people will object that he doesn't do justice to the complexity of these professions. But I think this book does a great job of pointing you in the right direction with a lot of good, solid advice and some encouragement. It's short enough that you're inclined to read the whole thing, and compelling enough that it might really affect your designs.	2001-03-06
US	52282928	ROJLNBGRRGM4Y	0671042572	835489451	Jewel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Emotionally rich story about a family dealing with hardship	In 1943 in Mississippi, Jewel Hilburn gives birth to a child with Down's Syndrome, changing the course of her and her family's life. Jewel, who spent part of her childhood in an orphanage, is determined not to put Brenda Kay in an institution, even though she and the doctors know relatively little about how to take care of her. The cost is that she has little energy left for her husband Leston and her five other children. Eventually, she sees an article in Reader's Digest of a school in Los Angeles for children like Brenda Kay, and she is determined to overcome Leston's objections to moving to a place so far and different from their home. When they finally move, Jewel becomes involved in the school, while the rest of the family grows up, building new lives in this very different world. By the end, Jewel and Leston reconcile their choices and how their lives have been affected by Brenda Kay. <br />This book could have been one of those formula &quot;triumph over adversity&quot; stories that are frequently made into Hollywood movies. Instead, I found this book to be a rich character study that gave a realistic portrait of how people make do when faced with hardship. I'm no expert on Down's Syndrome, but I did spend a summer as a counselor for kids with Down's, and the characterization of Brenda Kay's behavior rang true to me. So did the way Jewel gradually adjusted her expectations to match Brenda Kay's abilities, so that she could take great joy in each small step, just as you would with any child. I found it especially interesting to see how Jewel coped at a time when there was less support for people with this syndrome, at a time when the syndrome was actually called Mongoloid Idiocy. Lott's lovely writing style and insightful but understated tone enhance the story. &quot;Jewel&quot; is an enjoyable and worthwile book to read.	2001-02-10
US	52282928	R2F01Y5VKPF9CF	0425167313	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Readable but uninspired story about difficult relationships	In &quot;Here on Earth,&quot; March Murray and her teenage daughter Gwen return to a small town outside of Boston where March grew up. They plan to stay for a few weeks to help clear out the belongings of an old friend who recently died, but they end up staying once March reunites with her childhood &quot;soulmate&quot; Hollis, and Gwen falls in love with a boy from town. They stay at great cost, not only because it means separating from March's husband and Gwen's father, but also falling into the dangerous world of Hollis, who has become an angry, isolated, controlling man. Everyone else in the town knows this, but March can't see it because of the power of their earlier relationship. The book shows how March &amp; Hollis' relationship unfolds as March goes deeper and deeper into denial. In the background are March's old friends who try to support her, and who are coping with the choices they made along the way. <br />I think one of Hoffman's goals with this book is to show how some people can get drawn into abusive relationships without realizing what is happening. She also makes some comments about the compromises people make to keep the things that matter to them. She made her points, but I didn't find the story or the characters especially compelling. Although the narrator's point of view switches amont different characters, I thought that only March's motivations were fully explored; Hoffman switches to other characters mainly to move the plot along and to justify the turns in the story. Hoffman has an informal writing style that is clear and easy to understand, if not especially graceful or polished. In all, I didn't regret reading this book, but it wasn't one I savored or that stayed with me after I put it down each day.	2001-01-21
US	52282928	R12OYDL13J9WYQ	1578511402	111485236	The Monk and the Riddle : The Education of a Silicon Valley Entrepreneur	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging book about Silicon Valley with a worthwhile lesson	In &quot;The Monk and the Riddle,&quot; Randy Komisar tries to put the Silicon Valley frenzied work mentality back into perspective. Komisar is a consultant to Venture Capitalists, and he has been an executive at a number of successful (and not so successful) startups. In the book, he tells his story through Lenny, a young man who came to him with an idea for a startup. Komisar thinks the idea has some merit, but he thinks Lenny wants to do it for the wrong reasons (money), which is holding him back from doing it right. Through email and a few more meetings, he helps Lenny, and later his girlfriend Allison, find the passion behind their idea and shape it into something worth doing. He uses this story as a mechanism for preaching these lessons:<br />- Don't make the mistake of taking the Deferred Life Plan in which you sacrifice your happiness now for the hope of happiness later. Instead, he advocates the Whole Life Plan, where you try to make now as fulfilling as possible while also staying open to opportunities for the future. He suggests asking yourself, &quot;Would you be willing to do what you're doing now for the rest of your life,&quot; and if the answer is no, maybe you're not doing something you believe in. (He's not advocating doing only one thing all your life, of course, but if can imagine yourself doing it, then it must be something you care about.)<br />- It's not worth devoting your life to a startup (or any company) if you're doing it just for the money. It's worth your time and effort only if you're passionate about the idea.<br />- It's the people, stupid. If you work with people you respect and who respect you, then your success will follow. If you go for success at the expense of the people, you won't succeed (for long).<br />All of these are good lessons, and Komisar makes a persuasive case for them in an engaging, palatable way. For some people caught up in the negative side of the Silicon Valley mentality, his words might have just the right effect. Having lived in Silicon Valley for over 15 years and gone through two startups myself (neither one making me rich), I didn't feel like I learned anything I hadn't already learned myself, although I admit I enjoyed having my views validated. I know I'm overgeneralizing, but I thought that some of the traps he talked about may be more of a danger for men than for women (in particular, not getting the importance of work relationships, but also doing things just for the money). Still, the book is probably just the right medicine for some who are ready to swallow it.	2000-12-20
US	52282928	R114BC08FCL3S4	0767905156	774385377	Home Waters: Fishing with an Old Friend: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A charming story about a fly fisherman and his dog	&quot;Home Waters&quot; is a charming story about a fly fisherman and his dog. It is Monninger's memoir and tribute to his dog, Nellie, an eleven-year-old Golden Retriever, who he has recently learned has cancer. He decides to take a road trip from his home in New Hampshire to visit some of his favorite fishing spots in Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana. Monninger takes the reader along for the ride, describing the details of his fishing trips -- where he sets up, which type of bait he uses, how he adjusts his technique to the circumstances -- and how Nellie accompanies him in all he does -- how she sniffs at each stick and stone as she explores a new area, how she snuggles into his sleeping bag on cold nights, how she taught herself to dive under water after him. As he makes his way through the trip, he reminisces about earlier fishing trips and other experiences he and Nellie have shared.<br /><br /> I loved the tone of this book. Monninger has a pleasant, matter-of-fact way of telling a story. I especially liked how he conveyed his simple love and respect for Nellie just in the way he interacted with her and in his reports of their conversations: &quot;I told Nellie we were done for the night. She seemed grateful.&quot; Or, &quot;I told her she was a good dog.&quot; When Nellie encountered a harvested potato field, she gave her best shot at retrieving the hundreds of potatoes left on the ground, only to be defeated by the magnitude of the task. Monninger says, &quot;I consoled her on the walk back to the truck, telling her we all have such days, then fed and watered her. I told her to lay down on her dog bed and she did.&quot; After he returns to his hotel: &quot;When I unhooked Nellie's leash inside the room, she put her nose on the edge of the bed, asking permission to get up. I told her to go ahead, but not to hog the whole thing. She curled at the foot of the bed, tail to nose. I sat besider her and gave her a rub. In a little while she began to snore. I read for awhile, then turned out the light.&quot; I especially related to his dilemma when he went fishing at Yellowstone. &quot;The hard part was explaining to Nellie it is against park regulations to take a dog into the back country.... Nellie wasn't pleased with it... and when I locked her in the back of the truck, she whined to come with me. I was firm with her and caved only enough to give her a biscuit.&quot;  I've never been fly fishing, but I enjoyed Monninger's equally droll explanations of how it works, the strategy (and luck) that goes into it. I think I now understood why &quot;the one that got away&quot; haunts every fisherman.	2000-12-19
US	52282928	R2N59R922T1J6X	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Rich, interesting story line with equally rich characters	&quot;Daughter of Fortune&quot; is the story of a young woman, Eliza Sommers, who grows up in Chile, adopted at birth by a wealthy English spinster and her brother living in Valparaiso during the mid-1800s. She grows up sheltered and naive, and soon her adopted mother devotes herself to finding her an appropriate husband, even though she herself finds marriage too confining. But Eliza has different plans in mind. When her illicit lover takes off to California during the frenetic gold rush days, Eliza runs after him by stowing away in a ship, aided by a young Chinese doctor, Tao Chi'en. Upon arriving in California, she disguises herself as a boy so that she may move about freely as she searches for her lover, and yet all the while she is developing a bond with Tao. Through these adventures, the book tells not only Eliza's story, but the stories of Tao growing up in China and of Eliza's adopted mother, who left England because of her own illicit love affair. It also describes to a lesser extent the lives of several other colorful characters, in Chile and California.<br />I enjoyed this book on many levels. The diverse range of characters were interesting and believable. Through their adventures, Allende brings to life the culture and daily life of Chile, China, and California during the Gold Rush. In the background, the book conveys the constraints imposed on women and foreigners during that time, and how those constraints varied in the different countries described. It showed how much of English social conventions were adopted by the Chileans, which surprised me. Through Tao, the book discusses the differences between Eastern and Western medicine at the time and how distrustful each was of the other's approach (just as they are now). I saw more vividly how extraordinary the California Gold Rush was, not only because of the quick riches (for some), but because it allowed people constrained by class in their homelands to reinvent themselves in ways unimagineable in their own cultures. And yet even in the class-agnostic society of California, still there was a racial pecking order among the immigrants. The book depicted how, after the initial frenzy, those who found ways to provide needed services benefited more than those who struggled to mine what gold was left.  <br />While enjoying the rich story line, I also appreciated how perceptive Allende was about people's motivations and the dynamics of relationships. I thought she captured the subtleties of her character's conflicting emotions quite well, and how that drove behavior that at times even the characters themselves didn't always understand. In all, this book was a pleasure to read.	2000-10-28
US	52282928	R2J4SGJ9BR2SG8	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A book to re-read to remember what really matters	Tuesdays With Morrie is a small book with a meaningful message. It tells the true story of Morrie Schwartz, a former sociology professor at Brandeis  University who is dying of Lou Gehrig's disease (ALS). A student from 20  years ago, Mitch Albom, learns of Morrie's illness and starts to visit him  once a week on Tuesdays, just as he had when he was in college. Through  those weekly meetings, we learn about Morrie's views on life, death,  happiness, money, marriage, family, and other such issues. Morrie doesn't  believe that dying is something to be ashamed of, so he reaches out to  people and shares his experience, treasuring the time he has left to  connect with people and to say his goodbyes. As we experience Morrie's  decline, we are reminded of what's most important in life and how hard we  must try to focus on those things.<br />It took only a few hours to read this  little book, and yet it sends a message that is worth keeping forever. I  suspect each person will glean different lessons from this book, but here  are some of the messages that struck me:<br />- Ignoring death doesn't make it  go away, but instead cuts off an opportunity to treasure our own lives and  the lives of others. Often when an older person talks about their death,  their children say, &quot;Don't talk that way,&quot; as if talking about it  causes death. By denying death, we make it harder for people to accept  their mortality, and we miss the opportunity to allay others' fears about  what will happen to their loved ones after they're gone. <br />- When we're  with someone, we should be fully *there,* focusing on them, listening to  them, and responding to them.  <br />- Morrie allowed himself time to feel  self-pity, fear, anger. He fully experienced those emotions so that he  could know the feeling, and then move on, without letting it consume him.  By denying our feelings, we let them control us; if we accept them, we are  free to choose our response to them.<br />I plan to read thisevery so often,  just to keep reminding myself what really matters and to value each day.	2000-08-17
US	52282928	R1NDDMZ0LRDM9U	0060929995	293802155	For Love	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Not Miller's best, but still interesting characters &amp; story	&quot;For Love&quot; takes place over the course of a summer in Boston. Lottie is struggling with her second marriage and she's using the summer to  figure out what she wants. She and her grown son Ryan spend the summer  preparing her childhood home for sale, while her husband Jack stays home in  Chicago. Meanwhile, her brother Cameron rekindles his high school romance  (obsession) with Elizabeth, who has since married but has returned to her  parents house down the block from Lottie, also deciding whether to leave  her husband. Elizabeth, who was never nice to Lottie as a teenager, tries  to befriend Lottie, putting her in the middle of a difficult relationship  between her and Cameron. <br />Sue Miller's books tend to start the reader out  in the middle of a story, and as the action progresses, we learn about the  main character's past through flashbacks. She uses this technique here as  well, and I think it generally works. In the first chapter, Cameron  accidently runs over Elizabeth's au pair in a wild attempt to keep her from  returning to her husband. That sets the stage to show us how this affects  Lottie and what led to this event. Over the course of the book, we learn  that Lottie met her second husband Jack while his wife was deeply ill and  that their relationship is in many ways defined by the slow death of his  wife. We learn that Lottie's father was arrested for embezzlement when she  was a child, and she grew up with her alcoholic mother, both angry at her  and guilty for being favored over Cameron. Yet Cameron has become the  devoted one, looking after their mother as she deteriorates in the nursing  home. We learn that Lottie takes pride in growing up without wealth, for  having tacky taste, for not going the conventional route, and yet she  chooses Jack, who is a doctor, with money and refined tastes. All of this  (and more) figures in how Lottie eventually makes her decision and,  perhaps, comes to accept herself.<br />This is my third book by Sue Miller,  and like her others, it has interesting and complex characters and it has  many insights about human behavior. But while I found Lottie's journey is  interesting, this book didn't affect me as much  as &quot;While I Was  Gone&quot; or &quot;The Good Mother.&quot; The story felt a little disjoint  at times -- it seemed like if you put the story back in chronological  order, there would be some important periods missing. I sometimes felt that  I didn't understood Lottie's emotional development and the reasons she made  the choices she did. At the end, although I expected Lottie to make the  decision she did, I didn't really understand why from her point of view.  Still, I liked Lottie's unconventional ways and I appreciated the emotional  complexity of her character. It's not my favorite of Miller's book, but I  wasn't sorry I read it.	2000-08-17
US	52282928	RHGC6ZU8EZPTV	0385312431	337756350	The Good Mother	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Compelling but painful story about relationships &amp; loss	&quot;The Good Mother&quot; is the painful story of a woman, Anna, who tries to rebuild her life with her 6-year-old daughter Molly after she  splits up with her husband, Brian. She moves, gets a job, and eventually  develops a relationship with a man, Leo, who brings out parts of herself  she hadn't expressed before. An unfortunate incident triggers Brian to take  legal action to get custody of Molly, which is all the more surprising  after their reasonably amicable divorce. The book covers the legal  proceedings and Anna's stunned reaction to it, how it harms her  relationships with Leo. Once again, we see Anna steel herself against her  losses, starting over again, each time more distant and further inside  herself.<br />This book is very real. I found it a compelling portrait of how  the community and the legal system respond to personal issues having to do  with raising children and sexuality. There is something very scary about  how the courts can so dramatically affect our lives, even when the system  does not seem well set up to determine what's right or what's best. But  moreso, I was interested in Anna, how she adapted to the divorce by turning  into herself, how she gradually emerges in her new relationship, but still  with a harder, private self that she protects. Once the accusations break,  again I felt her drawing in, numbing herself to her world and those who  care about her. It rang true to me as the way many women (perhaps men too)  deal with this type of hardship. In many ways, this book reminded me of  Jane Hamilton's &quot;A Map of the World,&quot; which also explored  society's reaction to family issues and a woman's reaction to loss.<br />The  book spends some time discussing Anna's childhood as a piano student who  never made it to prodigy status, and how that disappointment dominated her  large extended family's perception of her, and therefore her perception of  herself. There is an interesting contrast with the other side of her  family, which seems cold and empty, but at least does not judge her,  offering her a odd kind of comfort. Although this aspect of her life was  interesting and helped draw my picture of Anna, I felt like there was still  something missing in the connection between Anna the child, and Anna the  adult. We eventually hear the stories that bring Anna from adolescence to  her marriage, but somehow I didn't gain the sense of satisfaction that I  did in Miller's &quot;While I Was Gone&quot; when the main character's life  story came together.  Still, Miller's perceptiveness and her ability to  tell a compelling, thought-provoking story make this book a solid,  enjoyable read.	2000-08-02
US	52282928	R3TK9NH3SRGVST	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Emotionally realistic and satisfying reading	&quot;While I Was Gone&quot; is told by a middle-aged woman named Jo Becker, a veterinarian, happily married wife, and mother of three daughters who lives outside of Boston. The wife of an old housemate (Eli) brings  their dog to her office, and this triggers Jo's memories of her time after  college when she was running from her first marriage. She had assumed a new  identity and lived in a group house in Boston, where she became close with  her housemates, one of whom she finds murdered in their living room when  she gets home from cocktail waitressing one day. The book flashes back to  tell the story of her time in the group house and then returns to her  married life, where she meets Eli again and find herself attracted to him.  In all the lives Jo has lived (first marriage, recovering in the group  home, second marriage, and even childhood), she keeps secrets from those  she loves, sometimes without realizing it. The book is essentially about  how those secrets affect her and her life.<br />Within the first ten pages of  this book, I thought &quot;Oo, I'm going to enjoy this book,&quot; and oh  how I did. Miller writes of the emotional and psychological lives of her  characters more realistically than any author I know. I savored the many  details that conveyed who Jo was, how she reacted to others, and why she  behaved as she did. Despite getting to know Jo as a stable, mature woman, I  completely understood her earlier experience of wanting to take big risks  and reinvent herself when she realizes she has been making choices to  please others, at the cost of not knowing herself. We learn about Jo's  relationship with her children, now young adults, and she captures the  tension Jo feels in trying to be a loving mother while also conveying her  respect for their independence. When Jo and her husband Daniel have a  falling out, I fully understood her portrayal of the emotional experience  of being polite with one another but looking for tiny clues about how he is  feeling, what he is expecting. At the end, there is a scene with her  elderly mother that brings together the theme of keeping secrets and it  completed my understanding of Jo. It was a very satisfying experience.  <br />In some ways, this is a narrow book in that it delves into the small  life of one woman; those who like stories with a lot of action and many  interesting characters might not like this book. The strength of this book  is the depth with which it explores and explains the emotional life of that  woman. If you like detailed, psychologically real stories, you will like  this book. I couldn't have enjoyed it more.	2000-07-22
US	52282928	R2KKQI3VAJAI7B	0887308554	454560507	Accidental Empires: How the Boys of Silicon Valley Make Their Millions, Battle Foreign Competition, and Still Can't Get a Date	Books	3	47	53	N	N	Interesting content but Cringely's attitude makes me cringe	As someone who's been working in Silicon Valley for years, I found this book interesting for its insight into the history of the computer business and the strong personalities who created it. It focuses on the early giants  of IBM, Apple, Microsoft, Compaq, and the like, well before the Internet  became a popular medium. The book highlighted for me how much an industry  is shaped by the people and their peculiarities, and how the culture of an  organization shapes its perception of and reaction to events.  <br />Still,  Cringley's smug, know-it-all attitude detracted from the book and made me  question the credibility of his analysis. He paints people in black and  white strokes, often portraying the object of his ridicule as blind to the  obviously correct course of action. Cringely is especially harsh on people  he perceives as ego-driven and insecure, which, ironically, is just how he  struck me.<br />I suspect people who are not particularly tied into the  computer culture won't find this worth reading. But if you are among those  hooked on the computer industry and you can get past Cringely's attitude,  the book has some useful insights, anecdotes, and facts.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R3LLLVWBTEIEJY	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Unusual story and characters, but not my favorite Kingsolver	This book takes place in the Congo in the 1960s, when the country was fighting for independence from Belgium. It centers around Nathan &amp; Orleana Price and their four daughters, who go there from Atlanta to do  missionary work. The story shows how Nathan, blinded by his mindless  determination to force the villagers to adopt his ways, never gets a clue  about the people and the culture he has transplanted himself into. At the  same time, he completely misunderstands his own family, and refuses to  leave when they come in danger. He's is completely out of touch, and each  of the women in his family learn to adapt in different ways. But the book  is more about the four daughters and how they grow from that world-changing  first year in the Congo into adults.<br />Each chapter is written from the  perspective of one of the four daughters or the mother, which I found an  interesting and effective device to help us understand the characters, both  through their own eyes and through each other's eyes. The characters  themselves are interesting and very different from each other, and I  enjoyed getting to know them. One is an insecure prima donna, another a  liberal intellectual, another a brilliant girl who is paralyzed on half of  her body, and the other a carefree child. However, at the same time, I felt  somewhat removed from what was going on in the Congo, and had a hard time  piecing together the political events that affected them so dramatically.  Over the course of the book, it becomes more important to understand the  external events, so I found that I lost a connection with the characters.  In the last third of the book, we follow the characters through adulthood,  and I found I didn't really understand the different choices they made as  well as I would have liked. Although I still enjoyed their story, I didn't  feel, as I had in Kingsolver's other books, a real connection with the  characters in a way that affected me personally. This book felt more  distant.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R2PKPK14T6X47F	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pleasant but not memorable	Novalee Nation, a seventeen year-old pregnant girl from Tennessee, is deserted at a Wal-Mart in Oklahoma when her loser of a boyfriend drives off without her on their way out to California. She ends up staying there,  living in the Wal-Mart until she has her child in the store. The book is  the story of how she develops relationships with an eclectic group of  friends in the town, raises her child, and eventually develops a sense of  her own worth. <br />I found this a pleasant book, and I generally cheered for  Novalee to make good decisions and to grow some confidence, but I didn't  connect with her story. I found her collection of friends only weakly  drawn, so it was difficult to relate to them or understand them. The only  real passion this book aroused in me was a hatred of her boyfriend, whose  story is told in a few chapters interwoven into Novalee's story. A  perfectly good read, but I don't think I'll remember this book very well  over time.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R104FOXPMCSVX7	0316789089	760222125	The Pilot's Wife	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Readable but sterile and narrowly focused	&quot;The Pilot's Wife&quot; starts shortly after a woman finds out her pilot husband has died in the plane crash and takes place over the next few weeks, as more information unfolds about the circumstances of the crash and  her husband's involvement in it. The book is mainly about her state of mind  and involves only a few other characters: her daughter, a sympathetic  representative of the airline who helps her adjust to the news and  gradually provides more information, and her step-mother who mainly helps  take care of the daughter during the event. And of course the husband, who  is revealed through stories about their past.<br />I found this book readable  and interesting, but I didn't find myself deeply involved in the character,  Kathryn, or even the story. As I learned about her relationship with her  husband, the later stories seem inconsistent with the earlier ones and I  found it hard to believe Kathryn would have had the impressions of her  marriage she conveyed at first. The relationships with the other characters  (especially her daughter and mother) were sketched only lightly. Despite  the mystery aspects of the book, I didn't find it especially compelling.  Somehow the book seemed a little sterile and single-focused, lacking the  rich detail and interesting characters that I find most satisfying in a  novel.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R2DUL95ET1SH7U	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My favorite Irving Book	Like all of Irving's books, A Widow for One Year is hard to encapsulate in a short summary. It centers around Ruth Cole, a famous author and daughter of a famous (and philandering) children's author. Ruth's mother disappeared  when she was 4 years old, but not before having an affair (sanctioned by  her father) with a 16-year-old boy, who eventually becomes Ruth's friend as  an adult and who never stops loving Ruth's mother. The story is about  Ruth's career, relationships with men, and eventual coming to terms with  being abandoned. But of course, that's an oversimplification, and ignores  the Amsterdam prostitute who has a clever way of letting customers secretly  watch her have sex with other customers, the ripped up pieces of  pornographic drawings that blow all over Long Island's east end, the death  of Ruth's two brothers before she was born, not to mention Ruth's husband,  son, and promiscuous best friend.<br />I read this book on a trip across the  US that included a 5-hour delay on the tarmac of Dallas airport where I had  to change planes. I hardly noticed the wait, and when I finally got to my  hotel room at 2:30am, I wanted to read some more before going to sleep. In  other words, I loved this book. The characters are multi-dimensional and  fully believable. I found myself relating to nearly all of them, even the  ones I didn't like very much. Irving has his usual fun telling stories  within stories, and creating ridiculous and zany situations that make  perfect sense in the context of the story. There are so many details that  would stand out as &quot;significant&quot; in other stories, but in this  book are just part of Irving's attempt to help you really see the action  and understand the characters. I'll have to go back and re-read The Cider  House Rules, but right now, this is my favorite of his books.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R1ZLM521KZ1CZX	068483149X	153472730	BUCKING THE SUN : A Novel	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Distant characters, lackluster plot	This book is the story of the Duff family and its experiences building the Fort Peck Dam in Montana, a public works project in the 1930s. The Duffs are a family of three grown brothers, their parents, their Scottish uncle,  and the women who marry into the Duff family over the course of the book.  Everyone in the extended family works in some role at the Dam, one as an  engineer and the rest as laborers. Doig interweaves details about the  mechanics of building of a dam into the story. The book starts with a  murder that gets solved at the end of the book, but that turns out to be  incidental to the story.<br />I had a lot of trouble getting through this  book, even though I usually find books with complex family relationships  interesting, and even though I was somewhat interested in how a dam gets  built. I'm not sure what it was missing, but I found that I never really  got an understanding of the characters and what motivated them. I was  completely uninterested in the resolution of the murder, and upon finding  out who had done it, I found it under-motivated through the book. The book  focused on the men in the family, and never really developed the women  characters, which was especially disappointing for me. Maybe men who like  things to be unspoken will like this book better than I did.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	RV049TJXYL6ZB	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Enjoyable and revealing way to learn about Henry VIII	This book takes an interesting approach to historical fiction, telling the story of Henry VIII through his own eyes via a journal that he supposedly wrote looking back on his life. The book, at over 900 pages, goes from his  childhood as a second son, his reign, his break from the Pope without  repudiating Catholicism, his marriage to 6 women (and his beheading of two  of them for adultry), his desperate attempts to have a male heir, and  through to his death (the details of which are filled in by his fool, who  supposedly found the journal). The book places most of its emphasis on  Henry's relationships with his wives and, to a lesser extent, the effect he  had on the role of religion and the Crown. It focuses less on his reign,  the politics of the time, or his military activities.<br />I found the  first-person journal style an enjoyable way to learn about Henry VIII and  his rule. It certainly made the events of his life more understandable and,  although he doesn't exactly come out seeming like a saint, he is a  sympathetic character who had his vanities and weaknesses, not that  surprising in someone with so much power combined with such a passionate  nature. There were times when I would have liked more commentary from Will,  his fool, to give perspective on Henry's views, though I suppose learning  everything through his eyes gave some insight into how hard it is for a  King to hear the truth, since few people are willing to speak unkindly to  him. (Ironically, it seemed that his &quot;fool&quot; was one of the few  people who would speak straight to him.)<br />I should say that I knew next to  nothing about Henry VIII's rule before I read the book, and I think  Margaret George assumes the reader knows at least the basics about his rule  and what happened afterward. Still, it was helpful to learn about the  growth of Protestantism during his reign and how he inadvertantly helped it  by breaking from the Pope, even when he remained Catholic and against  Protestant thinking. It also wasn't hard to figure out how his  relationships with his various wives would have been interpreted by the  common people and later by history. Compared with Sharon Kay Penman's  novels, this one lacked the kind of details about the day-to-day living  that helps bring historical fiction alive for me, and necessarily, didn't  provide an understanding of a variety of characters in different roles. I  missed that, and I still much prefer Penman's story-telling style. Still,  this was enjoyable and instructive and well worth a read.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R350I10SHZ15FQ	0316955159	47347911	War and Remembrance	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A let down after Winds of War	&quot;War and Remembrance&quot; is the yet more epic (nearly 1400 pages) sequel to The Winds of War. It covers the period from shortly after Pearl Harbor in 1942 to the end of the war in 1945, again through the experiences  of the members of the Henry family. I enjoyed &quot;The Winds of War&quot;  quite a bit, but this one I thought moved too slowly and read much more as  a history book than as historical fiction. There were many stretches when  Wouk stopped telling the story altogether and simply described various  events of the war, and he made far too much use of his device of Pug  Henry's translation of a German officer's account of the war. There were,  of course, many interesting events involving the characters, but they took  much too long to play out and I found myself losing interest in what would  happen to people. <br />Wouk did a good job of bringing to life the horror of  the Jewish concentration camps. And I got a little better idea of how the  seemingly infallible German fighting machine somehow faltered, though it  all seemed to come down to Hitler's egomaniacal micromanagement catching up  with him, which is a little bit of a dissatisfying explanation. I still  found Pug Henry and Pamela Tudsbury's characters interesting, but I was  disappointed that the formerly strong and independent Natalie Jastrow  became a typical fearful and cautious woman the moment she gave birth to a  child. Still, I did learn quite a bit more about the war than I managed to  pick up in high-school history, I just wish I could have enjoyed the read  more.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R1OHSKKONRLXR2	0425166627	297933403	Singing in the Comeback Choir	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Flat &amp; predictable, can this be the same Campbell?	The story is about Maxine, a black woman executive producer of a TV talk show who has a great life on the surface but is dealing with problems on several fronts. Her show is in danger of being cancelled. The grandmother  who raised her, a famous singer from an earlier generation, has lost hope  after she had a stroke. And she's still trying to forgive her otherwise  wonderful husband Satchel for cheating on her. <br />This book disappointed  me. When I read Campbell's &quot;Your Blues Ain't Like Mine,&quot; I became  a fan of her ability to bring to life many and varied characters, drawing  out their different points of view. I was especially impressed with the way  she helped you to understand the most unsympathetic of characters. In this  book, and to a lesser degree her last one, &quot;Brothers and  Sisters,&quot; the characters seem one-dimensional and flat. The story is  fairly predictable and, when everything works out just grand in the end,  formulaic and unbelievable. The dialog is stiff, even telegraphic,  especially the phone calls between Maxine and Satchel when Maxine is  visiting her grandmother. The book was easy to breeze through, but in the  end, it wasn't very satisfying.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R1PISP5G9OOZCP	0316955167	132306747	The Winds of War	Books	4	3	4	N	N	This is how history should be taught!	This is the epic (850-page) story of the first years of World War II, from just before the beginning of the war until just after the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor and the United States reluctantly joined the war. The story is  told through the experiences of the Henry family, which includes a naval  capitain and his traditional navy wife; their two sons, a young naval  fighter pilot and a submarine soldier who gets involved with a woman Jewish  scholar; and their daughter, who works for a popular talk television show.  The cast of characters extends beyond just the family to include a wide  range of interesting characters on both sides of the war. Wouk does a neat  job of placing the characters in situations that provide a multi-faceted  view of what was going on during the days when Hitler marched through  Poland, occupied France, took on the English and then marched east to fight  the Soviets. He even manages to situate Captain Victor &quot;Pug&quot;  Henry so that he can give a first-hand view of what Roosevelt, Hitler,  Stalin, and Mussolini were up to.<br />Wouk does an excellent job of  portraying rich, multi-faceted, interesting characters whom you come to  know and care about. Some of them you like, some you don't, but they're all  fully drawn and very believable. I especially like that he has several (but  not all) strong women characters. Through these characters, he tells the  fascinating story of the early days of the war. Since I slept through  history class in high school (why don't they teach it through historical  fiction, I wonder?), most of the details were new to me, but I suspect even  those with a better background would find this book full of interesting  information. After reading this book, I discovered from an English friend  that English school kids are taught that the English won the war, and I  suspect the Soviets teach their kids the same thing. This book clearly has  a US point of view and indicates that the Allies looked to the US to win  the war. However, Wouk left me with a lot of respect for the English and  the Soviets for digging in and resisting for so long with insufficient  supplies. (Though I suspect that supplies are always insufficient in  wartime.) He also uses several devices to convey how the Germans  interpreted the war, which was useful. Overall, I was left with a clearer  sense of how difficult it is to interpret events as they are happening and  to know how to act, even if history makes it all seem so obvious in  hindsight.<br />There were times when I found it difficult to keep track of  when things were happening, and I sometimes had trouble following some of  the fairly technical military situations, despite wanting to understand.  But I did learn a lot about military culture and the war, and very much  enjoyed learning it. I've started reading the sequel, the even longer  &quot;War and Remembrance,&quot; so I obviously think it's worth another  1300+ pages. I want to find out what happens to the characters and how the  details of the rest of the war played out.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R1CGOD41LWQHT2	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Beautifully written, asks you to take your time to enjoy	Cold Mountain is a beautifully told story of two people during the civil war. Inman is a soldier who deserts the Confederate army when he is injured and stops believing in the war. He slowly walks back home to Cold Mountain,  where he hopes to reunite with Ada, the woman he was just falling in love  with when the war began. Meanwhile, Ada, is left alone on her estate when  her father dies, equipped with plenty of cultured knowledge but no  practical survival skills. She pairs up with Rudy, a no-nonsense black  woman who has been surviving on her own all her life, and together, they  work the farm and fend for themselves. The story reads like Fielding's  &quot;Tom Jones,&quot; or Hardy's &quot;Tess of the d'Urburvilles,&quot;  elaborate stories of young people who make journeys, meeting interesting  characters along the way, learning how to survive, and essentially growing  up in the process. The writing style, too, is similar, in that it is  well-crafted and slow paced, making detailed note of the physical  surroundings, the wildlife, and general patterns of behavior.<br />I enjoyed  this book, and despite taking a month to read it, felt that I didn't go  slowly enough to really appreciate the writing. Over the years since  college, I think I read more for plot and character development and take  less time to appreciate writing style and detailed observations. Still,  although the book's plot is fairly simple and not much &quot;happens,&quot;  there is enough of interest within each encounter or episode to keep the  story moving. I found Inman and Ada fundamentally interesting characters,  probably because they both bucked the standard traditions of the time,  especially Ada who rejected the coy, dependent female role entirely. And I  also enjoyed learning a little about the life and culture of the South  during the civil war. Despite all these praises, I also didn't *love* the  book, perhaps because of my own impatience more than any flaw in the book.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R3PDWRG72TILFZ	0440224624	117143822	The Loop	Books	2	21	27	N	N	Predictable, one-sided story, black and white characters	&quot;The Loop&quot; takes place mainly in Montana ranch country and focuses on the tension between ranchers and naturalists over the right of wolves to roam free on land that is owned by or leased to ranchers, who  resent losing expensive cattle to the wolves. It also tells the story of a  woman, Helen, who has had bad luck with men, and Luke, the awkward teenage  son of the town's most prominent rancher who doesn't share his father's  political views. Helen comes to town to help study the wolves and the stage  is set for a relationship that reflects the political conflict. <br />Although  I enjoyed learning a little bit about the life of the wolves, I'm afraid I  found this book predictable and unsophisticated. It was a major flaw that  not a single sympathetic character was on the side of the ranchers, who I  believe have equally as legitimate a claim as the naturalists. Instead, the  father, Buck Calder, is presented as the voice of the ranchers, and he's  made out to be a phony, narcissitic, insecure, philandering man who  intimidates his sensitive son and props up his ego by hitting on attractive  women. Even when he makes reasonable arguments for the ranchers, you  dislike him so much that you take them to be motivated by his need to seem  important. Evans even goes so far as to create a thinly drawn character who  has dedicated his life to killing wolves and yet, in the end, decides that  what he's done is wrong for reasons that, if they were ever going to have  an impact, should have convinced him years before we met him. It seems to  me that if you're going to write a book about this subject, you should make  an effort to present both sides of the complex issue fairly. (As much as I  believe in protecting wildlife, it seems to me most of us would resent it  if the government told us that we couldn't defend ourselves against  something that directly threatened our hard-earned livelihood even when  we're on our own property. The issue is not as simple as BigBad Greedy  People vs Good-Hearted Altruistic People.) <br />Although I liked Helen and  Luke, I wasn't completely convinced by Evans' portrayal of Helen as she  gets over her failed relationship. There were some other somewhat  interesting characters, though they weren't as multidimensional as I'd have  liked. In general, people underwent what are in real life difficult  transformations simply by waking up one day and suddenly realizing the  right thing to do. On the whole, the book was an easy read, a nice break  from some of the more demanding books I've been reading, but not one I'd  recommend.	2000-07-20
US	52282928	R1FGU7B5DDY1BR	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent and unusual historical fiction	This book tells the story of a woman who was sold as a girl to an okiya in  pre-WWII Japan to be raised as a geisha. It is told from the perspective of  the geisha as an old woman as she looks back on her life. It describes in  fascinating detail the life of a geisha, from student to novice to full  geisha, including such details as makeup application, styles of kimono,  and, more intriguing, the politics of establishing status and  position.<br />This book is an excellent example of what I look for in  historical fiction. Until reading this book, I had little knowledge of or  interest in the life of geisha during this period, and yet the book made  the topic compelling. Sayuri is a complex, sympathetic character, and  through her adventures, we learn about the culture, the values, and the  social rules of her time, as well as the details of daily living. The  characters seem believable even though they operate by different social  conventions. Even the style of writing rang true to me as the syntax of  someone who doesn't speak English as a first language. As a bonus, I also  felt I learned something about the art of triumphing over an enemy without  fighting them head on.	2000-07-19
US	52282928	R146NI6ELOYX9W	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Compelling story told through interesting narrator	This book is centered around a midwife who carries out a make-shift  C-section to save a baby after the mother dies during childbirth. The  question is whether the mother really did die beforehand, as the midwife  perceived, or whether the C-section caused the death. The midwife is taken  to trial and shunned by much of this small New England community, except  for her core friends and allies. The book is the story of this midwife's  trial and how it affects her family.<br />When I first started this book, I  wondered whether a politically correct view of midwives would hold my  interest. I already believe midwives are a perfectly legitimate alternative  to doctors, so I didn't think I'd be compelled by the controversy. Within a  few chapters, though, I was drawn in not just by the story, but by the  voice of its narrator. The story is told from the perspective of the  midwife's 14-year-old daughter, who is writing this as a grown woman.  <br />The book moves along at a steady pace, gradually disclosing the details  of the unfortunate birth as the trial unfolds. But it was not so much the  outcome of the trial that made me want to turn the pages. Instead, it was  the daughter's interpretation of the events, how it affected her  development, and how she came to understand her mother's motivations that  intrigued me through to the very end.  I was even more interested when I  realized part-way through that the author (Chris Bohjalian) is a man. I was  impressed by how well he captured the workings of a teenage girl's mind.	2000-07-19
US	52282928	RKNY5T4X5DOLH	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Compelling story, insightful study of personalities	In A Map of the World, Alice and Howard Goodwin own a family farm in a northern midwest town called Prarie Center. They have two daughters and are close to another family with two girls of similar ages, although they are  shunned by the rest of the mainly suburban community. Despite their dreams  of a simple life, they encounter two serious tragedies that dramatically  change their lives, one a terrible accident in which one of the girls dies  and another a terrible injustice that lands Alice in jail, accused of child  molestation. The book is about how the two families and the community  reacts to and copes with the events. <br />I loved this book. I was on a  business trip and hadn't brought a &quot;backup book,&quot; and it was a  struggle to keep myself from reading too much so I'd have enough to last  the cross-country flight home. I loved the book because it was compelling  on so many levels. Told from both Alice's and Howard's perspective, it  delves into their complex reactions to the events and how it affected their  understanding of themselves. It also characterizes the effect it has on  their relationship with each other, with their children, and with their  friends. It is also an insightful if painful commentary on people's  reaction to sexual abuse and how they treat those who are accused vs. the  children who accuse them. It richly describes Alice's time in jail and her  reaction to the mostly lower-income women who share her &quot;pod.&quot;  And it has an intriguing description of how the case makes it way through  the legal process, culminating in a compelling courtroom drama. At all  these levels, nothing seemed contrived or predictable. Even though I don't  think I'd react the way these characters did, their behavior always seemed  true and genuine, and I felt I learned something as I read about how they  handled and came to accept their situation. Usually I find it difficult to  read about great misfortune, especially unjust misfortune. But thisbook  was so rich in its understanding of how people deal with such problems that  I found it cathartic to identify with the characters and live through it  with them. If you like books with rich characters and relationships, and  complex social situations, I'd highly recommend this book.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R1UHM14Q1QCK98	0312099436	900086516	Women of the Silk: A Novel	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Lovely story w/ some insights into early 20th century China	Women of the Silk is the story of a poor young girl, Pei, growing up in the countryside of China in the early part of the 1900s. When she is around 8 years old, her family, strapped after a few difficult farming seasons,  decides they must &quot;give her to the silk work.&quot; Without her  understanding what is happening, Pei is brought to the city and left at a  home for girls who work in the silk factory. The money she earns pays for  her boarding and the rest is sent home to her family. The book is Pei's  story of growing up with the other silk workers, the deep friendships she  forms, and her coming to accept what her parents needed to do. <br />Although  this isn't a book where a lot &quot;happens,&quot; I enjoyed it for its  rich description of Pei's world and for its graceful writing. I was  interested to learn how the silk workers were among the most independent  women in the culture, often looked upon as strange. Some went through  &quot;the hairdressing ceremony&quot; to become wedded to silkwork, vowing  never to be married, presumably because a woman dedicated to her work  cannot also be dedicated to a marriage. They were also quite sheltered and  many never saw much of he world outside their small area. Most of the  characters in the book are women, and through them, Tsukiyama nicely  illustrates the role of women at that time, the values and constraints they  lived with, and the choices they were allowed to make. It was also  interesting to see how any foreigners were considered devils, referred to  as &quot;the white devils&quot; or &quot;the Japanese devils.&quot; There  is a stretch of the book, after Pei becomes a young adult, when the book  seems to stall without a direction, but on the whole, it kept my attention  and I found myself caring for many of the characters and interested to  learn more about their lives.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	RZ5JZBES662SL	0672316498	301011583	The Inmates Are Running the Asylum	Books	3	88	98	N	N	Useful ideas but infuriatingly arrogant	The Inmates are Running the Asylum makes the business case for interaction designers playing a central role in the development of technology products. It starts by providing examples of technology that is difficult, frustrating, humiliating, and even dangerous to use. Cooper argues that,  although people have gotten used to being humiliated by technology, it  doesn't have to be this way. His claim is that most technology, especially  software, is designed by engineers who think differently than non-technical  people: they enjoy being challenged by difficult problems and they are  trained to think in terms of &quot;edge cases&quot; rather than on the  common case. Thus when engineers design software, they tend to create  products with far too many neat features that clutter the interface and  make it difficult to do the simpler tasks. In the second part of the book,  Cooper describes an approach that he and his design firm uses to simplify  products and keep them focused on the users' needs, eliminating or hiding  more complex features that few people use. He gives some specific and  compelling examples of how they took a different approach to an interesting  design problem and keep the product simple while still being powerful. He  makes the case that you can grab a market with powerful, feature-rich,  complex software that is frustrating to use, but you don't build customer  loyalty that way; as soon as a well-designed version of that product comes  along, your customers will defect. If you delight the user with your  products, on the other hand, you will engender deep loyalty that will help  see you through some poor business decisions. His primary example of this  is the fanatical loyalty that Apple garners from its users, compared with  the rage that Windows users feel toward Microsoft. Apple has weathered some  horrendous business decisions and still survives, whereas Microsoft users  are more than happy to defect when a better product comes along, and in  factrevel in the defection. <br />I also don't think he makes it clear enough  that he's not proposing doing *fewer* features to make products simpler and  easier to use, he's talking about doing *different* features. For example,  he argues that software should not be so lazy; it should stop making the  user do work that the computer is better suited to doing (e.g. remembering  where they put files), and it should stop making users go through the same  steps over and over again, as if it were the first time they had ever met  this user. He argues that &quot;Do you really mean it?&quot; popups are  evil (and I couldn't agree more - as most of my coworkers know), and  instead it should be easy to undo anything, so it's not so catastrophic to  do something you didn't meant to do. I agree with all that, but of course  building a reasonable &quot;undo&quot; mechanism is a very complex feature.  To cure the &quot;How could you possibly want to quit my ever-so-important  application?&quot; popup syndrome, it would be much better to make the  software very fast to start up, and to have it come back in exactly the  state you left it in, so that quitting when you didn't mean to is not a  problem. All of this is well worth doing, but it is lots of engineering  work; it's another feature. I'm all for shifting engineer resources to  these features instead of the &quot;but somebody *might* want to do this  obscure thing&quot; features, but it should be clear that this is not doing  fewer features, it's doing different ones, ones that help smooth the user's  interaction with the software. Cooper seems to imply that engineers are so  lazy that they don't want to do these features, but most engineers work  very hard and care about their product. The key is to make it clear why  doing this feature right will make such a big difference to the product. My  experience has been that the more you understand the work involved in doing  a feature, the better you can work with engineers. Not only can you better  trade off engineering effort for user benefit, but engineers respect you  for understanding what you're asking. <br />Having said all that, I can't deny  that I finished this book with some very specific ideas about improving my  own designs, and a renewed sense of the importance of what I do. I just  wish Cooper could have articulated the case without putting interaction  designers &quot;on a throne.&quot;	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R10VQOXA506Q21	0812521463	477457064	Aztec	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Rich, engaging, but slow-paced historical fiction of Mexico	Aztec is the historical fiction tale of Mexico from the late 1400s to early 1500s, when the Spaniards invaded the country. It is told through an elderly native as he tells his story of his life to the local clergy, who  have been directed by their Spanish Emporer (King?) to learn of the  region's history. The native, named Mixtli, has lived a fascinating life  that has led him to travel by foot across much of what they called  &quot;The One World,&quot; centered around Tenochtitlan, which became  Mexico City. Through Mixtli's adventures, we learn of the customs, mores,  and religious beliefs of the people who became known as Aztecs. As he  becomes a highly ranked merchant, Mixtli also has access to some of the  political figures of the time. We see through his eyes the invasion of  Cortes from Spain, which according to Mixtli would have been better  resisted had Montezuma (the Spanish distortion of Motecuzoma) not been a  spineless leader. But then it seems that much of history works out this  way.<br />This book is rich in detail. Woven into the story are such topics as  the features of the land, people's daily habits, the language differences  among the different peoples, the values and social customs, and the  military practices and technology of the time. Jennings does a good job of  creating believable characters, both male and female, that have  sophisticated emotions and behavior. Mixtli is a very engaging character,  and he meets a wide array of interesting people, many of whom stay with us  through long stretches of the book, so there isn't the problem of trying to  remember so many characters that you stop caring about them. Still, the  book has a very leisurely pace and didn't particularly compel me to find  out what happened next. The book cover quotes The New York Times describing  it as &quot;a dazzling and hypnotic historical novel;&quot; I'd agree with  the &quot;dazzling&quot; but not with the &quot;hypnotic.&quot; It took me  over a month to read Aztec's 1038 pages, and although it was certainly time  well spent, I chose not to read the sequel Aztec Autumn. Still, I'd  recommend Aztec as an enjoyable and very informative historical novel.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R3CHFZ0FOERLYF	0156011042	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Well written, thought-provoking story	East of the Mountains is a simple story. Ben Givens, a Seattle-area doctor in his 70s, learns he has terminal cancer. Knowing the horror of the disease's course, he decides to take his life but to make it look like a  hunting accident so his family doesn't have to know about the disease or  that he took his life. The book takes place over the next few days as he  tries to carry out his plan but is foiled, first by a car accident that  ironically nearly takes his life, and then by a series of quests to rescue  his hunting dog and to aid some migrant farm workers. He treats these  events as diversions that interrupt but don't deter his goal, and yet there  is an odd incongruity in his concern about the daily details of life when  one would expect him to be letting go.<br />Like Guterson's earlier book, Snow  Falling on Cedars, this book is beautifully written and a pleasure to read.  The main character, Ben Givens, is very richly described. He comes to life  both through a series of flashbacks that flesh out his history as well as  through the detailed description of his matter-of-fact reactions to the  events occurring in the present. The other characters in the book play only  small roles, and yet most of them felt real, each one adding interest to  the story. Givens has a gift for portraying characters succintly through  choice details. Consider this introduction of the veterinarian who helps  save the dog:<br />&quot;The veterinarian was a solid young woman with the  sturdy hands and face of a farmgirl and thick, soda-bottle glasses. She  spoke in the direct, firm way of the country, with the vigorous  practicality and certainty that had remade the sage desert into fields.  Kneeling in the parking lot, she examined Rex, and Ben guessed she was not  yet thirty, even though her professional manner suggested years of  experience. There was something irrepressibly young in her, some vague  crack in her doctorly demeanor through which her private self seeped as she  introduced herself as Dr. Peterson and made note of his blackened eye  without commenting on it.&quot;<br />Beyond enjoying the characters and the  storytelling, I experienced this book as a reminder to appreciate the  dailiness of life, the small interactions with strangers, the minor  obstacles we overcome along the way. I especially appreciated Ben's  inability to disconnect from these concerns, even when it all should have  seemed trivial from the perspective of life and death. I took Guterson to  be saying that those details *are* what matters when seen in the right  perspective.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R3AI3C76N6T4Y2	0385265700	836824873	The Book of Ruth	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Intriguing, complex characters	The Book of Ruth is about a young woman growing up in a small town in the midwest with her dominating, controlling mother, May, and her genious brother Matt, whom May dotes upon. May has always treated Ruth as a  slightly retarded girl who has brought her nothing but disappointment,  especially compared to Matt. The book describes the difficult path Ruth  takes to grow out of this definition of herself. Through her development,  the one person who truly believes in her is her Aunt Sid, with whom she  corresponds with through letters from childhood through adulthood. The  story starts when Ruth is about 10, goes back into her past through  flashbacks, and progresses until she gets married and has a child. At each  stage, Ruth is sensitive to the cues she gets about whom she should be from  authority figures (the Reverend, her mother, Aunt Sid, a social worker),  but she also shows a good amount of skepticism as she struggles to match  her own thinking to those expectations. As a child, she grudgingly plays  the role of the dumb student even if she only half believes it herself,  while she genuinely seems to accept the role of wife and mother and changes  to match her perception of those roles. All through the book, Ruth  foreshadows a tragic ending, which still comes as a bit of a shock, but her  again her reaction and adaptation continues to be illuminating.<br />This is  my second Jane Hamilton book (A Map of the World was the other). Once  again, I'm surprised by how much I became engaged in the story of people I  didn't necessarily like and might not otherwise want to read about.  Hamilton has a real talent for drawing out the intricacies and humanity of  her characters. I especially appreciate how she gives rich motivation for  all her characters, so you can't just hate &quot;the bad guys&quot; and  root for &quot;the good ones,&quot; but instead you understand everyone as  struggling with their own weaknesses and strengths, unhealthy dependencies  and noble aspirations. I liked how Ruth often talked about people's  &quot;good points,&quot; as something you have to look for in people and  may not always see. This could be seen as a book about a down-and-out  family, but instead I saw it as a rich description of a small family in a  rural town and the difficulty we all have in finding our way.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R3NFWXKQD5W4XT	0312199406	839686480	Night of Many Dreams: A Novel	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Nicely written story of 2 sisters in WWII-era China	Night of Many Dreams is the story of two Chinese sisters, Joan and Emma, growing up in Hong Kong during and after World War II. Their mother is a traditional Chinese woman who wants to pair them up with respected and  successful husbands; their father runs a business that keeps him in Japan  the bulk of the time; and their Auntie Go runs a successful knitting  factory and has never married. During the course of the book, they flee the  Japanese occupation to the nearby Portuguese island of Macao, return to  Hong Kong to start over again, and gradually return to prosperity. The book  focuses on the two daughters, both of them strong and independent in  different ways, and how they each find their own way. With the mother and  aunt as role models, we expect that Joan, the beautiful one, will find a  good husband, and Emma, the smart one, will pursue a career. In the end,  though, they each make choices that suit their personality without  necessarily fulfilling the expectations others had of them.<br />Like  Tsukiyama's Women of the Silk, this book is nicely written and gives a good  sense of the culture and values during this time in Hong Kong. I liked this  one a little better than Silk, though, because it had a broader array of  interesting characters and I felt I came to understand them better,  especially Auntie Go, Joan &amp; Emma. Both Joan and Emma seem to grow and  learn from their experiences, and I enjoyed seeing how each of them would  handle some of the difficult choices they faced. I like how Tsukiyama  creates strong female characters who find their own way within their  culture, subtly challenging the status quo but without explicitly rejecting  the system. I don't know enough about that area's history to know how  realistic the story is, but I hope it is plausible.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	RQNWIE4STB0PN	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Rich in mood and detail but distant characters	All the Pretty Horses is the story of John Grady Cole and his friend Lacey Rawlins, two teenage boys who leave home in southern Texas and cross into Mexico on horseback, seeking adulthood and independence. They find it  through a series of adventures that take them deep into Mexico and back  again. Skilled with horses, they wind up working at a horse ranch owned by  a wealthy family. Cole falls in love with the daughter, but despite the  respect he's earned from her father, the family intervenes, and Cole is  arrested and put in jail. On his way back to freedom, he has to fight for  his life, his love, his friendships, and his horse.<br />This book is more  about mood and character than it is about plot. Despite all of Cole &amp;  Rawlins' adventures, the book is slow moving. McCarthy writes beautifully,  paying attention to the details that make up the simple action of putting a  saddle on a horse, for example, or lighting up a cigarette. At times I  found this relaxing, but other times it made me restless. I can see why  this book received such praise, since the writing does create such a  peaceful atmosphere, even when talking about violent events. However, it  didn't work for me that well. I ended up feeling distant from the events  and the people in the story, never fully understanding their motivations or  reactions to events. I enjoyed the read, but I didn't especially look  forward to getting back to it each evening.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	RC3YDW8YWHGNM	0767906039	961103050	The Nudist on the Late Shift: And Other True Tales of Silicon Valley	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Insightful, entertaining view of Silicon Valley (my home)	Early in The Nudist on the Late Shift, Po Bronson points out that there is no one landmark at which TV crews can point their cameras to represent Silicon Valley. Instead, they have to resort to a montage of images; the  billboards along 101 advertising job openings, the unusual architecture of  Silicon Graphics' campus, the dentist-in-a-trailer who drove to Netscape to  service the employees' teeth, the washer-and-dryer facility that used to be  at Excite's facility. This book takes the same about people in Silicon  Valley, including the entrepreneurs, the programmers, the venture  capitalists, the sales people, the business people, the futurists, and  others. <br />I found this book to be a very effective description of life  here in Silicon Valley (where I live). It was also very well-written,  entertaining, and thought-provoking. Bronson, contrary to the  quick-turnaround approach of this culture, takes his time with the people  he interviews. You get to hear their stories as they tell them, but then  you learn what happens to those people over time, when things don't turn  out as they'd expected (for better or worse). You get the sense that these  people came to know and trust Bronson, and so told them a more well-rounded  version of their stories, not the 3-second sound bite version you get in  the papers and trade magazines. I liked that he profiled a range of people,  not just the 20-year-old dropouts-turned-millionaires, but also the hangers  on who keep trying to make it but don't. Also appearing is the CEO who  juggles all the unpredictable factors that go into the timing of an IPO,  the Big Thinker who tries to make meaning of all this technological  wizardry, the Sales Person who uses his understanding of the engineer's  mindset to gracefully steer them toward the sale, the programmer who takes  off to go squirrel hunting days before a critical deadline, because he can  and because if he doesn't, there will always be a critical deadline to  meet. <br />Ialso thought his analyses were fair, sometimes complementary,  sometimes critical. He even managed to cover George Gilder, a conservative  futurist, without the smug condescension most journalists can't hide when  describing conservative points of view. Even though I didn't find anyone in  the book who specifically captured my own experience with Silicon Valley  culture, I still found all the people he did profile fully believable - I  certainly know people like these. On the other hand, I was introduced to  other people I know about but haven't met, and I enjoyed getting a  first-hand view of their world. I think this book has a lot to offer to  people who are curious about what it's like in Silicon Valley as well as to  those of us who are living it.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R2Z6CX01GJ2CM1	0316899984	508044138	River, Cross My Heart: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting vignettes but somewhat disjoint as a novel	River, Cross My Heart is the story of a black family in Georgetown, DC in the 1920s. Early in the book, the youngest daughter Clara drowns when she follows her older sister Johnny Mae and friends to the river, where they're  forbidden to go. The book is billed as the story of how the family deals  with this tragedy. Although that theme plays a role, the book is just as  much the story of Johnny Mae growing up, and the life of her mother, Alice  Bynum, and her friends and relatives in the neighborhood. <br />Although there  were some interesting themes and characters in the book, I found that the  story was fairly disjoint. One of the more compelling themes is Johnny  Mae's obsession with the white people's pool and her indignation that she's  not allowed to swim in it. Another little vignette is about Alice's job as  a housekeeper for a white family and her relationship with the woman she  works for. We also learn about Johnny Mae's odd friendship with a painfully  shy new student, Pearl, and how Pearl gradually develops confidence. We  learn of Pearl's mother's expectations about being welcomed by and invited  to the church. We get a very brief glimpse of the life of Johnny Mae's  father and an even vaguer view of the men of the neighborhood. We meet the  neighborhood &quot;medicine woman&quot; who cures people with mysterious  concoctions. There is some evolution to the family's acceptance of Clara's  death, but again, that theme wove through the story only in the background,  and it never seemed to be fully resolved. Although some of these vignettes  and personalities kept my interest, in the end, I don't believe they hung  together well as a novel.	2000-07-15
US	52282928	R2WNMQUSYF2NCS	0520086473	971814142	America Calling: A Social History of the Telephone to 1940	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Has insights about adoption of phones &amp; technology generally	America Calling is, as its subtitle says, a social history of the adoption of the telephone from its invention in the 1870s until the 1940s, when it had become widely, but not universally used in the U.S. It is a  sociological account of the attitudes held by the people who sold the  telephone as much as those who used it. It contrasts the adoption of the  phone with that of the automobile, which was introduced during about the  same time period and was adopted more quickly. It uses a wide and creative  set of data, including statistics of telephone use, telephone company  reports, local newspaper stories, letters written at the time, interviews  with people who grew up before telephones were commonplace, newspaper  advertisements (noting when telephone numbers were printed as part of an  ad), and even song lyrics of the time. After giving a national view of  telephone adoption, Fischer fills out the story with a more detailed study  of three towns in the San Francisco area; one mostly blue collar, one  mixed, and one white collar. <br />Some of the more interesting findings in  the book include: <br />- Farmers were among those most interested in using  the phone and were willing to pay more for service, and yet AT&amp;T was  slow to recognize their need or the profit potential. AT&amp;T did tended  not to market to them, or to be willing to extend lines out to rural  communities.  - There was a brief period of competition, before the  government sanctioned the AT&amp;T monopoly, which greatly increased the  use of the phone and reduced the costs.  - It was not a trivial task to  sell telephones to people. The phone company worked hard to contrive  situations when a phone might be useful. Most people (especially in cities)  had a way to send messages, so it was seen as a luxury. <br />- The notion of  using the telephone for social conversation was looked down upon for a long  time, and was rarely played up in sales pitches. Partially because of the  &quot;party line,&quot; where a whole community shared a single line, it  was considered &quot;frivolous&quot; to use the telephone for anything  other than short calls to conduct business or make arrangements. This  attitude was also shared by the telephone company itself, which tended to  encourage its use only for important matters. <br />- The adoption of the  automobile, a much more costly investment, was must faster than that of  telephones. People seemed to find them more useful, but also didn't look  down upon the idea of buying them purely for pleasure. Even though the use  of automobiles did infringe on others (horses spooked around cars and they  tore up the roads), their use was more easily accepted than social  conversation on the telephone. <br />- Women were the main customers of the  telephone and were most likely to use them for social conversation. <br />I  found this book to be well written and full of interesting information  about the adoption of the telephone. I was surprised that it was more of an  academic book than I'd expected. Based on the cover, I was expecting it to  be oriented more toward the general public. Having adjusted to that, I  found I trusted the figures Fischer gave and found him to be appropriately  conservative about making inferences based on incomplete data. I also liked  how Fischer compared the telephone to the automobile, which helped tease  out some of the many possible factors affection adoption, such as income,  region, and the effects of World War I and the Depression. <br />I'm not sure  if this is a flaw in the book or whether the data just aren't available,  but I was disapointed that I didn't learn more about the &quot;social  rules&quot; about using the phone. Since I am interested in the adoption of  the cell phone and the judgments people make about others who use them  (especially in public places), I was curious to learn whether there were  parallels in how people treated those who used the early telephones. Aside  fromlearning that people looked down on those who chatted for social  reasons, there was little information about how people used the telephone  in the home (what room it was kept in, whether there were understandings  about giving that person privacy, etc.), how they managed party lines,  whether it was okay to call someone when they were visiting someone else's  home, whether people made judgments about others based on their phone  usage, and so on. However, there was an interesting segment on the evolving  etiquette of using the phone to extend and/or respond to invitations.  Still, that was just a personal goal for reading this book. I think most  people would find the book informative and interesting.	2000-07-15
