US	52285987	R1C1J8GZYT29UL	0060096861	221324216	American Taboo: A Murder in the Peace Corps	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Interesting story, but it runs out at the end	Like other readers, I found the book in need of an editor--sadly, the same can be said of a great deal of recent US non-fiction.    The story is compelling and and as a former expat, I can speak to the oddness of living abroad. OTOH, it's never really clear that Dennis, the accused, is psychotic (one theatrical psychiatrist does not make a diagnosis). Few people who seek an overseas experience are driven to really problematic behavior, let alone murder--the problems in their lives usually precede such a move. Someone should have told him that \\"no\\" means \\"no\\", but that was only beginning to be recognized as a necessity in the 70s. The book is an object lesson of how bureaucracies, public or private, civilian or otherwise cover their backsides and how the process gets more dysfunctional when the regime is changing. The country director comes off as a ludicrous figure---totally out of her depth, and culturally incompetent. Her prim Republican manner makes her seem an unlikely candidate to support the accused murderer. But support him she does, going overboard and beyond rationality or even a close reading of the country director's handbook.     The asides didn't bother me as much as other reviewers. I wished we'd heard more about the dead girl's relationship with her mother and brother. The complexity of the relationship with the father, though, is interesting and would have benefited from better organization of the text. Instead, it comes at us in a helter skelter way. Oddly, the murderer is the character left the most to our imaginations. In an era when so much information is attainable, I would have expected to know more about his life after Tonga and, until the end, it's unclear whether he ever made it to Sibley Hospital. The choice of Sibley was an odd one because it's upscale general hospital on the edge of DC. St. Elizabeths or perhaps, a nice private psychiatric facility like Chestnut Lodge would have made more sense.    Still & all, its an interesting story and a good illustration of how things can go wrong, especially when a bureaucracy and hoplessly \\"out of depth\\" political appointees are involved. But then again, we have ample evidence of that in our daily papers.	2005-08-08
US	52285987	R252OYDLK2NJOL	0802139892	763712560	Wish You Were Here: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	The book is fine, the reviews are odd	Looking at the reviews, you'd think dysfunctional middle/upper middle class families were new to American literature (a staple since at least the 40s and around even before then) or that literature requires an intricate plot (try reading literary fiction from the 70s, a time when a plot often was completely optional).     As others have noted the book is a week in the life of three generations of a family making its last visit to a summer cottage near Lake Chautauqua, NY. The story unfolds from the details of their days, and the thoughts and memories that are stirred at the Lake. Occasionally the narrator shifts from the omniscient to one of the characters (an annoying device--O'Nan doesn't use it enough to be effective; the places where it's used seem like text where his editor lost the argument). The story begins from the perspective of the matriarch, Emily, who had lost her husband the previous summer, although much of the story centers on her children, Ken and Meg. The two are in middle age, but often behave like young children. This is a family whose house probably had been filled with bromides from Reader's Digest and the Wall Street Journal editorial page when they were young, but unfortunately, their parents lacked the skill or the engagement to make any useful value system stick. Meg rebelled in an aimless, privileged way, became a \\"bad girl\\" and wound up with a drinking problem and a recent stay in rehab. Ken simply drifted. Their mother worried, intruded, judged, and irritated them (and probably alienated everyone in the vicinity). Their father retreated and complained that they needed discipline that he was too withdrawn to offer. Emily seems like someone who should have read the \\"Feminine Mystique\\" and gotten a career or at least gotten her life organized and engaged, so that she could have provided more of an example of rectitude. Instead, she went with the flow, in a Republican, upper middle class way. Leaving her small town behind, marrying a man with prospects and having a marriage that she remembers having started with great passion were the best she could do. Her sister-in-law, Arlene, resents the selling of the cottage (which belonged to the husband's family), but she's drifted, too. Arlene had the kind of career that was available to her (teaching) but in other ways was the rebel--avoiding marriage, keeping her own counsel. In another time, she would have had more options, but it's difficult to tell how much different her life might have been--she may have simply drifted in a different way. Now, she and Arlene drift together, familiar, yet not really close. Meg and Ken seem much the same way, and Ken's wife can only count the days until they leave.    Besides the odd changes in narrator, certain details annoy, mildly. We don't get enough information to know if Ella (Ken's plain, sad daughter) is feeling the stirring of lesbian feelings or simply a lonely adolescent's intense attachment to a cousin, who is otherwise not the type of girl to pal around with her. We do know that Sarah (Meg's daughter) is a bit old for her age and dangerously on course to become like her mother. The grandsons also are obviously troubled, one an attention seeker, the other timid. Lisa (sometimes, Lise), Ken's wife, never really gets developed as a character, although we understand her distance from her well-meaning, but intrusive, mother-in-law.    O'Nan's acute attention to little things like the smells of the old house and the things remembered and forgotten in the neighborhood make certain other details annoying in their inaccuracy. Lake Erie is only visible to I-90 for a short stretch outside downtown Cleveland; you can't see it in Erie, PA. Detroit isn't 500 miles away from Lake Chautauqua, although the Ohio Turnpike can make it seem that way. These are quibbles for those in the know. The world of this family is familiar to anyone who's visited a summer cottage with a group of people or has known a family that looks like they should be together, but isn't. Little gets resolved in their week together, and the dynamics are familiar from literature, if not from life. Still, it made me wonder what happens to people...which I would guess is the point. The book trods familiar ground but gets us to consider once again these basic issues of existence.	2005-02-25
US	52285987	R14RKLOMA10TNC	0786714034	335786632	Home to War: A History of the Vietnam Veterans' Movement	Books	4	6	11	N	Y	Engrossing book despite some notable flaws	Nicosia provides a history of the Vietnam war veterans movements, particularly those concerned with ending the War. The reviewer who was surprised by the \\"leftward\\" tilt either didn't read the book cover, any of the published reviews or the book, itself.    The book has several significant flaws, which I'll get out of the way first. Like seemingly most contemporary nonfiction, it could have used assertive editing. The chronology of events in the book gets confusing particularly during the last third of the book, where one lurches back and forth in time and it's easy to lose track of where various people fit and how their actions are linked across time. A better organized text probably could have been a bit shorter. Another significant problem is that Nicosia's funding by the Vietnam Veterans of America is buried in the acknowledgments, although he appears to freely criticize the actions of that organization and its past leadership. Finally, Nicosia relies on secondary sources for his data on medical, social and psychiatric problems among Vietnam era veterans and it is unclear whether his interviews with relevant people like psychiatrist Arthur Blank would have helped in interpreting these data. As it is, correlation seems to get confused with causation and some of the data simply seem inconsistent or include studies which were well known to be \\"outliers\\". It's been said that journalists don't like numbers, unfortunately, concepts simple enough to teach in an introductory social science course seem to get by them.    Although I was too young to serve in Vietnam, I knew many who did, including some who died there. Some of them (including the dead) opposed the war but went into the military, anyway, for a variety of reasons. In my later life, I knew people who had been active in the antiwar movement. I also briefly worked in the VA system and with Vietnam vets in the Department of Defense, and later went to Vietnam as a tourist and as a consultant (under the supervision of a US Army veteran of the Vietnam War). As it happens, I've also crossed paths with a couple minor figures in the book, who played significant roles in the veterans peace movement (although I hadn't known about that part of their lives). So, despite my age and lack of service, the book deals with a world that is very real to me. I can recall the skepticism of claims about PTSD by VA clinicans (ditto the skepticism about Gulf War syndrome) and can easily identify with many of the controversies here. Despite my own work, my visits to Vietnam and my extensive past reading on the subject, I was moved anew by the stories of returning vets, what they had seen in Vietnam, and what they experienced in the US.    On a less personal and more journalistic/historical level, the book vividly describes the political schisms in the antiwar movement: veteran-related and otherwise. Despite Nicosia's obvious passsions, he recognizes shortcomings and destructive actions of many in the movement. For those of us who recall the stereotype of the \\"crazed\\" Vietnam Vet, he vividly describes how this evolved from slow emergence of PTSD and the various public faces of stressed and strung out veterans, as well as the grassroots efforts to address Veterans' needs. Nicosia also describes the courage and tenacity of veterans who worked tirelssly as advocates and as service providers to their peers. He points out the legislative contributions of Vietnam Vets such as Tom Daschle and John Kerry as well as the showboating of supposed friends of veterans such as Alan Cranston and Sonny Montgomery. There are poignant parallels to our own time as Nixon cut veteran's benefits to help pay for the war. Nicosia chronicles the tensions with traditional veterans' organizations and the ways in which organizations dominated by WWII and Korean War veterans fought against efforts to address Vietnam War veterans' needs, in part to protect their own entitlements. He also describes how veterans of the differentwars began to come together over time and how one-time protesters like Kerry built bridges to more conservative politicans for the benefit of Vietnam vets. The book, thankfully, does not get bogged down in subjects that have been extensively treated elsewhere like Watergate's Vietnam-related events (e.g., the Ellsberg burglary) and the drama surrounding the Vietnam War memorial. OTOH, people unfamiliar with SDS, Another Mother for Peace (an organization where tv mom and ex-Republican Donna Reed, played a role) the Weathermen, etc. would benefit from a little more description of these organizations. One activist who plays an interesting role here is Jane Fonda, who seemed to take a genuine interest in the veterans concerns. Perhaps it was a penance for her reign as \\"Hanoi Jane\\" or maybe something else. I hadn't been aware of that side of her and the book contains enough little surprises like this to interest even the well read reader and overcome the shortcomings of the book.	2005-01-29
US	52285987	R25ALWXYCVCXQA	0385500696	545684646	The Fortress of Solitude: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	5 Stars despite some quibbles	I enjoyed the quirkiness of \\"Motherless Brooklyn\\" and found this book even more of a pleasure. The bulk of the text deals with the 70s and evokes much of that era in terms of mood, race relations, and music. The book also captures the atmosphere of a gentrifying neighborhood and the world of offspring of self-conciously outre' parents. The book is strongest in dealing with Dylan & Mingus' younger years. The prison section proceeds oddly and the very end seems like a \\"tack-on\\" drawing on themes from Lethem's other writing. Ditto Robert Woolfolk's death and the lame set-up. For someone whose main character is a music writer, there are odd errors like attributing a Supremes classic to Gladys Knight & the Pips. Also, any place with a Bloomington, Indiana Rural Route is unlikely to be even close to the interstate and the Kinsey Institute's creepiness (a likely byproduct of Hoosier repressiveness) would have helped set-up the oddity of the mother winding up in a  southern Indiana commune (though such places existed). Bloomington hipsters are people too narrow and afraid to go some place like New York, and a Brooklyn kid would not have lasted very long there. Unlike other reviewers, I did not find the book particularly slow. Nor did I find it pretentious with regard to its subject matter. The book's lampoons of hipsters (of various stripes), self-indulgent parents, the insularity of Berkeley, the shallowness of music journalism, and the sliminess of real estate people are all on target. Yes, the last 40-50 pages could have re-written or even deleted, but the rest of the book is a great piece of fiction. It captures how difficult it can be to escape our past and how we can overcome the most problematic of attachments. In a very naturalistic way, it also describes the fragility of race relations and manages to make a proto-slacker into a likable protagaonist.	2004-12-27
US	52285987	R35PR7XKXIXLKX	0060198303	120943125	The Burglar on the Prowl (Block, Lawrence)	Books	2	3	8	N	Y	Weakest of the "Burglar" books	Burglar on the Prowl\\" starts off strong, but loses steam about 2/3 of the way through. Block recycles the \\"suspects all in the same room\\" ending from one of the early novels in this series and the the book finishes on a less than satisfying note. <br /> <br />The \\"Burglar\\" books have always relied on loose plotting that strains credibility and oddball characters. The smartass humor is there, along with the eccentric oddly named characters, but the result seems labored and seems to recycle elements from past books (names, plot devices); there are even footnoted entries that direct you to other books in the series that explain why he has a Mondrian, etc. <br /> <br />I'd hoped that the long drought since the last \\"Burglar\\" book was a good sign, particularly because Block seems to have revived the Scudder series after a series of clinkers. May be the next one will be better........	2004-12-20
US	52285987	R3MD3XGGSHZ162	0316608971	863990662	Hard Revolution: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pelecanos continues to amaze	\\"Hard Revolution\\" is apparently part of a \\"prequel\\" trilogy that will provide the backstory to the Derek Strange we've met in Pelecanos' recent series of novels. The book gives the texture of DC in a way that's recognizable to someone like me who lived there well after 1968. It also captures the way people were thinking and talking about race at that time. One drawback is that someone who hasn't lived in DC (or hasn't ventured East of the Park or North of Logan Circle) will not get the geography. I used to live in Adams Morgan and worked up near Silver Spring & Shepherd Park, so the action takes place in neighborhoods and streets I came to know very well. But someone else is likely to be miffed, in places.    The plot really takes a backseat to the characters and the 1968 riots provide a temporal anchor to the story rather than being its main focal point. In many ways, placing the the riots in a largely secondary role (while priming us for them with the recurring mentions of Dr. King) makes this stronger as a work of historical fiction--we are left to figure out what was happening without someone trying to hit us over the head with \\"heavy\\" explanations.     At the heart of this are relationships--between Strange and his brother; between the brother and a couple small time hoods; and among a parallel group of three white hoods of similar age. The interconnectedness of the African-American community in Washington and the connections between the African-American characters with various whites also play a big part. The ambiguity and contradictions that frame peoples' ideas about race and their relations with people from a different race are all real and have seldom been described with such meaning and depth, particularly by a white writer.    Pelecanos is one of the few really prolific mystery writers whose work has continued to grow and develop without outgrowing his characters or plots. I look forward to whatever comes next.	2004-12-20
US	52285987	R8YBPJJ0QBZ9O	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fine novel of manners	Hollinghurst has written a thoughtful and entertaining study of a young man coming into himself during the Thatcher years. The novel serves as a backdrop for observations about England's class system and changes in society following World War II, as well as the selfishness of the 80s and the emergence of AIDS. Unlike many gay novels from this period or of it, the AIDS aspect of the story is never heavy handed, mawkish, or over-wrought. Instead the revelations regarding his boyfriends, Leo and Wani, are handled in a sensitive way, although Wani's AIDS becomes sensationalized at the very end. Whether or not Nick is infected with the virus is never made clear, nor is the next step in his life. That ambiguity coupled with the over quick resolution of plot lines (Gerald Fedden's affair, the Wani AIDS \\"scandal\\", and the \\"sex romp\\" at the Fedden summer house get pulled together a little too quickly) keep this from being a five star. Given the ambiguity about HIV and the multi-faceted ending, I suspect there could be a sequel if Hollinghurst is up to it. The rest of the novel, however, was engrossing. A knowldege of the English class system doesn't hurt, but I think most readers will grasp the roles of class and the ways that people at the margins of the system (particularly the upwardly mobile like Nick or Leo) deal with it. The parallels between upward social mobility and leaving the closet also are evident. The satire will probably appeal most to those who appreciate the difficulties of navigating a closed world, especially when they become deluded into thinking it has been opened to them. Otherwise, the observation of manners, furniture, and the like may not be so meaningful. The depiction of gay sex is relatively graphic, though matter of fact. This may be a little challenging for some readers. Hopefully, it won't keep the book from being gehttosized in book stores. I bought my copy in Thailand, a rather closeted country, where it was promoted as a Booker Prize winner.	2004-12-05
US	52285987	RDVX7QEC3AVON	0805073205	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel (Auster, Paul)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Auster's best in some time-probably better received by fans	\\"Oracle Night\\" clearly tends to elicit strong opinions, pro or con. I thought it was his best novel in quite some time. Some of the elements sound disjointed (e.g., those mentioned in some of the more negative reader & editorial reviews, like the abandoned book idea), but actually work well in the narrative. One subtext of the book is the writing process and, although I don't work in a literary framework, I noticed many recognizable parts of the writing process that cut across genres. Auster's familiar elements are present--coincidence, premonition, etc. and he needlessly repeats his color scheme from the weakest of the NY trilogy books. Sometimes these elements work better than others and the book lacks the polish and integrity of Moon Palace, which I think is his strongest early work. There's also a distracting use of footnotes to accomodate Auster's asides and take them to sometimes excessive length. <br /> <br />Criticism aside, what grabbed me from the start was his measured, spare prose. A number of years ago, I saw Auster give a reading in Washington DC and, in the best passages, I could picture him reading the words in his own unobtrustive tone. The prose, the descriptions of the people, their situations, and the backstory are all engaging and the result is great storytelling, with an eye toward detail and character. <br /> <br />This book will appeal more to \\"fans\\" than to people who haven't read Auster before. I suspect that newbies will have a lesser opinion of this novel. The New York Trilogy (1st & 3rd books, the 2nd strikes me as an experiment and gimmicky) and Moon Palace are better places to start. The trilogy books are rougher, but show the development of his storytelling style and elements that he uses in later books. Moon Palace pulls things together better and does it in places outside of Auster's more typical New York surroundings.	2004-12-02
US	52285987	R1URILJ4BSADJ	0007127057	182204069	Among Insurgents: Walking Through Burma	Books	3	6	8	N	N	An interesting tale worth some consideration	Shelby Tucker nursed a long-time ambition to walk across Burma. Unlike most people with eccentric ambitions, he was able to realize his as a middle aged man. His traveling companion was a young Swede who had recently completed his military service. They were taken on by members of indigenous militias and travelled with with them through the Kachin State in northern Burma to India, with a brief detour through Yunnan, China. Tucker is a previously unpublished writer and a non-practicing lawyer. Although his story focuses on the people he met and the things he saw on his journey, it also becomes apparent that he is a well-connected scion of the Mississippi Delta who has probably managed to enjoy an adventurous life (and professional failure as an author) thanks to family money. He eludes the Burmese Army, but is quickly captured and treated as a spy in India. His and his wife's various connections to a host of foreign service officers and Republican politicians (as well as a journalist who had done a similar trek) ultimately lead to his freedom. Tucker has done his homework in terms of regional history and subsequent events (including the fates of various people and groups he encountered). He returned to the US and UK (where he was living) and acted as an advocate for the Kachins (and perhaps over-estimates his influence, although it probably was timely).     The prose is servicable, but not inspiring. The book drags in places through the middle and is strongest at the beginning and end of the journey. Tucker is obviously a bit self-absorbed and sometimes arrogant---eccentric adventurers are not necessarily the most avuncular of people, afterall. He also seems a bit to taken in by the point of view of Protestant missionaries and their proteges. Oddly, one hears nothing about Catholic missions in the same area and there is little understanding of Theravada Buddhism and its formal or cultural relationship to the Burmans. There also seems to be little curiosity how Christianity and beliefs about spirits and nats manage to coexist. These drawbacks aside, it is an ultimately engaging look at a place that few Westerners have seen.	2004-11-18
US	52285987	R3EMQFXBA15K9Z	184162070X	931845312	The Amazon, 2nd: The Bradt Travel Guide	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An excellent overview of the region	I was lucky to stumble onto this book, which is relatively difficult to find in most chain bookstores. It is an excellent trip planning resource, although it is likely that you will want to supplement it with country-specific guides or one of the \\"shoestring\\" type guides for the South America (e.g., Lonely Plant, Footprints). The book provides useful overviews of each country in the region with attention to major transport/tourism hubs and to major attractions and parks. The guide will help you focus a trip on one or more countries in the region. It also is helpful in terms of considering how to navigate adjacent countries in terms of transport, visas, etc. The overviews of flora and fauna provide more information than you will find in other guidebooks. The lodges and travel companies listed tend to skew upscale, although they do mention budget lodgings in cities like Manaus and Iquitos. The number of hotels and restaurants surveyed in any one place tends to be limited, so you'll want a country-specific guide to provide more depth. The value of this guide is its overview of the Amazon region, however, it's likely that you'll want a country-specific guide esp. if you are a budget traveler. I found the Lonely Planet Brazil guide to be the best of the major Brazil guides (it also takes in the Triple Frontier area with Peru & Colombia and Roraima which borders Venezuela) for the Brazilian Amazon, although it has some deficiencies for other places like Rio & Salvador.	2004-09-17
US	52285987	R1PMDMD4CXBYUK	096723820X	100520360	PINS	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A very different take on coming of age gay	A number of years ago, I gave up on these \\"coming of age\\" gay books because they really seemed to be about parts of the population that were alien to my experience and probably most people's--upper middle class families with emotionally distant fathers, sensitive lads, and an income that would make the Cleavers seem like poverty row, or variations of fundamentalist, southern Gothic hell. Sterotyped views of religion and family (always bad) seemed to predominate in this genre and there was always some form of suicide. This book came to my attention via reviews of the author's more recent book. The reviews led me to think it was worth a chance and it was.<br />The focus of the book is on a high school wrestler coming to grips with his sexuality. He's something of a jock, but ultimately finds that identity even more uncomfortable than his sexuality. The family of this kid is actually fairly normal and loving. For once, it's the father who gets what's going on and accepts more than the mother. They are working class, white ethnics who have moved from a declining urban neighborhood to one of the small houses in an otherwise well-off suburb where the protagonist and his parents feel ill at-ease. There is a suicide subplot, but it's a bit more nuanced than usual, although, in some ways, it seems like a semi-lame attempt at capitalizing on recent headlines. It's part of an ending that ties things up a little too neatly and quickly. A more ambiguous end, without the discrimination-laden semi-suicidal stuff would have worked better and fit the rest of the narrative.<br />Despite the weak ending, I think this is a terrific book. the writing is spare and descriptive without being showy. Most of the story evolves in a realistic way and at a realistic pace. The book's underlying themes about acceptance have some universal appeal, however, the book is sufficiently graphic in its sexuality that it would not work for some people who are only seeking the universal message. It's a great book for those of us who didn't grow up on the set of \\"Ordinary People\\" or in the cast of a bad Faulkner novel. It also has appeal for those of us who are missing a few \\"gay genes\\", although the later sections that address this (which revolve around a support group) could have developed from the realistic time frame of the earlier 2/3 of the book. The book also addresses religion, specifically Catholicism, with far more realism and subtlety than most queer lit books. The persistence of belief in the face of recognizing harsh doctrine and the ways in which clergy try to approach homosexuality (good and bad) are highlighted here. Militant atheists and people who who lack a background or other feel for cultural Catholicism will be put off by this. All I can say is that, it's one of the most real aspects of the book and there are plenty of other queer coming of age stories to validate other worldviews.	2004-03-02
US	52285987	R330QQKPJAQ8O1	9745240087	17822504	Welcome to Burma and Enjoy the Totalitarian Exp...	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Shallow ,sophomoric writing about an important subject	Syrota's slim volume is a first person account of his stay in Burma, including his brushes with immigration and internal security. The book has been well-reviewed in the travel press, but unfortunately, doesn't really add much to the information that one can get from one of the more politically aware guidebooks. There isn't much cultural or historical detail and we often get little depth from his experiences. Mostly, it reads like a paraphrasing of a traveler's journal. Some travelers are marvellous storytellers, but many are not. The tone is whiny in places and the author's unhappiness at having his itinerary curtailed gets in the way of the Burmese own stories. <br />The book is a helpful reminder that even important stories can be poorly told.	2004-02-09
US	52285987	R38ZGXRDXRVNYE	1586481606	701797562	The Cat from Hue: A Vietnam War Story	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Engrossing from cover to cover	The Cat from Hue proved to be the perfect companion for a trip to SE Asia (a 24 hour trip), both in terms of length, topical relevance, and writing. It is a compelling book from the first page to the last. Laurence's prose is vivid, economical, but never showy. It's a personal perspective, but lacking in self-pity or self-aggrandizement. The book communicates the evolution of the war as well as the changes in Laurence's opinions about the conflict. One gets the picture of changing military tactics and objectives, as well as Laurences' gradually diminishing willingness to go along with the status quo.     The more negative reviews seem to come from people who want Laurence to support their particular cause or idiocyncratic view of the war. The book easily stands as a memoir, thoughtfully told. The book's relevance for considering present day conflicts comes across loud and clear without ever being mentioned. If you want polemics or grandstanding for a cause, this is not your book. This also is not a straightforward chronology of the war nor an exhaustive military history, but a useful supplement to those kinds of books. It belongs with the best of first-person journalistic accounts, such as those of Neil Sheehan.	2004-02-03
US	52285987	R11Q8TKS1WU05Z	1864501464	85401917	Lonely Planet Brazil	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	A relatively weak effort	Some of the other criticisms here seem petty (e.g., the changing cost of visas, changes in costs due to unstable currency, the screed about the Carmen Miranda museum which isn't difficult to find, yammering about the fairly moderate politics). Indeed, some seem typical of the reviews of travel guides one expects from people with unrealistic expectations of a guidebook and limited travel experience. That said, this is definitely one of LP's weaker efforts. I found numerous errors on maps and in descriptions of locations, important enough that one can miss important places (like hotels or laundries--which can be few). There are significant areas of neglect, e.g., the book doesn't mention that Itacare is an international surfing center, although this is evident pretty quickly. People looking for quiet beach town will be disappointed. My guess is that the next revision needs much more care. Unfortunately, the alternative is the \\"Footprints\\" guide which has some gaping holes (e.g., few descriptions of tours and jungle lodging in the Amazon) and the Rough Guide which also has significant weaknesses.	2004-01-21
US	52285987	R3CGDQP1ZIH0MJ	0415188547	342221426	Bangkok: Place, Practice and Representation (Asia's Transformations/Asia's Great Cities)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fills an important niche in understanding Bangkok as a city	Askew's book is essentially an edited volume that nicely brings together historical material, as well as findings from very diverse studies he carried out in Bangkok during several periods in residence during the 1990s. The book will not be of interest to the casual traveler. However, it should be of interest to long-term expats and frequent visitors who want to know more about Bangkok, in terms of its social and economic history.     The book is scholarly but only veers into the more tedious kinds of academic writing in a few places such as the chapter on female sex workers. That chapter contains far too much of the tortured, convoluted prose associated with cultural studies and related fields. Because different projects related to the book were carried out at different points in time, the literature varies in terms of its completeness and timeliness. The section on sex work oddly makes little mention of HIV or the government's 100% condom program and neglects important references like Boonchalaksi & Guest's overview of sex work in Thailand. There are some neglects in other sections, such as the inattention to Bangkok's new transportation infrastructure and its implications, especially for neglected areas like Phayathai. These shortcomings keep this from being a \\"5-star\\". Nonetheless, the author impressively has brought together more information from disparate disciplines and perspectives than I've seen in other books about Bangkok. Heretofore, books about Bangkok have tended toward coffee table books or have covered very specific subject matter, often treated in the worst kind of academic prose. Furthermore, the author has generally been able to provide fresh perspectives and to question (sometimes too gently) the often superficial and self-serving views of Thai culture that have been common in much recent Western scholarship. Askew has lifted the bar and, hopefully, this will spur more efforts to thoughtfully write about Bangkok's development into a significant world capital.	2003-11-23
US	52285987	R1BWZ05A2HBOV2	0231116764	631774158	The Education of John Dewey	Books	2	18	21	N	Y	A pleasant read, but a substantive disappointment	Martin endeavors to write a psychological portrait of John Dewey, but falls short. Ironically, the least developed aspect of Dewey's life in this volume is that of Dewey, the psychologist. Dewey was an early member (& president) of the American Psychological Assn. His observation of the reflex arc is still a staple of introductory psychology and the social psychological concepts and models he developed with George Herbert Mead and others prefigured much of the contemporary work in social cognition. Important figures in academic clinical psychology such as George Kelly and Seymour Sarason drew heavily on Dewey's work and Sarason has remained an important champion. No mention is made that Dewey's great friend, James McKeen Catell (a recurring, but little described figure in the book), was diametrically opposed to Dewey on many important issues in psychology including the roles of inheritance and environment in the development of intelligence and the conception of intelligence, itself. Dewey's ability to remain close to people whose ideas he vigorously opposed was but one of the inspiring aspects of Dewey's character. The shortcomings of this book made me more aware than ever that a full scale biography of Dewey, the psychologist, is needed rather than another biography of Dewey the philosopher, especially a tepid, uneven one like this.<br /><br />Martin, a humanities professor and a practicing psychonanalyst with an eclectic background occasionally deals with psychiatric disorder in Dewey's life (and the lives of his family members) and trots out some watered down neo-Freudian interpretations of his family life. Yet much of the time, Dewey, the man, remains elusive. Martin makes a number of preposterous claims about Dewey: he tells us that Dewey was \\"impoverished\\" for most of his professional life, although his salary was far in excess of that of an ordinary wage earner of his time and his home had servants. We also are told that Dewey was unique among 20th century leftists in his rejection of Marxism and Communism. In fact, Dewey was one of many American leftists who were opposed to Marx and Communism. American socialism probably owes more to the social gospel and non-Marxist political economists like Veblen than to Marx, Lenin, or Stalin. Martin also ignores the vigorous and polemical support Dewey gave to World War I and the strains it caused between Dewey and friends like Jane Addams. Instead, we are told that Dewey was a consistent pacifist driven by a concern that war would undermine democratic values. Remarks like these demonstrate Martin's ignorance of Dewey's life, as well as an ignorance of the social and political environment in which Dewey lived. Much of the discussion of Dewey, the philosopher, is laden with academic philosophy that is insufficiently explained for the educated layperson. Many well-educated people are not familiar with Hegel or the Vienna Circle or only dimly recall these from an introductory course. Many are drawn to Dewey because of his educational ideas or his importance in 20th century demoratic socialism, hence, it is probably not reasonable to expect that readers will automatically be drawn to the various debates within academic philosophy.<br /><br />This book is an easier read than the dense, often turgid works of Robert Westbrook or Steven Rockefeller. On the other hand, the book lacks the breezy, often humorous, tone of Alan Ryan's biography. Ryan's book is a much better introduction to Dewey---witty and scholarly, yet extremely readable. Although Ryan also focuses on Dewey the philosopher, he is more knowledgable about many aspects of Dewey's life and environment than Martin. He recognizes, for example, the importance and the the deeply flawed character of G. Stanley Hall, who provided Dewey with an introduction to operationism and to developmental psychology. Ryan also points out the limitations of Dewey's sometimes wooly writing. One of the problems with reading Dewey is that Dewey, thephilosopher, often requires an understanding of Dewey, the psychologist, or Dewey, the political activist, to understand many of the basic concepts that guided Dewey decades into his effort to develop a coherent worldview of pragmatism. The same problem occurs when one looks at him as psychologist, as a pedagogue or, as a political commentator/activist. He was all of these things in all his professional identities, to some extent. Despite the recent run of Dewey biographies and the renewed interest in pragmatism, there's still more to learn about Dewey. Unfortunately, only well-read afficionados will get much from Martin's book and many may be distracted by it's shortcomings.ten requires an understanding of Dewey, the psychologist, or Dewey, the political activist, to understand many of the basic concepts that guided Dewey decades into his effort to develop a coherent worldview of pragmatism. The same problem occurs when one looks at him as psychologist, as a pedagogue or, as a political commentator/activist. He was all of these things in all his professional identities, to some extent. Despite the recent run of Dewey biographies and the renewed interest in pragmatism, there's still more to learn about Dewey. Unfortunately, only well-read afficionados will get much from Martin's book and many may be distracted by it's shortcomings.	2003-10-22
US	52285987	R2HZDU2E60GGVT	0375725334	238509575	Lake Effect	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	A nice memoir of adolescence and its loss	I have difficulty understanding what critics of the book wanted from it. I am an ex-Chicagoan (I even lived there during the book's mid-80s), but grew-up working class a short walk from a different great lake in a different state. Cohen's life wasn't mine, but I had no trouble identifying with the desire to be taken away by people cooler and more interesting than my peers, while still hanging out with a ragtag group of them, anyway. Much of the book is really about his best friend, Jamie, the cool kid with a mysterious, little spoken past that turns out to be different from the past he wanted everyone else (including himself) to know about. The book is at its weakest when Cohen recounts his time at Tulane with characters who are over-privileged, inadequate substitutes for Jamie. This also is the one part of the book that's really more about Cohen than about Jamie, who is obviously the more interesting character. The irony of the story is that Cohen grew up while Jamie, the worldy dreamer, works in a low rent dream factory in Hollywood. The book is wonderfully evocative of Chicago (less so of New Orleans) and Cohen offers a gassy acknowledgment to the city of his birth, a city that deserves better than that. Fortunately, the text of the book overcomes all that and reminds us how our lives change in ways we don't expect, and certainly don't understand while the changes are happening. A few quibbles: Royko had moved to the Tribune by the mid-80s (he refused to work for Rubert Murdoch, for good reason) and Roanoke is in Virginia, not West Virginia--get a map, Rich.	2003-07-19
US	52285987	R2ICL5JHFHJ8DQ	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Excellent read, better than my original expectation	When Blumenthal's book was first released, my first reaction was a groan. I had liked his writing in The New Republic and elsewhere before the Clinton presidency. OTOH, I was not a great fan of his New Yorker pieces---his partisanship undermined his credibility, although his writing was certainly more literate and thoughtful than much of what was produced by the hard core anti-Clinton partisans. Nonetheless, I saw some excerpts and was pleasantly surprised at the writing and the depth. It's a first person account of an interesting period from someone who obviously was close to the Clintons, but also had longstanding knowledge of \\"the other side\\" and even maintained friendships with Clinton opponents.<br />I thought the 1st chapter dragged and the sequence of the book was a bit out of joint (hence, 4 stars instead of 5). I also tend to disagree with assessment of the Tina Brown period at The New Yorker---she initially trashed the place and its standards and only later showed that she could assemble a magazine worthy of the name. Blumenthal's autobiographical sketch should have come sooner as it sets the stage for both the Clinton White House and Blumenthal's overall political perspective. The book is an engrossing read and Blumenthal's previous research about the political Right, as well as his time with the Clinton's brings fresh ways of looking at the Clinton administration that are missing from other accounts.<br />The book will not be enjoyed by serious anti-Clintonistas, but I doubt that any of them would buy the book. Indeed, some of the reviews by Clinton critics here certainly suggest that the reviewers never even skimmed it. OTOH, it is a book with some appeal to people, like me, who were not strong Clinton enthusiasts, but who also felt that the Clintons were badly served by the media.	2003-06-28
US	52285987	R90AYCVIX87F3	156750566X	884918498	Working at the Bar: Sex Work and Health Communication in Thailand (Civic Discourse for the Third Millennium)	Books	2	12	16	N	N	many shortcomings, but better than other books on this topic	Steinfatt's book is one of several recent volumes on sex work in Thailand. The base for the book was a two-wave cross-sectional questionnaire study he did with sex workers in venues where the customers were foreigners (i.e., non-Thai). The findings are woven through topical chapters, rather than being presented in summary form. As a result, it's difficult to find \\"take home messages\\" here. Using this format, Steinfatt attempts to place sex work in Thailand into a broader cultural context. While he has done more homework than others on this topic, much of what he says comes up short. He confuses the lack of obvious sanctions for entering the sex trade with \\"acceptance\\". He ignores the fact that one can go a short distance from the villages that regularly send their daughters into the sex trade and find other villages where this practice rarely or never occurs (this phenomenon was the basis for work by the Thai Red Cross & the Population and Development Association). His understanding of Buddhism is similarly flawed and he fails to see how \\"merit making\\" has been perverted by local elites to foster sex work. Steinfatt begnis by clearly distinguishing his population from the much larger world of Thai sex workers whose clientele is Thai, however, this distinction blurs as the book proceeds. Unfortunately, the distinction is important because of the differences in how women enter sex work, their financial prospects, etc. Steinfatt also goes into a lengthy and not very useful aside regarding estimates of the sex work sector in Thailand---rehashing outdated data which have limited relevance to his population of interest. The book also relies too much on dated references and provides little consideration of how the HIV epidemic and Thailand's 100% condom campaign have effected sex work in the country. The effort to view sex work in Thailand as less \\"black & white\\" than in other countries misses the obvious presence of grey areas of sex work elsewhere (e.g., the phenomenon of \\"survival sex\\" among low income women in the US) and the tendency of sex workers in many cultures to decommercialize the description of clients to whom they are more affectively bonded. Erik Cohen's famous statements about open-ended prostitution are mentioned, but not Cohen's observation that this was becoming less common as long ago as the late 80s. There are more similarities with other countries than Steinfatt acknowledges, and the differences are more nuanced and require more depth in the culture.<br />This book shows more scholarly activity than the many slapdash efforts on Thai sexwork that have been published in recent years. Still, it's clear that Steinfatt's actual understanding is rather superficial. The book also would have benefited from a stronger editorial hand, wherein more effort was taken to integrate findings and other text.	2003-06-15
US	52285987	R1KFSW6YIAORFS	0774808721	43386134	Sex and Borders: Gender, National Identity, and Prostitution Policy in Thailand	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Shallow, superfiical, poorly wriiten scholarship	\\"Sex and Borders\\" is one of many recent books by Westerners that has attempted to describe the situation of female sex workers in Thailand. The introduction promises that this book will surpass the deficits of previous volumes and better describe the lives of thse woman and better situate them within Thailand's Theravada Buddhist culture. Instead, the author offers little original data or analysis and tends to draw on the most sensationalist conclusions from the available literature. She repeats Majorie Muecke's misunderstandings about Buddhism, reiterates the least credible statistics about the extent of participation of young Thai women in sex work and generally seems to have little knowledge about Thai culture or sexual mores. Further, she conflates the sex work sector that interacts with foreigners with the far larger sex work sector that is entirely Thai in its clienetele, while also failing to take into account the massive changes in the female sex sector (domestic or tourist-focused) that have occurred in the last decade, which have paralleled the HIV epidemic and changes in the mores regarding sexuality for unmarried Thai women.<br />Although the author claims to have gained proficiency in Thai, her informants include a relatively small number of academic and NGO \\"experts\\" and include almost no first hand involvement with the women who are the presumed subject of this book. Further, the volume suffers from confusion about the temporal sequence of events in recent Thai history and fails to explain important people and dynamics in this history. For example, former Prime Minister Chuan Leekapai is initially introduced as an apologist for the Thai political status quo without mention of his efforts to stem the tide of child protsitution and without explanation of how he fits into recent Thai political history. Although the book claims to examine policy, it greatly neglects the impact of the government's largely successful 100% condom campaign and the efforts by the US and other foreign governments to stem child prostitution through trade agreements and a willingness to aggressively prosecute their own nationals who exploit Thai children.<br />The author fails to make much use of the scholarly literature on sex work in Thailand. From Boonchalaksi & Guest's excellent review of sex work in Thailand, all the author can do is quote statistics that Boonchalaksi & Guest debunk in the International Labour Organization's \\"The Sex Sector\\" (and their earlier Mahidol University monograph). There also is little attention to the influence of local political ecomomies on sex work as described by Skrobanek, Boonpakdi & Janthakeero in \\"The traffic in women: Human realities of the international sex trade\\". The book is a sad testimony to the accessibility of Thailand and the ignorance of people who attempt to get a dissertation out of the problems of Thai society.<br />People who want to understand the political economy of sex work in Thailand should read Skrobanek, Boonpakdi & Janthakeero in \\"The traffic in women: Human realities of the international sex trade\\" and Phongpaichit, Piriyarangsan, & Treerat's \\"Guns, girls, gambling, ganja: Thailand's illegal economy and public policy\\". Those who want a historical perspective (including recent history) should consult Boonchalaksi & Guest's chapter in the International Labour Organization's \\"The Sex Sector\\". But no one should waste their money on this weak, naive excuse for scholarship.the US and other foreign governments to stem child prostitution through trade agreements and a willingness to aggressively prosecute their own nationals who exploit Thai children. <br />The author fails to make much use of the scholarly literature on sex work in Thailand. From Boonchalaksi & Guest's excellent review of sex work in Thailand, all the author can do is quote statistics that Boonchalaksi & Guest debunk in the International Labour Organization's \\"The Sex Sector\\" (and their earlier Mahidol University monograph). There also is little attention to the influence of local political ecomomies on sex work as described by Skrobanek, Boonpakdi & Janthakeero in \\"The traffic in women: Human realities of the international sex trade\\". The book is a sad testimony to the accessibility of Thailand and the ignorance of people who attempt to get a dissertation out of the problems of Thai society. <br />People who want to understand the political economy of sex work in Thailand should read Skrobanek, Boonpakdi & Janthakeero in \\"The traffic in women: Human realities of the international sex trade\\" and Phongpaichit, Piriyarangsan, & Treerat's \\"Guns, girls, gambling, ganja: Thailand's illegal economy and public policy\\". Those who want a historical perspective (including recent history) should consult Boonchalaksi & Guest's chapter in the International Labour Organization's \\"The Sex Sector\\". But no one should waste their money on this weak, naive excuse for scholarship.	2003-04-15
US	52285987	R1Q7BADFV51O0P	0306811960	575974251	Lost Over Laos: A True Story of Tragedy, Mystery, and Friendship	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	An excellent, evocative book	This book describes the world of photojournalists in the Vietnam work and focuses on the death of four photojournalists in a battle over the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos during a the US government's semi-covert war against the North Vietnamese in that country (the pilots of their aircraft were South Vietnamese and their death occurred during a South Vietnamese attack against NVA supply lines). The book also describes the effort to find their remains and the authors' attempt to give meaning to their loss. The photojournalists who died included two of the most celebrated of the war and two younger men of great skill. In a relatively short text, the book manages to tell their stories and the story of Vietnam War photojournalism in a manner that is reverent without being professionally aggrandizing. By coincidence, I visited the village where the search for remains took place a few months before the authors and their time in that place was particularly evocative for me. The authors offer a perspective on the war that is complex and, in some ways, more hawkish than other first-hand retrospective war accounts, although too skeptical to really fit the conceptualizations of hawk and dove that characterized the times. Given the many parallels that some have drawn between Vietnam and our own era, this is a book that thoughtful critics and partisans of the Iraqi conflict should read. My only complaint is that book does not include enough of the award winning pictures of Larry Burrows and his fallen colleagues.	2003-04-15
US	52285987	R16JMHU4N2R7YP	006103097X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Best Scudder in Quite Awhile	Most longtime fans of the Matt Scudder series should be pleased with \\"Hope to Die\\". The writing is stronger than the more recent Scudder novels, which seemed like hastily constructed assembly line jobs to fulfill a contract. The writing is not as good as the early Scudder novels, but this is a satisfying read, nonetheless. Stylistically, it had a few too many asides and tangents, although some of these help in introducing characters or bringing us up-to-date on them. The ending is a bit of a let down and a bit formulatic (I won't spoil it further), but I don't read these books for plot, as much as for the characters. Scudder's kids get established as adults with problems of their own & I'm guessing we'll be seeing them again in the future, which is all for the good.<br />Now, if only he'd do a new Bernie \\"Burglar\\" Rhodenberr--just leave out the guy who reminds of Inspector Lugar from the old Barney Miller tv series.	2003-01-21
US	52285987	R2A1L1QBMGL6SO	1586481614	963615499	Gracefully Insane: Life and Death Inside America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Great history of a field and an institution	Like others, I found this satisfying on several levels. Beam does a commendable job of reviewing the history of psychiatry since the early 19th century and appropriately noting the disappointing outcomes, including the limitations of contemporary biological and psychological treatments. He also provides an engrossing history of one of America's most famous psychiatric facilities, including the perspectives of living ex-patients and staff. The book works better on both levels than another recent account of American psychiary, T.M. Luhrmann's turgid and pretentious &quot;Of Two Minds&quot;.	2003-01-21
US	52285987	R1HF689LXPMEBQ	0393050270	483385320	Shots in the Dark: The Wayward Search for an AIDS Vaccine	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent, readable overview of vaccine research	Jon Cohen is probably the most knowledgable journalist on the topic of HIV vaccines and has been following developments in this area for over a decade. He's had unparalleled access to people working in the field and it shows in this well organized history of the search for an HIV vaccine. I used to work in this area of research and, although there are issues where I have quibbled with the author, I can think of no better introduction to the field and the key issues that have shaped it. Cohen has been uniquely able to maintain the trust and respect of key people working in the field, while also raising important social and scientific issues. The result is a thoughtful, relatively thorough chronology that is also readable and concise. At a more personal level, the book brought back many forgotten controversies and issues that formed the background for almost a decade of my own work. The writing is that vivid, while also maintaining a high standard of scientific journalism.	2002-12-18
US	52285987	R1RMXVA2UXXFBR	1558680586	65924132	Culture Shock! Thailand (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	2	19	19	N	N	A helpful start, but patchy sometimes vague coverage	This book remains the one volume available outside of Thailand that has been written for people who are planning to live, work, or study in that country (several guides of varying utility are available in Thailand). The book provides more info than a typical guidebook about Thai culture and customs, but I have found it not so much outdated as limited in scope. The section on supervising Thai workers does not go beyond putting on a happy face and bringing cream cakes to the office. In practice, one needs a wider repertoire of skills than that. Similarly, the advice on social behavior doesn't go much beyond the stuff that makes people paranoid about offending Thais (e.g., watching where your toes are pointed, not patting people on the head). In addition, the book does not help people with the inevtable &quot;violations&quot; of cultural rules by Thais themselves, nor does it provide simple startegies for adaptation (like learning to watch people and emulate their behavior). The book does not provide useful starting places for adapting to Thai culture---for example, the similarities in cultural codes to what one finds in non-urban parts of the US Midwest. It's surprising that this book has not undergone major revision and that no other has emerged as a replacemnt---it would not be difficult to do.	2002-08-03
US	52285987	RFI1OEK26BGLQ	1582431205	714562311	The Trouser People: A Story of Burma in the Shadow of the Empire	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A wonderful and evocative book	A great book about tragic events in a beautiful country. The author shadows the travels and travails of Victorian adventurer/administrator, George Scott. The result is a narrative that is readable and engrossing. Marshall presents a wealth of historical material in a relatively short volume (quite unlike the typical contemporary non-fiction book). He is at his weakest when he romanticizes Scott's relationship with the locals in Burma and skirts the excesses of colonial rule. He also neglects Scott's more patronizing and condescending writings about the people of Burma. On the other hand, Marshall presents a very readable account of comtemporary history in the country and a credible portarait of the current regime.<br />I have visited Burma in the past few years and Marshall's descriptions of people and places were quite evocative of what I saw. Hopefully, the same will be true for other readers, regardless of whether they have traveled there or not.	2002-07-05
US	52285987	R3OL028RKR90PF	0679421912	814152407	Of Two Minds: The Growing Disorder in American Psychiatry	Books	1	15	21	N	N	A great disappointment	I read this book on the basis of strong reviews from many different quarters. As a clinical psychologist with eclectic training, a fairly iconoclastic turn of mind and a research career in public health rather than mental health, I was hoping that at outsider to mental health practice could provide fresh insights. Instead, Luhrman has produced a work of lazy scholarship and self-serving pretense. The book proports to be balanced, but it is clear, throughout, that Luhrmann spends most of her time defending psychoanalytic therapy against biological approaches. Nonetheless, she never really defines what she means by psychoanalytic therapy and, in the process, rules out large chunks of that field, including contemporary variants like interpersonal psychotherapy. She reduces much serious work on psychopharamacology to being only about rhetoric and one wonders whether she ever tried to understand the what happens in the neurotransmitter systems (a topic that is more accessible than it sounds). Indeed, it appears that she developed rather little depth in either the biological or psychoanalytic perspective and she does grave injustice to both. Similarly, her insights about human interactions in her stint as a therapist-in-training suggest that qualitative interviewing is not her strength, either. Instead, we get a postmodern-lite analysis of what happens in clinical interviews and therapy. Indeed, the turgid prose and not-so subtle self-aggrandizing pose make this an altogether unsatisfying read. <br />Compared with past non-fiction accounts of mental health practice, the book lacks depth and the author's voice gets in the way rather than providing real insight. The book lacks the rigorous depth that has made for gripping, thought-provoking jounalistic accounts like Susan Sheehan's \\"Is There No Place For Me\\". It also lacks the depth of historical reviews of the field like Murray Levine's work. There is a need for a contemporary, close-to-the-front-line story of current mental health practice. Perhaps, someone will be inspired by the shortcomings of this pretentious effort to write such a book.	2002-07-05
US	52285987	R2W5QZX3FKMLTL	0679744932	400339849	Of Two Minds: An Anthropologist Looks at American Psychiatry	Books	2	49	68	N	Y	A major disappointment	I read this book based on the glowing reviews it had received. It seemed to promise to be an outsider critique of psychiatry in the same lague as such classics as \\"Asylums\\". Instead, I found the book to be superficial on a number of different levels and rather unfair to both the psychoanalytic and biological approaches to psychiatric treatment. As a clinical psychologist, I have had alot of exposure to psychiatric training, psychoanalytic therapy, and the scienitific foundations, as well as practice of biological psychiatry. It is from this background, that I found the book lacking on so many fronts.<br />Luhrmann never provides a satisfactory definition of what she means by psychoanalytic psychotherapy. What she does is proceed to rule out many contemporary forms of this treatment (e.g., interpersonal psychotherapy), without opeartionalizing what's left. She further confuses writings about different forms of psychoanalytically-oriented treatment, for example misattributing Roy Shafer's opinions from \\"The Analytic Attitude\\" to psychoanalysis, when in fact he was talking about psychotherapy. The treatment of biological approaches is even worse. She reduces an evolving area of science into opinion-ridden discourse. Indeed, it appears that she simply has made little effort to understand the biology and pharmacology of psychiatric disorders. Any number of undergraduate or graduate courses in phyisological psychology, pharmacology, etc. could have made this relatively accessible to her. Instead she dismisses science as \\"just jargon\\". The shortcomings in this analysis are, unfortunately, obvious for someone with a basic foundation in these biological areas.<br />The book contains many footnotes, yet the author seems compelled to make sweeping statements about custom & practice in mental health that are unsupported by references. For example, Luhrmann claims that psychanalytic therapy forms the primary basis for psychotherapy training in psychiatry but provides no reference for this. In practice, many psychitaric training programs emphasize other approaches, such as cognitive-behavioral therapies, whose research base fits an evidence-based model of treatment better than most psychoanalytic approaches. Luhrmann also seems surprisingly unaware of the roles and backgrounds of other mental health fields. Nurses, for example, are the backbone of inpatient psychiatry and psychiatric nurse clinicians play a growing role in ERs and in consultation-liaison psychiatry. But she relegates them to a very minor role here.<br />The writing of this book is often condescending and jargon-ridden which probably makes it inaccessible to much of its intended audience. In this respect it resembles the calssic \\"Asylums\\" but it lacks Goffmann's detail and rigor.<br />People really interested in mental health practice seem more likely to learn from journalistic accounts such as the upcoming history of McLean's or Susan Sheehan's classic \\"Is There No Place on Earth for Me?\\".	2002-01-28
US	52285987	R3PIDW7A53K9S	0195132416	2568592	Visions of Jazz: The First Century	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A lot of information in short readable chapters	This is avery informative guide and will appeal to those who know &quot;something&quot; about jazz, but really don't know that much about specific eras or classic jazz artists. The book does not include some important players, but such a thing is not avoidable. My only concern was the lack of consistent referencing of classic or otherwise notable recordings. In some chapters, Giddins provides titles and record lables, as well as choice cuts. In others, he'll say something like &quot;Ella Fitzgerald's classic 1945 recording&quot; and its up to the reader to see if any of the 400 available Fitzgerald recordings might be the one.	2001-12-29
US	52285987	R3JJ1277WTHL3	0684802317	327792241	President Nixon: Alone in the White House	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Interesting approach to Nixon	Reeves uses diaries and other personal documents to sketch out a picture of Nixon's presidency that is at once familiar and novel. This will not appeal to Nixon apologists nor to those who want a stereotypical &quot;psychological&quot; portrait (Garry Wills' &quot;Nixon Agonists&quot; is the best psychological description of Nixon's development, although Wills' original take on personality development will stymie those looking for Freud-lite). Instead, we see Nixon's presidency unfold and Nixon's reaction to the events around him. Even though I've read most of the &quot;standard&quot; Nixon biographies, Reeves' approach was fresh to me and an interesting complement to Haldeman's diaries, which I had read a couple years ago. Nixon's isolation and inability to trust are well-documented, but to see them here is to see them anew. It was a thought provoking book, both in terms of Nixon's presidency and with respect to the political tactics and skills that are needed to win elections, which unfortunately, are not the same tactics and skills needed to provide strong leadership. As was the case with LBJ, Nixon the office seeker undid Nixon, the president, and this book makes this point more clearly than previous biographies.	2001-12-29
US	52285987	R25XFPSX2DWZ6L	0670030171	67215831	Behind the Screen: How Gays and Lesbians Shaped Hollywood, 1910-1969	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Excellent overview, though muddled in its analysis	This book does an admirable job of documenting gay Hollywood. Not just the stars, but the directors, clothing designers, set decorators, etc. The shifting climate for gays in Hollywood is documented along with its apparent impact on gay people working in the industry. The one drawback is the muddled summation of what it all means---the author takes a romanticized, separatist view, in which the more closted eras in Hollywood are seen as building community and doing more for gay identity. I rather doubt that people who lived through that would feel the same way and his own research seems to contradict this analysis. Not a book for those looking for fresh gossip or innuendo, but entertaining, as well informative and well-documented, nonetheless.	2001-12-29
US	52285987	R32K1RKU51FL2	0151002940	788659840	Crooked River Burning	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A wonderful book; perfect for expat Clevelanders	My own time growing up in Cleveland corresponds with the latter portion of the book. Winegardner captures the tone of the time perfectly and the rest of the book has wonderful set pieces, as well. The seques into Dorothy Fuldheim and other subjects are well worth the effort, but may be more useful for Clevelanders than for \\"foreigners\\" and sometimes he simply tries too hard with these sections. There also are some minor inaccuracies. A better story would have come from an east sider perspective (just kidding, my roots are in Willowick & Cleveland Hts), but someone else can write that one. Still, the book was evocative and it's depth in Cleveland lore reminded me why I still feel affection for Cleveland.	2001-11-23
US	52285987	RA2FEMSUD6QDZ	0380732343	161050730	Hammerhead Ranch Motel (Serge Storms)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Okay airplane reading, could use a decent editor	Hammerhead Ranch Motel is a raucous story filled with colorful characters and locales. Unfortunately, it often has too much color and Dorsey really seems to be trying too hard to impress us with his knowledge of Florida lore and history, and his ability to deliver eccentric situations and characters. The ending ties things together messily, but at least has more coherence than the beginning. The exerpt of his forthcoming books suggests that his capacity for good writing may yet overcome his talent for showing off.	2001-11-13
US	52285987	R1T67BE0AJRF4S	0226730735	535527075	For the Love of Mike: More of the Best of Mike Royko	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	Not as good as the first installment	This follow-up to &quot;One More Time&quot; includes more of Mike Royko's Tribune and Sun-Times columns. Although there were a few gems that had been missing from &quot;One More Time&quot;, most of the installments here fall flat. If &quot;One More Time&quot; whet your apetite, it would be better to find a copy of &quot;Boss&quot; and see Royko at his best.	2001-11-13
US	52285987	RXYTMEZD7PDD9	0312978707	97032133	Afterburn: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A mixed bag	Harrison's other novels have been among the best written and most compelling of recent mysteries. This book had many readable elements, but falls apart in the closing chapters. One of the subplots, involving artifical insemination, could easily have been dropped, as well. Nonetheless, when it's good, it's very good. Harrison writes vividly and knows how to move a story along. The violence, as in his other books, is not for the squeamish.	2001-11-13
US	52285987	R1DT1Z4C5CKDHU	0688176992	469204683	Finding Fish: A Memoir	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	Great read -- an important story	I bought the book because, like Antwone, I'm a Clevelander and a rough contemporary of his. However, I'm white, grew up in another (also working class) part of town and worked in Cleveland on the other side of the human service system. The times, places and even some of the people in the book were familiar to me. So were the circumstances. More importantly, this was a perspective I needed to see and think about once again. Antwone's story was riveting. It's also cautionary because he probably experienced more stability and attention in the &quot;system&quot; than it usually doles it. Antwone had gifts and talents and was fortunate enough to find them and still it was not &quot;a wonderful life&quot; ---- and those who wish to place greater limits on what we do for children cannot back away from that. People interested in the wellbeing of children and youth and should read this book.	2001-04-09
US	52285987	R28DCB7VC110H	9057024217	934569831	Endangered Relations	Books	2	1	3	N	N	An uneven, dated review of HIV in Thailand	I had much admired Lyttleton's journal articles, but found this book to be disappointing. He doesn't mention the low HIV prevalence in the region  where he did his work until well into the book. The naive reader may feel  misled; the knowledgable reader will know that much of what Lyttleton has  to say is not placed in a proper context. His effort to develop a fairly  conventional neo-Marxist polictical economy of HIV in NE Thailand falls  flat when one considers the low prevalence and the lack of linear links to  economic conditions. This should not avert attention for ineequities but,  in telling the story of HIV in Thailand one should attend to sexual  networking, mixing patterns, social patterns, etc. His treatment of areas  where he did not do original field work is often superficial, woefully  incomplete, and/or muddled. Topics such as homosexuality and vaccine  research are hampered by this. The relative success of Thailand's first  generation prevention efforts also gets short shrift, which seems typical  of many &quot;critical&quot; analyses. The need for new directions need not  negate what has been accomplished. Like too much of the writing on HIV in  Thailand, the effort to present a rather predictable agenda gets in the way  of telling the real story which is far more nuanced and complex than the  one offered here.	2000-08-30
US	52285987	R2QWOHUDTAO2L0	0864424213	4426992	Lonely Planet Chile & Easter Island	Books	4	11	16	N	Y	Better than the most recent reviewers would suggest	I'm not quite sure the other reviewers looked at the same guide book. This one has plenty of opinions (like telling you what restaurants are expensive, what guesthouses are gloomy, etc.) and, of course, it's  &quot;outdated&quot;----any guidebook is out of date the moment it's  published and the LP folks tell you that upfront. I would have appreciated  more on the Torres del Paine, but I could say the same of Footprints or  other common guides to Chile. If you expect everything in a guidebook to be  fully current and the opinions to be exactly what you need, you should stay  home and leave the traveling to people who actually want to experience the  world.	2000-06-24
US	52285987	R194QBS7NQWYN9	0804107602	358275865	What I Saw at the Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era	Books	4	7	16	N	N	Great book for the wrong reasons	Noonan 's book is a great read, but parts should disturb thoughtful conservatives (and delight frustrated liberals). She basically validates the view that Reagan was distracted, out of touch and lacked a vision  beyond a few narrow issues. She, herself, comes off as naive and far from  insightful (George Stephanopolous comes off as having learned his lesson in  the White House, she does not). Noonan wants desperately for Reagan to be  the conservative counterpart to her parents' beloved FDR, which he isn't.  Sadly, she also believes much of the hagiography about Reagan's humdrum  film career (he wasn't the only second stringer saved by television).	2000-03-18
US	52285987	R26T95R1Q7DXHI	0939895072	813921343	Africa's Top Wildlife Countries: With Mauritius and Seychelles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great resource for trip planning	I found this to be a very helpful book for trip planning: when and where to go and getting an idea of what different kinds of safaris have to offer. A number of valuable charts regarding the best times to see certain  wildlife, climate, etc. The book is a good way to narrow your choices  before starting to collect brochures and get travel guides for individual  countries. The coverage will not replace good field guides or travel  guides---just get you ready for that stage. One caveat: I didn't care for  Nolting's snobbishness about the best way to travel (I managed to see more  than I might have on one of his &quot;first class&quot; safaris).	2000-03-17
US	52285987	R277W38MBVJL06	1890132446	172119394	The Safari Companion: A Guide to Watching African Mammals	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Excellent comprehensive guide to African wildlife	This guide provides concise overviews of physical characteristics, mating, aggression, etc. for common and some not so common species. It is invaluable as a reference and will be valuable after your trip. This book is found on most safaris and at most lodges (at least in Botswana). For me---the omnipresence of the book in Botswana made me want a copy rather than just having  the experience of looking at the copies in the land rover. The versions for sale in Africa often are inferior in terms of printing and paper (and also more expensive).	2000-03-17
US	52285987	R2I0R9G4JYTERQ	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	15	19	N	Y	A great read	Just when you think you've heardenough about &quot;Monicagate&quot;, people start writing decent books about it. Toobin's book is a great read---clear, with wit and insight. Toobin deplores most of Clinton's  behavior, while ferreting out the loose confederacy of right wingers whose  typically self-serving and irrationally deep hatred of Clinton brought them  into the scandal. Toobin also places this in a larger framework of the  legal system being used to undermine democratic processes, a dynamic he  rightly views as cutting across political lines.	2000-03-13
US	52285987	R2B0KBJ7OVTJHJ	0316930164	838798147	All too Human	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A good if somewhat flawed read	The author has been credited with being too naive (or just sanctimonious) about his entree into the world of White House politics. Some of his background information is a bit too self-serving (e.g., many people from  his high school have attended Columbia in recent decades), however, once he  reaches the White House the story becomes riveting. Unfortunately, near the  end, we get too much pettiness and not enough insight and the book just  seems to &quot;poop out&quot;. Still and all, many useful insights into the  workings of the White House and the pressures it places on Presidential  staff to be reasonably honest and public spirited.	2000-03-13
US	52285987	R2FXRWBA9N35V5	1563524872	199819751	The Terrible Truth About Liberals	Books	1	7	49	N	N	Why pay for it?	Why pay for something you've already heard for free. This non-rational aspect of markets is but one of many realities that this libelous, .. ignores.	1999-08-29
US	52285987	R67VGC89G8W18	051759871X	132075104	The President We Deserve: Bill Clinton: His Rise, Falls, and Comebacks	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Best of the Early Clinton Books	Even before Monica-gate, there were way too many Clinton books. Some of them magazine articles padded out to book length (Elizabeth Drew). Some with axes to grind and ponderous writing (like Bob Woodward). Some written  by right wing nuts who have no idea how to write or conduct research. This  book is great---written by someone who has perspective (it probably helps  that he isn't an American), wit, and skill with words. It will make you  think about Clinton about yourself in new ways.	1999-07-21
US	52285987	R28N9ARSCML1L	0385492677	78406902	The Accidental Buddhist: Mindfulness, Enlightenment, and Sitting Still, American Style	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Buddhism Primer for Those Not Ready to Leap	Moore presents a very readable exploration of different schools of Buddhism and makes it clear that you don't have to have a conversion experience appreciate Buddhism and begin to grapple with Buddhism means and  how it can contribute to our daily lives. The book is refreshingly  irreverent without being cynical (e.g., the Dala Lama and his followers  will not be happy with tTe mild, but &quot;right on&quot; criticism that  emerges). there are some minor inaccuracies about terminology and education  in the Therevada Buddhist tradition, but otherwise this is a great book and  it will appeal to a wide variety readers from the merely curious to even  some with scholarly depth in the area.	1999-04-18
US	52285987	R2SPDHUCVEFU79	0844289604	506228466	Botswana (Passport Regional Guides of South Africa Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A nice, if somewhat snobbish supplement to the usual guides	The book combines beautiful photographs, excellent maps, and more concise commentary than other guides to this country. On the downside, the quality of different travel agencies, lodgings, etc. is not appraised. The  information is useful for all but rock-bottom travelers (Botswana isn't  cheap, anyway), however, the authors are inappropriately condescending  toward the options available to budget and mid-range travelers and frankly  colonial in their attitudes toward the locals. Still, if you can tolerate a  few nauseating passages in the introductory chapters, you get a useful  supplement to the Lonely Planet, Rough Guide etc.	1999-04-18
US	52285987	R3ID1IHMCKLZAJ	1550821849	286373663	There's Something Happening Here: The Story of Buffalo Springfield : for What It's Worth	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Good history of a great band	Well written, as rock journalism goes. We don't get much early history about band members and Furay is a little self serving (at least he doesn't ram his conversion experience down our throats) and he could show more  self-criticism, esp. given his obvious grudges with Neil Young. Beyond this  it's a fascinating history of the 60s music scene. Buffalo Springfield  intersected with virtually everyone from the Monkees to Hendrix and you do  get a flavor of the late 60s music scene. This is probably one of the most  underappreciated of the seminal 60s bands and they deserve the visibility  that the book gives. Their mausical experimentation and the various bands,  solos, and duos they spawned make them arguably more important to rock  history than such overplayed groups as the Beach Boys. There's more to  Buffalo Springfield than &quot;For What It's Worth&quot; and that comes  through in this brief, informative book.	1999-04-10
US	52285987	RMPQS7ZVQSKMM	1560238984	462174231	Autopornography: A Memoir of Life in the Lust Lane (Haworth Gay & Lesbian Studies)	Books	2	9	15	N	Y	Mostly disappointing	I think the other reviewers must be groupies or simply amazed that a porn star can write in a half-way literate manner. The early history is interesting, but the rest is repetitive and boring. The personal philosophy  seems self-serving and, frankly, superficial. The videography will be  helpful to die hard fans and porn collectors. The poetry is, at best,  sophomoric.	1999-04-10
US	52285987	R2T0G8FAJW0MLW	0415914299	886097857	Night Market: Sexual Cultures and the Thai Economic Miracle	Books	1	21	26	N	N	At least one 5-star review is an author	The turgid, confused prose is a dead give away. So is the overblown praise for this poorly written book. The 5 star review from &quot;the United States of America&quot; has to be one of the authors. If so, then the call  for &quot;objective&quot; reviews from a postmodernist is ironic, as well  as amusing. Also ironic is the book's theme of exploitation---by relying on  a dated, superficial review of scholarly research, as well as sleazy pop  culture, the book itself appears to be a work of Western exploitation.  Except this time, it's the arrogant academics exploiting prostitutes,  rather than their male customers. This harsh, intensely narcisistic  diatribe may be good vita fodder, but it is not worthwhile reading.	1999-03-05
US	52285987	R2ZZJQ654YTZDN	067942153X	551346795	The Secret Lives of Citizens: Pursuing the Promise of American Life	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A marvelous mix of history, politics, and memoir	This book presents the author's evolution through government work and civic activism. It also presents a neat, personalized history of recent progressive politics. This mix of memoir and history has been criticized by  some book reviews, but actually contributes to the effectiveness of the book. One can forgive the occasional self-absorption because the book has many useful insights and the author offers himself  up as an example of someone  who has the uncomfortable thoughts that bedevil many \\"progressives\\". A good read for people who are liberals, but not  idiots.	1999-03-03
US	52285987	R1V9MZ154R4TF4	9742020191	366556754	Phra Farang: An English Monk in Thailand	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent personal account of Buddhist faith	The book describes the personal journey of a British businessman through his religious training and practice as a monk in Thailand. It is written with modesty and personal insight. It is not a book of  &quot;conversion&quot;, but one of journey. Phar Peter communicates the  essence of Theravada Buddhist tecahing and practice and will capture the  attention of those with casual interest in Buddhism, while also having  appeal for more devotional readers. The author has established a charitable  trust to support the higher education of impoversished Thais, which is  briefly mentioned in the book.	1999-02-19
US	52285987	R12EJRD2Y56S3C	0864424116	813349683	Lonely Planet Thailand: Travel Survival Kit (7th ed)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Other Reviewers Don't Know Thailand.....	After living in Thailand for 3 years and traveling extensively (40+ provinces) sometimes on a shoestring, sometimes on an expense account, I'd have to say that Cummings book is one of the very best (certainly better  than the outdated and superficial guide by Carl Parkes in the Moon  Publication series). The Thailand &quot;Handbook&quot; (aka the Footprints  series) is the only serious competitor. The historical and cultural  overviews are superb and the practical infomation highly credible. The  complaints about prices changing, etc. seem to come from people who are  naive about travel. The book is no more &quot;Western&quot; in outlook than  other common guides and, if anything, it does a better job of interpreting  the culture. The political coverage is very credible, unless one is a hard  right-winger or a member of one of Thailand's sleazier political parties.	1998-12-16
US	52285987	R233QKLT06LDML	1566910420	810298626	Thailand Handbook (Thailand Handbook, 2nd ed)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Weakest of the major independent travel guides to Thailand	Of the major travel guides for independent travelers in Thailand, this is by far the weakest. Much of the information (accomodation, sites) was outdated by a couple years at release. The book's historical overview of Thailand is rather  superficial and the country coverage is more spotty than its competitors.  You're better off with the Lonely Planet Guide (which has slipped a bit in  its last revision, but still a \\"5 star\\") and the Thailand  installment in the \\"Handbook\\" series (also published as the  \\"Footprint Guides\\"), which also is a \\"5 star\\".	1998-11-03
