US	52296593	R2MVLQZPGQQUGF	0785260668	837648080	Freefall Of The American University: How Our Colleges Are Corrupting The Minds And Morals Of The Next Generation	Books	5	45	53	N	Y	it is about time	My response when I bought this book was \\"it is about time someone wrote this book!\\" It documents how our colleges are corrupting the minds and morals of the next generation. Having taught in several American colleges and Universities for over 35 years, I have seen this first hand. I love the university and intellectual life, but have seen intolerance in academia grow to the point that its faculty are now often in a different world than the rest of America. An example is the intolerance against Republicans. I do not agree with many Republican ideas (and am generally an independent, and we are usually ignored, so I personally do not have a problem here), but there is something wrong when over 90 percent of all faculty in most departments are Democrats, socialists, or communists (Marxists or conflict theorists). This concern is discussed in detail in this book. As I am on the science faculty, one area that does strike close to home is the intolerance toward those who doubt Darwin. For example, on page 230 Black discusses intolerance at Harvard (in contrast I have several good Darwin doubter friends who earned their Ph.D. in science at Harvard). Black claimed that \\"critical discussion of Darwin is taboo\\" at Harvard (this is what my friends also claimed) and that the \\"modern university has no religion but Darwinism... the most important question for any society to ask is the one that is [now] forbidden\\" Page 231. How true. Those who disagree are the ones who should be reading this book. <br /> <br />	2005-01-17
US	52296593	R2O9OE86M1ZFM4	0618005838	521873182	The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution	Books	3	17	104	N	Y	Dawkins says: Can't prove Darwinism!	This book has much useful information and is well written, although long. It seems it was written to support Dawkin's belief in the view that the natural forces of the universe can account for everything from the universe to life to intelligent humans (but one must ask, where did these natural forces come from?). In this work, Dawkins is more honest and rational then in some of his previous works. Creationists of all stripes love to read Dawkins because he makes many extreme and quotable statements, proving their contention that, logically, Darwinism leads to atheism. It seems Dawkins has of late toned down and is more honest such as in this book. Another example is in an article by Roger Highfield, Science Editor, titled \\"Science's scourge of believers declares his faith in Darwin.\\" The article said that \\"Prof. Richard Dawkins, the scourge of those who maintain their belief in a god, has declared that he, too, holds a belief that cannot yet be proved.\\" The Oxford University evolutionary biologist is among the 117 scientists, futurists and other creative thinkers who have responded to the question: \\"What do you believe is true even though you cannot prove it?\\" posed by John Brockman, a New York-based literary agent. Dawkins said: \\"I believe, but I cannot prove, that all life, all intelligence, all creativity and all 'design' anywhere in the universe is the direct or indirect product of Darwinian natural selection.\\" I would love to see this statement in the public school textbooks, but I am sure the ACLU would challenge it in court. It looks like Dawkins has jointed the long list of less than true believers in Darwinism. And Gould used to call him a Darwin fundamentalist! I am sure Gould is now turning over in his grave! <br />	2005-01-05
US	52296593	R1FUYCLCX1QV43	1591020840	830732936	Unintelligent Design	Books	1	35	118	N	N	Falls way short	As a whole this book contains much good material, but the author constantly resorts to name calling and ad hominem attacks. A few of the more obvious examples include Johnson is a \\"militant dilettante\\" (p.141), Hugh Ross is on a \\"crusade of ignorance\\" (p. 173), Grant Jeffrey is an \\"ignoramus\\" and<br />\\"arrogant\\" (p.193, 206) and on and on. Johnson is attacked because he is a lawyer, yet Perakh is a retired physics teacher who writes about biology. In this book Perakh attacks anyone who believes God had some role in history, including theistic evolutionists, such as many of the people involved in the intelligent design movement (Behe and Heeren, for example). This common response to theists bothered me when I was an atheist. My co-atheists constantly called believers of the theistic kind stupid, ignorant, uninformed, arrogant and such. Our kind of believers had the truth and only we were intelligent, we thought. Many of the leading atheists (and I knew some fairly well) were not exactly geniuses and had a good share of short comings as well, such as to look down on all theists. I have also noticed that it is now a trend for Darwinists to use more and more hateful and inflammatory rhetoric, including likening those that doubt Darwin to holocaust deniers. In the end, I think that it is likely that this ploy will backfire.	2005-01-04
US	52296593	R258EBXKVPKQ9C	0687023742	400609185	Evolution from Creation to New Creation: Conflict, Conversation, and Convergence	Books	3	7	48	N	Y	useful but.....	Although this book has much useful information, and is clearly supportive of ID, as a whole I was disappointed in the section on creationism. To keep this short I will cover just one point. Peter and Hewlett imply that creationists do not see much need to produce new scientific data. First of all, this common claim is not true. Unfortunately, almost all research they do must be financed out of their own pocket, so it is limited. Secondly, they have tried to get grants but, as far as I am aware, have consistently failed whereas Darwinists get multibillions of dollars in grants each year world wide. There is as much chance of an out of the closet creationist getting a grant as a open rabbi holding a high level government post in Nazi Germany. Furthermore, since many creationists are denied doctorates many will never be in a position to do science. And those that have Ph.D.s are almost without exception denied tenure if they are out of the closet. Those in the closet stay there if they want to advance in their career. About 20 percent of all scientists are conservative creationists, but one would never know this because they wisely stay in the closet. I believe that at some point it will be time for all closet advocates of creationism, and even ID, to band together and join the relative few who have gone public. The more targets there are, the softer the collective blow. Frankly, I think it is past time. Darwinists will continue to get away with firing isolated Darwin doubters of all stripes until the numbers become too high. But few creationists will risk their career to come out of the closet now. Lastly, of the research creations do, if the implications are obvious, there is no way that it will be published, and if published the journal will retract the paper as poorly done or worse. Since the \\"goo to you by way of the zoo\\" is true, contradictory data cannot exist, therefore all research that proves otherwise must be wrong. <br /> <br />	2004-12-23
US	52296593	RX7VJNH36O0NK	0802086780	478369121	Jehovah's Witnesses and the Third Reich: Sectarian Politics under Persecution	Books	5	27	37	N	N	Required to understand the holocaust	I came across this book in my research on the influence of Darwinism on the holocaust (considerable) and on Hitler (also considerable). This is by far the most complete and authoritative work on the Jehovah's Witnesses and the holocaust in English. It is not only well documented (the author has worked on this book for well over a decade) but balanced. It points out both the Witnesses' remarkable record during this time as well as their human flaws. Penton includes photocopies of many important documents plus an English translation. Although 412 pages, this book is easy reading and the type one does not want to put down. An important conclusion is, the vast majority of Christians (and even the religious sects such as the Mormons) willingly and often enthusiastically submitted to the demands of the Third Reich (page 360). Only the Witnesses resisted and, as a result, along with the Jews and Gypsies, the Witnesses were ruthlessly persecuted by the Nazis. This book is required reading to fully understand the holocaust and why it occurred.  <br />	2004-12-10
US	52296593	R2E9HDMYFOWZTM	0473097869	189837484	God: Fact or Fiction	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Excellent Book for both Creationists and Evolutionists	The 18th century philosopher Immanuel Kant made popular the idea that the universe was eternal, without beginning or end. Roberts, in his book, explores the relationship between science, religion, and the origin of life. He effectively deals with the challenges posed by science to classic Christian thought. He is also mindful of the fact that we are doing theology after Darwin, and so he has divided his book into two parts: science and religion. The book does not specialize in any one subject but instead has taken a very broad sweep on many topics. Part one covers aspects of cosmology, evolution, biochemistry and archaeology. Part two covers the realm of religion in its relationship to epistemology, ontology, faith and reason, theodicy, philosophy, history, and Sacred Scripture.<br /><br />Roberts is fortunate that there is an emerging science that supports many of the things that he and Christian theism have long espoused. A wealth of scientific evidence now shows that the universe was created out of nothing and that the universe was designed to support life and human beings. Roberts<br /><br />opens his first chapter with the birth of the universe, in what scientists call 'The Big Bang'. This theory suggests three things:<br /><br />(i) The universe had a beginning<br /><br />(ii) The universe came from nothing<br /><br />(iii) The universe is finite.<br /><br />Most scientists now support this theory. One such scientist is Robert Jastrow, an astrophysicist, who, when citing the implications of this theory, declared that, 'for the scientist who has lived by his faith in the power of reason, the story endslike a bad dream. He has scaled the mountains of ignorance; he is about toconquer the highest peak; as he pulls himself over the final rock, he is greeted by a band of theologians who have been sitting there for centuries' (page 57). In fact, Roberts quotes copiously with purpose from specialists. Furthermore, at the end of each chapter is a bibliography of the sources he quotes. He also covers the subject of evolution, both micro and macro. In an excellent review Roberts rejects macroevolution but wisely remains open on this issue.<br /><br />Roberts has written this book for the thinking non-Christian.  His book is comparable to the apologetic works of Dr Steve Kumar, in that it provides an excellent resource in defense of theism. Where science has often been used to demystify the world of any transcendent meaning, Roberts attempts to restore<br /><br />wonder and delight to our origins and to the source of those origins.<br /><br />Furthermore, this book replaces the shallowness of scientific reductionismand refutes the nihilistic philosophy of atheistic materialism. In short it affirms the Judeo-Christian values of life, purpose and meaning.<br /><br />Albert Einstein said 'religion without science is blind, and science without religion is lame'. In using both Sacred Scripture in tandem with the Book of Nature, Roberts has skillfully brought together key insights to show how science and religion interrelate and contribute to each other in helping people to make informed decisions about matters spiritual and to move them to a higher level of consciousness.<br /><br />Rev Rob McKay<br /><br />Maori Anglican Priest  MTheol (Hons.)	2004-12-05
US	52296593	R3ML3PHHHOLIIV	0806651776	870166413	By Design or By Chance? The Growing Controversy on the Origins of Life in the Universe	Books	5	45	73	N	N	A different kind of book about creation evolution	<br /> <br />I estimate that about 3 to 4 books about the creation-evolution controversy are published each week. Many are by non-scientists in favor of creationism of some type, and most repeat the same information. Many are not worth reading. This is a very different book on this topic.This book does not argue for one side, as most books on this topic do, but objectively discusses all sides of the controversy. For this reason all sides of the controversy, from young earth to old earth creationists, to theistic evolutionists to Intelligent Design theorists, to atheist evolutionists, will find this book very useful. It is written by an award winning journalist and has much new material of interest to all sides of this never ending controversy. In many ways it is an update of Ron Numbers classic book titled The Creationists. Numbers focused on the history from 1920 to about 1980 and this book covers 1980 to date, although some background before 1980 is covered. It covers the science issues but much of the focus is on the history and non science area. As such, it stands alone in the field and has no competition. If you want a book that covers the whole controversy, this book is for you. If you want a book that defends one side or the other side I would look elsewhere. <br />	2004-12-03
US	52296593	R3UQQD6NIKZDLO	1591022177	87215952	Leaving The Fold: Testimonies Of Former Fundamentalists	Books	4	11	37	N	Y	a must for all pastors to read	I highly recommend this book for all pastors, religious teachers, and others interested in religion. It illustrates the critical importance of apologetics as part of the training of all Christian youth. I have been a Methodist, Lutheran and other denominations in my almost 60 years of life and most of them never covered any area of apologetics in either Sunday school or during the regular church service. As a result young people are easily influenced by the distorted or wrong arguments espoused by atheists and agnostics. Typically one's religious beliefs are fairly well established when quite young and rarely do churches give their charges much information to enable them to deal with objections such as those raised in this book. No wonder more than half of all Christians leave the church as adults. In my family over 90% have left the church. The churches have no one to blame but themselves. The reasons those in this book gave for leaving Christianity could usually have been answered by a good apologetics class. Many boil down to the classic \\"where did Able get his wife\\" thus, they conclude,  Darwinism must be the explanation of where we came from, therefore there is no God. I was also surprised at how frequently encountering Darwinism in school was a major, if not the major, reason why theism was rejected. As a whole public school and college were a major reason why many became atheists, agnostics, nominal Christians or cultural Christians. This supports the research that concludes government schools are not neutral, as the constitution requires, but clearly indoctrinate against theism and, especially, Christianity. Much is made out of the putative mistakes in the Bible yet Christianity teaches only the original autographs were inspired, not the copies, and we have none of the originals today (but most of the copies differ mostly in spelling). Thus we can have confidence in the scriptures we have today (but mistakes do exist).  <br />	2004-11-29
US	52296593	RDJDK51HNFL65	1581344589	829818560	Total Truth: Liberating Christianity from Its Cultural Captivity	Books	5	173	208	N	Y	An Must Book for both Creationists and Evolutionists	This book is must reading for all Christians and Christian critics. <br />Pearcey's mastery of the material, her clear thinking, her outstanding <br />ability to express herself, and her compelling arguments are all a major <br />reason why I predict that this book will become the standard work in the <br />area. Pearcey makes a persuasive case for Christian involvement in <br />society (to become the salt of the Earth). In my opinion, as a professional <br />biologist very interested in the Darwinian controversies, the strongest <br />part of the book (and the main reason why I bought it) is the section on <br />Intelligent Design. She makes an excellent case for this world view and <br />why it is critically important. I believe that her well done critique of <br />Darwinism and her defense of Intelligent Design will improve the book's <br />chances at achieving a wide audience. Many works exist that go into <br />detail about the many problems with the conclusions of John <br />Polkinghorne, Nancy Murphy and, especially, Ken Miller, as well as <br />others who dissent from Intelligent Design's scientific and <br />philosophical conclusions. To conclude that God may have created the laws of <br />the universe and sat by watching as the creation created itself due to <br />mutations being selected in the struggle for life, as does Ken Miller, <br />suffers from major theological and, from my prospective, even more <br />serious problems with the evidence from biology, genetics and, <br />especially, molecular biology. My work is on mutations and it is clear <br />that mutations have a limited ability to create. They may damage <br />ribosome receptors in bacteria and, as a result, confer resistance to an <br />antibiotic, but even here a fitness cost usually results. <br />	2004-08-06
US	52296593	R2JXX5UEX8PKT3	0890510857	306378478	Rise of the Evolution Fraud	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Must Read!!!	The book has six sections, the first of which describes how evolutionism was a belief that actually existed prior to the 18th century.  Sections 2-4 develop Bowden's premise that Lyell and a few others conspired to destroy Biblical standards by making evolutionism part of science.  The fifth section explains the philosophical implications of evolutionism and the final section relates the results that Bowden believes evolutionism has brought (and will bring) upon mankind. He makes a strong case that Darwin was duped by Charles Lyell who wanted to destroy the Biblical basis of science.  Lyell, trained as an attorney, was well off and could devote time to study geology.  The science of geology was weak then and Lyell's concept of Uniformitarianism and long ages of time were more readily accepted as factual.  With the help of other men, Lyell used Darwin's book to reach his devious goal of attacking the Bible without making direct criticisms. T. H. Huxley, who had bouts of depression, used Darwin's work to make himself famous while ridiculing Christian doctrine.  Bowden provides much insight into the famous debate Huxley had with Bishop Samuel Wilberforce which reveals the viscousness of Huxley.  Another factor contributing to the rise of evolutionism was a weak church and attacks on the Bible by theological modernists. According to Bowden, Darwin was a catastrophist for the entire voyage of the Beagle.  Darwin was basically a nice guy whose ambition and vanity made him a tool of Lyell and others.  Bowden argues that Darwin's scientific methods were amateurish and his treatise was full of faulty logic.  Darwin appealed to the pride of the young and the laymen and the Origin of Species became the rallying point to attack Christianity in the name of science. <br />	2004-08-01
US	52296593	R3DEW1IAE2FQ4W	1932236317	524292565	Uncommon Dissent: Intellectuals Who Find Darwinism Unconvincing	Books	5	47	66	N	Y	An Important book	This book is an excellent collection about professors and others who<br /><br /> have doubts about Darwin. One of the best chapters was the eye-opening<br /><br /> expose of the many failings and inequities of peer review by the well<br /><br /> known physicist Frank Tipler. He shows that peer review, as we know it<br /><br /> today, has become wide spread only since World War II. Before this the<br /><br /> editor often determined what was published (and even in this case the<br /><br /> review was designed to weed out only clearly &quot;crack pot papers&quot;).<br /><br /> Tipler notes that pre World War II most papers sent to journals were<br /><br /> published, partly because not that many were submitted then and, those<br /><br /> that were, were often written by dedicated scholars. Few professors<br /><br /> published much until the early 1950s because only then did universities<br /><br /> begin to realize that their prestige depended less on the quality of<br /><br /> their teachers than the scholarly reputation of those professors. From<br /><br /> this insight developed the publish or parish mentality. As a result,<br /><br /> many journals were flooded with papers, some written largely to allow<br /><br /> professors to get tenure or promotions. Now, instead of teaching five to<br /><br /> six courses per semester, many professors teach two to three (this is<br /><br /> true of most universities where I have taught) to give them time to<br /><br /> write papers (most of which, even when published, are rarely, if ever,<br /><br /> read). As a result, many more bad papers are weeded out by peer review<br /><br /> but, Tipler explains, many very good papers are also rejected. He<br /><br /> documents numerous cases where papers that later won Noble prizes or<br /><br /> were major breakthroughs were rejected one or more times by the peer<br /><br /> review process. He documents the fact that, all too often, peer review<br /><br /> amounts to pygmies standingin judgment of giants (page 116). He also<br /><br /> documents the fact that ideas in science papers that openly support<br /><br /> Judaism or Christianity, such as Intelligent Design, are likely to be<br /><br /> rejected out of hand. Yet critiques that support intelligent design have<br /><br /> a much better chance of being published if ID concepts are called by<br /><br /> another name and even have been indorsed by the leading Darwinists. His<br /><br /> examples used to support this claim are excellent and, in my experience,<br /><br /> are common. In short, lack of peer review hardly proves an idea wrong<br /><br /> and those who reject ID because openly ID papers have not yet appeared<br /><br /> in the peer reviewed scientific literature are using a rhetorical ploy<br /><br /> to argue their mistaken point. Actually, many papers in support if ID<br /><br /> have been published (I have published several dozen) but they can not<br /><br /> openly support ID (otherwise they would not be published).	2004-07-22
US	52296593	RTJV9J8N6NZW8	0195161998	352450477	God, the Devil, and Darwin: A Critique of Intelligent Design Theory	Books	1	55	109	N	Y	A Disappointment	I ordered this book with the hope that it would effectively deal with Intelligent Design arguments. It did no such thing. To illustrate, I will examine only one chapter, chapter 2 &quot;Darwin and the Illusion of Intelligent Design.&quot; Page 50 to page 88 was a discussion of a wide variety of topics including basics genetics, Darwin's early belief in some form of theistic evolution (which he later abandoned), developmental biology and other topics, all fairly elementary. In this section Shanks did not even attempt to refute ID. Finally, on page 88 to the end of the chapter (5 pages), Shanks discussed the evolution of the eye, a topic rarely discussed by ID but by creationists! He claims that comparative studies of extant animals reveal a nearly continuous range of eye types from simple to complex (actually, as Shanks notes on page 90, it is far more accurate to conclude that one third of all animals have no means to detect light, one third have simple light sensitive organs, and one third have complex verted or inverted eyes similar to humans). All of this is very interesting, but hardly proves that the complex modern eye evolved from simple, single light sensitive cells. What is needed is, not a comparison of living animals, all of which are on the tips of the evolutionary tree (all life descended from the first cells 3.5 billion years ago, thus all existing life had the same length of time for evolution to occur) but fossil evidence of eye decent with modification. Show us the empirical evidence, and that will shut up the Darwin critics. It is correctly noted that soft parts preserve poorly in the fossil record. This may be a valid reason for the lack of fossil evidence, but it is not positive empirical evidence. Actually, we have over a million examples of life in Amber that should give us a clue as to how eye evolution occurred, but does not. Comparisons of extant eyes to prove decent with modification are very problematic and this is why it is now proposed that the eye evolved 32 (or 36, depending on which authority you consult) separate times. Rather than lining up simple to complex eyes, we now have 30 some separate lines, all taking a different path (and a need for even more transitional forms)! Furthermore, the biochemical evidence only complicates the picture. It often contradicts current assumptions about evolution trees and some genes in &quot;simple eyes&quot; are very similar to those used in &quot;complex eyes.&quot; The problem is they are way too similar! Also, I expect a science book to be professional, and avoid scurrilous attacks on others. Phases such as ID ideas are &quot;parasites crawling on the body of science&quot; (page 49) are unnecessary and only will alienate fair minded people and play into the hands of creationists who claim that Darwinists are intolerant and dogmatic.	2004-06-10
US	52296593	R25STNR5SE2XI1	1403965021	546723822	From Darwin to Hitler: Evolutionary Ethics, Eugenics and Racism in Germany	Books	5	63	82	N	N	A must for anyone interested in Nazi Germany	The subject of Nazi Germany still is a very popular topic for books, articles and public discussion. Having read many books and articles on this area of history, I can confidently conclude that this is one of the most important (and one of the best scholarly sources). In contrast to many authors who quote each other (and must rely on secondary sources printed in English), Weikart's work relies heavily on primary sources published in German during the time he is covering. Weikart is fluent in the language (I only studied it to pass my Ph.D. reading exams) and lived in Germany to do his research. As a result, Weikart includes much new material for scholars to mull over for the next century. He covers the basic question asked about this era, namely, why did Nazism start and grow in the most educated nation in the world and why did so many scientists (especially biologists of various types) and medical doctors firmly side with Nazism? Understanding why Nazism happened is critical to insure that it never happens again. This work focuses on the major influence of Darwinism, but also covers in a very balanced way other influences. Like a story, he develops a major point in each chapter, building onto the story and his conclusion. The 42 pages of notes fully document his conclusions. This book is a must for anyone interested in not only Nazi Germany but the whole question of the source of morality and ethics.	2004-05-17
US	52296593	R3ELOWXNJWHQEF	0310241448	911984495	The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Reads like a Novel	This book is one of the growing number of books on Intelligent Design. It is different from the rest in that it consists of a series of interviews with scientists. Lee Strobel, a graduate of Yale Law school and legal editor of the Chicago Tribune, applies his considerable writing skills to tackle one of the most explosive movements of the last decade. I especially liked the personal information about the scientists interviewed, including their motivations for accepting ID. The book reads like a novel, not a book about science, but is very informative even for those who teach science as I do. Strobel interviews those on both sides, and covers astronomy, biochemistry, and even theology. The book also covers some of the controversies surrounding ID. This is the first book on this topic one should read, but even veteran scientists can learn much from the book. This book is a must, especially for critics of ID. Teachers will find it an important resource when the topic comes up in class (which it most certainly will)	2004-04-13
US	52296593	R2EKXGJTYJY024	0736913130	145603054	What Darwin Didn't Know: A Doctor Dissects the Theory of Evolution	Books	5	51	76	N	Y	Excellent!	The author, a medical doctor, in this book recounts his conversion from a Darwinist to an Intelligent Design advocate. He also goes into detail about his indoctrination into Darwinism in school and why he began to doubt Darwinism in later life (as have more and more intellectuals today). What Darwin Didn't Know is an excellent, very readable, work about how little Darwin knew about biology, especially cell biology, because so little was known when he lived and worked. If he lived today in a nonDarwinian world, his theory would have difficulty getting published in a mainline journal. For example, in the middle 1800s cells were thought to be simple globs of protoplasm that served as mere building blocks of a body much like bricks are used to construct a house. Now we realize that cells are the most complex machine in the known universe that can live on their own in the right environment. Over 200 very different types are known. Much of the book is on human anatomy and physiology and why our modern knowledge has proven Darwinism wrong. As I teach Human Anatomy and Physiology at the college level, I found the book fascinating and found much insight to enrich my classes. This book is also an excellent introduction to anatomy and physiology that covers all 10 organ systems plus cell biology. I wish I had a book like this when I was an undergraduate (or even a graduate student in medical school). My first text was boring, to say the least. Students today are fortunate to have such excellent material as this available.	2004-04-11
US	52296593	R3A45STMHPNPHS	1581344309	946786977	Science and Faith: Friends or Foes?	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	Must reading for all science students and teachers	Dr. Collins has his undergraduate and first graduate degree from MIT, and his Ph.D. is from the university of Liverpool. Professor Collins produced an excellent balanced book on Intelligent Design (ID), which unlike most books in this area he looks at both the science of ID and the implications of this field for theology. Chapter 20 &quot;Cultural Wars and Warriors&quot; is an excellent refutation of the foolish claims of Eugene Scott and her organization. Collins shows why ID is critical for theology and why Fundamentalist Darwinism is lethal for theism. In chapter 17 he answers some common objections to ID, and shows why professional science organizations, such as the National Association of Biology Teachers (of which I am a member, even though I teach biology at the college level), are so hostile to this world view. As a scientist, the most useful part of the book was from page 217 to the end. The first part covered theology which I did read very carefully, due to lack of interest and knowledge in this area. The 2nd half was well worth the price of the book and highly recommended.	2004-03-29
US	52296593	RUFHBR6QU2ECF	0262134195	629561985	Origination of Organismal Form: Beyond the Gene in Developmental and Evolutionary Biology (Vienna Series in Theoretical Biology)	Books	5	21	30	N	N	Documents the major problems with neo-Darwinism	Origination of Organismal Form: Beyond The Gene In Developmental And Evolutionary Biology is a collection of excellent essays by scientists who assume Darwinian evolution, but whose work reveals various major evidential and conceptual problems with the theory. They are part of a growing number of scientists who find major problems with Darwinism but are not any type of creationist. The problems with Darwinism are usually buried deep in technical publications but they are there if one looks. Anyone with the training and inclination to read this book could benefit greatly from it.  I strongly recommend it to anyone interested in evolutionary biology. We can no longer ignore these problems. They are too great and must be dealt with. This book is an excellent introduction to these problems. A must read book!!!	2004-03-23
US	52296593	R2R6A1HVGD6BXD	1594671311	267361436	The Four Presidents of the Watch Tower Society (Jehovah's Witnesses)	Books	5	37	47	N	N	a former Watchtower insider speaks out	This important new book includes much information on the inner workings of the Watchtower never before published. Edited by Edmond Gruss, the main text is by a third generation Witness, C.A. Lingerfedt, who served at the Watchtower headquarters as the personal secretary for several high level officers at Bethel, including Hayden Covington. His access to much insider information gives him an advantage few other critics have. Heart disease prevented him from completing this book and, while alive, he had to remain anonymous due to the real fear that disfellowshipping would cut him off from most of his family. As a best selling author, he made a good living writing, always under a pseudonym to protect his family. He confirms the immorality of Rutherford and the corruption in the Watchtower. Gruss confirms many of Lingerfedt's claims (and they conform to my knowledge as well). No historian of the movement can claim to produce a history of the Watchtower without consulting this book and evaluating its claims. Gruss is one of the leading scholars of the movement today and editing this work only adds to his stature. It is must reading for all students of the Watchtower.	2004-03-15
US	52296593	R2DQRZHMOTA4TC	0671531417	348191036	The Monkey Business: A Scientist Looks at Creation	Books	1	2	5	N	N	A one sided tirade polemic	This book is a one sided tirade polemic against the view that God had a role in creation. It is an example of the fact that the Darwinian scientists are now going to an extreme in shutting off debate in this area. As a biology professor at a state college, I have learned to help students grow without turning them off to science. By the way, about 95% of my biology students are creationists of some type (YEC, OEC, ID etc.). We need to realize this and move on and teach biology. I stress that they must know evolution theory but that I am not in the business of changing beliefs (at least in religious areas) and let them do research on their own. Even if they do not believe in Darwinism, they must understand what the theory is all about. I also allow (actually encourage) criticism of the theory in class. I know many professors who do not permit students to present any information in class that opposes Darwinism. No wonder so many students are turned off by science! We must learn to be tolerant, and this book will not help in this goal.	2004-02-29
US	52296593	R1VMG316F1MQ4	0691114366	804778133	For the Glory of God: How Monotheism Led to Reformations, Science, Witch-Hunts, and the End of Slavery	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Must reading for all science students and teachers	This book is a goldmine of information that is critical to understand both science and religion. Written by University of Washington professor Rodney Stark and published by Princeton University Press, the book covers the effect of monotheism on science and society. It is a balanced discussion of both the positive and negative effects of theism in our world, a topic of critical importance in America today in view of the public school battles over religion heating up almost everywhere in America today. A few quotes will illustrate one of the topics it covers, science and religion. Stark correctly notes on page 176 that the historic \\"battle over evolution is not an example of how 'heroic' scientists have withstood the relentless persecution of religious 'fanatics.' Rather, from the very start it has been primarily an attack on religion by militant atheists who wrap themselves in the mantle of science in an effort to refute all religious claims concerning a Creator - an effort that has also often attempted to suppress all scientific criticism of Darwin's work\\" and \\"based on my experience ... nothing causes greater panic among many of my colleagues than any criticism of evolution\\" On page 177 Dr. Stark concludes that \\"Darwin's theory, even with all of the subsequent revisions, falls short of explaining the origin of species\\" He than supports these and other conclusions in the text and with almost 100 pages of notes. As a lover of fine books, I noted that his book is bound in real cloth! Unusual today. It is must reading for both critic and supporter!!!	2004-02-07
US	52296593	R1C184CS26L4TY	0195157427	875571440	Creationism's Trojan Horse:  The Wedge of Intelligent Design	Books	1	28	150	N	N	A disappointment	This book was a disappointment. Name calling is found on almost every page. It emphasizes whatever could defame the character of ID proponents wherever possible and \\"expose\\" their religious beliefs and motives, and it never does justice to any of the arguments that ID proponents make. In my book it is wrong to attack a person's work based on their religion. The authors spend a great deal of time on the putative religious base of ID, ignoring the fact that many people became Christians (and, to be honest, Jews, and Muslims) as a result of accepting ID first. Secondly, an area that I am researching now is the major importance of anti-religious motivations in the work of many leading Darwinists, including Darwin himself, but also Ernst Haeckel, Thomas Henry Huxley, and Joseph McCabe, among others. Furthermore, religion has been a major source of motivation for many scientists throughout history. Examples include Newton, Agassiz, Pasteur, Boyle and many others. Religion was also a great source of motivation for many other great men who changed our world. Dr. Martin Luther King's civil rights movement was openly rooted in the Bible, and his main message was the bible's teaching of the love and brotherhood of mankind. He said that he fought for integration because it is rooted in the gospel. Religious motivations have also caused the many terrorist killings we see today in Iraq and many other parts of the world. Religion can be a great force for good or evil, a fact that no one denies, but the authors imply or assume that it is only a force for evil. The motivation is only part of the story, and, in science, the motivation is often for selfish reasons(money, fame, to prove a rival wrong, for example) but in the end the focus in science should be \\"does an idea stand up to proper scientific evaluation?\\"	2004-01-19
US	52296593	RFILV3HCPUNU7	0870136704	642193497	Darwinism,  Design and Public Education (Rhetoric & Public Affairs)	Books	5	9	18	N	N	The best work on intelligent design, ever	The latest book on intelligent design titled Darwinism, Design, and Public Education is edited by Professors John Angus Campbell and Stephen Myer (2003 Michigan State University Press. East Lansing, MI.). This 634 page book is extremely well done, much better than that by Robert Pennock. First of all, it is more up to date, better written, usually avoids ad hominem attacks, and covers more biology. I found most all of the chapters were excellent, even those by persons who held the position that I disagree with. To be honest, this book has caused me to rethink the whole issue of intelligent design. Michael Ruse's chapter is fairly well done and has some very good points. On the other hand, Pigliucci has a chapter that is going to haunt him in the future! He argues that teaching only atheism in public school science classes will please him and many other leading scientists. He does not even want theistic evolution taught in the schools, only pure atheism will do, and he opposes all attempts to present theistic evolution in a favorable light! Extreme positions such as this will only play into the hands of creationists, making teaching science that more difficult.The important part is the large illustrated sections on biology that are must reading, to say the least. If you buy one book on intelligent design this should be it! It is not an introduction to the subject but should be easy to follow if you have some background in biology. Many of the chapters are very lively and entertaining. This book could also be used in a college class as a text (I am going to consider it in my evolution classes as a required reading source).	2003-12-10
US	52296593	R2J35VAGKX2Y53	0961706899	128357033	Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Creationism: Held August 4-9, 2003, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA : Technical Symposium Sessions	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Must Book for both Creationists and Evolutionists	This book is a collection of papers given at the 2003 Creation conference. One question many ask is, why do so many scientists respond to creationism (and intelligent design as well) so vehemently (and, I might add, irrationally)? This book responds to the many common, but demonstratively false, ideas and conclusions about creation research and arguments. The authors note that several reasons exist for this state of affairs. A major one is the critics have not done their homework by objectively looking at both sides The more important question is, why are so many scientists hostile to the evidence that creation requires an intelligent creator? At least three separate (though related) sources of resistance to Intelligent Design research exist.  First, the vast majority of scientists work (or at least were trained) in an academic environment where naturalism (actually often atheism) is widely assumed and I.D. research threatens their worldview. Some scientists are passionate atheists and react with hostility to I.D. because they see that it opens the door to theism.  Second, many scientists who are not hostile to theism are repelled by what they think I.D. is because they obtain most (or all) of their information from the popular news media (and not books such as this one) that, almost without exception, grossly misrepresents what they are doing and why. They have navely bought into the propaganda and equate science with anti-ID.  They assume that everything that is pro-ID, is ipso facto anti-science. Finally, a surprisingly large number of practicing scientists are close-minded about new ways of looking at the world, and this includes especially to those ideas that have philosophical or religious implications. They have their prejudices like everyone else. Yet, fortunately, many supporters exist among scientists but, unfortunately, many feel that they must stay in the closet (for now at least). The authors of this work have risked their careers and have come out ofthe closet.	2003-11-20
US	52296593	R3KGQ4FLOMC828	0618335404	851888004	A Devil's Chaplain: Reflections on Hope, Lies, Science, and Love	Books	1	22	153	N	Y	Before you criticize you should be informed	Dawkins, in the words of Michael Ruse, seems to have the moral purity--some would say moral rigidity--of a fundamentalist Christian or a committed feminist. As Michael Ruse also said in a review of this book in American Scientist Journal Vol. 91(6):554-556, Nov-Dec 03.  \\"...I myself share just about every bit of Dawkins's nonbelief...\\" but Ruse notes that he would like to see Dawkins take Christianity as seriously as he expects Christianity to take Darwinism and would also like him to spell out the arguments for \\"the incompatibility of science (Darwinism especially) and religion (Christianity especially). So long as his understanding of Christianity remains at the sophomoric level, Dawkins does not deserve full attention.\\" I agree with this review. Dawkins seems to have never studied Christianity in much detail or he would not make so many major mistakes about what Christians believe. Before you criticize you should be informed. I challenge Dawkins to carefully study both sides and then write an informed review. Two other main concerns are apparent. 1) Dawkins never defines \\"evolution,\\" so when pressed he can always refer to some definition that everybody agrees with, including creationists, such as \\"change over time\\" or \\"natural selection\\" or , \\"common descent\\" (because of evidence of observed variations in animals with a common pair of ancestors), \\"a change in allele frequencies within a gene pool,\\" etc. 2) He is simply responding to the cry of \\"wolf\\" (in this case \\"creationists\\") and making wild claims such as, if students are told that some people believe that God created us, business will, in mass, move out of a state that allows this foolishness. His examples of \\"overwhelming evidence.\\" for slow Darwinism are anything but, and have been long ago refuted.	2003-11-10
US	52296593	R1UCPVCDKL0IYG	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	1	23	68	N	N	Irreducible complexity's best friend?	Is Ken Miller irreducible complexity's best friend? He uses the exact same arguments as Behe, except that instead of designing biochemical pathways, Miller's deity designs quarks. The picture Miller paints sounds like an argument from a creationist textbook. I do not like people talking about permanent barriers to understanding as does Miller. Maybe we don't know what indeterminacy means today, but my great great grandkids may in 2200. Not at this point in time doesn't mean never. To make matters worse, Miller condones the idea of purpose in the anthropic principle, another of neocreationism's pet ideas: God created the universe just as it is, with us in mind. This is the fruit of serious compromise folks. To accommodate the natural world and religion, Miller uses the same mental contortions as his adversaries the creationists and ID people, and he doesn't even seem to realize it. He's conceded far too much ground for me. He is no different than a creationist, and is not a friend of science.	2003-10-15
US	52296593	R2UO27OX03U5W	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	5	8	18	N	N	The persecution could lead to violence	I was attracted to this book because of what I have personally and experienced over and over. An example is my 6 year old grandchild came home from school one day with a gift from another student (they had to buy trinkets for the other kids in the class). The gift, from a religious bookstore, had printing on it and the teacher scratched out the word Christ. When I asked about it, my grandchild said the teacher had to because he was a \\"bad man\\" and she did not want his name on the gift. When I asked if the teacher said this, my grandchild responded, no, but added \\"he must be bad or why would she cross his name out?\\" I tried to explain why she did so but that only made things worse, and so I dropped it. She reasoned if Christ was a good man, why would her teacher cross his name out? This event may seem minor but is one of a continuous flow of hostile acts against Christians Americans are exposed to yearly. What if Dr. Martin Luther King's name was scraped off of a pencil by the teacher, would this not create a storm of protest? And he was a Baptist minister!<BR>This is one of many experienced that illustrate why this book is must reading for all Americans, both Christians and nonChristians. I believe that the problems Christians face in this country will get worse and will lead to violence, and this book explains why. (I did not like the subtitle, as it over generalizes and I consider myself in some ways a liberal). One of the best chapters was the one on academia, especially public universities and colleges (where I am employed as a biology professor). Those who have scientific problems with Darwinism are assumed to have objections due to religion when, in many cases, it is due to real concerns about the ability of mutations to produce the variety in the natural world around us (yes, I know genetic drift and crossing over and other means are also involved, but, at its core, the creator mechanism is mutations and these only recombine or shift around the existing codes, something that no one denies).	2003-10-13
US	52296593	R2WWY33Q9UARRM	0618335404	851888004	A Devil's Chaplain: Reflections on Hope, Lies, Science, and Love	Books	1	19	145	N	Y	Gallons of ink	It is clear from reading this book that Dawkins not only does not like traditional theists but, as he himself states, he does not even want to be on the same platform as they are. In his words, \\"just to appear on a platform with them is to lend them the respectability they crave\\" Page 219. In America, we are the majority so do not need to crave respectability. Yet Dawkins has spelled gallons of ink (and has written whole books, including much of this one, trying to debunk them). If they are so completely wrong, why expend all this effort? I have in my library almost 60 books that try to debunk the Intelligent Design and creationist theist world view (most of which I have read) and Dawkins, in this book, adds yet another whose primary purpose is to argue (in his words) that the universe only looks like it was designed but, in fact, was made by the Blind Watchmaker who can not see (or hear either ) and, indeed, is unconscious. He is a force called mutations and natural selection (also called neoDarwinism) that creates variety that is moved around by such means as genetic drift and, eventually, produces life forms that can out compete the competition. I used to believe this was all there was to it (to quote Nobelist Barbara McClintock) until I did my university graduate work in molecular biology. Now we know that this story does not explain the origin life (or the origin of much else) yet Dawkins spends his time belittling or worse those who argue that there is more to the story than this. The problem with Dawkins, as is obvious from several chapters in this book, is he does not know (or understand) those that he paints as the enemy. Maybe if he stood on the platform with them he would understand were they are coming from. On the platform they have a chance to respond so Dawkins could understand their reasoning. Dawkins, though, would rather have the last word as in a book.	2003-09-28
US	52296593	R1GN41JNESL4O0	0823921514	305393106	Everything You Need to Know About the Dangers of Tattooing and Body Piercing (Need to Know Library)	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	the real dangers of body piercing?	I bought this book after reading the negative reviews. I expected to read some gory stories about body piercing, but found this book tame, to say the least. Actually, it was somewhat biased in favor of tattooing and should have been titled \\"a complete guide to body piercing and tattooing\\". It covers both sides and is especially helpful in giving good advise on the care of piercing and tattooing. The cases given were, in my experience, fairly common and typical. At the hospital where I am at, I have seen much much worse, such as a male who tore his genital piercing and, by the time he got to the hospital, was covered with blood. After reconstruction surgery he had to battle infections. Some infections, especially those due to tongue piercing, can be a real problem. I have seen many very nasty infections that linger on for months or longer (infections still are one of the most common causes of death, even in the Western world). Antibodies are not always effective and over use can result in the development of resistant strains. Also, antibiotic use can result in the development of new allergies that can be lethal. A major problem is hepatitis C, which can cause liver cancer, usually a fatal form of cancer. The problem is, it may take 10 to 20 years to develop, long after one has forgotten about the piercing. The literature indicates that this viral infection may be a major problem in the future, but we will not know until several years down the road how serious it will turn out to be. Also, HIV infection is a real problem, as is cyst formation, lipomas, keloid formation, edema, hematoma, and other health problems. After reading the negative reviews of this book, it is quite clear to me that the critics never read the book. Someone needs to write a book on the real dangers of body piercing and tattooing.	2003-09-22
US	52296593	R3GLZ426VS5PZ0	0801064430	458637354	Doubts About Darwin: A History of Intelligent Design	Books	5	83	103	N	Y	the first objective history of ID	Doubts about Darwin is a very objective book about the Intelligent Design Movement (ID). This work, a revision of the author's Ph.D. thesis completed at the University of South Florida, has much information that is not commonly known, such as many of the forerunners of the ID movement were atheists or agnostics. For example, the role of such people as Murray Eden (professor emeritus at MIT) and other ID forerunners such as Professor Michael Denton (p. 24) are discussed. Many excellent quotes are included that show the dogmatic attitude of the Darwinists, such as Gould's statement to Professor Johnson calling him (falsely) a creationist and then emotionally proclaiming \\"I've got to stop\\" your work, obviously by any means he can (p. 96). This is hardly the attitude of an objective scientist intent on searching for the truth about origins. Woodward, a college professor himself, documents the many unethical attacks by the so called science and university establishment against those who dare to question Darwin. Rarely are Darwin doubters given an opportunity to respond to attacks against them in the journals that published the attacks and, thus, few people have an objective understanding of the movement. Reading sections of this book at times made me ashamed to be a scientist. Woodward does note that many scientists have been objective and fair critics, even supportive of ID, such as University of Chicago Professor David Raup (I was a fan of his work long before I learned about his positive contribution's to ID). The book also tries to answer questions such as, why more and more people are having serious doubts about Darwinism, who they are, and why the ID movement is growing so fast. The motive for the growth of ID is clearly major \\"doubts about Darwinism\\" and the book covers these in some detail. Now what is needed is an objective book on ID by a professional historian.	2003-09-04
US	52296593	R3NBZN34SXWGZ0	0742514315	156097202	Law, Darwinism, and Public Education: The Establishment Clause and the Challenge of Intelligent Design	Books	5	11	20	N	N	Presents the Legal Case to teach ID in Schools	Dr. Beckwith is an accomplished scholar at Princeton University. This work looks at the legal aspects of teaching alternatives to Darwinism. As a long time biology professor, I have always concluded that Darwinism is still around only because its true believers use the law to squelch alternative theories. As Beckwith convincingly shows, Darwinists know that once the other side is allowed a place at the table, the Darwinists will lose, so they do all they can to keep the other side out of academic discussions. This book explains why. One reason is, misinformation is rampant in this field. For example, it is often claimed that articles supporting ID have not been published in Science, Nature, or other peer-reviewed journals. Actually, this is simply not true, as Beckwith points out on page 43. Many articles have been published, although they did not use the words intelligent design, or they would not have been published (although some that have been published were fairly open about their position on Darwinism). The concern that ID is not acceptable until ID is accepted by the scientific community requires defining who the scientific community is. The fact is, much disagreement exists in the so called scientific community about Darwinism, although, when challenged by creationists and ID theorists, they close rank and pretend that the disagreement does not exist. The college where I teach at (a state supported school), as far as I know, all of the biology faculty are supporters of ID, as are most of my professional associates (Ph.D's almost all). Thus, my scientific community are firmly behind ID (and some are even creationists). Another problem is the incessant name calling, such as ID is purely mass-market claptrap that deserves to stay with other forms of creationism... in church. This response will not help to resolve the controversy and will only impede the much needed dialogue. Only an objective examination of the facts can resolve the controversy .	2003-08-23
US	52296593	R3MBW6PTEBWNX4	0876054904	116360902	The Snake: An Owner's Guide to a Happy Healthy Pet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good but....	The Snake is a well written, well illustrated guide to snakes. It contains many excellent hints on caring for these interesting reptiles. My only concern is the section on snake evolution. As Frank notes, we have no meaningful fossil record in spite of looking for 150 years, but the reason why is not because snake skeletons are very delicate, as Frank claims. The conditions and environment of fossilization are far more important than the bone density in determining preservation (see T. H. Worthy; Lost World of the Moa; Prehistoric Life in New Zealand). Bird fossils are very common and they are usually even less dense than snake bones! Also, the speculation that snakes are distantly related to Tyrannosaurus and Triceratops is pure guesswork (page 17). We have no empirical evidence to back this up. Many theories of snake evolution exist and several of these should be discussed, such as symbiosis and even panspermia. The fact is, we have no evidence about where snakes came from. Therefore, all existing theories are just so stories. Unfortunately, we scientists loose credibility with the public when we engage in speculation without clearly labeling it as such. To speculate is fine, just make it clear that you are doing so. To his credit, Frank did note the ideas on snake evolution he covered are speculation by using such words as &quot;are believed&quot; or &quot;probably&quot; but he should have stressed the fact is, we do not know where snakes came from.	2003-08-18
US	52296593	R2K0JB4TX70RV5	0801064430	458637354	Doubts About Darwin: A History of Intelligent Design	Books	5	27	38	N	Y	An Antidote to Dogmatism	Doubts about Darwin is the first objective full length book about the Intelligent Design Movement (ID). The book is a revision of the author's Ph.D. thesis completed at the University of South Florida. The author is a college professor (as I am). Doubts about Darwinism answers questions about the movement such as why do so many people have doubts about Darwinism, who are they, and why is this movement growing so fast? The movement includes full-fledged senior faculty at such universities as Oxford University, Princeton, the University of Georgia, Ohio State University, Medical College of Ohio, Helsinki University of Technology in Finland, the State University of Applied Sciences in Frankfurt Germany, the University of New Brunswick, University of Sydney, University of Auckland and Hanyang University in Korea. The movement covers the gamut of disciplines, including the full range of the natural sciences. The International Society for Complexity, Information, and Design is now the professional society of the intelligent design community. The society now lists over fifty research fellows including Fritz Schaefer, the inventor of computational quantum chemistry. With almost 1,000 peer-reviewed publications, he is the third most cited chemist in the world and has been considered for a Nobel five times. All the fellows are distinguished researchers in their own right and have published extensively in the peer-reviewed literature in their respective disciplines. Woodward's book has been peer reviewed by numerous faculty and this shows. So far, I have noticed only a few minor errors! It is the most complete and accurate history of the ID movement and is must reading for friend and foes of the movement alike. It is obvious that many people who write about ID do not have an accurate understanding of the movement. The motive for the growth of ID is clearly \\"doubts about Darwinism\\" and the book covers these in some detail. This work will be the standard work in this area for some time to come.	2003-07-05
US	52296593	R1IDU9WSN6JULG	1885477856	783651507	Asperger's and Self-Esteem: Insight and Hope through Famous Role Models	Books	4	7	28	N	N	Not accurate about Charles Darwin	This book was, as a whole, an excellent source to help Asperger syndrome victims improve their self esteem. My only concern was with the chapter that I have the most knowledge about, the chapter about Charles Darwin. Much is said about \\"Darwin's secret,\\" implying that he figured out evolution on his own and had health problem as a result of his discovery. First of all, he did not discover evolution but only popularized the idea. Evolution was believed by many many persons before Darwin. ... Furthermore, he accepted the use and disuse theory (Lamarckism) as a major part of his theory, an idea that has now been disproved. He also advocated the pangenesis theory, now also disproved. We still even today face the same problem that Darwin tried to solve, the origin of genetic information. Many theories exist today to try to explain this major problem, none of them are satisfactory. This is why evolution is still so controversial (a fact that the author tries to trivialize). It is a good idea to read both sides before writing a book. I am not very knowledgeable about the other persons profiled so can not comment, but I do know about Asperger's disease and he is on target here.	2003-05-13
US	52296593	R392PGUSGLNXLZ	0738205257	611170096	Faster Than the Speed of Light: The Story of a Scientific Speculation	Books	5	1	6	N	N	A revolution in science?	This book was much better than I expected. As a molecular biologist, I only have a limited background in physics but found that I could follow most of the book. Actually, much of it was very interesting in part due to the stories, such as what life was like at Cambridge, and the personal autobiography parts (which was much of the book). These sections made the book more like leisure reading. I find the authors theme of special interest. I was first introduced to the variable speed of light idea (sometimes called the tired light hypothesis) through reading creationist works. I was skeptical, to say the least, about this idea. Then I noted that many neoDarwinists used the writings of creationists on this topic to prove their absolute stupidly as a whole and even many creationists felt the theory was an embarrassment to them. Now when it is proposed by a member of the club it is considered brilliant, a breakthrough, the work of a genius, and featured as a book club selection! I cannot judge the validity of this theory, but I think that it needs to be examined carefully and I hope that those who are qualified will do so.	2003-03-23
US	52296593	R1JO8BXOX4DE77	0262661241	428946108	Intelligent Design Creationism and Its Critics: Philosophical, Theological, and Scientific Perspectives	Books	1	41	81	N	N	Is this the best case for Darwinism?	As a professor (I teach cell and molecular biology), this volume was of much interest to me and contains much good material. Conversely, as a whole, I consider this book deceptive, to say the least. Looking at the dates of the articles, it appears that a set of older early articles written by the intelligent design side were selected and their critics were then allowed to respond (and given the last word). The thinking and evidence of the ID theorists has progressed far beyond the articles printed in this volume. Why was this work not more balanced? The reason is because, although giving the illusion of balance, it is actually a hatchet job more like a political debate and not science. One example: Dawkins says \\"when I open a page of Darwin I immediately sense that I have been ushered into the presence of a great mind. I have the same feeling with RA Fisher and with GC Williams. When I read Phillip Johnson, I feel that I have been ushered into the presence of a Lawyer.\\" He then goes into a tirade against lawyers. First of all, Johnson, as far as I know, has not practiced as a lawyer in decades. Secondly, he is, in fact, a college professor and legal scholar. The attempt to paint him as a lawyer is a put down that is sure to work, given the lack of respect for lawyers in America (they are often considered by many as slightly above rapists or worse). The inference is that Johnson is as immoral as many people believe most lawyers are. Dawkins concludes that \\"with a true lawyers instinct\\" Johnson misleads his readers and Dawkins wonders if Johnson really believes the stuff he writes or \\"is just a good lawyer\\" (i.e. liar). Name calling is found throughout the book from the pens of critics of ID. Why can't the Darwinists engage in debates on the merits of the evidence like gentlemen without resorting to such tactics, as Dawkins and others did repeatedly? I cannot see how this unethical behavior helps the cause of Neo-Darwinism.	2003-03-06
US	52296593	R3GQ2L36IZ5I9Y	0060959614	330344806	Destined to Witness: Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Great Read	I read a lot of books (2 a week or so). This book was one of the best that I have ever read, partly because I could identify with the author. Hans was a black growing up in Nazi Germany, I was a white Jehovah's Witness growing up in America in the 1950s. Hans encountered much bigotry but also had much support from many kind teachers and friends. The many acts of kindness and fair treatment in the book was heart warming. I relived much of my childhood as I read, wishing I had experienced the support that Hans did (I remember being called a communist, a Nazi, and a fundamentalist by teachers and fellow students due to my religion). In contrast, Hans had only 2 really bad teachers and many good ones. Although most Jehovah's Witnesses ended up in the concentration camps in Nazi Germany, this book made me realize that I would rather have been a black in Naziland than a Witness in America. I left the Witnesses 30 years ago, but the mistreatment that resulted from my involvement with them still lives on (as does some of the experiences that Hans lived). Hans left Germany and ended up in the United States and was then able to escape his past to some degree, although he still had problems here (in contrast, my religion was the subject of endless discussion even long after I formally resigned from the Watchtower). Of course, with religion one has the advantage that one can leave the church, but Hans could not change his race.  Nonetheless, as this book had a happy ending, it gave me hope that my story would too. It also gives hope in the belief that some people are very good at heart, even in Naziland. Maybe after reading this book a few more people will be less intolerant. I hope so.	2003-02-11
US	52296593	RAJX509MCV9QL	0060959614	330344806	Destined to Witness: Growing Up Black in Nazi Germany	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Shows the results of Darwinism	This book captivated me. It showed the goodness of people, even in Nazi Germany. It also showed the evil of so many in America. We tend to feel we are better than others, but we have our share of bigotry and hatred, just as Nazi Germany did. The author's experience of surviving the bombing of Hamburg was very revealing. The reasons for the hatred against blacks in Nazi Germany was especially insightful. Basically Blacks were felt to be less evolved than Aryans, closer to the ape like common ancestor from which Darwinism teaches that we evolved. Hitler was only applying the so called science of Darwinism to society, trying to breed a superior race.  Darwinism was the backdrop to this story, as was the indoctrination by the Nazi party, especially in the public schools. The story shows that we must allow freedom of speech in the schools (and this includes the freedom to critique Darwinism which has become an ideology like many others that tries to suppress competition). We have much to learn from this book and I encourage everyone to read it. He is tactful but the point is made forcefully	2003-02-02
US	52296593	RL9V96MIO0VGY	0830822941	990630680	The Right Questions: Truth, Meaning & Public Debate	Books	5	54	66	N	Y	A Must Book for Every Christian to Read	One criticism that Johnson has been subject to by the religious community is, although he has shown Darwinism suffers from major problems (and that these need to be dealt with by the scientific community) what about the religious issue? Many scientists have shown the many major problems with Darwinism (and hundreds of books now exist effectively documenting these).  Most of these books then develop the author's new theory of evolution that he or she claims is superior to neoDarwinism. An example is Lynn Margulis has eloquently shown mutation driven Darwinism to be entirely inadequate and then proposed the new theory of symbiosis which, she argues, is superior. This new theory, though, still does not explain the arrival of the genes, only the widespread spread of certain genes, at least in bacteria. Also, the question on many readers minds is, does a theory of Naturalism explain reality?  This book deals with the religious concern to some degree. It also focuses on Johnson's major stroke at age 61 and the profound impact of this event on his life, especially his religious life. It is an honest book in which Johnson grapples with the religious questions most of us ask at one time or another in life. As such, this book would be of special interest to persons who have an interest in spiritual concerns (atheists would be turned off by this work; I know I once was one). It shows, in response to Johnson's critics, that he does have a spiritual side (or at least he does now after his stroke) and is not just a Darwin critic as are thousands of other intellectuals (especially biologists, my profession). Since this book is a different kind of book then Johnson's other books, it is especially easy to spot reviews by those who have not read it, but just want to slam Johnson because they do not hold to the view that a God exists that has done something active to the creation in the past. There is no topic that elicits as strong emotions as does religion, as our war on terrorism eloquently shows.	2003-01-31
US	52296593	RLG6JCZEW4ZZB	0195150457	574334927	Where Darwin Meets the Bible: Creationists and Evolutionists in America	Books	5	19	29	N	N	A breakthrough Book	All indications are that the creation-evolution controversy will continue to heat up as time goes on. Now that Ohio science standards encourage science teachers to include information critical of neoDarwinism when covering evolution, a need exits for more information about the controversy. This book could not have come at a better time. It is also an area I have much interest in. My field is evolutionary biology, and I have become more and more aware of new research that has raised major questions about the orthodox interpretation of neoDarwinism. For this reason the creation-evolution issue is of much interest to me and many others. Actually, I have been researching this topic for over 30 years now and, in my judgment, this book is without question one of the most important works about the creation-evolution ever published (even better than Ron Number's book). Most books and articles on this topic show clear emotional hostility toward one side or the other, and repeat the same incorrect misconceptions almost without end. This book is an honest attempt to look at the whole issue from the eyes of each side and it succeeded very well. The author has done his homework (the 200 interviews and 40 pages of notes, for example, show this). I detected not one major error and only a few very minor errors (unusual in a book on this topic). Witham does a great job covering the different competing schools of Darwinism and briefly summarizing their differences. Witham also clearly shows that, in spite of the almost universal pernicious labeling, the views on this controversy do not form a dichotomy, but exist on a continuum. I predict that his book will become the standard text in this area and will be referred to as a breakthrough work in the future.	2002-12-25
US	52296593	R2AA3VXP0VUN8P	0805424628	71915797	Faith, Form, and Time: What the Bible Teaches and Science Confirms about Creation and the Age of the Universe	Books	5	23	31	N	Y	A Must Book for Every Christian and nonChristian to Read	As a biologist, I feel that Professor Wise's new book is an excellent attempt to show that the Biblical record can be supported scientifically. More work is needed in this area and this work is an excellent start. The book is very readable and the author explains himself very well. He does not spent much time tearing down the neoDarwinian paradigm, as do so many, but focuses on building a Biblical world view. My only concern is he feels that those scientists who criticize the standard neoDarwinism theory  tend to be what he calls evolution bashers. Dr. Wise studied under the worlds leading evolutionists, including the late Stephen J. Gould, and is no doubt ahead of many of us. Most of us did not have that advantage. I had an excellent geology and other professors at the University of Wisconsin but I never had as a professor someone the stature of Gould as did Dr. Wise. Most of my Ph.D. work was done under some well known scientists, and I have come a long way since I began to question the whole Darwinian theory, but I still have some questions left. What Dr. Wise calls evolution bashing is part of an attempt by me and others to evaluate Darwinism and is a needed part of my (and other's) growth on this topic. He may feel that the theory has been completely disproved, but many of us are still trying to hold on to parts, and it may take a while until we reach the point that Dr. Wise has. Dr. Wise has in his own mind proven that Darwinism is dead and thus can be ignored, but many of us are not at this point yet. Many of us did not come from a solid Christian background and want proof before we accept a Christian or any other world view. Dr Wise has in this work helped us to move in that direction, but a diehard agnostic background is hard to shake. Maybe after his 10th book we (or many of us, at least) will be there.	2002-12-08
US	52296593	R2D908OBHIK7IQ	0465043917	818554815	Acquiring Genomes: A Theory Of The Origins Of Species	Books	4	15	24	N	Y	A challenge to Darwinism	Acquiring Gnomes is an attempt to support the theory of symbiogenesis, the idea that organisms evolve by exchanging genes and as a result of symbiosis relationships, such as lichen. The authors are the leading experts in the field of symbiosis, and this shows in this well done work. The major strong point of the work is it explains in detail what biologists have known for years but often do not admit publicly, namely that evolution by the accumulation of small mutations has not been supported by either laboratory or field research. The authors also show that Darwin has been almost a god for over a century, yet his work was neither original (and he failed to credit those he plagiarized his ideas from - see p. 27) and his classic 1859 book The Origin of Species is \\"laced with hesitancies, contradictions, and possible prevarication\\" (p. 26). Having shown neo-Darwinism is now effectively dead, the authors make an excellent case for their own theory of the origin of species. The only problem is they demonstrate that many lower level organisms have probably exchanged genetic material throughout history, yet this does not explain its origin, only its spread. We are still left with the question \\"where did the genome information come from in the first place?\\" It may be best to admit that we do not know (and present theories do not explain this problem) so that future scientists are encouraged to look for the source instead of discouraging research by teaching students that we know the source when we do not. As a college teacher for over 35 years now, in my classes I stress what we do not know in my field (molecular biology) with the hope that my students may be inspired to find some of the answers. This book is a good place to begin. The authors also show that anyone who questions Darwin \\"are often dismissed as if they were Christian fundamentalist zealots or racial bigots\\" (p. 19). This is tragic.	2002-11-27
US	52296593	R3HWXWIEYWEBWA	0963129309	389274859	Are Gays Really 'Gay'? A Sociological, Scientific, and Theological Analysis	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Politically incorrect but medically correct	The book Are Gays Really Gay is a must read for all persons interested in this hot issue. It is a well written work that briefly reviews the medical and other literature, showing the major problems that this lifestyle has on those who practice it. Dr. Carr also includes a discussion of the putative discovery of a \\"gay gene\\" showing some of the major problems with this conclusion. A major contribution of the book is the case histories that prove a homosexual orientation is not immutable but one can become a well adjusted heterosexual. This book should have received much more attention than it did. I would recommend that the author expand it greatly (much medical literature now exists on this topic that should be covered) and republish it with a mainline publisher. Also, Carr is going against the grain (but I believe that he has the facts behind him, and will be vindicated in time), but as a young college professor I hope that he does not get into trouble at his college for challenging the current politically correct position. He may want to wait until he has tenure before he attempts to publish this work again. The so called liberals in our major secular colleges are very intolerant when it comes to challenging certain ideas, and this is one of them. Proof of the fact that a certain politically correct life style is usually lethal as Dr. Carr shows will not be welcomed (and Carr barely scratched the surface). Nonetheless, truth will triumph eventually. He has the facts on his side, so should boldly go forth.	2002-10-22
US	52296593	RNEBZC9TFSDQS	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	3	5	33	N	N	part excellent, part very poor	I have mixed feelings about this book. The author, a professor of biology at Brown University, is a creationist in the tradition of Calvin College's Dr. Van Till. The 2nd half of the book (page 165+) is excellent and well worth the read. He does an excellent job covering the major problem of discrimination against Christians in universities and a good job defending a creation world view. Unfortunately, the first part of the book is irresponsible and is exactly why creationists are criticized as poor researchers. As long as such irresponsible works are produced this reputation will be hard to refute. One example is the claim that the retina is poorly designed because it is backwards (page 101). How did this foolish and irresponsible statement get past the reviewers? Did the book have any reviewers?? How could a Brown University professor publish such nonsense? The problem for many of us (such as those with blue, green, or light brown eyes) is that we get too much light! Only in medical school did I learn this (and now use sun glasses as much as possible when I am outside). I used to think those who routinely wore sun glasses were vain. Now I realize that they are smart and that this practice can reduce the likelihood of macular degeneration and cataracts, among other problems. ...The first part of the book should be rated a minus 10. Do not follow his advice! See your doctor for accurate information!	2002-10-14
US	52296593	R222HI2OVJPOG1	0595139361	622132118	Eye See Me: A True Life Story	Books	4	2	3	N	N	This book is must reading for all Jehovah's Witnesses	This book is a must read for all Jehovah's Witnesses. It tells the story of a man and why (and how) he became a Witness and how his religion helped him to turn his life around. The reader must judge the book but it is some story!!! It would make a TV series! The book shows the power of faith to help one get on the right path in life. It also shows the corruption of our society today.	2002-09-16
US	52296593	R1D1FH7JB3DEHU	0963129368	849456612	1: Jehovah's Witnesses: The African American Enigma--A Contemporary Study (Vol. I)	Books	4	9	15	N	Y	A Must Book for Every Witness and nonWitness to Read	Having read Firpo Carr's last book on Black Witnesses, I found his latest book better than I expected. Gone is the lashing out at \\"apostates\\" and in is reasoned discussions about real issues that concern the Watchtower today. Carr does criticize \\"apostates\\" in this book, yet he clearly has a number of disagreements with the Society and would technically therefore also be an apostate. I have never known a person who openly tried to change the Watchtower (and I have known many, including Ron Frye, Jim Penton, Don Nelson, Raymond Franz, Jerry Bergman, Barbara Anderson, Greg Stafford, Bill Bowen, and many others) that was able to stay. Sooner or later they all left due to pressure (or were forced out). Carr has argued, in my opinion effectively, for many needed changes in Watchtower policy including a more realistic stand on a number of issues facing Blacks in the Society. The Watchtower is the only White mainline church that the majority of members are minority (see Kosmin and Lachman One Nation Under God Harmony Books. NY). As Carr noted, one Black member on the governing body is progress, but to be truly representative of the Watchtower membership over half of the members should be minorities. Carr is advocating some fairly drastic changes in the Watchtower and, although he may be a rare exception and not end up being forced out, this will surely cause him problems. It is obvious that he has read much apostate literature, which alone could cause him problems. I wish him luck (sorry, good fortune). Also, his information on the Watchtower's connection with certain radical Black power groups and the radical Nation of Islam may upset some. The suggestion that Jesus was a Black man and other ideas may also not settle well with some.	2002-08-27
US	52296593	R3NWKUX27LQPGE	1573929425	344370538	Awakening of a Jehovah's Witness: Escape from the Watchtower Society	Books	5	79	88	N	N	Read it first, then judge	This book is one persons story, not an objective but a subjective account about life in the Jehovah's Witnesses. Books such as M. James Penton's excellent and highly recommended work Apocalypse Delayed are a scholar's account of the Watchtower based on library research.  To fully understand a movement (any movement), reading individual life stories such as Diane Wilson's are critical. Having read many accounts such as Ms. Wilson's, it is obvious to me that her story (and those of many others) should be taken very seriously. Only one who has lived as part of the Watchtower Society as a baptized member can fully understand what is it like to be a committed member (or trapped because a spouse is a member, and one knows that all too often leaving means loss of family as happened to Diane). Ms. Wilson's account will give the reader a feel for what it is like to be a Witness (and Witnesses will find themselves saying over and over \\"that is just how I felt!\\" or \\"that is what happened to me!\\"). A trend exists in academia that concludes one should not say unkind things about other religions. This rule may be fine in mixed company, but it will not really help us to understand this or any other movement. Also, few people wish to apply this rule to some groups such as the Taliban now, although certainly scholarly studies and individual life storied are both necessary to understand both the Taliban and the Watchtower (both have more in common than it first appears).  To be a Witness, one usually must be either in or out, or, as they say, in the truth or of the world (Satan's world, that is). Outsiders seem to have a hard time accepting the reality of what it is like being in the Watchtower Society. Read this book (the whole book, and also check the many references) and find out why. Even a veteran Watchtower watcher can learn much from this well documented story.	2002-02-23
US	52296593	R3B41RYYTX6AJB	193123230X	827909824	Jehovah's Witnesses: Their Claims, Doctrinal Changes, and Prophetic Speculation. What Does the Record Show?	Books	5	88	97	N	N	A Must Book for Every Witness to Read	Jehovah's Witnesses by Professor Edmond Gruss is one of the best documented and most devastating critiques of the Watchtower ever written. It contains thousands of quotes from official Watchtower sources that prove the Watchtower over and over has made scores of totally false predictions. Professor Gruss, an ex-Witness himself, has done his homework (he has been at work for 40 years on this topic, ever since he completed his graduate thesis on the Watchtower). He has produced the most definitive work ever published on the Watchtower's many false predictions. It proves the Watchtower cannot be trusted in the least. This book is 358 large (8.5 x 11.5 inches) sized pages with hundreds of footnotes documenting the text. I too have research this topic for many years, but Professor Gruss has gone far beyond me. From my research, I can vouch for the accuracy of his conclusions. I have most of the Watchtower publications back to 1879, so was able to check many of his references. How someone can remain a Witness after reading this book is beyond me.The Watchtower's own words condom them (no wonder they discourage Witnesses from reading the older publications!) Also, as a lover of fine books, I was surprised at the high quality of this book (the printing was excellent as was the cover). I buy a lot of books and the quality of many disappoint me. This one didn't! It will most certainly become the classic text in this area and will cause thousands of Witness to seriously question the credibility of their &quot;mother organization.&quot;	2001-12-29
US	52296593	R1ETGPDALZIMVA	0932766579	957615574	Mythology of Modern Dating Methods	Books	5	37	45	N	N	Must reading for all science students and teachers	When teaching my college level geology course, the topic of dating always comes up. In every class I have students who hold a range of beliefs from young age creationist to atheist, and I try to deal with this topic without upsetting anyone. After all, our goal is to learn, not alienate. One approach is to stress that all dating methods are based on various assumptions. Students should understand this and realize that we do not know for certain how old the earth is, or the age of anything else that is beyond human historical records. Students should not be taught this material dogmatically, but must be taught to question dogma in science. Only by questioning can they push the boundaries beyond what is known. This book will help the reader be aware of some of the many problems in arriving at age estimates using modern dating systems. As such it is must reading for not only geology teachers and students, but anyone interested in science. I have also noted that many of our once solid dates in geology are now being questioned in the literature. This book helps one to understand some of the reasons why.  Highly recommended!	2001-11-17
US	52296593	R31WEQ5RP4C08A	071674161X	379897019	How We Believe: The Search for God in an Age of Science	Books	1	6	55	N	N	Claims  we cannot use reason and science to prove God exist	Shermer stresses that his research, and that of others, has found that the \\"number-one reason people give for why they believe in God is a variation on the classic cosmological or design argument: The good design, natural beauty, perfection, and complexity of the world or universe compels us to think that it could not have come about without an intelligent designer\\" (p. xiv). He then states that he is opposed to believers using \\"science and reason to prove God's existence\\" (p.xiii). Why he is opposed he does not say. My concern is who says that one should not \\"use science and reason to prove God's existence?\\" Is this akin to the 'law' that says only naturalism can be used in science, and that intelligent design is off limits? Who makes up these rules? I have heard this over and over from scientists (mostly evolutionists). Doesn't this rule put limits on science? I was taught in my Ph.D. program in a natural science discipline that science is a search for the truth and no field is off limits including religion. Shermer's subtitle is \\"The Search for God in an Age of Science\\" when it should be \\"Why we cannot Search for God in an Age of Science because the Science Elite have decided that we cannot.\\" Sounds like science has become a religion.	2001-04-10
US	52296593	RR3EEFK4ZJE8B	0967401402	883014377	Thirty Years as Jehovah's Slave	Books	3	4	11	N	Y	A Must for Every Witness to Read	The new book titled &quot;Thirty Years as a Slave of Jehovah&quot; is by a Witness elder &quot;designed to help sincere individuals ... to know what Jehovah's Witnesses believe&quot; (in forward). I think that every Witness should read this book as it is a very honest book about the movement and one person's experience in it (which in my experience is typical). For example, I have seen many Witnesses develop mental health problems, and Neumann includes a whole chapter on depression! In it he admits that &quot;many Jehovah's Witnesses... are experiencing much depression&quot; p, 195. He also claims that when he became a Witness in 1962 &quot;showing love [in the Watchtower] was easier&quot; and now the love of the greater number of Witnesses is cooling off (p. 195). The author also admits that &quot;I too have experienced depression&quot; (p. 194). He adds that since his brother died at a young age (evidently as a result of murder) life has become &quot;a miserable road&quot; and that &quot;life has offered me fewer and fewer high points&quot; (p. 194). One reason for his depression was because his first wife died at a young age due to refusing a blood transfusion. She hemorrhaged to death after giving birth (the placenta was not fully expelled at the birth, causing compilations). He then tries to justify the blood doctrine, calling his wife a hero!! This was one of the most depressing books that I have read in a long time, and it brought back a lot of very unhappy memories that I had as a Witness. After I left, it took 7 years for my depression to lift. Since then life has been better and better for me. One could not help but feel sorry for the author. He seems a great guy and I wish him the best (I could identify with him because his story was so much like mine). All I can say is don't read this book when you are feeling low!	2001-04-05
US	52296593	R1R1PAXVR1NKH8	1884981054	353914727	The other guy's sperm: The cause of cancers and other diseases	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Is this answer to the cause of certain illnesses?	The other guy's sperm is about a major health risk that is rarely discussed today.  The author, a Mayo trained board certified urologists and former clinical instructor at the University of Utah College of Medicine, argues that sperm has a role in a variety of autoimmune diseases including diabetes, thyroiditis, lupus erythematosus, and arthritis.The author concludes that there is evidence that, in certain situations, non self sperm can cause cancer and other diseases, especially as related to male homosexual behavior and certain other kinds of sexual behavior. It is well known that the sperm which enters the circulation system produces an immune reaction. He also claims that evidence exists that other men's sperm may be the essential cause of gonorrhea, nonspecific urethritis, and syphilis. He then provides evidence that bacteria and Treponema are complicating factors only, and that the absence or eradication of the bacteria and Treponema is a false assurance of lack of disease. Research on longevity has consistently found that those who engage in homosexual behavior live to be less that half as old as the married heterosexual population. Part of the reason is due to aids, but most persons actively involved in the homosexual lifestyle commonly suffer from a wide variety of diseases, especially various types of infections and cancers. For this reason, the average age of death for one involved in the homosexual lifestyle is around 44, and those that have aids live about 10 percent less. This work could help to explain why. Is the author correct? This is not an easy question to answer, but this book has certainly raised some questions that must sooner or later be answered. It is must reading for all of those involved in gay health concerns. It is also a neglected area of research that needs to be addressed. The reviewer has spent many years in cancer research, both as a student at a medical school, and as a research associate in a medical school, yet has learned muchfrom his reading of this book. I have many questions about Dr. Tyler's thesis but this is what a good book should do.	2001-03-17
US	52296593	R1XIQ9Z36Y7N2W	1864364432	36280555	In Six Days: Why 50 Scientists Choose to Believe in Creation	Books	5	40	61	N	N	An Excellent Book for both creationists and Evolutionists	From my experience working in a laboratory with scientists I have learned that many scientists accept the world view of those around them, which is often called evolutionary naturalism. They see this world view as natural and valid partly because they are unfamiliar with the intelligent design world view, but also because of the tendency to accept the greatly distorted picture of creationists commonly presented by the media. Most scientists have little familiarity with the estimated 10,000 conservative creationists and the other 30,000 creationist scientists in America alone. This book consists of brief discussions to introduce the reader to the evidence behind the creation worldview, and as a result helps the reader to understand the thinking process of these estimated 40,000 creation scientists. The common response to ideas that we are unfamiliar with is to react emotionally, and reject as out of hand the unfamiliar views. This tendency is apparent in some reviews of this book (although to compare a theistic world view with the Nazi scientists that rejected Einstein's ideas is a cheap shot). This book is a must for all persons interested in this rapidly growing international movement. It helps the reader to understand why so many scientists now accept some form of intelligent design. The book contains a balance of scientists from a wide variety of backgrounds. In harmony with the trend towards pluralism, it would seem that more effort should be expended to understanding this often misunderstood and commonly maligned minority. This book will help remedy this gap.	2001-03-15
US	52296593	R3BBOI2JCPECCD	031328041X	368202425	Catalogue of English Bible Translations: A Classified Bibliography of Versions and Editions Including Books, Parts, and Old and New Testament ... and Indexes in Religious Studies)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An Indispensable Reference	Chamberlin's Catalogue of English Bible translations is the most complete bibliography of English Bible translations ever complied anywhere! Importantly, it contains much information about each translation, often quoting from the translation itself. Included is the publication data along with a complete publication history. If the translation includes only parts of the Bible, the listing includes the contents. Also, the annotations are very numerous. Some translations contain the apocrypha and the apocryphal books, and this is noted. The listings also often include some information about the translator. Some versions are not actually translations because they are not original, but are modifications of the King James Version, and if this it the case, this fact is noted. This 899 page work also has a 41 page, double column comprehensive index. It contains 43 additional pages of excellent preface material, notes, etc. This work is an indispensable reference for all Bible scholars, Bible translators, Bible collectors, Bible historians, and dealers in rare books.	2001-03-06
US	52296593	R1I0ST5NWR9CR	1840300639	276563360	Sixty Questions	Books	5	15	18	N	N	A Wonderful Read	Sixty Questions Every Jehovah's Witness Should Be Asked is an excellent book for both Jehovah's Witnesses and persons interested in the Jehovah's Witnesses. This well written short book covers both doctrine (much on the person of Christ, the Holy Spirit, the End Times Doctrine and other commonly discussed issues) and the problem of failed prophesy. It also covers the many, many doctrinal somersaults in the Watchtower's history, such as their flip flop on the 12 constellations of the Zodiac (once considered to be of Divine origin, now considered to be of Satanic origin). This book is well referenced and includes many quotes from Watchtower publications to support the author's conclusions. Also, much material is included on the many lives lost due to the vaccination prohibition (the Watchtower once taught that &quot;vaccination is a direct violation of the everlasting covenant that God made with Noah after the Flood.&quot;  Now the practice is encouraged) and the blood transfusion prohibition (which has also changed drastically in recent years, from blood of any type is prohibited to the recent changes which allow most blood fractions including factor VIII and IX, and now they even allow fractions of the forbidden fractions! No doubt soon the whole doctrine will be scraped (and the sooner the better, according to my Witness friends!)	2001-02-27
US	52296593	RD9CMOFP3UVM0	0830822496	686214798	What's Darwin Got to Do with It?: A Friendly Discussion About Evolution	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Has This Book Been Banned?	In this book Dr. Newman (Ph.D. from Cornell), and John Wiester (masters in geology from Stanford) briefly review some of the many major problems with macroevolution in a lively, engaging style. Covered is the abiogenesis problem, the lethal to Darwinism problem of the source of the genome's information, a discussion of logic and origins, and the importance of analyzing arguments.  Evolutionists often define their theory as a change in allele frequency when actually it is a theory of how natural forces can produce new information, something which the authors show has never been demonstrated--and that all the evidence we have indicates is impossible. Their presentation effectively shows just how untenable macroevolution is, and includes an excellent discussion about mutations that focuses on intelligent design.  The authors focus mostly on biology (Wiester teaches biology at Westmont College in California), and ignore or gloss over the many other related topics, which is the subject of another book or two.  Darwinists obviously find this information so difficult to respond to that they are forced to resort to the courts to censor any criticism of their theory on which they obviously base their nontheistic world view.  The only way that their doctrine can survive is to censor all criticism, but the evidence is piling up against the Darwinism doctrine that it must fall sooner or later.	2001-02-15
US	52296593	RCUGMNMU8EFDZ	0830822496	686214798	What's Darwin Got to Do with It?: A Friendly Discussion About Evolution	Books	5	5	15	N	N	Shows Why Darwinism is Impossible	In this book Dr. Newman (Ph.D. from Cornell), and John Wiester (masters in geology from Stanford) briefly review some of the many major problems with macroevolution in a lively, engaging style. Covered is the abiogenesis problem, the lethal to Darwinism problem of the source of the genome's information, a discussion of logic and origins, and the importance of analyzing arguments.  Evolutionists often define their theory as a change in allele frequency when actually it is a theory of how natural forces can produce new information, something which the authors show has never been demonstrated--and that all the evidence we have indicates is impossible. Their presentation effectively shows just how untenable macroevolution is, and includes an excellent discussion about mutations that focuses on intelligent design.  The authors focus mostly on biology (Wiester teaches biology at Westmont College in California), and ignore or gloss over the many other related topics, which is the subject of another book or two.	2001-02-12
US	52296593	R33IZFHYXSELCT	0914675095	374235218	Sign of the Last Days When	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A Wonderful Read	The Sign of the Last Days deals with the belief taught in many denominations that the prophecies in Matthew 24, Mark 13, and Luke 21 refer to our generation. The most well known of these groups are the Jehovah's Witnesses. This belief includes the idea that pestilences, famine, earthquakes, war and most social problems took a drastic turn for the worst at about the turn of the last century. The belief implies that things were pretty good until recently, and now things are rapidly going downhill in a handbasket. In some ways this is true, but is this the complete story? After reading this book the reader will be thankful to be alive today, and will count his or her blessings. The authors, both active Christians, do a masterful job evaluating historical trends as related to the concerns usually included in the &quot;Last Days&quot; teaching. For those who love history this book is a fascinating read. And for all Christians it will help you place your faith on an historical basis. For anyone interested in eschatology, the book is a must. The book is also a must for anyone interested in the Jehovah's Witnesses.	2001-02-10
US	52296593	R20ZBKUGNVL004	0595001963	760749148	Impeaching Mere Creationism	Books	1	5	11	N	N	An Excellent Example of Antiknowledge	Impeaching Mere Creationism is an attempt to debunk the intelligent design and creation movements. The effectiveness of the book is accurately revealed when Frymire admitted that he had never read a creationist book until he read Johnson's Defeating Darwinism. Then he read two other of Johnson's books, and wrote the book being reviewed here.  I have read several hundred books on creationism, both pro and con, and am not yet ready to write a book on creationism (although I have written 20 books so far, and have published several hundred articles, mostly on biology, my field). Frymire is appallingly ignorant of the creationism movement and this fact shows on almost every page. This will be obvious to an informed creationists. And evolutionists wonder why they are ineffective in converting creationists! Many of Frymire's conclusions are naive, and a large number are just plain wrong as will be obvious to any creationists. As they say, a man who has read one book is dangerous. One could add, one who has read 3 paperbacks by one creationists (and ignored the thousands of others by thousands of other creationists) is dangerous. The tragedy is uninformed persons will read and repeat Frymire's errors, and as a result will confuse the whole subject area. To find out what is true will then be even more difficult. This reminds me of the false rumor spread for so long that the Procter and Gamble symbol has something to do with demonism. They finally gave up trying to squash the rumor and dumped the symbol. In short this book will do more harm than good.	2001-02-06
US	52296593	R1Z5CEWE4IIGT1	0932766412	967100146	Noah's Ark: A Feasibility Study	Books	5	55	62	N	N	The best work on the Flood, ever	Many objections have been put forth to show that the Biblical account of Noah's flood is untenable, some more valid than others. Woodmorappe makes an excellent case for the conclusion that many of the objections are totally without foundation. While he may not have answered every objection, this work is the most extensive and the most documented work ever published on this topic. (My basic for this statement is I collect books on the Biblical flood and have over 60 books on this topic). This work is a must for all of those Jews, Christians and Muslims that are faced with objections to their faith from skeptics. Those who believe the accuracy of the Biblical flood account is questionable must read this work so they at least can present informed objections and not spout foolishness as, in my experience, is all too often the case. The almost 80 pages of references is a good indicator of the research that went into this work.  The work is also a very interesting read and contains much biology and other science information of interest to the general reader.	2001-02-01
US	52296593	R1474CDUR60VQJ	0801096790	24317077	The Early Earth: An Introduction to Biblical Creationism	Books	5	27	31	N	N	An Antidote to Dogmatism	As a college professor, I have always tried to memorize important benchmarks in my field. One set of benchmarks that is critical in teaching geology are dates such as the dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago. I soon discovered that this task was going to be far more difficult then I first expected because for many dates, such as the age of the universe, many different estimates exist (in this case from around 5 to 25 billion years). It soon became apparent the many of the dates in geology are estimates at best and more often gestimates. Whitcomb in this excellent work does a much needed job critiquing many of the modern dating methods used in science today. He shows why many are not as accurate as commonly believed. Now when I teach geology or earth science I always stress that no one in science knows, for example, how old the earth or universe is, and therefore when providing dates one must not say that something is so many years old, but must say &quot;according to carbon 14 or another dating method, some animal is estimated to have died 5730 years ago, and this date is based on the many assumptions of this method.&quot; Unfortunately, most texts and sources often dogmatically state that something is so many millions of years old when this cannot be known to be the case. This must read book will go a long way toward reducing the dogmatism now very common in geological dating and will help the dating process to be more scientific and less dogmatic. In short The Early Earth is an antidote to dogmatism	2001-01-30
US	52296593	RPMK9TZXNHVOT	0963744828	303335183	No blood!: A novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Should Man Play God	No Blood is about a young man named Travis Troulson who needed a  blood transfusion to stay alive, but his Jehovah's Witness parents  tried to block the treatment needed to save his life. The result  was a court battle and a troubled young man who wonders &quot;How could  a religion that claims to be Christian do this to people?&quot; This is  in many ways a typical story that is acted out in various ways  throughout the world thousands of times each year amoung the Jehovah's Witnesses. Many books tell  of the holocaust caused by the Watchtower teaching forbidding certain blood products by  giving the facts about what they believe. This book tells of the story in a real, human  factual way that demonstrates the impact of the Watchtower  blood prohibition doctrine on the lives of real people. In the medical field when one  mentions the Jehovah's Witnesses to nurses and doctors,  they typically cringe, and if asked they can usually tell a horror  story like that of Travis.  Because of this doctrine the Watchtower  has alienated people not only from the Watchtower religion but from all  religion. I can't tell you how many negative comments that I have  heard from the nursing and medical students about the harm that  this Watchtower doctrine has done to so many good people's lives. This book helps outsiders understand the feelings of anger and  frustration of the medical profession due to religious objectors. If you have ever lost a loved one due to some religion playing both God and Doctor when they are neither, you will relate to this book. Since the Watchtower rules have changed recently, some of the story line may not be as relevant now, but other parts are more relevant then ever before.	2001-01-25
US	52296593	RC3TE7AN3ZE9U	080105317X	643292232	Answering Jehovah's Witnesses: Subject by Subject	Books	5	11	21	N	N	A Great Read	This book is a must for both Jehovah's Witnesses and those interested in the Jehovah's Witnesses. Reed covers the Watchtower (Wt) doctrine by specific subject in alphabetical order somewhat like the old &quot;Make Sure of All Things&quot;  book. He covers such topics as the Great Pyramid of Gizeh and how important this &quot;Bible in Stone&quot; was to the development of Wt chronology, the Pleiades star group (which the Wt used to teach was Jehovah's heavenly home), the old Wt teaching on race (they were once racist to the extreme, and this was an eye opener for me) and the Adventist origins of the Wt. The scriptures stress that we should be prepared in the Witness work and to do this we need to know the arguments of our opposers. This book is an excellent source to prepare for witnessing as many of these arguments the average Witness will hear in the witness work. Some argue that Jehovah's Witnesses should not read critical works, yet we encounter critical ideas everyday in the field service. To be consistent we should not listen to criticism in the field work either. If we don't, then how can we answer the householder's questions? The answer is, we cannot. Consequently, this book is a must for every Witness.	2001-01-23
US	52296593	R18FUMJT5NX4HM	0963744801	655821189	Worse than Waco: Jehovah's Witnesses hide a tragedy	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Will this holocaust equal the Jewish holocaust?	People still talk about the horror of what happened at Waco to the Branch Davidian Compound, yet this event pales in significance when compared with the Watchtower caused holocaust. Reed gives the background and statistics about the Watchtower holocaust, and much much more. As was once said, when thousands are killed it is a statistic, but when one person is killed it is a tragedy. Reed puts a face on this holocaust. by discussing the lives of some of those many men, women, and children that have perished in the Watchtower holocaust. Some estimate that the number could be over 250,000 persons died from not only refusing life blood related medical treatment but also due to refusing organ transplants and even orthodox medicine (and instead relying on crackpot worthless treatment such as radiodiagnosis, treatment by mysterious radio waves). All of this began largely because high level Watchtower officials, especially Clayton J. Woodworth and William Hudgings, distrusted and actively opposed orthodox medicine. And like the Nazi holocaust, the actual total number will never be known with certainty. After world war II the Jews said never again, yet a holocaust is occurring right now with hardly anyone calling the world's attention to it. Fortunately David Reed is one who is standing up to do what is right and bringing this to the attention of the world.	2001-01-22
US	52296593	R18IONWTUPXE2E	0801057493	53396846	Jehovah-Talk: The Mind-Control Language of Jehovah's Witnesses	Books	5	12	18	N	N	A Must Have Dictionary	This book is a dictionary of terms used in a unique way by the Watchtower Society (Wt) and thus by Jehovah's Witnesses. It is a must reference for anyone who wants to understand or research the Wt. To understand the Jehovah's Witnesses you must understand their unique use of terms which Reed claims is done for several reasons, including to help the Wt achieve mind control in the Orwellian tradition. Reed also explains how and why a mind control language (called argot in psychology) is necessary. An example of a term defined is the term &quot;theocratic war strategy&quot; meaning &quot;hiding the truth from persons not entitled to it, or deceiving outsiders (done in order) to advance the (Watchtower) organization's interests. Falsehoods presented to 'Gods enemies' are not considered lies, due to the state of war existing between God's forces (the JWs) and Satan's (the rest of the world).&quot;  This dictionary is also a must for JW's. To be considered mature, Witnesses must keep up with the changing argot. An example is fully 28 percent of Witnesses and former Witnesses in one survey did not know what theocratic war strategy was (although most correctly defined it). The newer Witnesses were most likely not to know the term. Memorizing this book can enable Witnesses to achieve up to date knowledge of all major terms.	2001-01-17
US	52296593	R3D8YI4N2WMMVX	1573920592	634601896	Blood on the Altar	Books	5	37	46	N	N	The story of 8,000 deaths a year	Reed was an honor student at Harvard when he was contacted by the Jehovah's Witnesses. They should have known better then to try to convert a bright motivated person such as Reed. As expected of someone with a mind like his, he devoured Watchtower (Wt) literature and soon became an elder and some people had him in mind for potential circuit overseer material. But as often happens in these cases, Reed continued to study Watchtower publications and began to become aware of the changes in Wt doctrine and the conflicts of their doctrine with scripture. He began to discuss his concerns with what were said to be mature Witnesses. He soon learned that one does not ask too many probing questions as a Witness. His questions were real and of importance. The Wt teaches that all those who are ignorant of God and His Bible as taught by the Wt will perish at Armageddon which was to arrive in 1975 or soon thereafter. Reed did not want to be ignorant of the Bible so he studied it diligently. Then his trouble began. One topic that he explored was their anti blood transfusion teaching. He learned that it was not a disfellowshipping offense until 1961. Before this it was an individual matter (and up until the late 1940s most Witnesses took blood freely without qualms). He explored the change and what he discovered shocked him. The result was this book. To learn his story you must read the book! One hint. The Wt claims that they base the no blood transfusion law (which they now teach is one the highest law in the universe, above murder) on the scriptures. It does not take long to realize that they have no scriptural support for this teaching. For example they cite Genesis 9:4 which says &quot;only flesh with its soul -- its blood--you must not eat&quot; NWT. Note it says not that we cannot eat blood (all Witness that eat meat consume a fairly large amount of blood) but that we cannot eat meat with its blood in it and must drain the blood first as kosher Jews do today. The purpose as correctly taught by the Wt until the late 1940s was one cannot eat living animals but they must be dead first (and the way they were killed in Biblical days was to drain the blood). This Wt doctrine, Reed estimates, kills almost 9 thousand persons annually. It is teachings such as these that make atheists. No wonder my university colleagues are so antireligious! Reed then shows that this behavior and teaching is not Biblical or Christian.	2001-01-12
US	52296593	R3LGPER8YBA8KH	0914675060	252219262	The Gentile Times Reconsidered: Chronology & Christ's Return	Books	5	18	27	N	N	One of the most important books about the Tower ever written	The Gentile Times Reconsidered is one of the most important books ever written about the Watchtower religious movement. It is must reading for anyone who wants to understand the problems Jehovah's Witnesses are involved in today, a movement originated in the 1870s and now claims over 14 million persons attended their memorial of Christ's death service (a number which indicates their following size). This book, now published in 6 languages, was involved in many thousands of Witnesses leaving the Watchtower, including former governing body member Raymond Franz. Chronology is central to Watchtower teaching, and Jonsson does an excellent job of explaining why. The date 1914, the date The Watchtower teaches Christ returned (his parousia), is derived from their chronology, and is critical to current Watchtower teaching. They teach that Armageddon will happen within the lifetime of the generation that was alive when the 1914 second advent of Christ occurred, but have been repeatedly disappointed (1874, 1925 and 1975 were their three most infamous date prediction failures).  As we travel farther and farther from the 1914 date, it becomes increasingly obvious that both the 1914 date and the basic Watchtower chronology are erroneous. Bethel insiders tell me that the Watchtower will soon assign the 1914 date to the same status as the 1874 date, namely on the scrap heap of history. Along with the dropping of 1914 must also come a major change in many other Watchtower doctrines. And I have no doubt that the conclusions of Jonsson's scholarly well researched book will eventually become orthodox Watchtower doctrine.	2001-01-08
US	52296593	R1VI3I1DTRCO0Y	0932766544	10152668	Studies in Flood Geology a Compilation of Research Studies Supporting Creation and the Flood	Books	5	50	53	N	N	A Revolution in Geology	Flood geology and catastrophism were once widely accepted among<br />geologists and most non scientists until Charles Lyell and Charles<br />Darwin's work in the middle 1800s.  Furthermore, until Darwin, most<br />geological events were interpreted in harmony with a flood geology<br />catastrophism framework.  For the next century uniformitarianism<br />dominated geology.  The last 30 years has seen a major reassurance of<br />catastrophism such as the work by Kenneth J. Hsu, David Raup, and the<br />Alvarez father and son team.  Woodmorappe's work is one more nail in<br />the coffin of Doctrinaire uniformitarianism.  Woodmorappe's work is a<br />collection of separate chapters each which can stand alone, many<br />containing hundreds of references (one chapter contains 445<br />references) which alone make the book well worth while.  While some<br />may disagree with the author's conclusions, this work contains a<br />wealth of stimulating material and is must reading for anyone involved<br />in, or interested in, the uniformitarianism-catastrophism controversy.<br />It is also critical reading (as are works by the authors noted above)<br />for those interested in the creation-evolution controversy.  The book<br />is well illustrated and indexed.	2000-11-21
