US	52292684	R3N6KKVYTZPP65	1405041773	785406520	Overkill	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Awesome	A superb thriller for the dangerous times we live in which reminded me a lot of Tom Clancy's THE SUM OF ALL FEARS - the only difference here is that it features a British MI6 agent as the hero - Paul Richter. After the covering up of a murder of a fellow agent in Moscow by rogue ex-KGB agents, Richter gets a hunch that something is not right. As he makes enquiries, he discovers something mostrous is about to happen - a disaffected Russia has allied with Arab terrorists loyal to Bin Laden - who have motives of their own - and set in motion a plot to explode nuclear devices in Western cities and force a shift in the balance of world politics! Sounds familiar? It is better than what you would expect though. The locations are well researched - got a kick out of the Davey Crockett Ranch sequence at Eurodisney as we have stayed there a few times - London, France, Saudi Arabia, Moscow are all well described to the point you feel you are there. Lots of twists along the way, and you also get SAS plot involvement that will please special forces aficionados. The narrative is also easy to read, and although it took a while to get going, it was a great vacation read and I eagerly look forward to future offerings from this author.	2005-09-25
US	52292684	R1252521S7SVL1	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	2	10	N	N	Superb anti-terror novel, a great what if!	In the wake of recent terrorist attacks in the UK, this book sparked my interest. What if, indeed, a government-sponsored organisation such as Hendley Associates did exist with the intention of taking out terrorists in secret and then finding out who was behind the attacks? This book presents an oft-told but thoroughly engaging storyline, with some familiar Clancy characters thrown in for good measure, an unlikely but semi-plausible alliance between Colombian drug lords and Arab terrorists in order to strike a blow at the United States, some very frightening and all-too-believable descriptions of the attacks themselves - and the ways in which covert agents could be used to track down and take them out without the expenses of court and lawyers.<br /><br />Hendley Associates works under cover of a stocks and bonds trading firm, but recruits everyone from the law enforcement agencies and the military to contribute to the war on terror. Recruits in the story are Dominic Caruso, who shoots a child killer in a hair-trigger and brutal scene in the opening chapters in an FBI raid. His brother is a hardened Marine who has returned from the war against al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, and another recruit is none other than Jack Ryan Junior, or Little Jack as he was once known in previous Ryan novels. Together they are trained in near future fieldcraft and how to be professional assassins when it comes to eliminating the constant threat of terrorism by some particularly interesting methods - not involving military action! What's to say something like this might already exist in real life that we don't know about . . .<br /><br />Clancy uses some great locations - the attacks in Middle America which no-one expects, Mexico, London, Vienna and Rome, all described very well indeed. Got a kick out of the fast cars in the story too, especially the Porsche drive through Europe - and the help Britain's MI-5 give to Hendley Associates, you wonder if they could really mount such operations at times these days. The narrative is not as detailed as previous full-length Clancy novels and is easy to read as a book alone or as a Ryan series novel - the descriptions of the gadgets and tactics are suitable for anybody to pick up and understand. And the ending leaves open a ot of possibilities for future sequels.<br /><br />Tom Clancy was inspired to write this Jack Ryan Junior novel after seeing Ben Affleck's incarnation of Ryan in the film version of THE SUM OF ALL FEARS, and has in my opinion succeeded in creating a fast-paced and somehow relevant novel for the times we live in. Well done Tom, for a story that is more than relevant for the times we live in, and for a great style of writing which is dramatic, engaging, unbiased, suspenseful in places and sometimes tongue-in-cheek.at times these days. The narrative is not as detailed as previous full-length Clancy novels and is easy to read as a book alone or as a Ryan series novel - the descriptions of the gadgets and tactics are suitable for anybody to pick up and understand. And the ending leaves open a ot of possibilities for future sequels. <br /> <br />Tom Clancy was inspired to write this Jack Ryan Junior novel after seeing Ben Affleck's incarnation of Ryan in the film version of THE SUM OF ALL FEARS, and has in my opinion succeeded in creating a fast-paced and somehow relevant novel for the times we live in. Well done Tom, for a story that is more than relevant for the times we live in, and for a great style of writing which is dramatic, engaging, unbiased, suspenseful in places and sometimes tongue-in-cheek.	2005-08-20
US	52292684	R2HIGG20QQT45G	0060746890	865086794	Hunter Killer	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Robinson delivers the goods again!	This latest instalment from Patrick Robinson really packs a punch! It has everything - submarines and underwater action scenes, oil terminals and tankers blowing up, political conflict and the consequences of terrorists' actions on the rest of the world and how does one deal with it - would a new war making the mistakes of Iraq just add to the problem? Oh, yes, and you also get graphic descriptions of what wine everyone drinks and where it came from, and what food everyone eats and how one main character, the ongoing protagonist Admiral Morgan barbecues his steaks and lamb chops in a paragraph or two. This is very typical Robinson fare, but is fun to read these days. I quite fancy a few drops of the wine in the book actually! Anyway, the story is a great and highly plausible one. A spoiled rich Saudi prince crashes his yacht into the Queen Mary 2 after a binge drinking and drug session, killing himself and a British princess. Prince Nasir, heir to the Saudi throne and a fundamentalist Muslim to boot, decides he has had enough of the Saudi King and his monarchy behaving like decadent greedy Roman emperors, spending all their riches on themselves and not letting Saudi citizens benefit from the country's oil wealth. So he enlists the help of another enemy of the USA and its allies - France. The French President, seeking financial and political gain from a Saudi oil crisis as the French buy up Middle Eastern oilfields and refineries, covertly orders his DGSE(their version of the CIA) agents to bring in the help of a Moroccan, Colonel Jacques Gamoudi, and also Admiral Morgan's enemy Colonel Ravi Rashood, a HAMAS terrorist leader. Together, using the French Navy's latest submarines, they plan to strike secretly at Saudi oil terminals - AND topple the monarchy by creating dissent in the Saudi armed forces, taking over military installations and creating anarchy in the capital Riyadh. The result is that a global energy crisis looms - the price of oil rockets leading to chaos and the threat of economic collapse. Admiral Morgan, a retired National Security specialist, is recalled by the President to the White House to help prevent the crisis and track down those responsible. James Ramshawe, a brilliant young naval intelligence officer, helps the Admiral, using obscure threads of evidence, to track Rashood and Gamoudi, but he himself is now being hunted by French special forces who wish to cover up their involvement before world opinion turns against them! The ending is not what you would expect, but does lead the way to some interesting possibilities for future novels! Once again, another winner from Patrick Robinson, which is closer to tomorrow's news that you'd dare imagine, even though this book is set in 2010. Great build up, intriguing politics, blazing action scenes in Saudi Arabia and explosive military action to boot - and wine buffs might like to read as well(ha ha).s and the threat of economic collapse. Admiral Morgan, a retired National Security specialist, is recalled by the President to the White House to help prevent the crisis and track down those responsible. James Ramshawe, a brilliant young naval intelligence officer, helps the Admiral, using obscure threads of evidence, to track Rashood and Gamoudi, but he himself is now being hunted by French special forces who wish to cover up their involvement before world opinion turns against them! The ending is not what you would expect, but does lead the way to some interesting possibilities for future novels! Once again, another winner from Patrick Robinson, which is closer to tomorrow's news that you'd dare imagine, even though this book is set in 2010. Great build up, intriguing politics, blazing action scenes in Saudi Arabia and explosive military action to boot - and wine buffs might like to read as well(ha ha).	2005-06-14
US	52292684	R27CHBROEE8C1M	0060086645	214590149	Scimitar SL-2	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Fast paced and interesting story, could it happen one day?	Patrick Robinson is back with his long-awaited follow-up to the excellent BARRACUDA 945, where we first met ex-SAS turned HAMAS General Ravi Rashood(aka Ray Kerman). The story opens in London when Rashood and some fellow terrorists kidnap Dr Paul Landon, a renowned expert in natural disasters. They force information out of him on volcanic eruptions and their effects, and how to set them off . . . Landon is later executed.<br /><br />  The year in this book is 2009. The Republican Administration is ousted from the White House by a new Democrat President, Charles McBride, a thinly-fictionalised Clinton or Kerry. Admiral Arnold Morgan and his fellow military chiefs have also resigned or retired. Morgan, the regular good guy in Robinson's books, marries his secretary Kathy and they honeymoon in the Canary Islands, which are well-described here. Morgan and Kathy visit the mountains of Cumbre Veija, a dormant set of volcanoes and see four Arabs which Morgan suspects are up to no good. One of them, unknown to him at the time, is Rashood.<br /><br />  Nobody thinks anything of it at first, until Lt James Ramshawe, a brilliant intelligence officer, has a hunch. It is later learned that after the unexplained eruption of Mount St Helens, HAMAS, using a second BARRACUDA-class submarine stored for them by the devious Chinese navy for money, and armed with North Korean-built missiles, has hatched a plan to force the withdrawal of all US forces from the Middle East and the creation ofa Palestinian independent state by forcing the Israelis off the West Bank - or the BARRACUDA will fire nukes at Cumbre Veija and create a mega-tsunami which would destroy America's east coast and parts of the European coastline as well.<br /><br />  The President refuses to believe it, passing it off as a sick hoax. This President is more interested in the welfare state, it seems, than security of the country. Admiral Morgan fails to convince this new Administration, so when a second eruption triggered by HAMAS missiles occurs and the President still refuses to believe it is a terrorist attack, Morgan stages a coup in the White House and Paul Bedford, the more patriotic Vice President, is sworn in. Morgan then organises a mass evacuation of the East Coast.<br /><br />  There is also a massive naval operation to locate the Barracuda(a former Soviet sub purchased by HAMAS through China) all across the Atlantic. Whilst well-detailed, there were a few errors - F15 Tomcat??!! Probably just a typo. Plus that was a hell of a fluke shot with a Harpoon, why not just let the Patriots get on with the job. And while the build-up was excellent throughout, both with the naval deployment and the evacuation of the East Coast of the USA which would make for some great panic scenes in a movie adaptation, the ending was a little weak. I suspect the author had to finish it in a hurry, though there is another instalment on the way in May called HUNTER KILLER featuring the same characters!<br /><br />  The scientific background was well researched - Cumbre Veija is a very real threat. However there were a couple of goofs - railroads are commandeered to assist in the evacuation, firstly the Long Island Railroad would be no good to evacuate New York as its tracks are confined to Long Island, a place very much at risk from a mega tsunami. And the Southern Railroad does not have trackage rights to New York, CSX operate freight up there last time I looked. And I thought the SR was now called NORFOLK SOUTHERN?<br /><br />  Robinson also goes a little into depth about what wine characters drink and where it came from, as usual, however I take back any criticsm about food and wine as I have done it in a book I have had published as well.<br /><br />  But overall, an exciting read! Recommended.issiles occurs and the President still refuses to believe it is a terrorist attack, Morgan stages a coup in the White House and Paul Bedford, the more patriotic Vice President, is sworn in. Morgan then organises a mass evacuation of the East Coast. <br />   There is also a massive naval operation to locate the Barracuda(a former Soviet sub purchased by HAMAS through China) all across the Atlantic. Whilst well-detailed, there were a few errors - F15 Tomcat??!! Probably just a typo. Plus that was a hell of a fluke shot with a Harpoon, why not just let the Patriots get on with the job. And while the build-up was excellent throughout, both with the naval deployment and the evacuation of the East Coast of the USA which would make for some great panic scenes in a movie adaptation, the ending was a little weak. I suspect the author had to finish it in a hurry, though there is another instalment on the way in May called HUNTER KILLER featuring the same characters! <br />   The scientific background was well researched - Cumbre Veija is a very real threat. However there were a couple of goofs - railroads are commandeered to assist in the evacuation, firstly the Long Island Railroad would be no good to evacuate New York as its tracks are confined to Long Island, a place very much at risk from a mega tsunami. And the Southern Railroad does not have trackage rights to New York, CSX operate freight up there last time I looked. And I thought the SR was now called NORFOLK SOUTHERN? <br />  Robinson also goes a little into depth about what wine characters drink and where it came from, as usual, however I take back any criticsm about food and wine as I have done it in a book I have had published as well. <br />   But overall, an exciting read! Recommended.	2005-01-03
US	52292684	R1GSUXVO1FPQEO	0061030651	923972028	U.S.S. Seawolf	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Excellent, well paced and well detailed submarine thriller!	Patrick Robinson has created another superb submarine novel featuring many of his regular characters - protagonist Arnold Morgan, the President's National Security Advisor, Rear Admiral John Bergstrom, Navy SEAL commander and a host more. As ever, he creates an interesting scenario which spells danger from US forces - this time, China has built a Xia-III class ballistic missile fleet submarine which could threaten the US(bear in mind this was written pre-9/11 and before relations improved a bit). The latest fast attack sub in the US Navy, the USS SEAWOLF of the book's title, is sent on a black ops mission to spy on the Xia boomer and gather intel on her every move. But disaster strikes as the Seawolf's propellor's become entangled in the towed acoustic array of a Chinese destroyer. To make matters worse, the Seawolf is towed into Guangzhou naval base and her crew incarcerated in jail, and if they do not cooperate with the Chinese navy, in particular Admiral Zhang Yushu, who has eyes on building a fleet of knock-off Seawolves to menace US forces with, they are tortured. These scenes made for uncomfortably plausible reading given recent events in Iraq having similar parallels.<br /><br />BAck at the White House, the President, a fierce Republican(Robinson predicted this bit somewhat well - this book was written in 2000 and President John Clarke here you could call a thinly fictionalised Bush!), is on edge - his son Linus is the Lt. Commander of the Seawolf and is being held hostage with a new ID for security reasons. His National Security advisor, Arnold Morgan hatches a plan to send in a 64-strong force of SEALS and British SAS operatives to storm the jail and free the submarine crew, and an even more audacious plan to stop the Chinese from stealing the technology on board Seawolf.  This is where the action realy takes off because as ever, the author puts you in the frontline of the SEAL missions depicted as though you were there! Locations(Hong Kong and its surrounding areas in particular) are accurately described, and Robinson also shows off his obsession with describing what characters have to eat and what wine they like! This, fortunately, is not as prominent as in his other novels HMS UNSEEN and BARRACUDA 945 where sometimes it got a bit much. The main focus is the SEAWOLF and the missions to free her crew - and the best laid plans can go wrong . . .<br /><br />If you like this sort of novel, then this might just be for you. Also if you're into submarines especially, check out the novels of Michael diMercurio, who also knows his stuff!nding areas in particular) are accurately described, and Robinson also shows off his obsession with describing what characters have to eat and what wine they like! This, fortunately, is not as prominent as in his other novels HMS UNSEEN and BARRACUDA 945 where sometimes it got a bit much. The main focus is the SEAWOLF and the missions to free her crew - and the best laid plans can go wrong . . . <br /> <br />If you like this sort of novel, then this might just be for you. Also if you're into submarines especially, check out the novels of Michael diMercurio, who also knows his stuff!	2004-11-03
US	52292684	R1N6I06GTCM698	0684862719	925429454	PAY IT FORWARD: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing story, and better than the movie adaptation!	PAY IT FORWARD tells of a young boy of 12 years called Trevor, who is given an assignment by his schoolteacher and mentor Reuben St. Clair, who unlike Kevin Spacey in the movie version of his character is an Afro-American former Vietnam vet who lost an eye in the war. Morgan Freeman would've been awesome at this part! Anyway, I digress. The assignment involves how one could make the world a better place. Trevor comes up with a plan in which he does a good turn for someone who then has to pass on three more favours or good turns to others. With his problems at home with an alcoholic mother, he still makes the effort. His first two attempts fail, but as the story progresses we learn more(than the movie!!) about how the favours and good acts of kindness are being passed on, in fact so much that a journalist, Chris Chandler(who we hear from in retrospective chapters looking back from his future perspective), is hot on the trail of who began the acts of kindness across America. Still in spite of family complications - Reuben and his mother Arlene are romantically involved thaks to his persuasion, and his redneck birth father Ricky suddenly shows up out of the blue, the PAY IT FORWARD movement becomes a huge event . . . but with tragic consequences. These are explored deeper and better in the original novel as well. All these little sories intertwine to create one of the most original novels I have ever read, and a big thankyou to Catherine Ryan Hyde for influencing me to just do that extra good turn for someone who might need it, and that there may really be a way to change human nature without resorting to violent or extreme means, you never know. Also a thankyou to those on a certain movie fan site who recommended I read this!	2004-08-23
US	52292684	R1IOX6HOUFG5FZ	0060086629	603736518	Barracuda 945 (Robinson, Patrick)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	PATRICK ROBINSON IS BACK ON TOP FORM!	Patrick Robinson's last book, THE SHARK MUTINY, showed a mildly original and promising idea but was spoiled a little by a preposterous ending. This next instalment in his series featuring Vice Admiral Arnold Morgan is back on top form with very good research and some blazing action scenes which whisk the reader along at a lightning pace! BARRACUDA 945 starts off in 1995, when one Major Ray Kerman is accepted into the elite British SAS Regiment. Move forward to 2004 where we find Kerman on a top secret antiterrorist operation in Israel taking down HAMAS fighters as part of the war on terror. Kerman, we learn, is of Iranian descent and was brought to England in 1979 after the fall of the Shah and the subsequent troubles, and was kept in check by a fundamentalist Muslim cleric in London. When an SAS mission searching out a HAMAS terror cell in Herbron goes wrong and explodes into a full scale bloodbath between Palestinian fighters and Israeli Defence Force troops, Kerman's loyalties are put to the test when those close to him are under attack by Israeli forces. He then goes AWOL, murdering his fellow officers, and joins up with HAMAS.<br />Vice Admiral Morgan and his trusty NSA liason Lieutenant James Ramshawe, an Australian officer who is really the main good guy character in the story as it is his hunches on Kerman's whereabouts that get results, soon links his fugitive to a robbery in Tel Aviv, but what is the purpose of this? How does it all tie up with a massive prison breakout in Nimrod, Israel, of known HAMAS terrorists?<br />Years later, Kerman, now operating under his Iranian birth name Ravi Rashood, recruits many of those he freed, and also his new wife, Shakira(who is nothing to do with a certain pop singer!), and purchases two thought-to-be-unseaworthy Barracuda Class subs from cash-strapped Russians through Chinese military officers who support his plans. Rashood/Kerman plans to attack America's West Coast and its oil and power infrastructure to create economic turmoil. In 2008, the terror attacks begin, foxing the US military and pushing the US President into a corner. It seems like another 9/11 has taken place. Yet James Ramshawe still has a hunch, will anyone believe him? When Admiral Morgan learns the true nature of the attacks, will the President be forced to act? Read on!<br />Once again, Patrick Robinson has created another fast-paced submarine story which often reads like tomorrow's news headlines! The submarine scenes and Navy SEAL operations in the later half of the book are as realistic as you can get, it feels as though you are there - inside the Barracuda with the bad guys, stopping the bad guys in the jungles of Panama and even at the Royal Ascot horse race meeting when Kerman tries to meet his parents and assassinate Admiral Morgan in the process in a minor subplot. Robinson does not go into too much technical detail about the submarines, just enough so that anyone unfamiliar with naval matters can understand, so as to keep the story flowing along nicely.<br />However, my one criticism stands - Robinson still insists on going into excessive detail about what every character has to eat - by each course - what wine they drink and which vineyard it came from and what year, and so on. As much as I love fine food and wine, I did feel that this was especially over the top during the first 150 pages or so, and did detract a bit from the main focus of the book - the hunt for the Barracuda and Kerman. But this overall fantastic read still gets five stars for keeping the reader engrossed throughout. This would make an awesome movie as well, but might not win an award considering what happens in Los Angeles when a power station serving California is attacked with missiles from the Barracuda! As for the ending, it is not what you expect, it leaves all sorts of possibilities wide open for many of the characters.<br />I eagerly await the next instalment and look forward to further adventures involving Morgan, Ramshawe, the SEALs and co!shawe, the SEALs and co!	2003-09-21
US	52292684	RPRJDVDH8J03D	071261477X	609036208	Flood	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Brilliant update of DELUGE, and far better!	In 1976, Richard Doyle wrote a disaster novel called DELUGE, about London flooding. This was written before the Thames Barrier was built, and such a disaster was after that inconceivable. However, when you read this updated and much more realistic version, you will be left wondering whether the Barrier will be safe enough to stop a massive tidal surge. Not only that, in this story a tanker explodes, hitting oil refineries in Canvey Island , Essex, just east of London, causing a massive burning oil slick to head for the capital. The British Government's people - Home Secretary Venetia Maitland and Royal Navy troubleshooter Roland Raikes do all they can to prevent the disaster from getting worse as the burning flood tide heads at an alarming pace towards London. Richard Doyle has certainly done his research into how such a huge disaster could occur and just who it would affect. The locations featured are as authentic as you could get - the Van Ommeren oil refinery in Essex is a place I used to work next door to and brought back some memories. The descriptions of the fire and flood destroying landmarks is so well told it's unsettling at times, but this is a book you just cannot stop reading. There are no main characters, apart from, perhaps Raikes and Maitland, this story is told as-it-happens in a present tense making you feel you are there, the disaster itself is the main element focused on. There are assorted subplots of people being rescued from the London Underground, the THames Barrier and how it fails, schoolchildren escaping the Millennium Dome and shoppers trapped at Bluewater retail city - and a massive inferno at Canary Wharf tower. Overall, very frightening and hard to fault, and a book that makes compelling reading!	2003-07-06
US	52292684	R146G8MXYGVIBB	0060094095	922757471	Air Battle Force	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Dale Brown is in fine form once again!	AIR BATTLE FORCE begins spectacularly as ongoing hero of Dale's books General Patrick McLanahan is leading an intel mission into Afghanistan in the war on terror. When he almost loses one of his supersecret StealthHawk UAVs, he orders a decidedly unauthorised mission to recover it using all means at his disposal, much to the detriment of the Taliban forces in the area who want the weaponry on the UAV, his superiors in the White House who want him to fail and indeed at Diego Garcia naval air station when he has to bring down a crippled EB-1 bomber! These blazing action scenes set the tone for the story. Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, resurgent Taliban forces led by a General Zarazi ousted out by US forces set their sights on oil-rich neighbouring Turkmenistan, seeking the riches to fund Al-Qaeda terror cells and further their own gains. However, plans for a quick takeover are in danger from an internal power struggle from one Jalaluudin Turabi, corrupt Russian military officers seeking the rebuilding of the former Soviet Union and also US oil companies bribing the Taliban to keep pipelines open. When Turkmenistan is invaded, the US President Thomas Thorn reluctantly authorises McLanahan's new Air Battle Force in to sort out the mess before a major confrontation occurs. Using ground troops - ongoing Marine characters Hal Briggs and Chris Wohl in high-tech exoskeletal body armour armed with hypervelocity projectile weapons - and a new fleet of unmanned, virtual-computer-controlled B-1 bombers, they do all they can to bring down Zarazi's guerilla forces. But there are always complications - General Rebecca Furness, B-1 wing commander is under scrutiny from old flame Daren Mace, from CHAINS OF COMMAND. As well as these olf favourite characters, Dale Brown has also introduced a new set of younger aircrews which will no doubt feature in future novels. When the military action takes off, the pace is fast, exciting and pulse-pounding. Brown once again tells a tale which keeps you reading and sets up the next book nicely at the end with a great and unexpected twist involving the Tarubi character and a power-crazed Russian general. So if airborne action and gadgetry are your cup of tea, this book just might be for you! Well done Dale Brown.u reading and sets up the next book nicely at the end with a great and unexpected twist involving the Tarubi character and a power-crazed Russian general. So if airborne action and gadgetry are your cup of tea, this book just might be for you! Well done Dale Brown.	2003-07-06
US	52292684	R1LQ41GOH88J96	0434005142	352595640	Sabre	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Thrilling and futuristic aviation thriller!	A fast-paced, witty and thrilling sci-fi technothriller which would make a top movie! The story was written in 1997 and is set in 2021 and details an Anglo-French spaceplane project designed to revolutionise air travel. However, the American air industry, entering a recession, is not happy and a group of extremists decide to hatch a plot to smuggle a bomb on board and discredit the Sabre for good. Add to this a subplot of an oil-drilling concern working in Australia who are unwittingly drawn into the bomb plot and you have more twists along the way. The space sequences are excellent and very feasible and well-researched, there are brilliant flashes of imagination where future technology is concerned which in some cases have come true -Memcorders, which are camcorders which record on to a small memory card(has he predicted digital cameras here or video messaging?!); digital memopads(PDAs!), networked computer gaming and HEATHROW TERMINAL SIX?! You never know one day . . .), yet traffic on the M25 motorway, even in 2021 is still a big problem! Add to all this the subplot of Jez, a teenage spaceplane freak who wins a TV competition to fly to Australia on the Sabre and who unwittingly becomes the hero of the day and you have a winning novel! All in all, a highly recommended read. Fans of American writers Dale Brown and Clive Cussler will enjoy this, but it will also appeal to the sci-fi fraternity in its visionary output of a possible future. Highly recommended	2003-07-06
US	52292684	R2FSDVWL6SMD2B	0060196319	442862530	The Shark Mutiny	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Overall, a great read! Why the one-star reviews . . .?	OK, many people panned this latest instalment from Pat Robinson. And my views on his work don't go without gripes - my main one is that he insists on going into great detail on what each character eats and what wine they drink, where it came from, etc. And Admiral Morgan's snide comments about Arabs can get tiresome. It still takes place in the SHARK MUTINY. The story, however, is superb! An expansionist China forms an ally with Iran to control the oil pipelines and tanker routes from the PErsian Gulf. Three supertankers are sunk by a Chinese sea-minefield. Admiral Morgan, meanwhile, in his office at 1400 Pennsylvania Avenue(WHAAAT? 1600, you mean, but let's just let Pat Robinson off for that one, OK? It was probably just a typo!!), suspects foul play. In between seeking authorisation from the flaked-out President for military action and drinking lots of vintage wine, he calls upon Lieutenant Ramshawe, his young NSA naval intelligence petty officer to gather intelligence to plan a covert SEAL mission to destroy the new Chinese oil refinery in Iran and a naval base and geothermal power station in Burma. Oil prices are rocketing due to the Chinese taking over the Gulf.<br />  Ramshawe is a strong character and perhaps when Morgan retires(or dies from alcohol poisoning or is shot by one of his hated 'towelheads') this person has a lot of potential for future novel inclusion. The SEAL missions are set in motion. These parts of the book are the best, Robinson shows his knowledge of SEAL tactics and hardware well here and also it's the part where you feel you're really there, he describes the locales well and above all very suspenseful indeed! However both ops go belly up when the sub USS SHARK's commanding officer snaps under the stress of command and becomes irrational, jeopardising the lives of the SEALS who are left to fend for themselves on two very dangerous missions. One dies returning to the sub, and the crew of the SHARK rebel and throw Commander Reid in the brig.<br />  Commander Reid is court-martialled. This, sadly, spoilt the ending a little as the court martial dialogue - well, let's just say that this could have easily come from ALLY MACBEAL or a bad episode of JAG! It had RULE 11 FRIVOLOUS LAWSUIT written all over it! I suspect Robinson was not able to complete as per the publisher's deadline. Hence the 4-star rating. But let me say that this book is purely a work of fiction, set in 2007. Sub commanders going insane in combat and a mutiny farfetched? You never know one day. China threatening the West's oil? Could still happen, given the unstable situation in the Middle East and how easily alliances there can be formed or broken. This political angle was very intriguing indeed and a little bit more original than the usual CHINA-versus-USA scenarios.<br />So, all in all, this is well worth a read if you ignore the flaws and concentrate on the scenario and the brilliantly described SEAL missions. And don't forget the glass of wine!<BR>   Commander Reid is court-martialled. This, sadly, spoilt the ending a little as the court martial dialogue - well, let's just say that this could have easily come from ALLY MACBEAL or a bad episode of JAG! It had RULE 11 FRIVOLOUS LAWSUIT written all over it! I suspect Robinson was not able to complete as per the publisher's deadline. Hence the 4-star rating. But let me say that this book is purely a work of fiction, set in 2007. Sub commanders going insane in combat and a mutiny farfetched? You never know one day. China threatening the West's oil? Could still happen, given the unstable situation in the Middle East and how easily alliances there can be formed or broken. This political angle was very intriguing indeed and a little bit more original than the usual CHINA-versus-USA scenarios. <BR>So, all in all, this is well worth a read if you ignore the flaws and concentrate on the scenario and the brilliantly described SEAL missions. And don't forget the glass of wine!	2002-01-12
US	52292684	R1NQMHLPVQS536	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cussler does it once again!	Dirk Pitt and friends are back in Cussler's latest instalment! This time, our story begins in 1035 when Viking longboats land on American shores and hoards of treasure is hidden in a cave along the Hudson River. Then in 1894, a mystery undersea vessel attacks the US warship KEARSAGE and disappears! Zoom forward to 2003 when Dirk Pitt and his NUMA crew suddenly find themselves on the scene of a major disaster as the luxury cruise ship EMERALD DOLPHIN catches fire in mysterious circumstances. As they rescue the passengers and use all their resources available to help, a young lady named Kelly Egan is rescued, who is carrying the secrets behind a new kind of oil and a technology invented by her father that could change the world as we know it . . . hmm! Dirk and Al Giordino are soon on the trail of her father Elmore Egan's research and stumble across mega-baddie Curtis Merlin Zale, who has his eyes on the US's oil supply. Then he attempts to sink a submarine cruise ship, also designed by Egan. Dirk and Al's trail leads them to Raoul Island in the Pacific and then the headquarters of Zale's CERBURUS conglomerate in New Jersey. It turns out Zale wants to destroy Egan's research to keep oil profits high, and when his final evil plan to block out foreign oil from the US by engineering a huge terrorist attack is learned, it may be too late!You can surely guess the ending, or can you . . . Also in the tale are Egan's fascination with Jules Verne's stories which tie up with the mystery submarine subplot and his invention Zale wanted to destroy, and the significance of the Viking prologue ties in here well. Overall, if you're after plenty of action, escapism and James Bond style derring-do, Cussler's books are well worth the money. I always buy them the moment they're out - myself and my wife are always fighting over who reads it first. Also, if you like this sort of novel  check out Matthew Reilly too.	2001-12-29
US	52292684	R1A19AIRXPV4OV	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another winner from Reilly!	Wow! After enjoying TEMPLE, I just had to get ICE STATION, and I was not disappointed. The narrative is even better in this one, simplistic, punchy and very fast-paced and does not go into too much unnnecessary detail. The story might seem a bit predictable at first, but hang on . . . when what appears to be a UFO is discovered buried under the ice in Antarctica, a distress call is sent out from the location - the ice station of the title, a polar research lab. Shane Schofield, an American Marine, arrives with his team and have more than their fair share of problems as they deal with a reclusive scientist, deformed wildlife and a pack of killer whales. Then as word gets out to other nations, French and British special forces arrive and in a bizarre plot twist, do battle with each other as the true nature of the UFO is gradually revealed - is it really extraterrestrial or is it the ultimate military weapon? This is where even more action kicks off as blood and brains explode everywhere as the bullets fly in blazing military action scenes, Schofield confronts his mentor, an SAS commander named Trevor Barnaby who has betrayed him, there's a spectacular hovercraft chase across an ice shelf, a nuclear attack threat, and it seems Schofield can trust no-one, not even his own troops until it's too late. This story I have to say would make a great action movie with incredible special effects potential, echoing the comments of other reviewers. If you like a good, fast-moving and pulse-pounding action read, then don't miss ICE STATION. Brilliant!	2001-10-17
US	52292684	REL3UFZHZSGGN	0425181200	341151059	Dale Brown's Dreamland	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A superb introduction to a great new series !	Dale Brown has collaborated with Jim DeFelice(check out his WAR BREAKER, by the way) to produce an excellent new novel set roughly around the end of Dale's DAY OF THE CHEETAH but tying in nicely with SHADOWS OF STEEL. In the story, Colonel Tecumseh DOG Bastian is assigned by the White House to get Dreamland, the secret base at Nevada's Groom Lake, back into shape or else defence budget cuts will force the place to close. The first half of the book deals with experimenting on new weapons systems, in particular the FLIGHTHAWK unmanned aerial vehicles and also development of the EB-52 Megafortress, another old favourite! Dale Brown has also done well in creating some new characters, such as hotshot F-16 pilot Mack Smith, paraplegic ex-pilot Jeff Stockard who is a leading player with the FLIGHTHAWK system and is also burned out, concerned about his marriage to Megafortress pilot Breanna Bastian Stockard, daughter of 'Dog'. All these personal dramas intertwine well when things heat up in the book's secomd half. As well as the new faces, we also get cameo appearances from Patrick MacLanahan, loose cannon General Brad Elliot(who I sadly miss, this character really rocks!), Madcap Magician SPECFOR operative Hal Briggs and also National Security Advisor Deborah O'Day, who is undecided about closing Dreamland. Overall, memorable characters, fast pacing, easy-to-read narrative and some interesting military technology which might be in use today(you just never know what they've got hidden away) and some pulsating action scenes in the air and on the ground with a deployment of a Marine Expeditionary Unit on a search and rescue mission make this new Dale Brown story well worth the read. I eagerly look forward to reading more in the DREAMLAND series!	2001-08-24
US	52292684	RNGVD4ZU8X64Z	0399147144	95999767	Warrior Class	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Was it worth waiting for? YES!!!!	Finally, this exciting new Dale Brown novel is available in the UK, I snapped it up last week and finished it in less than 2 days. This is another great and above all, entertaining entry in the Patrick MacLanahan timeline series. The story concerns a radical shift in US foreign policy when an independent Presidential candidate gains power and withdraws all US forces from overseas and downsizes the military. PAvel Kazakov, a Russian businessman and Mafia heavy, muscles in by taking advantage of a war breaking out in Kosovo and Albania. Using his Metyor-179 supersonic stealth bomber, he attacks targets all over the Balkans to intensify the conflict and bribe the Russian Federation into sending their own troops in - as peacekeepers, or to guard his oil pipeline project? Kazakov has designs on Europe's oil supply, you see . . . and who can stop the escalation of war? Why enter our old friends Patrick MacLanahan, who, considering he's the main character, seems to be upstaged by Kazakov's reign of terror . . . Rebecca Catherine Furness, EB-1C Megafortress captain who featured in CHAINS OF COMMAND and BATTLE BORN taking part in a disastrous CIA extraction mission deep into Russia to rescue a spy who has vital information about Kazakov's aircraft factory; B-1 pilots Dev Deveill, Annie Dewey and Old Dog navigator David Luger involved in a love triangle, and a big welcome back to geeky Jon Masters who runs Sky MAsters Inc. - the company that provides the high-tech gadgets used to fight the war against Kazakov. The TIN MAN electro-reactive body armour also makes a re-appearance and these outrageous and amusing scenes(particularly during the final chapters when the action REALLY kicks off) add to the overall enjoyment of the story! Once again, Dale Brown goes for all-out action, awesome technology which may be feasible one day(what's to say it hasn't been developed now . . .) and some interesting political angles as President Thomas Thorn and his all-for-America-only policies upsets the balance of harmony in the White House; now is that more dangerous than Kazakov taking over Eastern Europe? WARRIOR CLASS is Brown at his best once again, and I also very much look forward to DREAMLAND when that's out over here! Don't miss this winner!psets the balance of harmony in the White House; now is that more dangerous than Kazakov taking over Eastern Europe? WARRIOR CLASS is Brown at his best once again, and I also very much look forward to DREAMLAND when that's out over here! Don't miss this winner!	2001-06-29
US	52292684	R2QPXTKVKZ9KC	0671727737	553766376	The Eagle Has Landed	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The definitive Higgins classic!	If there are two Jack Higgins books you absolutely MUST read, then this one and also EYE OF THE STORM are top of the list! This is perhaps his best known one in the UK - in 1943, Germany plots the ultimate undercover operation where an assorted ragbag of NAzi sympathisers and German paratroopers(Kurt Steiner being the main character here) clandestinely invade England to kidnap Prime Minister Winston Churchill. One of the main protagonists is Liam Devlin, an IRA fighter who teams up with the Germans and enjoys a romance with farmhand Molly Prior throughout the story. Everything seems to go smoothly until two children almost drown and one of the Germans tries to rescue them - and the residents of Norfolk village Studley Constable(where a lot of the action takes place) soon discover what exactly is about to happen. At this pojnt, the action moves swifty and builds up to an unexpected climax. One wonders if such a thing really did happen during World War 2, on reading the closing lines in the book . . . you never know! A real page-turner, which, although written in 1975, is still a winner today.	2001-06-23
US	52292684	RADD543O5TSND	0425138232	930176831	Eye of the Storm (Sean Dillon)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Absolutely brilliant!	In this Jack Higgins classic which ranks as one of his very best, IRA gun-for-hire Sean Dillon is the protagonist and main character(recurring throughout several Higgins books) who is recruited by Saddam Hussein through French arms dealer Michael Aroun to assassinate the Prime Minister and War Cabinet during the Gulf War. As the plot develops, it is up to American CIA operative Martin Brosnan and head of the PM's clandestine intelligence agency Brigadier Charles Ferguson to stop Dillon when they are tipped off about the threat. Those of us that remember the real-life mortar attack on 10 Downing Street when John Major was in power are presented with a fast-paced account of what might have happened - could it have happened this way? This thought-provoking actioner is well-paced, easy to read and crams in a Clancy-esque story at less than half the length with no unnecessary subplots. A must-read winner!	2001-06-23
US	52292684	R2LFNOYJL4T8P9	0373619006	84969765	Deep Alert (Don Pendleton's Mack Bolan : Stony Man)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exciting if unoriginal adventure	Ongoing trashy action hero Mack Bolan is back again in a STONY MAN adventure - one of many - I managed to track down in the UK. The premise is interesting, if somewhat done-before(Michael diMercurio and Stephen Coonts have done this in THREAT VECTOR and AMERICA respectively)- a stealth submarine is hijacked by a mix of Libyans loyal to Qadaffi, Ukranians rebelling against the new Russia and a group of Serb paid mercenaries. The sub sinks various merchant shipping in order to hijack valuable components for its SS-N-19 nuclear-tipped missiles. But where can it be tracked to if it's invisible to ordinary sonar? Why, enter the ultra secret STONY MAN covert ops team, featuring Mack 'The Executioner' Bolan, Jack Grimaldi leading a SEAL team, former SAS operative McCarter and a token Russian with technical know-how of the sub. Exciting action scenes on the sea and below it, in Serbia and Italy where operative Carl Lyons meets a Mafia clan who are out to destroy the enemy for personal reasons. And it's no more than 330 pages. Don Pendleton crams a Clancy-esque story into an easy-reading action story that's also suitable for older teenagers to read. The narrative is good, with not too much unnecessary detail and no subplots going off on tangents as you get in some novels on the same sort of subject. All in all, another good time-filler entry in a long-running series.	2001-05-27
US	52292684	R2AA8KTBAI5WW0	0373618980	26023268	Deadly Agent (Don Pendleton's Mack Bolan : Stony Man)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intriguing action with an original angle!	Germ warfare stories may be all the rage right now, what with Robert Ludlum(RIP)'s COVERT ONE series and also numerous others such as PANDORA'S CLOCK and THE COBRA EVENT, but what I liked best out of this book was the idea of a new Bohemian empire and its stronghold on a leaderless Europe. Czech superbaddie Joseph Ryba also plans to paralyse the US, so that their forces in Europe will be potentially weakened. Once again, MAck Bolan leads Able Team and Phoenix Force, his ultra-secret covert ops teams into action in Prague and also Plzen in the Czech republic to track down the bio-warfare weapons. The pacing and plotting are suitably fast-paced, with some blazing action scenes that would not be out of place in a Matthew Reilly novel actually! Don Pendleton seems to write a book a month - does this guy ever sleep? Overall, predictable but well worth tracking down.	2001-05-27
US	52292684	R3LAJYPRASNB14	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Old, but better than certain recent movies!	When you read this awesome end-of-the-world thriller, you will wonder about how accurate(or farfetched) the movies DEEP IMPACT and ARMAGEDDON(and a few lesser chronic efforts like METEORITES) were. One scientific fact(or rather, speculation) that both movies missed was that if a comet impacted in the ocean as happens in the book, it will rain for months. And the disasters that follow the impact are impressively portrayed here! When a comet is spotted nearing Earth's orbit, the scientists have only a short time to warn the world. Mankind naturally misunderstands. Timothy Hammer is the astronomer who spots the Hammer comet first and its - trajectory, Consequently, NASA launches a spacelab into orbit called the Hammerlab. Post-impact - the combined US-Soviet Hammerlab mission is stranded in space(remember this was written in 1978), survivors form into groups and a feudal system takes precedence in California. The world's geography is affected severely - small snippets tell of the devastation wreaked. I won't say anymore, but that why oh why didn't Hollywood film this book instead of making the other two(plus) movies? This is way more accurate(or rather, best speculative) in its portrayal of man under threat of the end of the world. If you enjoy this, also check out Niven and Pournelle's FOOTFALL.	2001-05-20
US	52292684	R1BOOO3VQHJ7AV	0312266596	559539342	Temple	Books	5	0	2	N	N	One hell of a ride!	WOW! This book is still in the UK bestseller charts, which makes it a breath of fresh air from femi-nazi nonsense like the godawful BRIDGET JONES! In this exciting action-adventure, William RAce, an archaeologist, is called in by US government agencies to decipher an ancient Inca manuscript and search for an idol carved from the rare mineral Thyrium-261. This mineral forms an essential ingredient for a weapon of awesome destructive power . . . which several parties are desperateto get their hands on. The action moves at F-22 fighter speed across South America as our hero Race takes on Neo-Nazi stormtroopers, a doomsday cult and warring factions of the US military in some blazing action scenes involving various military hardware and the latest gadgets. Also, when Race reads the manuscript, you get a swashbuckling adventure that would rival Wilbur Smith's recent epics as we are taken back to the 16th century and the Incas fascination with the Thyrium-carved idol. Never before have I read a novel that is nothing but fast action AND contains an interesting double-plot story to match. Seriously, folks, this would make one hell of a blistering movie. I just hope Matthew Reilly keeps on churning them out. Step back Clive Cussler, a new kid is on the block!	2001-04-16
US	52292684	R3INL4ISX6PB0Q	0312973055	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ludlum scores another winner!	A rather obvious and predictable but very fast-paced and thrilling tale of a deadly virus and an even more sinister conspiracy afoot. When Lt. Col. Jonathan Smith loses his fiancee Sophia Russell to a new Ebola-style bug(how many times has this one been trodden out), he begins his own investigation. Warned by an old school friend(who happens to be in with the bad guys, ominous music burst cue) and tipped off that Siphia was murdered, he vows to tack down her killers. With the help of ex-SAS colonel Peter Howell and Asperger's-syndrome-afflicted Marty Zellenbach who is an ace computer hacker and elctronics genius, his trail leads to Iraq and a secret experiment from Desert Storm involving human guinea pigs and a dormant virus. And how does Victor Tremont, muscling in to control multinational Blanchard Pharmaceuticals, fit in to the conspiracy? It seems that everywhere Jon Smith turns, he is a wanted man - by the FBI, the military and corrupt politicians. Who can he trust? As you read, you will surely guess the ending . . . maybe. The basic character of Smith is obviously plagarised from Joel Converse in Ludlum's earlier classic THE AQUITAINE PROGRESION, and the subject of a doomsday virus may not exactly be original(re:EXECUTIVE ORDERS, PANDORA'S CLOCK and THE COBRA EVENT) but this somehow is such a well-plotted, easy to read book that you cannot help but be intrigued, and does manage to keep the reader hooked in abig way. A great airplane read!	2001-03-20
US	52292684	RBTIME7VD3BHV	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Overall, a great read if somewhat unoriginal	OK, Russia possessing oil and gold, an attempted assassination of their intelligence leader, a Chinese plot to invade Siberia . . . hang on, didn't Eric L. Harry do this one in PROTECT AND DEFEND, as another reviewer quite rightly said? The answer may be yes, but in spite of this gripe, this Clancy monster is well worth a read. There's one thing you all know about Tom Clancy. You either love him or hate him. The regular characters - President Jack Ryan, John Clark(in his RAINBOW SIX guise!), Ed and Mary Pat Foley, Sergey Golovko and the evil genius Chinese leader Zhang Han San, who featured in EXEC ORDERS in a subplot that seemed to go nowhere . . . well now it's finally continued. Right. The multiple plots involve US-Japanese CIA agent Chester Nomuri buying lingerie(no blatant advertising as Clancy did for a whole chapter on where it came from, what it was made of, etc, etc(yawn)) for Zhang's secretary Lian Ming to seduce her - in order to get military secrets? Come on!Even Colin Forbes's cheesy portrayals of Britain's SIS are more plausible than this! Next, trade relations break down between the US and China after the shooting of Vatican archbishops promoting Christianity in China to give the country a new purpose - live on satellite TV(another advert for a news channel in THIS chapter!). China is in crisis. When the oil and gold reserves are learned of, the big shooting war begins. This section alone is enough to warrant this book 4 stars as badly prepared Russian forces and assisted by the US, and the latest in military technology. And the climax, well, that was a winner, but not giving too much away, it would have been more fun if things had worked out differently . . . Not to worry. If you can get over the elephantine narrative, the ultra-right-wing opinions forced down the reader's throat - although Clancy is quite Consitutional, he is entitled to express his views, albeit himself or through the dialogue of a fictional character - the sometimes unintentionally funny satire in the White House scenes with Ryan and Arnie Van Damm(President's advisor) discussing the day's issues(and polar bear rugs and health nazis!), you have a thoroughly entertaining novel. The last 250 pages or so is well worth getting to! Though, of Clancy's recent novels, RAINBOW SIX is preferable. Read all the reviews here and judge for yourself.y funny satire in the White House scenes with Ryan and Arnie Van Damm(President's advisor) discussing the day's issues(and polar bear rugs and health nazis!), you have a thoroughly entertaining novel. The last 250 pages or so is well worth getting to! Though, of Clancy's recent novels, RAINBOW SIX is preferable. Read all the reviews here and judge for yourself.	2001-03-13
US	52292684	R340GCINP5JWYP	0749324813	53258203	Trojan	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If you've never read James Follett, check this out!	James Follett is a British author who has been in print since 1976, writing both sci-fi/futuristic technothrillers and World War 2 dramas such as THOSE IN PERIL and U-700. He also penned THE TIPTOE BOYS, one of the first SAS novels. This book, TROJAN, is just superb. It's an exciting thriller set around the world of nanotechnology and biological computer chip possibilities. Beverly Laine is the heroine of this story, who invents the KRONOS nanochip which revolutionises technology. But when nasty accidents occur when the chips become infected, she launches her own investigations and discovers that billionnaire media tycoon Marshall Tate may be responsible. However, his chain of computerised casinos begins to catch a computer virus and people suddenly win massive amounts unexpectedly! But this is not all . . . what is the significance of a space probe to MArs to retrieve Martian soil samples? What exactly is the nature of the Trojan virus? The plot will keep you guessing! Follett also brings his previous work at the BBC into the plot when he flashes the story back to the 1960s and Marshall Tate's first hand at filmmaking and Beverly's schooldays and a past romance - this part of the plot also charts baddie Marshall Tate's rise to fame well. This was written around 1992, but set in the early 21st century - and Follett has a habit of predicting things as best he can. Digital satellite TV, nanotechnology, the Internet, virtual reality, mobile phones and their increasingly widespread use and even digital speed cameras to catch dangerous drivers are featured, one wonders whether in years to come Follett will be looked upon as another George Orwell. Anyway, don't miss this exciting and very prophetic and original novel. If you like this one also check out DOMINATOR and SABRE by the same author.	2001-02-18
US	52292684	RW1504JV54Q1T	0333765494	956551498	This United State	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Rather silly but it does keep you reading!	In Colin Forbes's 25th novel, Britain's best MI6 secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman are back, along with regular characters such as marksman Marler and heavies Butler and Nield. In the opening pages, the director of the CIA, Cord Dillon, is saved from a bullet by Paula Grey. The Prime Minister is assassinated by a mystery sniper known only to MI6 as The Phantom(oh dear, mediocre nickname!). Then chaos reigns in London as terrorist bombs explode at power stations, department stores and in Oxford Street. Who are the protagonists? The action moves from the UK and the county of Kent across Europe to Switzerland and Germany's Black Forest, where the good guys discover a frightening conspiracy so audacious it seems only a miracle will prevent it . . . and why is Tweed faced with open hostility at the US Embassy while investigating the attempt on Cord Dillon's Life? Read on and you will find out! Top US diplomat Werner Morgenstern and also Sharon Mandeville, a woman of mystery with connections high up in thw White House seem to know more than they let on. The story takes on a dramatic twist as Morgenstern presents Tweed with an additional conspiracy theory: the US is planning to incorporate Britain into its own system as its 51st state. Hmmm. Overall, in spite of a blatant anti-American stance in parts which may seem inappropriate now, this book is still worth a read due to an intriguing plot(if somewhat unoriginal in places, borrowed in part from Robert Ludlum's THE PARSIFAL MOSIAC with its high-up-in-the-White-House corruptibles), a fast paced narrative, well researched locations and all the regular characters drinking plenty of champagne and staying in the best hotels as ever! Good old Colin Forbes!	2001-01-31
US	52292684	R2BKX760R1670H	067178546X	814935595	Blue Gold : A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A big welcome back to Kurt and Joe!	In this entertaining second entry in the NUMA Files/Kurt Austin new series by Cussler and Kemprecos, mankind faces a huge threat in the shape of a mutli-billion dollar organisation, Gogstad, who are planning to dominate the world's fresh water supply and ultimately the world. At the start of the book, a plane crashes in the Venezuelan rainforest and Francesca Cabral, inventor of a unique desalination techinque(turning sea water into fresh water) is taken in by a tribe of Chulo Indians. Then, ten years later she is discovered later by NUMA archaeologists Paul and Gamay Trout, who are investigating bio-pirates intent on stealing rare species of plants. Meanwhile, our new NUMA hero Kurt Austin and sidekick Joe Zavala are investigating Gogstad's water purification facility in Mexico when a bomb nearly destroys their submarine mission. Suspecting the facility is killing off rare whales, their trail soon leads them to Alaska and the sinister intrigue of post World War 2 black operations involving a rare atomic substance, and ultimately Lake Tahoe. Can they stop Gogstad from dominating the world and piece all the clues together? We will surely know the outcome(or will we?!), but this winner from Cussler just moves along so well that I never cared - the journey there is part of the fun of reading his books. Cussler features it all - powerboat racing, environmental issues, escaping from certain death, a suitably James Bond style baddie, interesting and well researched locations and a fast pace with simple prose. Plus tons of action and wisecracking humour help to pull it along nicely. In other words, it is well worth the money and one you'll want to re-read again and again. Don't miss it!	2001-01-11
US	52292684	R3DJA1W3XMOFHB	0883491184	330251361	Sam 7	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Could this happen one day?!	If you can track this novel down, then it comes highly recommended. Richard Cox has researched the subject matter well as regards technicalities, how the emergency services cope with a disaster like in this book and locations. THe story is of a fanatical group of Arab terrorists, Abu Youssouf 7, who are on the trail of Israeli diplomat Ben Maier, who is returning to the States with important documents carrying details of a proposed Middle East peace process. In order to stop him, they shoot down the plane he is travelling on, a DC-10 - as it is flying over London on its final approach to Heathrow. The terrorists use SAM-7 missile launchers, shoulder-fired, hence the book's title. The strike hits the DC10, which plummets out of control, crashing down on London's Victoria railway station, causing massive destruction and loss of life. The story focuses then on police commander Robert Thompson, fire chief Mick Melville and air crash investigator Jim Donaldson who strive to bring the disaster under control and find out the truth behind the crash before the wrong people(i.e pilots) are implicated. Although this was written in 1977 and much of Victoria station and its surroundings have slightly changed, the disaster portrayed is something that could still happen. Altogether, an exciting and highly dramatic read! I dare you to read whilst flying . . . definitely not a plane read!	2001-01-07
US	52292684	R1TY1JZG9O9TAM	0333732219	370270317	The Sisterhood (Macmillan UK Audio Books)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fantastic Forbes!	They're back again! England's top SIS agents Tweed, Paula Grey and international foreign correspondent Bob Newman, along with ace sniper MArler and heavies Butler and Nield are facing a dangerous threat. Europe is under attack as various high ranking politicians seriously concerned with the lack of leadership and military spending in Europe are being taken out one by one. Tweed is on the list. Paula is almost kidnapped by Arab fundamentalists in Vienna. In Slovakia, Arab leader Hassan has made his residence and is planning a major military strike. Tanks and mechanised infantry are massing in Iraq. Tweed and his crew head for Geneva and then Austria on the train of HAssan and his professional female assassins, known as the Sisterhood. Not only that, one Emilio Vitorelli suspects English redhead Tina Langley is responsible for the death of his wife and is out for revenge, but just who can Tweed trust? Can they save Europe again?! Once again, Colin Forbes has delivered another gem of a novel which will keep you reading and entertained right to the end. Fast pacing, a good, steadily flowing narrative and well-researched locations contribute nicely to the interesting and rather plausible storyline.	2000-12-28
US	52292684	R1I5CNKJHCAKDS	0333669525	940943121	Precipice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	They're back  . . .	Britain's best secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and international foreign  correspondent Bob Newman are back once again. In this 1996 thriller, they are on the trail of billionnaire Leopold Brazil, a communications tycoon. Tweed suspects he has a major world-threatening plan after seeing photographs of a rogue satellite being launched from French Guiana on the Ariane rocket delivery system. Brazil, with a base in Switzerland and a residence in Dorset, England, hides behind heavies and devious lawyers alike. Tweed's trail takes him and his team to Dorset, Geneva, Zurich and also the Swiss Valais canton. Paula Grey is almost kidnapped, and battle erupts on a mountainside when Brazil's plan to disable global communications and bring back Russia as a leading world power gets under way. Can Tweed and co. stop Brazil. You will surely guess the ending . . . or will you? Add to the plot a mystery assassin called the Motorman and Eve Warner, a disgruntled accomplice of Brazil's who nobody can trust and you have a surefire Forbes classic. One of his best of his later novels.	2000-12-09
US	52292684	R2EI5XIF67TGX2	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	1	2	10	N	N	Plug-a-thon	This Deaver book started out nicely, with a massacre in Washington's metro subway system. Puts the reader in the Digger's screwed-up mind well. Enter calligraphy expert PArker Kincaid who seems the only man able to stop the psycho before midnight on New Year's Eve 1999. But also enter his estranged children who insist on plugging toys they had for Christmas in one scene. Then one is described as looking like a SPice Girl'.Then . . . Jeez, Star Wars this and that, Barbie, Mattel, - I gave up on this and threw it against the wall. Sorry Jeffery. THE BONE COLLECTOR and SPEAKING IN TONGUES were far superior and relied more on gripping plotlines than relentless plugging of toys and brand names every other paragraph. And if anyone says that if I think I can write better and should do so myself - I am trying to get published right now and at least I don't have to rely on continual references to TV, movies, actors, toys, brand names as a plot device or to pad out a scene to pander to commericial popularity. There's no need for it. If you're new to Deaver(welcome back from Mars if you're not), then the best place to start is THE BONE COLLECTOR. Avoid this one.	2000-11-19
US	52292684	RBJCIBFH4DES9	0333782348	203247181	Sinister Tide	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Action-packed British thriller with corny dialogue!	Ah, but we love Colin Forbes for this! His books are so entertaining. This is his latest thriller(at least until RHINOCEROS comes out) and is up to his usual standards! The main characters are once again Britain's best MI6 agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman. Along witb ace sniper Marler and also heavies Pete Nield and Harry Butler, they are up against the evil genius Dr Goslar who has perfected a bio-chemical weapon of mass destruction. France, hungry for Euro-domination, wants this weapon, and sends agents of their own after Goslar. America's military is also after it - who will reach Goslar first? Along the way, Paula Grey is kidnapped, a former British Army weapons expert Brigadier Adam Burgoyne helps out - but whose side is he really on? The action of this story takes place in Geneva and also the French town of Annecy. Forbes describes his locations authentically, I have visited Annecy myself when Inter-Railing five years ago and could relate to these parts of the book well. The climax and final twists in the plot are well unexpected too. Add to all this two token ladies also trying to get to Goslar, Serena Cavendish and Judy Warner who Tweed cannot trust and you have a real top potboiler of a novel! In typical Forbes vein, the narrative does contain some unintentionally funny lines. For instance:<br />(p.1) Tweed, talking to a police inspector: 'I told you Roy. Because of the message that came into SIS headquarters in London. From that evil genius, Dr. Goslar!'<br />(p.45) Tweed: 'La Defense? That's the amazing business centre in Paris with incredibly tall buildings.'<br />(p. 341) The main rotor blade struck him just below the jaw, sliced off his head.(poor grammar!) It flew through the air like a melon, a leaking red melon.<br />Not to mention Goslar's mansion called GARGOYLE TOWERS. But it's all great. clean fun. And of course, they all get to stay in the best hotels and drink litres of champagne and wine in between tracking the baddies. Hugely entertaining.ning.	2000-11-18
US	52292684	R1Z5TTY2UXGMPS	0312960344	788305791	Pandora's Clock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just incredible!	Do not miss this extremely suspenseful airborne thriller, written, I must add, by a commercial pilot who knows what he's on about when it comes to flying! The story starts in Germany when an American tourist is acosted by a fugitive from a bioresearch lab. Later, on board Flight 66 from Frankfurt to New York, the tourist dies of a heart attack. But it is later learned that the fugitive was carrying a disease engineered by a germ warfare weapon in an East German lab, and soon enough, several people are ill on the flight fall ill with the deisease which is apparently deadlier than Ebola. The European authorities refuse to let the plane land, even at Mildenhall air base in the UK, and the 747 is rerouted to Keflavik in Iceland where it is kept under guard. One passenger is shot trying to escape. The CIA, under orders from the President, reroute the 747 to Africa and a remote airfield . . . but hang on, this isn't all!  Add to this a rogue CIA officer trying to do a deal with a Middle Eastern terrorist to blow up the plane, a final solution plot to nuke the 747, two FBI agents trying to uncover the truth X-Files style, terrified passengers and a crew doing all they can to overcome their problems which get worse and worse as the odds are stacked higher . . . you have a first rate thriller which I dare you to put down! Anyone who loves thrills in the highest league will love this novel. It was also made into an excellent 2-part TV mini-series which was known as DOOMSDAY VIRUS in the UK - Richard Dean Anderson was perfect in the role of Captain James T. Holland, the story's main character. A must purchase.	2000-10-04
US	52292684	R2PP3UHVHYDOXB	0330307061	954909223	The Greek Key	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Cold War thriller that still piles on the suspense!	In 1944, three British Army Commandos commit a brutal murder in Cairo. Forty-three years later, the crime is still unsolved, save for one detective's obsession with the case. Then in Greece, British MI6 agent Harry Masterson is pushed off a cliff and dies. When the commandos learn of this, they are in a state of terror. The Greek underground communist movement has united with Russian anti-Glasnost followers and use the commandos as a British contact, much to their fear. What is their motive? Russian President Gorbachev is due to meet with Western heads of state in the UK, and it seems that an assassination attempt is threatened. Who can stop the conspiracy? Why, enter Britain's best secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman. Tweed and Paula travel to the county of Somerset in England to investigate the commandos and some grisly murders on isolated hills linked to the wife of one. Newman and the UK's best marksman Marler travel to the Greek island of Siros and also Athens to investigate a secret communist underground hideaway and how it is linked to MAsterson's murder and Gorbachev's potential downfall. The story may seem dated now, but the action and intrigue never stop until an explosive climax in the UK. The locations are well described and created. Siros is fictional, but it brought back memories of our vacaction in Corfu, another real Greek island which Siros is based on in part. And of course, Tweed and Paula get to eat and drink in the best pubs and restaurants! Hugely entertaining.	2000-09-24
US	52292684	R3CUK9BBTAOP5U	0553282093	367620732	The Gemini Contenders: A Novel	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A classic, well-researched and believable!	Vittorio Fontini-Christi is the head of a highly regarded Italian family  who harbours a deadly secret. When a vault from a religious order called  Xenope is transported from Greece to Switzerland and Italy, his secret  could alter the course of World War 2 - a secret which could shake the  foundations of religion itself. From 1939 and on up to 1973(when this book  was written, I should imagine), the feuding offspring of Vittorio - one a  US Army soldier hardened by Vietnam, the other a radical peace campaigner,  struggle to get their hands on the vault - but for what cause? Read on and  you will be hooked. The action sweeps across well-researched European  locations which I have visited and could relate to quite well, especially  Rome and Milan. The action never stops and builds up to an awesome climax  in the Alps. Unlike some of Ludlum's other books, the ending here builds up  at the right pace - not too quickly and it certainly isn't an anti-climax -  the last page will leave you breathless. A must read, and a Ludlum classic.	2000-09-18
US	52292684	R3725QDJF721AT	0002217422	519775177	The Spoilers	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Old hat actioner	Old-fashioned action thriller with one redeeming feature - a character  sharing the same name as me! Pure co-incidence, of course. The Nick Warren  in this book is a top British drug expert who finds himself on the trail of  Iranian smugglers after an entertainment impressario's daughter is found  dead in her own apartment after a heroin overdose, and vows revenge for her  death. An oft-told tale unfortunately still set in the past with an old  fashioned narrative and dialogue(does anyone really say OLD CHAP these  days? Maybe in a Colin Forbes book . . .) which does not quite work now in  print, but would certainly make a decent movie.	2000-09-12
US	52292684	R21PTXTFR3ZW0U	0446603856	632642370	The Enemy Within	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thought-provoking and thrilling!	If you found the recent movie THE SIEGE to be thought-provoking, then give  THE ENEMY WITHIN a read. It opens splendidly with an Arab terrorist attack  on San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge. The President finds evidence that  Iran is involved and launches a cruise missile strike in retaliation.  Colonel Peter Thorn and FBI agent Helen Gray suspect the Iranians are up to  something big some time afterwards - and they are proved right as a series  of terrorist strikes paralyse the US and turn ethnic groups against each  other. A school massacre, an attack on Disneyland, city bombings, airliners  shot down . . . what is the link between Iranian general Taleh and some  Bosnian Muslims and Somalians running amok in the States? And what are  Taleh's real motives? My only criticism is that the ending seemed rather  rushed after an impressive build-up, but the story continues well in DAY OF  WRATH. A real page-turner.	2000-09-12
US	52292684	R2LNOVZLZ15DEX	0425168220	383974610	State of Siege (Tom Clancy's Op-Center, Book 6)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Another abysmal money-spinner	Truly awful How Clancy can put his name on juvenile trash like this, even  now when the material he writes himself is worthy of five stars(i.e RAINBOW  SIX, RED STORM RISING among others) is beyond me. The story might have had  real potential in a proper Clancy novel, with a takeover of the United  Nations. It could have been awesome if thought out intelligently, but is  totally wasted. Renegade 'peacekeepers' turn terrorists(!!) and kidnap a  children's orchestra(!!), start killing the hostages and THEN start  bargaining? Come on! And of course, one of the hostages just happens to be  one of Op Center director Paul Hood's kids! Ho-hum. Crap-Center strikes  again. I could write an entire book about how bad this one is.	2000-09-12
US	52292684	R3I4LKTDGW7AHA	0002218321	464887325	Tramp in Armour	Books	5	1	3	N	N	An early Forbes classic!	Written in 1969, this blistering action thriller is set in 1940 in occupied northern France. Stranded behind German enemy lines, a lone  British Army tank must do whatever it can to reach the Channel port of  Dunkirk and Allied forces. The crew use cunning, force and even help from  an RAF pilot whose Spitfire is downed by a Stuka bomber with a few token  French farmers thrown in for good measure! The action scenes are first rate  and the suspense builds as the German Wehrmacht approach and the tank crew  hides wherever they can. The horrors of war are also well described,  showing how innocent people suffered under the hands of the Nazi invaders.  And Forbes describes the French locations accurately - it is another part  of Europe I have visited. If you enjoyed Harold Coyle's tank warfare  stories such as SWORD POINT and TEAM YANKEE then don't miss this exciting  depiction of WW2 from one tank crew's viewpoint.	2000-09-03
US	52292684	R2E0LMUC612MOX	0553560441	807031892	The Road to Omaha: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Almost as good as The Road to Gandolfo!	The Hawk, aka Colonel Mackenzie Hawkins, or in this outing Big Chief Thunderhead, is back! In this excellent comedy thriller which would also  make a rib-tickling movie, the Hawk. after having inflitrated an Indian  tribe called the Wopotamis, makes a ploy for the Supreme Court by claiming  back the state of Nebraska on behalf of the Wopotamis! How does he manage?  A protocol from 1878 found in a dusty archive. As he hatches his devious  plan, his old adversary is back, Sam Deveraux. With the assistance of  Jennifer Redwing, a Native American, plus his mom, and lawyer Aaron Pinkus,  they do all they can to stop the Hawk once again before he threatens  national security - remember Strategic Air Command is on the land the  Wopotamis want back! And so the hilarity begins. Every character is  loveable, from the bumbling Air Force staff in the Looking Glass plane put  on Wopotami alert to the White House and Congress, which serves as biting  savage political satire. Ludlum proves his versatility once again. Although  I thoroughly enjoyed this one, overall, I did feel it was a bit overlong  and on the whole, GANDOLFO is slightly better. But this still gets a five  star rating due to its arrant sense of wild, madcap humour throughout!	2000-08-30
US	52292684	R1O999PLEQ2ZY1	0345323440	202451186	Footfall	Books	5	6	8	N	N	AWESOME! THIS ROCKS!	THis excellent sci-fi epic makes ID4 look like a children's nativity play!  Although written and firmly set in the 1980s, it is still one hell of a  blinding read even today! Elephant-like aliens(more feasible than  'raygun-wielding cats'(!!??) in the latest STARGATE spin-off book) in  massive spaceships head for Earth where a takeover is planned. As the  aliens attack dams, bridges and other means of communication, and cause  natural disasters and even precipitate nuclear devastation with an  ingenious Soviet plan to rid the world of the Thukthunthp, as they are  known(I think that's how you spell it - the alien vocabulary is pretty  strange!), it is up to the military and sci-fi writers, not to mention  bumbling politicians, to save the day. And the climactic battles are just  stunning! Don't miss this. When you read this, you'll wonder what was so  wonderful about ID4 and THE X-FILES.	2000-08-30
US	52292684	R7DVSRH0B978N	0553579835	306823404	The Matarese Countdown	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Ludlum's back on track - the best of his recent offerings!	A superb and fast-paced sequel to the classic thriller THE MATARESE  CIRCLE! Beowulf Agate, aka Brandon Scofield, retired CIA operative is back,  and so are his arch-enemies the Matarese dynasty who are intent on world  domination. Hmm, isn't this plot a little familiar to regualar Ludlum  readers?! Well, at least it's a winning formula! The Matarese are spreading  their influence into the highest echelons of US government and  intelligence, not to mention massive buyouts of public utilities and  multinationals. What are their real motives though? When various  high-ranking businessmen and lawyers are murdered, Brandon Schofield and  his wife Antonia are called out of retirement by CIA agent CAmeron Pryce to  track the Matarese. But the bad guys are watching their every step and who  can they REALLY trust? The action shifts from the Caribbean to London to  Bahrain, and back to the US as the final showdown is imminent . . .  altogether, forget the bad reviews of this book, at least it's better than  the awful SCORPIO ILLUSION. A thriller as superb as Ludlum's best!	2000-08-30
US	52292684	R3BLL0T2YIHE1	0851402569	452388629	Deluge: A novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What if . . .	. . . London flooded? This exciting disaster novel, written in 1976 before the Thames Barrier was built, explores what could happen! Flood  co-ordinator Derek Thompson tries to warn the authorities and the public  after hearing reports of freak tides and storms in the North Sea, but do  they listen? Yes, you've guessed it, the authorities dally over evacuation  plans. And to top it all, the US President is due to pay London a visit and  Thompson's wife becomes trapped in the Underground as the floods strike in  cataclysmic fashion. A barge strikes a hospital, a power station explodes  and industrial areas burn out of control threatening people trapped in  high-rise housing. Who will live and who will die? A shame this was not  made into a movie! Although us UK readers no longer have to fear such a  disaster taking place because of the barrier, this novel is still worth  reading for excitement and spectacle value.	2000-08-20
US	52292684	R3RBXIJVK9WJZX	0553264303	263772802	The Osterman Weekend: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fast-paced early Ludlum classic!	A great story which concerns Jack Tanner, a TV journalist who is drawn into a CIA plot to uncover the clandestine Soviet OMEGA group. Only one  snag - OMEGA is in his neighbourhood in a small town - and when friend  Bernie Osterman brings his family and friends over for a weekend  get-together - one of them is the OMEGA plant, but which one? Several  unexpected twists and turns along the way which reach fever pitch when  Tanner's family become threatened in many ways! And who is the man giving  the orders? A classic conspiracy thriller which paved the way for several  more that came later, and one could say it inspired the movies ENEMY OF THE  STATE and CONSPIRACY THEORY with its the-bad-guys-are-really-the-government  ideas! THE OSTERMAN WEEKEND was also made into a movie itself in 1983,  which is also well worth tracking down.	2000-08-19
US	52292684	R748KXXIN4KN6	0553260197	668598440	The Holcroft Covenant: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another Ludlum classic!	I've recently found that in all the Robert Ludlum books I've been reading, and in some cases re-reading after several years, that his early work is by  far his best. If you're new to this author, this is a good starting point -  and this plot was re-used in part for his later effort THE APOCALYPSE  WATCH, also worth checking out. This riveting story which has almost come  true concerns a vast fortune left in a Swiss bank account by Hitler's aides  for the SONNENKINDER project, a plan to start a Fourth Reich and take over  the world. Sounds familiar? One of the earlier inspirations for many more  novels of this nature, including Clive Cussler's ATLANTIS FOUND in part!  Noel Holcroft, one of the Sonnenkinder, must use every trick and desperate  measure in the book(no pun intended) to get his hands on the fortune to  prevent the Fourth Reich getting their way. Along the way, he finds that he  cannot trust anybody he comes into contact with as his trail leads him to  Brazil, Switzerland and England. As usual, Ludlum never fails to surprise  the reader - who is really the professional assassin TINAMOU? The answer  does not come until near the end, which is a surprise in itself! Overall, a  very fine read!	2000-08-19
US	52292684	R2HXBV3Q3CD19J	0553271091	107272816	The Road to Gandolfo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extremely entertaining if you like something different!	Originally published under the pseudonym MICHAEL SHEPHERD until Robert Ludlum became well-known, this story concerns a disgraced general Mackenzie Hawkins, aka THE HAWK, who is kicked out of the Army for defacing a  national monument in Peking, and also exercising his bodily functions in an  inappropriate location! I won't say any more . . . Anyway, he sets up a  business and hatches an audacious plan to kidnap the Pope and hold him to  ransom - for a dollar from every Catholic in the world! Not only that, his  adversary Sam Devereaux is on his tail - and the Hawk's ex-wives are after  Sam across Europe, America and Africa! And when the kidnap goes wrong, the  results are hilarious. I won't say any more but you just have got to read  this, you will not be disappointed! Intrigue and action combine oddly and  well with satire, wit and farcical humour.	2000-07-31
US	52292684	RCO6Z6XBOMJCX	0385197780	501995600	Dominator	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well worth tracking down!	This excellent thriller was written in 1984 and set in an imagined future(say the 1990s had the Soviet Union not disbanded and the Gulf War not broken out), but is still well worth a read! Neil O'Hara is an  astronaut living on the edge. He is blamed for killing a shuttle crew  member in space, the widow tries to seduce him, his marriage is on the  rocks and his debt problem is getting worse. Then he is offered a job by  one Colonel Heinlein of the Israeli Defence Force to resurrect a satellite  project. But what are Heinlein's real motives? Meanwhile, the Middle East  erupts in war as the PLO and Israel duke it out with high-tech fighters  over the Mediterranean. Faced with the possibility of all-out nuclear war,  who can save the Middle East, and unltmately the world? What is the NASA  shuttle DOMINATOR really carrying in its payload? Can O'Hara save the day?  Before you think you can guess the ending, think again! Not quite what you  expect! Overall, great thriller writing with some interesting visions of  the future for its time.	2000-07-31
US	52292684	R1NU9WCBTG8243	0553566032	802019544	The Scorpio Illusion: A Novel	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Disappointing	Started out well setting up the characters of Tyrell Hawthorne and Amaya Bajaratt pursuing one another around the Caribbean. A potentially good story then falls flat with overlong narrative which makes the readers out  to be stupid. Ludlum here instead on concentrating on the main two players  throws in an over complex narrative with subplots that just seem to go  nowhere and distract the reader. The military element in the book is also  poorly researched. Supposedly tailor-made for the 1990s, it belongs in the  1970s - an era when Ludlum was writing his best material. And then he also  falls for the trap of awful dialogue -overuse of the words 'darling' and  'my love' like a dime-store pulp romance for bored housewives! Cringe. Let  us not forget the other cliche - constant references to TV, actors,  personalities to bring out a characterisation or plot device. If you're new  to Ludlum, avoid this one. Read THE MATARESE CIRCLE or THE BOURNE IDENTITY  first.	2000-07-29
US	52292684	RST9YL7YRS9SQ	1567406734	227796156	Stargate Resistance (Stargate Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Action-packed spin-off ideal for beach reading	If you loved the movie STARGATE and also the SG-1 TV series, then give this a go. This was the first time I'd read any of the STARGATE novels, and for a TV/film tie-in product of sorts this is very good reading. I picked  up a copy of the paperback whilst on vacation in Barbados and had a whale  of a time reading it whilst relaxing on the beach. The story is one where  Colonel O'Neil and Daniel Jackson lead the refugees from Abydos to a new  world when theirs is attacked. But on the new world, there's a deadlier  enemy - RAYGUN-WIELDING CATS!  Yes that really was in the narrative which  is sometimes as unintentionally funny as a grade-B sci-fi flick! The  cat-like aliens are intent on a takeover, so it's up to O'Neil and his  Marine Expeditionary Units to save the Abydans again. Great military action  scenes, an archaelogical dig in Saudi Arabia subplot discovering alien  artifacts and some interesting characters help to pull it along nicely.  It'll tend to my SG-1 withdrawal symptoms until the new series hits the  UK.(well, there's always the reruns . . .)	2000-07-29
US	52292684	RAZRMJ0JZGF7B	0451198794	871129180	The Kill Box	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This technothriller rocks	A timely and thrilling story which revolves around Iraq's plans, or more precisely Odai Hussein acting against the wishes of father Saddam, developing biological weapons of devastating effect. Who can stop him?  Enter the CIA's black ops specialists at a secret base in the Tigris  valley, an ace F-15E pilot and his weapons officer Killer, Aria, a  half-British, half-Kurdish spy who must get to Hussein to learn of the  weapons manufacturing plant that Saddam prohibits the UN from entering at  the start of the story and a squadron of B-1 bombers who are the last line  of defence. THis collection are up against Hussein and his terrorists who  down Air Force One, then proceed to carry out a plan which could devastate  the US! Who will save the day? The outcome isn't so obvious as you think,  there's some interesting twists towards the end! I read this one in less  than a day, and can safely say it has everything - easy reading narrative  with all technical detail descriptions adopting the KISS approach(that's  keep it simple stupid), well-researched locations and well-crafted  characters and suspense. Enough flying sequences as well to keep fans of  Dale Brown happy until his next one's out!	2000-07-19
US	52292684	R1KW0UTMEZJWSU	0553569570	505552332	The Apocalypse Watch	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Exciting espionage adventure on a well-used subject!	Ludlum is back. Once again, an evil group of former military and industrialists is planning to reshape the world - now who is the protagonist THIS time? Hmmm. Anyway, this is a cracking thriller in the  usual Ludlum mould. You'll either love this or hate this, judging by the  other review I've read. I loved it, in spite of a few inaccuracies in some  of the German grammar(it's Ihrer MAnn and not Ihr Mann, to pick but a few)  and military procedures. But then again there's poetic license. In this  book, Harry Latham, a Consular Operations agent, has infiltrated a neo-Nazi  base and stumbled upon a plan of diabolical proportions. He undergoes  neurosurgery and becomes one of them, then returns to Paris where neo-NAzis  are infiltrating the FRench government. When he is murdered, his brother  Drew is ordered to assume HArry's identity and seek revenge on his death.  Along the way there's plenty of plot twists and sticky situations for Drew  and his love interest KArin de Vries to get out of. And is her husband  really dead?  What secret is being held from the world by the Fourth Reich?  What exactly is OPeration Water Lightening? Read and find out, you won't  regret it. Mainly exciting and page-turning, but sometimes predictacle  reading that requires no thought. On the whole, if you're new to Ludlum,  try THE MATARESE CIRCLE and THE BOURNE IDENTITY first and then read this  one.	2000-07-17
US	52292684	R3RBDJYZ5D6RQF	0330240234	125646252	Target 5	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting variation on an oft-told Cold War story	Keith Beaumont, an ace British Arctic troubleshooter and scientific expert  is despatched to research base Target-5 on the icepack near Greenland to  intercept a Soviet defector named Gorov who is carrying secret documents  detailing a submarine defence network. The contents could upset the balance  of world power, as these stories dictate, so when Beaumont and Gorov are  tailed by Soviet airborne assault troops, they must head towards the edge  of the ice pack in a perilous journey. This is a short but thrilling  novel  firmly set in the 1970s, the action scenes will satisfy even the most  undemanding of adventure fans and a point of interest, this Colin Forbes  classic proves there was much life in his writing before he created his  British superspies Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman. Well worth checking  out.	2000-07-09
US	52292684	R25BDSAKPJENX3	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Power-packed sequel!	Jason Bourne is back, this time his life and recovery process from his memory loss in THE BOURNE IDENTITY is disrupted when the Chinese vice-premier is assassinated in Kowloon, and Bourne is indicted for his  murder. Then his wife Marie is kidnapped and taken against her will to Hong  Kong. Bourne travels out there, seeking help from Britain's MI6 and  assorted Asian and American agents, and discovers a Triad plot to  destabilise the Far East! In the process, he takes down several bad guys  with his martial arts skills and the best in firearms from a Hong Kong  dealer(a bit like Marler in a Colin Forbes book actually - he knows where  to buy guns secretly!), and then Marie escapes of her own accord! Can they  reunite? The trail eads Bourne to Beijing and more lethal encounters with  baddie Sheng's henchmen, and the final climax detonates in Hong Kong,  literally! This 700 page superthriller is one I could not put down, it is  just as well-paced and action packed as the first BOURNE book. Now to read  THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM!	2000-07-07
US	52292684	R2LDDRD3KY15KM	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Classic vintage Ludlum!	WOW! Even today, this novel is one you will not be able to put down, even though it was written in 1980 during the Cold War era. But this only reflects slightly on the narrative. The story concerns Jason Bourne, who is  shot and thrown overboard in the Mediterranean Sea, only to be washed  ashore and discovered by a Dr Washburn. And this is only the start - he is  suffering amnesia and Washburn finds a microfilm detailing a Swiss bank  account of four million dollars surgically implanted in his hip! Bourne  travels to Zurich and discovers people out to kill him, and so let the  chase begin! Marie St Jacques is an unwilling hostage who develops a bond  with Bourne - she's a Canadian diplomat with a secret. What is the secret  as well of Treadstone Seventy-One, and why are the authorities trying to  use Bourne as a pawn against Carlos Sanchez, famous assassin  extraordinaire? The action does not stop for over five hundred pages, it  grabs you from the start and never lets go until the final pages. Very  typically, there are numerous surprises and unexpected twists - what is  Bourne's connection with clandestine activity during the Vietnam War which  keeps haunting him, stirring up lost memories? The locations, particularly  Paris and its environs and Zurich are well-described and easy to relate to  having been there myself. I remember reading and loving this book at the  age of fifteen, and it will always be an all-time favourite. Recommended!	2000-06-30
US	52292684	R2GLDHRW9V76C2	0553278002	11068773	The Icarus Agenda	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Extremely good but a trifle overlong	ICARUS AGENDA has all the hallmarks of a typical Robert Ludlum thriller - suspense, mystery, surprises around the corner, memorable characters and well-researched locales - also, the elephantine narrative which in this  case unfortunately seems to go nowhere, particularly in the midsection.  Hence a 4 star rating. However, the book's finer points are many. The story  concerns Evan Kendrick, a quiet, mild-mannered Congressman who becomes an  unlikely hero when over two hundred hostages are held by Islamic terrorists  at the US Embassy in Muscat(spelt MASQAT in the book), Sultanate of Oman.  Kendrick dares to avert the crisis by using his work experience in the  Middle East and the deaths of several of his employees as a platform for  vengeance against the Arab terrorists. He infiltrates an Omani prison to  gather information, but when he is hailed a hero for bringing the hostage  situation to an end, Israeli Mossad agents seek revenge as his intervention  has prevented their rescue of a Mossad agent, Ben-Ami, who holds a secret.  Someone is controlling both sets of terrorists, and who is the Mahdi? One  year after the Oman affair, Kendrick's life is shattered again as the Arabs  come after him, corruption in the White House and CIA is rife as his past  is revealed, then his home is attacked. Events lead to a massive arms  dealing ring. Can Kendrick save the day in 808 pages time!  This Ludlum  monster is well worth a read, but I'm surprised his editor didn't do any  more cutting and editing, in my view. A lot of the political White House  talkative scenes could have been cut down . . . obviously Ludlum's not  renowned for the KISS(keep it simple stupid) approach! So, summing up, a  great and susupenseful(in most parts) read, but if you're new to Ludlum,  THE AQUITAINE PROGRESSION or MATARESE CIRCLE are the best ones to read  first.<br />Nick Warren.	2000-06-22
US	52292684	R1GAFLJW20UYNB	0515127361	462334046	Typhoon Season (Carrier, No. 14)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Storming! If you'll excuse the wordplay!	This was the first I'd read in the CARRIER series, and I will be definitely ordering the rest as soon as I can! An easily understandable and technical so as to be enjoyed by even non-military readers, this action  adventure is full of non stop military action. When a yacht carrying  industrialists and an arms billionaire is attacked by Chinese naval forces  outside Hong Kong, the USS Thomas Jefferson and escort vessels are sent in.  Hmm, so that's where Patrick Robinson got the name from for NIMITZ CLASS!  Ha ha. Anyway, as tensions escalate and Chinese and US fighter pilots do  battle over the South Chnia Sea, there's more trouble brewing. Admiral  McGruder is taken hostage by Chinese forces and discovers a horrifying  secret behind a new aerial drone project. A typhoon is heading for the  JEFFERSON, which is attacked by Chinese gunboats armed with a variety of  weapons. WHo will win through? Read this exciting yarn and you'll be  hooked.	2000-06-14
US	52292684	R2GSOSB11YVOC8	0330248170	169845413	The Stone Leopard	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the better spy thrillers of the 1970s	A top-notch espionage mystery very typical of Colin Forbes, whose plots keep one guessing until the very end as to the answers and outcomes of well-crafted characters. Set and written in 1975, an original idea is the  focus for THE STONE LEOPARD. France is about to change its political  leanings from NATO to Warsaw Pact. Guy Florian, the new French President  lashes out at the 'Americanisation' of Europe and pledges loyalty to the  eastern bloc. The French defence minister Alain Blanc is planning to oust  him from power, but as Marc Grelle, the Prefect of Police in Paris  investigates, he discovers something far more dangerous is afoot. A hostile  naval task force reaches the Mediterranean, heading towards France and  Spain. What is the significance of the LEOPARD, a World War 2 Resistance  leader rumoured dead but still apparently alive? Inside all of this, Grelle  discovers a conspiracy worse than Florian's political leanings which could  destabilise Europe as we know it. The climax detonates well as events race  to their final conclusion. If you can track down a copy, this is well worth  the read.	2000-06-13
US	52292684	RENNHMZFC7SY0	0553262564	29300416	The Aquitaine Progression: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A thriller classic!	Lawyer Joel Converse is a wanted man all across Europe . . . after witnessing an old friend being brutally gunned down in Geneva, he stumbles upon a terrifying conspiracy called AQUITAINE. This, according to the  narrative, is a power wielded by fanatical military generals dating back to  World War 2 who are hell bent on creating a new world order through  triggering destabilisation and anarchy, then instant reform into a police  state. Hang on . . . didn't this form the plot in part for Eric L Harry's  PROTECT AND DEFEND, which came over 14 years later than AQUITAINE!  Still,  even now, AQUITAINE is a breathtaking and realistic page-turner suitable  for those long haul flights to your vacation! As Converse becomes the  victim of a monumental frame-up, the trail leads to Germany and Holland  where soldiers of Aquitaine are watching every step he takes. Will Converse  succeed, and just who in the world can he trust? Not the authorities, and  not Aquitaine, so he must resort to desperate measures. Although this novel  is well over 800 pages long, it will hold your attention from beginning  until the end with first-rate action, suspense, well-researched European  locations,and of course, many unexpected twists and turns along the way  which add to the interest. Highly recommended and hard to fault.	2000-06-12
US	52292684	R2NSZ8M8K1GQE9	0330294563	343399566	Cover Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very typical 1980s Cold War classic!	When international foreign correspondent Bob Newman is shown a film sent to Britain's MI6 from the KGB of his wife Alexis being brutally murdered, he sets out to track down her killers. As he is not authorised by his MI6  bosses to do so, special agent Tweed must track him down. But what is the  mysterious secret behind Adam Procane, a CIA spook defecting to the East  with space weapons data in the upcoming months to the re-election of  Reagan(this book was written in 1984, by the way). And what is Procane's  link to the murder of Alexis? The trail leads Newman and Tweed across  Europe to Sweden and Finland, also Estonia where events lead to a showdown,  and all is revealed - or will it be? This is a very typical but much more  realistic early Colin Forbes entry in his TWEED series. The characters are  well-developed, the dialogue is not so cheesy as his later ones(i.e. THE  CAULDRON and FURY - see said reviews) and as ever, the pacing and the  intrigue is very engrossing. Not to mention the authentic European  locations and an overall easy-to-read narrative. This one is a Cold War  thriller that still packs a punch. Enjoy.	2000-06-12
US	52292684	RYME9GB8IN2CE	0061056871	546702726	Independence Day	Books	5	1	2	N	N	For sheer entertainment value . . .	. . . and a great mind candy beach read for those lazy days on vacation, strap yourself in and prepare for impact! With scenes not in the movie(or will they be in the special edition DVD out soon?) the novelisation of the  excellent alien invasion disaster epic is surprisingly well done for this  type of spin-off. Stephen Molstad transposes the film characters into print  very well in a cinematic style yet painting a more human picture of a  cardboard character in places!  This novel is also a good introduction for  young adults to the world of'adult'fiction, in my view. Great if you want a  good, easy-reading book with a bit of dramatic impact, also check out  SILENT ZONE, an interesting prequel.	2000-06-12
US	52292684	R1L8M2ZMZ40MIJ	0061058270	733346387	Silent Zone (Independence Day)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great time-filler!	This interpretation of the Roswell incident and Area 51 according to the characters in INDEPENDENCE DAY is extremely entertaining. The story charts the progress from college to Area 51 of Dr Brackish Okun, the longhair  hippie throwback scientist from the movie. As his work into alien existence  becomes more classified, he discovers the link between alien abductions and  the forthcoming ID4 invasion. Some of the descriptions of the alien  abductions are surprisingly plausible. Although this spin-off is not as  technologically advanced as Rober Doherty's AREA 51 series, it is still  well worth a read.	2000-06-12
US	52292684	R2IJC2ZRSSLYFL	0425171914	657430764	Net Force 07: Cyberspy	Books	1	8	22	N	N	Truly terrible - I'd rather watch the movie MYSTERY MEN	And this awful spin-off which Clancy has the audacity to put his name to makes the above movie worthy of Oscars. Don't get me wrong, Tom Clancy, when he actually writes his proper novels is capable of producing a real  modern classic(RED STORM RISING). How he can be involved with such garbage  such as these NET FORCE spin offs means one thing - alimony! Never mind.  Kids buy this junk, Clancy makes money by using his name on the cover. At  least POLITIKA had soem good ideas . . .If I was a publisher this would go  in the slush pile/rejection bin. Childish, pedantic narrative, a daft plot  right out of an episode of STAR TREK, too many references to TV, actors and  so on to enhance a character study or action scene. Terrible. How does this  get into print? T.C., how can you! I'm holding on for THE BEAR AND THE  DRAGON.	2000-05-22
US	52292684	R3E2B6EBSCJ2PV	0553252704	634457066	The Parsifal Mosaic: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly original and contains many surprises!	This is another classic Robert Ludlum thriller with all his hallmarks - unexpected twists, flashes of imagination, action and suspense and well-researched characters, locations and politics! IN this one, Michael  Havelock, a former CIA/VKR(Russian special intelligence) double agent  witnesses his girlfriend Jenna Karras murdered on Spain's Costa Brava. Then  some time later, on a field assignment in Rome, he spots her at a railway  station and decides impulsively and obsessively to track her down. The  trail leads to France and a secret airbase near the Italian border where he  sees Jenna again in the hands of some cold-blooded terrorists. His search  reaches the US where a top-secret government operation is forming that  could change the balance of world power as we know it for ever . . . who is  behind this operation? Often very similar to THE POWER and THIS UNITED  STATE by Colin Forbes, the villain is surprising . . .and who is the  manipulative PARSIFAL character, the final piece in the jigsaw puzzle, or  mosiac if you will!  Well worth reading, but be warned, it is very long!  But hard to fault!	2000-05-19
US	52292684	R17HVJO6VDVV3D	044922287X	643670371	Black Blade	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Well done Lustbader! Another book that seriously rocks!	Wolf Matheson, a NYPD homicide detective investigates the murder of a billionnaire who dies in bizarre circumstances. Sooner rather than later, he is up against corrupt fellow officers and discovers that the body found  is the tip of the iceberg. In Japan, the Black Blade Society, a kind of  Yakuza-style organisation has the very latest in neural-net computers  called The Hive planning their greatest operation yet. In Washington, a  clandestine agency is conspiring to destroy Japan's abilities as an  economic world power. Add these three elements together, throw in Wolf's  love interest Chika, a Japanese girl who leads him to the Black Blade  Society and helps him rediscover an ability he was taught by his Native  American family in order to fight the bad guys. Like THE NINJA and all the  other novels in that series, BLACK BLADE has all the necessary ingredients  of a Lustbader classic - action, suspense, Oriental mysticism, sizzling sex  scenes and martial arts combat scenes put well into print. Overall, a must  purchase!	2000-05-18
US	52292684	R2724G13OTUJDS	0330303112	113349331	Deadlock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fast-paced read with many unexpected twists	Colin Forbes's favourite spies, England's finest, Tweed, Paula Grey(in her debut field assignment) and international foreign correspondent Bob Newman are hot on the trail of a former Russian strategic warfare planner who has  in his possession Triton Three, the most powerful non-nuclear explosive in  the world. What is his target? Who is the mysterious sniper called The Monk  and whose side is he really on? The trail leads Tweed and co. to  Switzerland, France, Luxembourg, Belgium and a showdown at Rotterdam. The  locations are once again well-researched, Forbes always visits them to get  a good atmosphere and fire up his imagination! The action as well never  stops, and the storytelling and prose is kept simple so it will appeal to a  wide variety of readers. Which, along with memorable characters, shows why  he is extremely popular. If you can track down a copy of DEADLOCK, get it -  it is one of the best terrorist thrillers ever!	2000-05-14
US	52292684	R9AS6IG3XK0VM	033028813X	567232062	Terminal	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A thriller with originality!	In Switzerland, a pharmaceutical company is conducting experiments on human guinea-pigs who are terminally ill. One escapes to tell the world of the Swiss military's best kept secret and soon enough, British secret  agents Tweed and Bob Newman are on the case, cheating death, escaping from  their enemies on Swiss trains and staying in the best hotels and drinking  litres of champagne and coffee! Ah, but Forbes's books are fun in this  respect. What is the secret project of the Swiss army, or rather a renegade  battalion who is guarding the Berne Clinic? When Tweed finds out, the  results could change the stability of western Europe for good . . . read  on! Interesting Swiss locations, non-stop action(and champagne drinking)  and an easy-reading storyline very typical of this fine British writer! Not  to be missed.	2000-05-14
US	52292684	R1UQHM7F5VAXP	0330322419	649753867	Cross of Fire	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another great entry in a terrific series!	France is in crisis. A right-wing general with leanings towards neo-Nazism is calling on the French people to rise up against immigrants. Rioting breaks out in cities, but is it really what it seems? Is someone  engineering the crisis to change French leadership? Then to top it all, the  French President and his ministers are killed when their TGV train is  firebombed on a bridge and plunges into an abyss. Who can save France, and  ultimately the stability of Europe? Rene Lasalle, head of French  counterespionage sends for Britain's best SIS agents Tweed, Paula Grey and  international foreign correspondent Bob Newman, along with trusty rifleman  Marler. Can they stop the general in time before tanks roll on Paris armed  with chemical artillery? Who is the mysterious assassin Manteau, who is  blackmailing the general into paying him extortionate sums for carrying out  orders? This book is a real page-turner! And of course, Tweed and his  motley crew get to drink loads of wine and champagne in between drawing  their enemies out into the open and cheating death! This is what makes a  Colin Forbes novel worthwhile. Don't miss this one!	2000-05-11
US	52292684	R77YUUHNPB1N2	0330267698	128172933	The Stockholm Syndicate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very original espionage mystery!	And a Colin Forbes novel which does not feature Tweed and co., like his other entertaining books in that series. Jules Beaurain is the leader of TELESCOPE, an unofficial anti-terrorist squad which is illegal but tolerated - they have overpowered everyone from bank robbers to nuclear  terrorists! But they may be facing their most deadly enemy - the SYNDICATE  of the book's title, who are spreading their influence into the highest  reaches of power, including the White House, by using one Litov, a top  Soviet agent. As both sides outwit each other across Europe, the net closes  in . . . This novel, despite being written in 1982, is still a thrilling  adventure even today. The action never stops after a bit of a false start,  and Colin Forbes demonstrates that he visits the locations featured by  describing them so well. Denmark and Belgium are countries I have visited  and could relate to those parts in particular. One of his best reads.	2000-05-02
US	52292684	RAPVUPC176YBU	0333641973	148075361	The Fury	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Colin Forbes's very best!	Yes, they're back again! It's Britain's finest secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman(famous international correspondent) who are this time on the trail of a billionaire tycoon called Gabriel March Walvis, who plans  to flood Europe with Project Tidal Wave. And before you think of natural  disasters, read on further, it's not quite as predictable as that! The  trail takes Tweed and his merry men(and women)from southern England to  Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic where they are confronted with a  motley crew of female assassins. Not only that, Philip Cardon, whose wife  dies in hospital at the start of the book, is also on Walvis's trail out  for revenge. And Britain's ace sniper Marler can get any arms he wants at a  price to help out agents along, of course! This is an action-packed,  dramatic thriller with well-described locations and sudden and unexpected  twists at every available opportunity. The narrative does contain some  amusing dialogue, for instance:<br />(p.186: 'I've ordered several bottles of  champagne,' Tweed said casually.  'Champers! Goody-goody,' Paula  enthused.<br />Somehow I don't think people talk like that these days!  Also:<br />'A nasty little man pretending to be a police officer goes round  the reception desks of all the hotels. His identity card must be forged.  Par for the course.'<br />Someone who likes to state the obvious! But these  unintentionally funny lines liven Forbes's books up no end. Highly  recommended.	2000-05-02
US	52292684	R3SC6HU21HUGTW	031220521X	896256339	Cuba	Books	5	2	3	N	N	WELCOME BACK JAKE GRAFTON AND CO.!	Stephen Coonts's latest work is on a level with his earlier Jake Grafton novels! In other words, superb, exciting and very well researched. Rear Admiral Grafton is commanding the USS UNITED STATES CVBG on a mission to retrieve chemical and biological warfare from Cuba, which was left over  from forty years previously. However, Cuba's Minister of Security, Alejo  Vargas, has paid the military to upgrade the remaining SCUD missiles and  arm them with a deadly polio virus. Fidel Castro dies of cancer, his  successor Hector Sedano, an ardent anti-communist is thrown into prison and  the missiles are targeted at the US. Can Grafton stop Vargas in time? Not  only that, there's a subplot of Cuban baseball star El Ocho fleeing the  country in an overloaded boat of refugees which meets with disaster. The  military action, involving an assortment of aircraft and the V-22 Osprey  tilt-rotor(one of Dale Brown's favourite mechanical characters!) and naval  destroyers is well staged with thoughful strategy, all the familiar  characters are there - Toad Tarkington, Rita Moravia and Jake - and the  Washington scenes where an incompetent President has to succumb to military  thinking are just about right and not too drawn out, unlike Clancy's EXEC  ORDERS and DEBT OF HONOUR with too much unnecessary detail. Coonts, as  ever, has got writing down to a fine art, and you'd be a fool not to miss  this stunning novel. Hard to fault.	2000-05-02
US	52292684	R3OGHH458IPXOX	0440234948	418441479	Area 51: The Sphinx	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This latest instalment is even better than the predecessors!	And man, there's plenty of action and astounding questions about alien existence! In this fantastic new Area 51 instalment, aliens hijack STAR WARS technology and the USA is under a grave threat. Easter Island's guardian computer holds the US Navy hostage as microrobots take over the  USS GEORGE WASHINGTON(see, carrier battle groups do have their  weaknesses!). In Africa and China, archaeologists locate links between  ancient folklore and the aliens' existence. But it seems that the key to  the whole thing is hidden underneath the Sphinx on Egypt's Giza plateau.  Can ongoing heroes Mike Turcotte, SPECFOR operative and scientist Lisa  Duncan find out more and save the US from nuclear Armageddon at the hands  of the renegade aliens? Just when you think you know the end . . . what,  nothing more until 2001? NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! But it was a brilliant  continuation in a first-rate series! Unputdownable.	2000-04-25
US	52292684	R2CC933GVLEIG0	0451409086	855676768	Threat Vector	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dear Amazon, do you have a twenty star rating!	WOW! This excellent new outing from Michael diMercurio was well worth waiting for! Set around the year 2018, this new thriller tells of a  billion-dollar consulting company called Da Vinci Enterprises who free old  villain(from VOYAGE OF THE DEVILFISH) Alex Novskoyy from his Siberian  prison to design and command the Vepr, the latest supersub for he Ukraine  navy, who are also offering themselves for sale to Uruguay to help them  fight the Argentinians. Novskoyy and assorted crewmen aim to disrupt world  shipping trades, i.e. Saudi oil from the Persian Gulf. In order to do this,  they launch an attack on a cruise ship carrying the US Navy's top officers  and several escorts.  Who can stop the old enemy? Why, the silent  service! Enter the USS DEVILFISH SSNX and the USS VIRGINIA NSSN, the latest  subs and the crew and technology to match! DiMercurio just keeps improving  his narrative and his ideas are broadening within his stories. IN THREAT  VECTOR, there's futuristic technology that may not be far away from  reality, for example the 3D projections and acoustic daylight imaging. Not  to mention the variety of missiles that might be carried in the vertical  launch tubes! But sometimes things do not work as planned . . . The  characters, particularly Kelly McKee, are almost so life-like they could be  people you know from next door! His personal life subplot damaging his Navy  career is very well done. The old favourites appear, such as Michael  Pacino, who also pave the way for newcomers, such as Karen Petri, a female  sub captain. Along with Patrick Robinson's HMS UNSEEN this is the best  submarine action thriller out this year! Well done Mike.	2000-04-18
US	52292684	RSM26EHDNEQN9	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastic story that still holds the attention today!	Although this was written some time back, this classic RobertLudlum thriller kept my attention from beginning til end and wasextremely hard to put down - even missing my station on the London Underground whilst working and commuting down there! The story concerns a CIA agent, Brandon Scofield whose wife was murdered by the KGB some years back. He must join forces with the KGB agent who killed his wife to defeat a resurgence of the Matarese Corsican Brotherhood who are infiltrating governments around the world in a covert takeover bid. Along the way there's plenty of action and surprise twists. Ludlum is a superb writer who obviously researches his locations - having been to Amsterdam and Moscow I could relate to these parts well. Fast-paced and hard to fault!	2000-04-15
US	52292684	R38D6SQMC2496R	0330318802	246934918	Whirlpool	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another winner from Colin Forbes!	This is another classic British thriller! In this follow-on from SHOCKWAVE, England's finest secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman especially, investigate a frightening covert military conspiracy funded by INCUBUS, a massive American banking concern. They intend to create  instability in Eastern Europe using rather unconventional means. Once again,  Forbes has created a cracking novel! The suspense is loaded big time, the  locations, particularly Sweden and Finland are well-researched and added to  the interest, and once again Tweed, Paula and Bob Newman find time to stay  to the best hotels and drink champagne! So fill up that tall glass and  ENJOY!	2000-04-07
US	52292684	R10NPRVNLAYL2Z	0330312790	189610196	Shockwave	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This ace British novel seriously rocks!	A classic Colin Forbes suspenser! England's top MI6 secret agent Tweed is framed for a rape and a murder he did not commit, and is forced to flee to Europe in the midst of winter. Paula Grey, his trusty assistant, and Bob  Newman, international reporter-turned-secret agent stand by his pleas for  innocence. Meanwhile, a British government minister called Lance Buckmaster  plans to alter the balance of power in the world . . . what is the  significance of the hijacking of a ship carrying a supercomputer  anti-ballistic missile space defence system? Tweed seems to be the only  key, and he is being hunted by the authorities across Europe. To add to  this, ace sniper Marler infiltrates Buckmaster's organisation, who are also  trackong Tweed, to find out the villain's true aims using any means  necessary. This is a brilliant thriller with Colin Forbes's trademarks -  well-researched locations, amusing narrative and plot twists galaore when  you least expect them! DON'T MISS IT!	2000-04-07
US	52292684	R39AIRH7M99TZ8	0330329472	538498108	By Stealth	Books	5	13	13	N	N	ENTERTAINING AND FUN AT THE SAME TIME!	Wow! One of Colin Forbes's best! Britain is under threat from a 'silent' enemy as a body is washed ashore on the south coast. Paula Grey, well-spoken British secret agent, discovers it to be a friend. Enter the Deputy Director of the SIS, Tweed, and foreign correspondent Bob Newman who  investigate the murder and discover more than meets the eye! What is the  secret of two mysterios and close-knit villages in Britain and Belgium? Why  are ships around the world mysteriously disappearing? And as if that wasn't  enough, a former British Army brigadier is liasing with Chinese troops and  aiding in the construction of stealth warships which radar cannot detect,  which seem to be heading for Denmark. Can Tweed and company stop them? The  action never stops and also I think I should mention that Colin Forbes's  books always give me hours of amusement. In between tracking bad guys,  Paula, Tweed and other SIS colleagues always find time to wine and dine at  the best restaurants and dress smartly as they track the villains,  AVENGERS-style! Also, ace sniper Marler appears with his trusty Armalite  rifle and if he needs back-up, in typical Colin Forbes-style, he can get  hold of the weapons he needs wherever he wants. How convenient! And why  not. The locations are well-researched(I recognised the Danish parts having  been near where the story is set myself)Overall, if you can track down a  copy, this great British thriller comes highly recommended and you won't  want to put it down. So crack open a bottle of champagne, Tweed-style!	2000-03-16
US	52292684	R3IHV7L3KTU66V	0333669339	581247127	Cauldron	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great plot, but the narrative stank in places!	In this typical Colin Forbes thriller, a billionaire industrialist called Vincent Bernard Moloch with concerns in the US, the UK and Middle East, and the director of the worl'ds biggest multinational called AMBECO, invents a  new type of explosive called Xenobium. Supposedly more powerful than the  A-bomb, Moloch makes a point of demostrating it with spectacular results  and a view to selling it to Middle Eastern nations for military use. So who  is there to stop him? Enter the British MI6's finest gourmet-loving,  champagne-drinking, well-dressed secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and  foreign correspondent Bob Newman who infiltrate AMBECO and discover that  the madman's plans are bigger than they realise. And as they fight off  killers in speedboats, a loony employee of AMBECO with a mother fixation  and use sniper Marler to pick out the bad guys(isn't it convenient he can  buy all the arms he needs anywhere in the world! ), they still find the  time to dine at the best parties! And the narrative contains some hilarious  lines. For instance:<br />(p169): 'And he paid them very well. I don't know  how much, but they started appearing in more expensive  clothes.'<br />(p265-266): (referring to a courier delivering essential  documents) 'They will reach you in seven hours time.' 'Seven hours? How are  they coming? By rocket?' 'I've got government co-operation. They must be  using one of their incredible new supersonic aircraft.'<br />Enough said. But  on the book's finer points, it is a very good, if somewhat familiar story,  and the pacing is fast and action never stops until two explosive climaxes  in California and Cornwall. Worth a read, at least Colin Forbes's novels  have a knack of being extremely entertaining, if somewhat in the wrong way,  which is notable in his later books.	2000-02-29
US	52292684	R2AEMR62H9Q060	0330334743	375378551	The Power	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A mystery with an unusual twist!	And a very unlikely villain, which is apparent in the closing chapters! British secret agents Tweed, Paula Grey and Bob Newman investigate a string of murders brought to their attention by a reporter on the run. Then a  massacre takes place in a mansion in Cornwall, Tweed's headquarters is  firebombed and the agents are on their own, even the Prime Minister won't  sanction a mission to track down the perpetrators. Who is behind all of  this? The action and story move from the UK to Switzerland, France and the  White House, where a power struggle with a corrupt right-wing President is  under way in a deadly sense. Then Even Amberg, widow of a Swiss banker  killed in the Cornwall massacre, and high-class prostitute Jennie Blade  appear on the scene, who have connections with a leading industrialist.  What is his part in the Washington power struggle and the aftorementioned  murders? This thriller weaves its way through some unexpected twists and  turns very typical of Brit writer Colin Forbes, the locations add to the  interest and overall, it is a satisfyingly original storyline with an  easy-to-read narrative. Highly recommended.	2000-02-25
US	52292684	R2PE3U0NA4H1N3	0449205975	876808234	Jian	Books	5	9	9	N	N	STUNNING!	In this breathtaking spy thriller, Jake Maroc, a Chinese agent trained in various martial arts working for a clandestine US Government organisation called The Quarry, sets out to find the killers of his wife and stumbles  across a Japanese Yakuza clan run by his enemy Nichiren, intent on taking  over a valuable business in Hong Kong, while in Russia, the KGB shows an  interest in the same project. So Maroc, ostracised by the US, seeks help  from anyone possible, even the 14K Triads! The action scenes, involving  different styles of martial arts and the latest in firearms are first-rate,  the locations, especially Hong Kong, are well-researched and the plot is so  elaborate and engaging that you can't see the meaning until the final  pages, which keeps you guessing. One of Lustbader's very best!	2000-02-25
US	52292684	R2ITWGJ6SWVP7W	0425169367	420963473	Atlantis 1	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Spectacular and thought-provoking at the same time!	Is there an alien connection with the lost city of Atlantis? How does the ancient city in Cambodia of Angkor Kel fit in? This exciting novel penned by the author of many names(Bob Mayer aka Greg Donegan here!) is the start  of a new series and attempts to answer these questions, among many more  about the world's mysteries. In the story, which begins with aircraft  disappearing in the Bermuda Triangle in 1945 and then a strange alien  encounter with a special forces unit despatched to Angkor Kel to recover a  crashed reconnaissance aircraft occurs during the Vietnam war. Move forward  to the present. Another plane, a privately-owned geological survey jet,  crashes in the same spot. As communications are blacked out by strange  signals, a special forces unit led by Eric Dane, survivor of the Vietnam  encounter is sent there by the President. Not only that, signals are being  bounced off satellites all round the globe which arer believed to be too  advanced for human technology! Military action buffs and sci-fi fans will  love this introductory novel to a new series, and to those who gave it one  star, give it a chance. The prose is easy reading, the narrative fast-paced  and the technologies are explained in the least amount of detail so as  anybody can understand, which in this type of novel is fine. And this comes  highly recommended.	2000-02-21
US	52292684	R83IRGN12IGQM	0451194055	719612843	Silent Lightning	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Action-packed and very original!	The Middle East is in crisis as Syria develops a new laser weapon that manages to knock down a stealth fighter. Not only that, Syria is also planning to use the weapon, featuring a sophisticated laser radar(LADAR . .  . hang on, hasn't Dale Brown borrowed this idea for BATTLE BORN! ), along  with SCUD chemical missiles to invade the Golan Heights and ultimately  Israel. So enter Lance Brandon, an Air Force commander who formerly worked  on an experimental anti-missile laser system called the Airborne Laser LAb,  an NKC-135 aircraft. He comes out of retirement and with the aid of  assorted military and scientific colleagues, redevelops the laser systems  for use in combat against the Syrians. Some excellent action, not just in  the air but at sea as a naval wing of EA-6B Prowlers assists the laser  plane, and on the ground a Special Forces unit is caught in a bombing raid!  And there's more . . . the prose comes fast and furious and very easy to  understand, especially when it comes to the weapons systems of the NKC-135  and the story is a great update of FLIGHT OF THE OLD DOG(re: The Kavaznya  laser becomes a more feasible system in this one!) but definitely leaves  Dale Brown sitting on the taxiing ramp! Don't miss it. I thought the  characters, notably Lance and his married life, and the Special Forces unit  were strong, and I very much look forward to reading the follow-on, SILENT  SABRE. So buy this book now and get ready to rock!	2000-02-18
US	52292684	R3GODFRSVTHA16	000222657X	605669940	Double Jeopardy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A terrific espionage adventure	Four world leaders are scheduled to travel by train to a summit in Vienna. British intelligence reports suggests not one but two threats to one of the world leaders, by both East German communists and the neo-Nazi Delta group,  who have been targeting spies around the Lake Constance area of  Switzerland. Tweed, Marler and other characters who feature in many more of  Forbes's later books have to find out who is behind an attempted  assassination - not only that, the neo-NAzi arms dumps are located and the  communist leader uses this to his own political advantage in the run-up to  the German national elections. To top it all, one of the security personnel  on the train in a suspect . . . who? A timeless classic and an engrossing  thriller all in one. Athough it was written in 1982, set in East and West  Germany, the neo-Nazi angle could easily be applicable to today's German  political climate. This is also the debut appearance of Tweed, the 'hero'  of Forbes's novels. The pacing is fast, the narrative is easy to read and  the story does not get too complex. Overall, track down a copy and enjoy!  Oh, in case you're wondering, this is nothing to do with the recent Tommy  Lee Jones and Ashley Judd movie of the same name!	2000-02-08
US	52292684	RKV0VWQ2D11HH	0330329472	538498108	By Stealth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exciting variation on an oft-told tale!	Special agents for British intelligence Tweed and Paula Grey, along with a foreign press correspondent, investigate boats that disappear off the south coast of England. When bodies are washed up ashore, they are linked to a  mysterious village called Moors Landing, where the reclusive locals don't  want visitors. Then the action shifts to Belgium, Germany and Denmark -  more villages bought out by a consortium run by Dr Wand, a former Chinese  general under a new identity. It becomes apparent that Chinese agents,  along with stealth boats, are planning an invasion of Europe in a covert  military operation. As more ships disappear at sea, and time runs out,  Paula Grey is kidnapped by Dr Wand's cronies and it is up to Tweed to find  her, and stop a world war. Can he save the world, or at least Europe? This  is a great British thriller which, in spite of a lame narrative at the  start picks up the pace and does not let go until the end! The prose is  simple to understand, the exact opposite of a highly detailed  technothriller but with enough to hold the story in place and appeal to a  wide variety of readers, and Forbes also travels to the locations featured  - I have visited southern Denmark, Germany and Belgium myself so I could  relate to his descriptions of the countries well. Overall, if you can get  hold of this, it comes highly recommended. I'll be reading more of his  material now!	2000-02-06
US	52292684	R1NGKCZJAXY2BH	0060193158	951535361	H.M.S. Unseen	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Patrick Robinson's best so far, but spare us the menus!	This book starts off brilliantly. Ben Adnam, the terrorist bad guy in PR's NIMITZ CLASS, is betrayed by his home country of Iraq when Saddam orders him assassinated. So he journeys to Iran, in a well-researched voyage. Zap  forward to 2005 and Adname had infiltrated the Iranian Navy. With aid of  the Russians, he purchases a surface-to-air missile system, and hijacks the  British Royal Navy's most modern diesel sub, HMS Unseen. With this feasible  capability, he knocks three high profile flights from the skies, including  Concorde! As Adnam hides, weaves and ducks, and ends up in Scotland, it is  up to Admiral Arnold Morgan, a foul-mouthedly entertaining character, to  search him out! And the ending, and Adnam's evasions of the authorities in  a journey across Scotland, Britain and Ireland is surprising. Action comes  thick and fast, the locations are well-researched, particularly the UK  scenes, having been to Scotland many times it was easy to relate to them.  However, I have one criticism to make. Did we really need to know in exact  detail what every character had to eat? Or what movie they loved? It did  interfere with the fast narrative, but HMS Unseen still gets a five star  rating for a great story(which could come true one day) and an entertaining  set of characters. Well done Pat!	2000-01-21
US	52292684	RDYK8JALTTYE3	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Excitement all the way!	Clive Cussler does it once again - he has written yet another Dirk Pitt adventure worthy of a place in classic popular literature! This time Dirk Pitt, Al Girodino and assorted colleagues discover the artifacts from an  ancient civilisation which was wiped out by a comet hitting the Earth in  7120 BC. This part forms a fantastic prologue. Then we move to 1858 AD,  where a British galleon is found in the Antarctic ice filled with treasures  from a distant age . . . then in 2001, Dirk is back! What is the  significance of a mysterious German billionaire and his family holding Nazi  treasures? When he learns that such family, the Wolfs, are responsible for  trapping them in a Colorado mine and covering up the evidence to stop  others seeing the artifacts, Dirk once again uncovers more than expected -  a villian more diabolical than any other he has encountered! When I read  what the bad guy's ultimate aim was, it was pure James Bond material, of  course, but it didn't stop my enjoyment of the book. Clive Cussler is the  master of escapism. The prose is simple to follow without too much in the  way of technobabble, the pacing is fast and consistent and the story is  surprisingly believeable at times. And the ending was both a surprise in  itself and very amusing! We also meet a certain character called Clive  Cussler during the second half. 'His name sounds vaguely familiar,' says  Dirk Pitt in the narrative. I don't know why people dislike Clive writing  himself into the story, I think it's great fun myself. But this book ranks  as one of Cussler's finest moments, along with SAHARA, DRAGON, NIGHT PROBE  and TREASURE. Don't miss this one!	2000-01-14
US	52292684	R3N0E54128XBY	0449205967	465839497	Miko	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A spectacular and well-researched sequel to THE NINJA!	In this second instalment in the Nicholas Linnear chronology, Nicholas is being hunted by Russian agents while he attempts to build up his inherited Tomkin Industries in the competitive Japanese business climate. The reasons  for the Russian interest become apparent when a revolutionary new computer  chip is developed. Also, what is the secret behind the death of his  Oriental lover from years gone by? How is his past linked to the appearance  of THE MIKO(sorceress) out to assassinate him? This story contains  everything - martial arts action, a spy subplot with Nicholas being hired  by a clandestine organisation within the CIA, high-tech James Bond-style  gadgetry and explicit sex scenes! The Japanese business climate is also  well-researched, more so than other  books I've read on the subject(namely  Tom Clancy's anti-Japanese stance in DEBT OF HONOUR.). Highly recommended  and hard to fault.	2000-01-08
US	52292684	R3LFD0OZ0PS62A	0449218511	134828097	White Ninja	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another awesome instalment in the world of Nicholas Linnear!	The ninja is back! Although in this one, Nicholas Linnear is mourning the death of his baby daughter, and the desperation in his life causes him to lose his martial arts abilities. Then a murder spree breaks out in Tokyo -  it seems a corrupt cop is butchering young women for sexual kicks. A  political scandal is about to rock Washington. A new strategic defence  computer is about to be hacked into in Washington. How does this tie up  with Linnear's life, and the links between his father and the Yakuza? In  order to regain his powers and seek revenge for the death of a friend, he  journeys to China to learn a martial art he thought was legendary and  regain his powers. This superb book follows along the Lustbader format  nicely - political intrigue, awesome technology, Oriental mysticism and  those sex scenes he seems to love. Well worth a read, but be advised - read  THE NINJA first to understand the Nicholas Linnear timeline better.	2000-01-08
US	52292684	R291SP0TSZVS69	0449209164	197430054	The Ninja	Books	5	58	62	N	N	WOW!	This excellent read is the first in a series of six about Nicholas Linnear, a half-Oriental and half-Western man well versed in many martial arts. Through present-day plots and flashbacks to post-war Japan through  the eyes of Nicholas's father Colonel Dennis Linnear, watch as the story  unfolds. Nicholas is torn up over a Japanese woman he knew as a younger man  and his present-day girlfriend Justine who is being hunted down by a ninja  assassin. But who is behind the ninja's actions? How does Justine's  father's company Tomkin Industries fit in, and what is the secret behind  several ritual killings in New York? This book also introduces Nicholas  Linnear's friend Detective Lew Croaker, who, in a related subplot, is  investigating the murders. And to top it all, some explicit sex and  stunning martial arts action scenes! The part where Nicholas hunts the  ninja down through New York, is one of the best action and suspense scenes  in literature ever. If you are new to Eric Lustbader, read this one first  and then read the rest of the Linnear chronology in order, and I guarantee  you'll become addicted to him! Awesome.	2000-01-08
US	52292684	R1BQ52QJUZBISS	055311123X	118006879	Battle Born	Books	5	10	11	N	N	DALE BROWN AT HIS VERY BEST!	After the comic-strip exploits of THE TIN MAN, Dale Brown returns to airborne action with BATTLE BORN. And man, is there plenty of it or what? In this entertaining story, North Korea is developing nuclear, chemical and  bio warfare while its population, and small military units, are in the grip  of famine. During a joint Japan-South Korea-US war game in the Pacific,  South Korean forces break away and invade the North. This causes a renegade  North Korean Army officer to launch a low level nuke-chem-bio strike on the  South. As the dust settles, and the North Korean military mutinies against  its leaders, China shows an interest, feeling threatened by the new United  Korea. Meanwhile, in the US, General Patrick McLanahan, our ongoing hero,  is training a motley crew of B-1B Lancer pilots hard as their airbase is  threatened with closure. This gives Dale some opportunity to bring in some  new characters, and also re-introduce old ones such as Rebecca Catherine  Furness, the heroine of CHAINS OF COMMAND, who is romancing Rinc Seaver, a  washed out bombardier who lost his crew at the start during an exercise.  And when tensions mount in Korea and China, McLanahan has to speed up  training his wannabe Top Guns on the new EB-1 Megafortress-2, with awesome  new technologies such as laser 3-d radar(LADAR)and the LANCELOT plasma  anti-satellite weapon. Plus an assortment of cruise missiles among others!  Will his new Megafortress crews prevent the Third World War? Once again,  Dale Brown goes for action all the way. He has done extremely well to  continue using his old faces such as McLanahan, Dave Luger, Hal Briggs and  so on from previous novels and bring in a host of new ones on top. The  Korean side of the action is also well crafted, and considering events in  recent months in North Korea, this scenario could well happen, crazy as it  sounds. The futuristic weaponry is feasible - submarine action author  Michael diMercurio has also utitlised the plasma weapon, albeit in torpedo  form in PIRANHA FIRING POINT, Brown shows its possible airborne  capabilities in such a way that he could design it himself! And make it  work! As he has done with BATTLE BORN. Well done Dale Brown.n torpedo  form in PIRANHA FIRING POINT, Brown shows its possible airborne  capabilities in such a way that he could design it himself! And make it  work! As he has done with BATTLE BORN. Well done Dale Brown.	2000-01-01
US	52292684	R1JIPQF3LLI6M2	0891414169	755573113	Synbat: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	SYNBAT ROCKS!	This is a fast-paced and easy-to-read action thriller with a hint of sci-fi which could well become science fact! Escaped convicts break into a biotechnology lab and unintentionally release two genetically-altered  creatures bred to be the ultimate fighting machine. Sounds familiar? Well,  this is better than PREDATOR! As the creatures prey on unsuspecting  campers, Civil War re-enactors and Special Forces personnel brought in to  stop the Synbat(synthetic battle form) creatures, it is up to ongoing hero  Dave Riley, a SPECFOR commander, to stop the Synbats. And it seems, they're  heading for Chicago . . . This would make a rockin' movie as well!	1999-12-03
US	52292684	RWPQ2WR5Y3ERG	0380976994	87156710	Edge of Honor	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of Herman's best with interesting politics	Poland is in crisis. The Russian Mafia want to expand their operations there, and Germany's Chancellor is buying up land in the west of the country. The US, with Madeline Turner as President decides to intervene,  which leads to a series of interwoven subplots involving ongoing hero Matt  Pontowski training Polish Air Force pilots in air combat in F-16s and  becoming almost romantically involved with Turner . . . his son Little Matt  at a military academy has adventures of his own, and the President is under  siege from tabloid press scandals as well as Russia and Germany. To top  that, a super high-tech elite force has been set up in Poland to combat  Mafia ops, with aid from the CIA. But does this solve or worsen Mikhail  Vashin's ambitions with his prosperous 'Mafiya' and his determination to  make cash from drugs? What will be the outcome? Altogether, this is one of  Herman's best, up there with FIREBREAK and CALL TO DUTY. After reading the  disappointing DARK WING with too much subplots, EDGE OF HONOUR has just  about the right emphasis on each character. Very hard to fault, and an  interesting read with clever plotting.	1999-11-12
US	52292684	R1MCNYI71URK86	0517584050	661477409	Thunder Of Erebus	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THIS MAKES RED STORM RISING LOOK LIKE A DAMP SQUIB!	WOW! An exciting, action-packed and hugely thrilling techno-war set in an imagined future. A new mineral is discovered in Antarctica which could alter the balance of world power as we know it, a necessary ingredient in a  STAR WARS space defence initiative. The Americans want it, and when they  discover the rubidium, Russia invades Antarctica. The action kicks off in  the second half as aircraft carriers come under fire, F/A-18 Hornets do  battle with MiGs and Sukhois in the freezing skies, and on the ground,  special polar warfare brigades, foot soldiers and mechanized infantry  strive to stop the massive Russian onslaught. You also get submarine action  with the USS SEAWOLF(which Michael diMercurio has immortalised as well)  armed with a variety of strange weapons, and an interesting description of  a converted Trident boomer as an undersea aircraft hangar . . . could be  feasible one day(but you never know what NATO has got!). I could go on, but  to top it all, there's a subplot involving a volcano ready to erupt(Mount  Erebus) and a trapped lady volcanologist keeping out of the Russians' way.  The US-Russia war scenario may be old hat now, but the Antarctic settings  add a good touch of originality to the story. Not to mention the  supersecret covert operations and gadgets the US forces use as well as the  special subs! If you can get hold of a copy, this is not to be missed.  Awesome. Payne Harrison's best.	1999-10-07
US	52292684	R2G6ZGB53DLL1V	0671026704	915930446	Serpent: A Novel from the NUMA Files (NUMA Files Series Book One)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Thoroughly entertaining!	If you're looking for pure escapist adventure with a bit of romance, archaeology, history and plenty of action in every chapter then Clive Cussler has delivered the goods once again! This book starts off with an  attempted robbery in the cargo hold of the ANDREA DORIA as it sinks. THen  we move forward to 2000, where NUMA's latest heroes, Kurt Austin and Joe  Zavala discover the secret behind the cargo, and along the way get plunged  into an intriguing plot revolving around Columbus, archaeologists  mysteriously being killed, lost Maya treasure and of course a dash of  romance - enter Nina Kirov. But who is behind the deaths and what is the  significance of an undiscovered Maya pyramid in a lake in Guatemala?  Cussler also includes old favourites such as Admiral Sandecker and St  Julian Perlmutter, and Dirk and Al make an appearance. Overall, I can't see  why people rated this one star. This book is as superb as a Dirk Pitt  adventure, introducing some new characters and keeping the formula going  for new generations of readers. I'm looking forward to the next Dirk Pitt  book, ATLANTIS FOUND with keen interest! Well done Clive Cussler!	1999-10-02
US	52292684	R1YV0HNDI5WPQ	0451180518	56275104	Attack of the Seawolf	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Spectacular and suspenseful! Put down your pen Clancy!	The USS Tampa, an improved Los Angeles-class attack aub is captured by Chinese naval forces. The crew are being held prisoner, what can the US Goverment and military do? The answer is here . . . recall ongoing  character Michael Pacino and his superior Admiral Donchez into action on a  rescue mission! And as the latest sub USS SEAWOLF closes in for the kill  and a SEAL team is deployed to rescue the TAMPA crew, you're in for a  treat! The naval battle scenes between US and Chinese forces are well  written, the SEAL team incursion is well researched and matches the  accuracy of Bob Mayer(with a little bit of artistic licence here and there  but who cares?) and true-life SAS stories with its descriptions of  equipment used, and the submarine scenes, as ever with DiMercurio's books  are so well written that even if you've never been in the Navy you will  feel you're in the thick of the action. Why isn't this a movie?! To coin a  phrase! And finally, after having read all of DiMercurio's splendid novels  now, I can safely say that this one is one of his best. The climax as well  is not hurried, it is spread out over more than one chapter and well-paced,  thrilling and effective. More so that some novels where the ending is too  quick after a great build-up. THis has the great build-up as well!	1999-08-18
US	52292684	R3NC0XK1S0MH8	0440223814	594491336	Area 51: The Mission	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why the one-star ratings, readers?	Why? This book is the best in the AREA 51 series so far! At the end of the REPLY, was the mothership in space destroyed? No, it seems it has survived a nuclear strike(yes, this is ALIEN technology) and is still OUT THERE . .  . meanwhile, in Bolivia, a plague virus is raging out of control. WHat is  the cause, and what is the link with the fourteenth century Black Death  outbreak? Were humans slaves to alien control then? Some amazing and  alarmingly plausible theories are present in this story. Also the action  element is well put across. You get the reverse-engineered alien spacecraft  joining forces with the US military, you get a space combat mission(laser  guns are old hat and out in this case, too infeasible - Doherty describes  the MK-99 kinetic energy projectile gun which might be possible one day),  and the startling discovery of controlled, enslaved humans engineering a  terrifying plot. Read it and keep an open mind!	1999-08-15
US	52292684	R2ACUF2BI8QFJC	0425162141	626040156	Forbidden Summit	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hard to fault	An interesting interpretation of Bob Lazar's revelations concerning the truth behind Area 51! A NORAD officer spots four unidentified aircraft on his radar, but why is he told to keep quiet? He sets out to find that in  true X-FILES tradition, the truth is out there! Excuse the cliche, but who  needs Mulder and Scully?! Suspenseful action scenes, great military  research and flashes of imagination are abound in this one. Read it for  yourself and enjoy!	1999-08-15
US	52292684	R151FYJBXGSHWO	0440223784	242650467	Area 51: The Reply	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very intriguing follow-up!	AREA 51: THE REPLY picks up from where AREA 51 left off, and it turns out there are more mysteries to uncover! A signal is picked up from Mars. Two major archaeological finds are discovered in China and Africa, while  scientist Lisa Duncan is abducted by the alien computer on Easter Island  and links herself telepathically with it. I won't say anymore, just buy  this book, it is amazing. I read it in two sittings, and was left thirsting  for more. What is the tie-up with the aliens' message from Mars and the  discoveries . . .? BUY THIS BOOK NOW!	1999-08-05
US	52292684	R1BPDTWA2M3QAY	0451403924	657094727	Voyage of the Devilfish	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A stunning debut novel from a top author!	This action-packed and adrenaline-charged submarine action thriller is so first-rate it is more than enough to leave the Red October sitting in dry dock! Step back Tom Clancy. DiMercurio takes us on a thrilling present-day  scenario where a renegade Russian admiral takes command of the OMEGA-class  high-tech attack sub the KALININGRAD. As a sudden attack on the US is  planned, it seems that only the US Navy's finest, the silent service can  avert an apocalypse! Enter our ongoing heroes Admiral Dick Donchez and  Captain Michael Pacino, and the USS DEVILFISH as the two subs outrun and  outwit one another beneath the polar icecap. The sub scenes are some of the  best I have ever read, and even if you've never served in the submarine  service, you still feel you're right there in the thick of the action.  Definitely not to be missed.	1999-07-20
US	52292684	R3K74777XEJRQY	0440220734	885811913	Area 51	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This deserves twenty stars!	But the scale would't let me! This is one of the best, most awesome and astounding books I've read in a long while. The story revolves around the mysterious goings on in the secret base of the title as the military  experiments with alien technology. But what is the secret with the mother  ship, the Pyramids of Giza, Atlantis and the statues on Easter Island, and  how is it all linked? Some amazing theories are featured which are  extremely plausible. I mean, having been to Egypt myself twice, where did  an advanced civilisation like those portrayed in hieroglyphs come from?  This part of the book was well thought out. As a special forces operative  tries to uncover the secrets with an assortment of characters drawn into  the conspiracy, he makes some startling discoveries. And technothriller  fans will love the airborne scenes featuring the supersecret AURORA  hypersonic plane. My only criticism was the ending  being rather hurried  after a spuerb build-up, but I eagerly look forward to the follow-ups.  Forget the X-Files, Area 51 rules!	1999-07-18
US	52292684	RMZTB1LGHMMNL	0446516775	62043567	Day of Wrath	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Entertaining time-filler in a big way!	A well-paced actioner featuring the main characters from THE ENEMY WITHIN, Col Peter Thorn and the FBI's Helen Gray. This time a plane carrying UN weapons inspectors crashes in Russia, and investigations lead to the trail  of blackmarket tactical nuclear warheads for sale . . . and what interest  does a Saudi prince have in these weapons? The outcome may be predictable  and the characters may seem like they have leapt out from a LETHAL WEAPON  movie, but the strengths of this book are the story, the research behind  the weapons themselves and how they could be transported into the US and a  good, fast-pacing and simple prose. The action scenes are undeniably  entertaining, and the bit that made me laugh was the bad guy's last word  before being shot . . . Noooooooo! That is sooo Hollywood! In fact, why  hasn't this(or any other of Larry Bond's novels, for that matter) been made  into a movie yet?	1999-07-18
US	52292684	RUIV35EKFZ2SM	0727810464	422535047	Tengu	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A KILLER HORROR THRILLER!	When a Japanese businessman uses ancient mythology to bring a demon back to life, all hell breaks loose in this riveting horror novel that you won't want to put down. Graham Masterton does what he does best here - uncompromising gore and sex scenes, an unpredictable plot, strong  characters who may seem larger than life but make his stories more  entertaining and an explosive climax! The plot here - the Jap villains use  mythology to wreak revenge on America for the bombing of Hiroshima and  Nagasaki. An original twist and a brilliant, attention-grabbing intro! THE  BEST OF MASTERTON. And to think I've been reading crap like TOM CLANCY'S  NET FARCE, if technothrillers have got that bad then I'm returning to  horror for a bit.	1999-06-24
US	52292684	R1YI0TEOBL0CKW	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well done Tom Clancy! One of his very best!	Undoubtedly, this is certainly one of Clancy's most fast-paced and thrilling novels, his best since THE SUM OF ALL FEARS and RED STORM RISING! Unlike EXEC ORDERS, this one does not get bogged down in unnecessary  subplots which go nowhere. This one concentrates on John Clark, who heads  an international anti-terrorist elite force codenamed RAINBOW. Clark's call  sign is RAINBOW SIX, hence the title. The RAINBOW teams are based in  England.  Anyway, there's three terrorist incidents in Europe the team is called to, a Russian agent shows an interest, and then  we come across a group of eco-nazis who have planned the biggest mass  murder in history to further their selfish causes . . . I won't tell you  the ending but I guarantee it'll make you laugh out loud as the bad guys  and gals got what they deserved! The military action comes thick and fast,  there are some interesting methods of elite forces training and some  awesome gadgets(the people-finder is quite feasible). It may not be as  accurate as the portrayal of the SAS by writers such as Gordon Stevens, and  the true-life stories such as BRAVO TWO ZERO, or a Bob Mayer novel, but  it's such a thrilling ride you cannot help but be swept along by the  intrigue. Highly recommended!	1999-06-21
US	52292684	R1OA41XFGKG8S2	0312969414	181104665	Fortunes of War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	By far Coonts's very best!	This novel is hard to fault. Great background research on Japanese politics and militarism, excellent aerial combat sequences as F-22s are pitted against invisible-to-radar Zero fighters and some strong and very  well crafted characters make this a thriller not to be missed. I've read a  lot of new technothrillers out at the moment, and at least this one doesn't  feature men in armoured suits falling into helicopter rotor blades and  getting hit by anti-tank rockets and surviving . . .(no names or titles  mentioned on that reference!). Put it this way, it is THE BEST! The story  concerns the assassination of the Emperor of Japan by Rising Sun  nationalists who have infiltrated the Self Defence Forces and the falling  economy, which sets the pace for a Japanese invasion on Siberia. Russia use all  they can to fight back, but it is up to Col Jack Cassidy to take an  assorted bunch of pilots on a US govt-sponsored 'black op' to aid Russia,  thanks to a secret protocol. Add to this a nukes subplot and you have an  outstanding thriller which rivals the rest. The prose adopts the KISS(keep  it simple, stupid) approach well, explains all the technology and gadgets  of the future so that anyone can understand and flows brilliantly. Hard to  fault!	1999-06-14
US	52292684	R237WQODKWGRMB	0425162788	245559173	Politika (Tom Clancy's Power Plays, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Mind Candy Reading, to coin a phrase!	Overall, this spin-off has a lot good about it, and I enjoyed reading it. I also own the computer game, which is taking me a while to figure out, but I'll get there! Anyway, the story is a good one. Yeltsin dies, and a  massive famine hits Russia. Desperate Russian communist sympathisers bomb  Millennium celebrations in NYC(this bit is brilliantly portrayed, hence a 3  star rating) and Roger Gordian, a millionnaire with a crisis-hit  marriage(work, work, work) sends his private mercenaries armed with an  assortment of high-tech gadgets into Russia to locate the perpetrators. The  action scenes are undeniably entertaining, but the narrative is very poor  in many places. Did we really need the policeman's graphic self-pity  dragging on about his dead wife? That bit was so incredibly cliched and  nicked from OP-CENTER(re: Gregory Donald) An unnecessary subplot  distracting the readers from the real players(Gordian's private army and  the Russians.) For instance, there are way too many references to TV,  movies, actors and personalities to suggest a plotline or character study  to a reader. As a reader and an aspiring writer myself, I've learned the  hard way myself about this folly(thankyou to various critics and agents for  pointing me in the right direction, wannabe writers take note!), it does  not work. But Clancy can get away with anything, so it seems. Anyway, I'm  glad this book came free with the game because I would not waste money on  it. Ah well, I'm going to go back to reading Michael diMercurio, Dale  Brown, and Stephen Coonts, to name but a few, REAL authors with PROPER  storylines! Politika is a good time-filler, if one wishes, but the  narrative is MIND CANDY.	1999-06-07
US	52292684	R23CL20XQN58ZJ	0671534939	896120415	Dark Wing	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Too many sub plots but great airborne action	Alas, I was disappointed. The book's best parts were undoubtedly the A-10 Warthog scenes in the air over China. The research here is as detailed as Dale Brown's best! The Hong Kong scenes were also very well done(more good  research there), but in between the action, there is too much talk. The  Washington scenes seem to be all planning and not-going-anywhere; I found  Shoshana's death quite infeasible(yeah, right, as if someone with a baby at  home and a husband would selfishly let her past Mossad training suddenly  take over her life) and an unnecessary subplot which turned Matt Pontowski  into an unlikely Schwarzeneggar hero. And there are also too many  references to actors, TV, and so on, as a device to emphasise a character  description or action scene. I am trying to get a manuscript sold myself  and I know from experience that this method will send that ms straight to  the rejection pile, unless you're a bestseller . . . Nonetheless, I will  still give the rest of Herman's work a go! If you're new to him, read  FIREBREAK or CALL TO DUTY first, these are the best!	1999-05-31
US	52292684	R1CBFSG1F330GL	0425110427	427090647	Team Yankee	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Even today, still an excellent read!	Harold Coyle's first novel tells of a tank platoon commander involved in campaigns against a Soviet invasion of West Germany. And, man,it is certainly realistic! The battle scenes on the ground are well told, and  easy to follow, complete with battle maps and an explanation of all the  symbols and terms used. The descriptions of soldiers in combat are also  very realistic; once again Coyle shows his knowledge of ground warfare has  been well researched. And it also shows that war can screw people up,  especially the families of those who are in combat. Although the threat of  a Russian invasion of Germany is now not with us, this book is still a  superb read and I would recommend this to anyone!	1999-04-21
US	52292684	ROPF87BC3LRXS	0061096857	638944666	Kilo Class	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another thriller well worth a read!	Patrick Robinson has written another winner! For a start, those that gave this book, and also NIMITZ CLASS(Mind candy reading? Sounds fine to me!) one star made me want to read this more. I loved KILO CLASS from beginning  to end, it was awesome! The story concerns a group of Kilo Class subs on  sale from Russia to China, which must be stopped at all costs before the  balance of power shifts in Asia to China's favour. So the US President  approves a set of covert strikes against the subs en route - including some  very unusual methods involving Navy SEALS on a tourist cruise in Russia!  Also, what is the secret of a sub base on a remote island off the coast of  Antarctica? Read this brilliant book now! The characters were entertaining,  the prose was simple to understand without getting bogged down in too much  technobabble, and Robinson proves he had done good research into his  subject matter. I look forward eagerly to HMS UNSEEN.	1999-04-17
US	52292684	R2GK56WB9JMP68	0804105537	538905055	Storming Intrepid	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WOW! THIS BOOK IS AWESOME!	A real page-turner! The story is simple - a Russian agent hijacks a US space shuttle and the mission goes wrong, and the US and USSR have to race to bring down the shuttle, using any means at their disposal! This book  features everything - Star Wars weapons technology, an experimental space  fighter project which might be quite feasible one day, a dnagerous shuttle  launch, Stealth bombers on a mission into Russia and a spectacular  apperance by the highest-flying plane in the world, the SR-71 Blackbird  under attack by Russian air defences! As the story unfolds, so do some  exceptional plot twists and a detailed but easy-to-read insight into how  the Russian mission to steal the shuttle came about. On the whole, this  book is often similar in various aspects to Dale Brown's SILVER TOWER, with  the space weapons ideas, but STORMING INTREPID definitely leaves Dale Brown  standing on the ground! I would give this book at least 100 stars but the  scale won't let me. Oh well. The US vs Russia angle may be Cold War-era,  but this electrifying thriller is still a superb read. One I'll definitely  read again in a few months, and this I'd recommend to any technothriller  fan!	1999-04-13
US	52292684	R29F5QQWFTRFQU	0553580000	651911036	The Tin Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It was pretty good	Overall, I liked Dale Brown's latest. The opening scenes, and Gregory Townsend's planning an execution of the robberies and methamphetamine lab takeovers made for an action-packed start. But what are his real motives?  And when Patrick McLanahan's brother, who is a rookie cop, is shot by one  of Townsend's fellow terrorists, McLanahan takes the law into his own hands  with an assortment of gadgets, James Bond style! The main instrument of the  story is that advanced BERP suit, which is made of a special bulletproof  material and protects him from gunfire. And the local police don't take too  kindly to his vigilante antics, so he becomes a wanted man by everyone  while he tries to avenge his brother's shooting and discovers more than he  bargained for! Some lively action, awesome technology which might be  feasible one day and good characterisations. I read this book twice(as I  have with most of Dale Brown's books!) in the past couple of months, and  it's better the second time round. The ending might seem daft at times, but  the rest of the book makes up for it.	1999-04-11
US	52292684	R96D8W3YBSTT9	0312966601	471133721	The Omega Missile (Final Gambit)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fast-paced and thrilling!	A tremendous read! If you want a good, easy-reading technothriller which does not bog itself down in too much technical details and too much politics(re: Clancy's later novels), and you like military action then this  book is for you! A disgruntled ex-Special Forces operative, with the  assistance of former disgraced Canadian paratroopers and a dying scientist  take control of The Omega Missile, a satellite designed to launch every  nuclear weapon the US has, automatically, and it is up to the former  partner of the villian(on a covert Middle Eastern mission which was  aborted) to stop them.Intense action, interesting politics and a non-stop  pace that races along like a fighter plane at full boost!	1999-04-02
US	52292684	R3A5HBVP5B18L9	0451408764	10102994	Piranha: Firing Point	Books	5	8	8	N	N	TOTALLY BRILLIANT!	Another winner from DiMercurio! This is his best novel yet of the ones I've read so far, and contains some great action scenes and imaginative technology of the future, which doesn't always run as planned, note the  SSNX, a brand new high-tech sub in a combat situation. The description of  the new supersub is so highly detailed yet easy to understand, even for  non-military readers. The story concerns a war between divided states in a  new China escalating, and US navy units sent to deal with the Chinese's  latest acquisitions, a Japanese Rising Sun-class sub, are attacked with  plasma explosive torpedoes and sunk. So enter our hero Admiral Michael  Pacino and a host of ongoing characters with the very latest weaponry and  subs available to try to avert a major world war! This book is so  entertaining and action-packed you won't want to put it down. What more can  one say, buy this book now!	1999-04-02
