US	52302793	R1U5H1N6PSEIR8	0064409597	864257528	Love That Dog	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Written by Ms. Jo's 3rd Period Class !!	Sharon Creech's Love That Dog is both a story in poetry and a story about poetry.  The main character, Jack, thinks poems are for girls, and when his teacher, Ms. Stretchberry, wants to put his poems on the board he asks her not to put his name on them.  His teacher reads many poems by different poets throughout the year; eventually, Jack reads a poem by Mr. Walter Dean Myers that inspires him, and he learns to express his feelings about his beloved dog Sky.   <br /> <br />Love That Dog is an inspirational book because it teaches you that it's okay to write poetry about how you feel.  Young adults who want to explain their emotions and thoughts can read this book and be inspired, just like Jack.  Don't tell yourself that you can't do something (like write a poem) until you actually try.    <br /> <br />This poetry book is better than The Dream Keeper by Langston Hughes and is as good as Whisper and Shout edited by Patrice Vecchione.  We recommend it!    <br />	2005-04-11
US	52302793	R3GWS720YAMPE7	0689817215	491485249	The View from Saturday	Books	4	4	5	N	N	This Review Written by Ms. Jo's 1st Period Class !!	E. L. Konigsburg enchants the reader with her unique style of writing.  In The View from Saturday, four characters meet in an unusual way.  Noah, the first character introduced, starts the story in Florida where he learns to share his cherished gifts.  Nadia, who wears a halo of red hair over her head, is dealing with the divorce of her parents and has a dog who is a genius.  Ethan, who has a fondness for halos, sits at the back of the bus because he doesn't want to be noticed.  And finally-there is Julian who is a \\"passenger on planet Earth,\\" and who brings them all together through a simple invitation.  Mrs. Olinski, their paraplegic teacher, regains her self-confidence by joining the kids as their coach for the state-wide Academic Bowl competition.  It is Mrs. Olinski who always has a good answer for how she picked her team.<br /><br />In this Newbery Award-winning book, the reader learns the value of appreciating the differences in others.  The old is brought back to the new and tea is always at 4 o'clock.<br /><br />Konigsburg packs this book full of flashbacks and symbolism.  The plot can be complicated but is also full of excitement, friendship, and collaboration.	2005-03-31
US	52302793	R18FQH66IPCX9G	0761529632	962891531	Reading Rescue 1-2-3: Raise Your Child's Reading Level 2 Grades with This Easy 3-Step Program	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Theory PLUS Application	What I was looking for when I purchased this book was a compilation of reading theories.  I found that...but as an added bonus I also found a step-by-step book outlining how to take a student from where they are to where they should be.  This book is truly amazing in its approach.  As a middle school teacher, I found it applicable to even 6th and 7th grade students.  Wilbur's advice is respectful to children and free from worksheets and diagnostic tests.  It get to the heart of reading--the interaction between the child and the text.  Applying the strategies in this book has allowed me to change the futures of some of my students.	2004-02-13
US	52302793	R3NB77QTQQBNVV	0698118626	971569069	If You Come Softly	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Didn't Know What I was Getting Into	I should have known better...I've been touched by Jaqueline Woodson's writing before.<br />I picked up If You Come Softly after one of my 6th grade students recommended it to me.  I read the first few chapters effortlessly, and when someone asked me what it was about, I simply said, \\"Not much.\\"  You see--it's not an in your face narrative.  It's simple and soft, and the alternating perspectives are hardly noticed--all signs of outstanding writing.  I was halfway through the book before I realized the gentle power of the story.<br />Ellie and Miah attend the same school and have similar views of the world, but they are so different that their sudden love for each other seems impossible.  Ellie is the white daughter of a distantly married couple; her numerous brothers and sisters are older and have moved throughout the country.  Miah is the black son of celebrities who have recently separated.  Both teenagers attend the exclusive Percy School, which is where they meet by chance and fall in love.  Despite the stares and whispers, they choose to stay together and learn more about each other.  Their love is mature and real (and the author spares us from unnecessary sex scenes).  We know from page one that tragedy awaits this relationship, but it doesn't damper the unfolding of their relationship and our interest in the potential of their lives.  They love each other innocently and completely, and they tip-toe cautiously into the world of each other's families.<br />Woodson demonstrates a world view through the voices of these two high school characters--they understand more about race relations than most adults do.  There are times, however, when their views of races seems too simplistic--perhaps this was intentional, or perhaps this is Woodson's own view.  It's too easy to group together all \\"whites\\" or all \\"blacks\\" and to create stereotypes of old ladies who stare.  But the overall message is appreciated.<br />I can't say enough about the gentle nature of this story.How an author can provoke so much emotion in such a delicately written story is truly amazing.  Woodson is a masterful writer, and this story is perfectly told.	2004-02-13
US	52302793	R260TMQSZTJRLW	0744590108	13886339	Eye Of The Wolf	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Unique Storytelling Experience--Not to be missed!	Africa has a story to tell, and so does the wolf he visits every day at the zoo.  At first, the wolf is annoyed by Africa's constant visits to his cage.  He wonders why he is there and what he is looking for, so he stares back at Africa, challenging him to leave and let the wolf return to his loneliness.  <br />But by looking into each other's eyes, the two are able to understand each other's stories and recognize how their lives relate to one another.  <br />The wolf's story is about the family that he lost-his mother, sisters, and brothers-and how he came to live behind the cage at the zoo as a sacrifice to his sister.  Africa's story is about the loss of his family and his life as an orphan, a shepherd, and now finally an adopted boy with a last name.  But when told simultaneously, the stories suddenly become about looking for home, about being needed, and about being important and meaningful, no matter where you are. <br />What a unique storytelling adventure!  The meeting between Africa and Blue Wolf is an unfamiliar way to open a story, and the reader is almost tempted to set down the book. But soon enough, Pennac creates an interaction between the two that is magical and enchanting and that leads the reader into two dynamic worlds.  <br />There is an unexpected depth to Africa's existance, and his mystical ways with animals is a brilliant contrast to the very human emotions of Blue Wolf.  As Blue Wolf tells his story of daring rescue and escape, he becomes a powerful reminder of all that is beautiful in nature.  There was no way to anticipate the manner in which all the characters come together in the end or the final power that Africa and Blue Wolf have upon each other, but it is fascinating, indeed.  The language is specific and flows beautifully together as an extension of Africa's famous storytelling abilities.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R1NEIN2VDGXRX7	0060535431	846788538	Olive's Ocean (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	54	59	N	N	New Territory for Henkes	Twelve-year-old Olive Barstow has died in a car accident.  No one in the neighborhood knew her, and none of the kids at school remember much about her except that she was a little weird.   But thoughts of Olive haunt Martha, and she has a hard time thinking of anything but the death of this unknown classmate, a girl her own age with hauntingly similar aspirations.  <br />For young adult readers, this book is a powerful look at the affirmation of life and the mysteries of death.  Olive is completely unknown to us, yet thoughts about what her life could have been permeate the thoughts, movements, and actions of our protagonist.  <br />This is a clever look at how the life of another can add dimension to our own existence.  Family relationships are written candidly and realistically.  It's impossible not to love Martha from the beginning of the story when she wishes a good morning to her two-year-old sister until the end of the book when she resolves to be the person she wants to be.  <br />This book is a far cry from Kevin Henkes picture books about little mice, yet it carries the same beautiful messages about life and family and friends.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R1Z71NHZ9EGJI5	0060094346	712985818	God Went to Beauty School	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Read with an open mind!	So what would happen if God came down to earth, took the form of man, and decided to experience, first-hand, so many of the mundane things that humans do on a day-to-day basis?  Would he be bored?  Would he gain insights?  What would happen at beauty school?  <br />Well, according to Cynthia Rylant, God would paint all the nails any color He wanted, then say, \\"Beautiful,\\" and mean it.  He would get a dog, go across the water (in a boat this time), buy a couch from Pottery Barn, take a bath (with his clothes on because he's shy), and even become a girl for a while.  <br />How readers respond to this book of poems depends entirely upon their open-mindedness and creativity.  It would be easy to be offended by Rylant's position that God would enjoy trying on these human moments for a while (is that blasphemy?) or one could just as easily appreciate the novelty of the idea and enjoy hearing God's confusion at what he should do in order to better understand man.  <br />Either way, these poems are fresh and unique, and they cause the reader to think about life in ways that were perhaps ignored before.  There is a spirituality in this writing, something that causes self-reflection and stir up some interesting discussions.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R1Q4WMHFNSLQTJ	0439443849	193892373	Green Angel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Haunting, Mystical and Still Relevant	On a day when Green wants to accompany her parents into town to sell their vegetables, she is told that she is needed to stay home and watch the house.  Angry that her parents and her sister are going without her, Green refuses to say goodbye and turns her back on them as they leave.  <br />Within hours, a fire engulfs the city, and her family is lost. With ashes in the air and embers burning her eyes, Green decides that her life is now meaningless, and she chooses to simply wilt away.  She grieves through anger and presents herself to the world with darkness and thorns and self-mutilation.  <br />It is the needs of others that slowly bring her out of her darkness and cause her to find relief through benevolence.  <br />The world in which this story is set is fantasy-like, leaving the reader appropriately confused and often forced to use his/her own imagination to fill in the pieces.  <br />There is a definite feeling of 9/11 in the events that occur, and certainly the overall theme of the book is related to healing and moving on.  But the greatness of this novel is in the unique characterization of Green, Diamond, Heather, and the neighbor lady who repeatedly asks Green what her name is.  Oddly enough, it is the final answer to this question that becomes the climax of the story.  <br />Alice Hoffman's creation is stirring and magical, sad and hopeful.  It is 116 pages of metaphor, or 116 pages of whimsy, depending on how deeply the reader is able to see into the human condition.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	RFE5C7ROZVE77	1582342512	49338626	All My Life for Sale	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Makes you want to sell stuff!	John Freyer realized that when he first arrived in Ohio, all he had were the objects in the trunk of his car.  He has accumulated much stuff since living there, and now that he's thinking of leaving and heading back to New York City, he wants to reduce his belongings to practically nothing.  <br />From this notion was born the allmylifeforsale plan.  John invited over some friends to help him tag his belongings, and then he slowly but systematically sold them on eBay.  <br />All My Life for Sale is the true story of Freyer's quest to get back to the basics. He is quirky and honest in his writing, and the pictures of objects, how he sold each one, and who bought it are eccentrically wonderful.  There's a certain inspiration one feels after reading this book-a yearning to put belongings in proper perspective.  <br />The style of the book allows the reader to choose whether to read it cover to cover or to skip around the book.  The introduction and conclusion are must-reads, however, since they offer insight into how the project got started and how it ended.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R28EQMGCOHN6RW	0439220009	392763738	A Time To Love: Stories From The O Ld Testament	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Lesson in Perspective	Love comes in many forms-the love of a brother, of a father, of God, and the love for your community.  All of these forms of love are written about in unique perspectives as Walter Dean Myers and Christopher Myers consider the stories of love from the Bible.  <br />We read of Sampson, but here this tragic tale from the perspective of Delilah, who gives us insight into how and why she betrayed the man she loved.  The story of Isaac and Abraham is told from Isaac's point of view, and the reader is emotionally moved at the moment when he realizes that he is the sacrifice his father is making that day on the mountain.  The story of Naomi and her daughters-in-law Orpah and Ruth is told from the voice of Ruth who watches the discrimination her mother-in-law suffers because she is travelling with these two women from Moab.  And Lot's daughter, Zillah, tells of her struggles in trying to understand how her father is going to follow his heart and lead the city of Sodom away from their destructive ways.  <br />The stories in A Time to Love, though directly translated (albeit with literary license) from the Bible, seem to be more about right and wrong than they are about studying a particular religion. The stories are easy to read and understand, yet require a great deal of thinking about how events happen and how people make the choices they make.  <br />The concepts presented-honestly, truth, morality, trust, devotion, love, responsibility-are excellent choices for maturing young adults.  The introductions to the stories are thoughtful and offer great insight into why this book was written and how it relates to today's youth.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	RZD2D7H1CXPSZ	0689861893	384998515	Aleutian Sparrow	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Stirring--Hesse's best writing yet	It is June of 1942, and America has joined in the war in the Pacific.  Displacement for Vera and her community comes from the Japanese who have relocated all the Aleuts to camps on different islands. Though the Aleuts are told that they are being moved for their own protection, it is clear to Vera that they are treated much worse than the prisoners of war.  <br />For the next three years, Vera and the others carve out as much of a happy life as they can for each other, while trying to maintain a sense of heritage and culture.  They are forced to deal with poor health, death, malnourishment, and horrific sanitary conditions.  At one point, a doctor visits the camp only to tell the Aleuts that the breakout of horrific boils is simply their bodies trying to \\"adjust\\" to a new life.  <br />What keeps Vera and her friends strong is their belief in the power of nature and their hopes that someday they can reclaim their homes.  For Vera, there is also the promise of new love.<br />What stands out first about this novel is the incredible, sensitive use of combined poetry and prose.  The phrases and lines flow from one to another, without distraction from unnecessary words.  The reader is forced to make sense of fewer words, but this exercise in language results in a clean, powerful story.  <br />When has another author been so adept at the use of figurative language?  Hesse writes of \\"crayon days, / big and happy\\" and of \\"the gray cheeks of the sky.\\"  The imagery is clear and fresh, and the story moves forward covering three years of important events in just 156 pages.  <br />Vera appears to be more of a representation of the entire Aleutian culture than an individual character, though her personal relationships with her mother and with Alfred make her memorable.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R2J3IIL98FKCUE	0689835493	284962017	Ben Franklin's Almanac: Being a True Account of the Good Gentleman's Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Better than a Textbook!	Each day Benjamin Franklin wakes up, says a prayer, and asks himself, \\"What good shall I do today?\\" Candace Fleming's biography of Ben, as presented in the form and style (page structure and font) of Franklin's own Almanac, tells us how Ben answered that daily question.  <br />More than just a statesman who assisted the Continental Congress in going to war with England, gaining the support of France, and eventually co-authoring the Declaration of Independence, Franklin was an inventor, scientist, father, husband, friend, and celebrity.  <br />True stories of his famous kite experience, how the public library actually came about, and his unusual relationships with his children and wife are exposed, as are stories of his penchant for writing and word play (Webster's first dictionary was dedicated to him) and a list of the thirteen traits he believes makes a man perfect.  Ben's words are funny and clever, and his patriotism is serious and unwavering.  This book leaves the reader wondering how any one human could accomplish so much within a single lifetime.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R20NCRA8RQDJ0Z	0812626966	992936152	Breakout	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You May Just Learn to Appreciate a Traffic Jam	Del has decided that she can no longer live the life she?s known for so long.  She has decided to change identities, sell what she can, put the rest in the truck of an old Datsun, and move out of town.  <br />On the way out of LA, she encounters a four-hour traffic jam.  At first she?s angry about her situation and scared that a cop will recognize that she?s a minor and send her back to foster care; as time goes on, however, the traffic jam becomes a message to her about people, and her view of the world is slightly softened.  Del is able to imagine the lives of her fellow ?traffic-jammers,? and she can see what they need and who they really are.  These insights help her reach an understanding of her own life.<br />Paul Fleischman is the master of taking seemingly insignificant characters and events and creating powerful relationships among them.  Just as he did in Seedfolks, here he has written about common place people who come together unexpectedly and learn a little bit more about each other than they expected.  <br />There is a protagonist here who is in need of hope and understanding, and she gets it surprisingly from strangers who don?t know that they?re offering her anything except a little conversation during a long wait.  <br />The interviewer?a young man working on his thesis?shows Del how people grow and change even over short periods of time, and the man with the red beret gives her a glint of hope that she is clever and has talent.  <br />The flashback between her present self and this traffic jam experience eight years prior offers the reader relief, knowing that she is, indeed, able to take this experience and her life and make something of it.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	RVO1S7W0NVPU5	0385729499	779476654	How Angel Peterson Got His Name	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hilarious!  What were Paulsen and his friends thinking??  :)	It's the 1950's and Gary Paulsen and his friends are 13 years old.  For whatever reasons, they chose this year to be the year of \\"extreme sports\\"-Paulsen's term for the outrageous dares they took.  <br />These days, extreme sports refers to organized teams and individuals who participate in sport activities that involve rules, certified equipment, and lots of padding and head gear.  For Paulsen and his buddies, the equipment was usually purchased at the army surplus store and converted to fit their needs.  Their padding and head gear? Didn't exist.  <br />They jumped off of things, help onto things, went fast, went high, broke records, turned, twisted, and rolled along all in the name of \\"What's the worst that can happen?\\"  <br />Just one page into this autobiographical sketch of life at thirteen, the reader can perfectly imagine the northern Minnesota town in which Paulsen grew up and can picture the adventurous, comical moments that made up this crazy year of his life.  The dialogue brings to mind so many young adolescent boys, all trying to fit in another ten minutes of fun before their parents call them to dinner.  <br />These stories are laugh-aloud fun, and they make the reader want to go out and put some wheels on something!	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R12YEQZ6DH9L04	0618282319	108797259	The Silent Boy	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Lowry's Endings are the Best in Young Adult Literature!	In the quiet neighborhoods of this pre WWI town, all is peaceful and \\"normal\\"-neighbors are as close as family, the children all play together, and the local doctor makes house calls. In the Thatcher home, there is the expectation of a new baby, so Dr. Thatcher and his wife have hired a young lady, Peggy, to come work in the home.  <br />The Thatcher's daughter, kind-hearted and intelligent Katy, takes an instant liking to the new girl and her \\"touched\\" brother Jacob.  Even though Jacob is mute and obviously very different from the other children in town, Katy Thatcher considers him a friend, and she has come to appreciate his gentle, loving nature towards animals, especially her family's horses and the lambs on his own family's property.  <br />Their world, however, is disrupted by a series of shameful and upsetting choices, and the dark secrets of some of the characters are slowly revealed.  It is through Katy's eyes that the reader sees how the mistakes of others have a life-altering affect on so many.  <br />There is no doubt in the minds of readers that when finished with this novel, they know young Katy Thatcher completely.  Her desire to become a doctor and follow in the footsteps of her father goes beyond admirable; it seems unqualifiedly natural and right, and her friendships with both Peggy and Jacob make her as respectable as so many other Lois Lowry protagonists.  <br />It's amazing how Lowry is able to juxtapose so much good and evil and still leave us with a complete sense of hope at the end of the story.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	RY34GDFCYE6SD	0761318852	956796787	Pool Boy (Single Titles)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	This one was a pleasant surprise!	After living the good life for almost his entire life, Brett is getting a taste of how the other half lives.  His stockbroker father has just been arrested, convicted, and sentenced for three and a half years for insider trading, and Brett and his mom and sister have to move on the other side of the tracks (literally) and live with their crazy aunt.  <br />Brett is finding it difficult to adjust to having no money while all his friends continue to attend tennis lessons and get new cars for their birthdays.  But, worst of all, Brett seriously hates his father for what he has put them through, and has decided that he will not forgive.  <br />Because it's summer and because he needs the money, Brett starts working with seventy-two year old pool cleaner Alfie, a somewhat eccentric but wise old man who seems to be the only one that Brett can talk to.  Arrogant, pompous, and insensitive, Brett turns his family's ordeal into an even worst experience by constantly antagonizing his father during their bi-monthly prison visits.  When tragedy strikes, Brett has the opportunity to see the real value of his relationships with his family and friends.   <br />Brett is hardly a likeable kid, but somehow the author pulls off the magic trick of making Brett seem reasonable in his anger toward his father.  The dialogue is an excellent example of narrative style, since the reader can picture Brett and only Brett speaking those lines.  The teen love depiction is dead-on, especially as it comes from the voice of a spoiled teenage boy who has not learned to appreciate anything he has been given in life.  This book is sure to spark some serious discussions about the \\"have's\\" and \\"have not's\\" of the world, and it can be expected that readers will want to know early on what is going to happen to give Brett the epiphany that he so obviously needs.  For some reason, we want happiness for him; perhaps that is the sign of excellent writing, causing the readers to want good things for a less-than-gracious protagonist.	2003-10-21
US	52302793	R3TX9O59WZYZDS	0060292903	393620260	Granny Torrelli Makes Soup	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Read it while eating a plate of spaghetti and meatballs!	Rosie's very best friend since birth is a boy named Bailey who lives on her block.  There's not a thing that she and Bailey don't do together or wouldn't do for each other; in fact, though they're only eleven, there's a general feeling in town that Rosie and Bailey just may one day fall in love and marry.  But for right now, Rosie and Bailey are having an argument, and that's when Granny steps in!  <br />In part one of the novel, Granny and Rosie are making soup together.  It's their private time, and Rosie loves being able to talk to Granny about her problems.  In Part II, Bailey joins in the kitchen, and they all make pasta, meatballs, and sauce together.  This time, Granny helps the youngsters see how little spats, jealousy, new friends, and past experiences all come together to teach the lesson that life is too short for petty anger.  <br />Granny Torrelli is wise-very clever and wise-and her Italian accent and crass ways are part of her charm.   Sometimes Granny gives just the right advice, sometimes she says nothing, and sometimes she completely takes over the novel as she tells a story to Rosie and possibly Bailey about her life back in Italy as a young girl.  The stories are riveting and always jam-packed with life advice.  <br />This story is fun, funny, and full of important lessons.  Sometimes, it's even sad and touching, like when Granny tells the story of a sick little baby who taught her the true meaning of life. <br />The more of Sharon Creech's books I read, the more impressed I am with her ability to see the tremendous importance in the little things in life.  If you liked _Love That Dog_, then you'll appreciate the beauty of these words.	2003-10-18
US	52302793	R3981ADH52LAO4	059010764X	120638035	Days Of Jubilee	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Truth about the End of Slavery	While the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation is often thought of as the end of slavery in the United States, the truth is that slaves were freed at different times over the course of several years.  The day that slaves were told of their freedom was called their day of Jubilee. <br />Starting with information related to blacks' roles during the American Revolution and working chronologically through December of 1865, this book presents the story of the end of slavery as seen through the eyes of so many concerned parties.  The narratives of slaves are abundant, but the diary entries, narratives, and letters of Union soldiers, Confederate soldiers, mothers, fathers, generals, presidents, politicians' wives and newspaper reporters are all included.  <br />The major battles of the Civil War and explanations of war strategies are discussed in fascinating detail. (Honestly--This is the first time I've ever enjoyed learning about a war.)  Generals Grant and Lee are both given a voice, and the story of the assassination of the President is told in stunning specificity. Readers will learn about the formation of the Ku Klux Klan, of blacks' insistence in fighting for the cause in which they believed, and what happened unexpectedly to slaves immediately following their release from slavery.  <br />In elementary school, students often learn about the Civil War in terms of the loving, kind Abraham Lincoln and the open-minded Union Army that paraded into the South to save the slaves from their terrible lives.  This book, mainly because of its inclusion of primary document information, provides a more honest and yet even more so captivating story of what really happened in those five years while slavery was coming to an end.  <br />Readers will attach to many of the characters in this book, including the senator's wife Mary Chestnut who writes of her fears of losing the war and her slaves, and Elizabeth Keckley, and African American woman who became the seamstress to Mrs. Lincoln. <br />The black/white and sepia photos of the men, women, events, and surroundings of the 1800's greatly enhance the story.  <br />This book is truly stunning and includes great, detailed information in a writing style that appeals to the young reader.	2003-10-18
US	52302793	R2G81TUVWRRO1Y	0803727356	219613019	The River Between Us	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Could This Win the Newbery?	In The River between Us, Richard Peck has created a novel-long flashback, sandwiched between chapters spoken to us through the eyes of a young man travelling with his father to the town where his dad grew up. <br />The flashback is the story of the young man?s grandmother, Tilly Pruitt, who lived in the small Mississippi River town of Grand Tower along with her brother Noah, her frail little sister Cass, and their mother. One day, their very normal, hardworking town is turned on end when two mysterious young ladies step off the riverboat.  Tilly?s mom, in need of money and sheepishly curious about the girls, invites them to stay at their home, unknowingly inviting them into their lives forever.  <br />As the war comes closer to the river, the townspeople begin whispering about the girls?Delphine, a lovely, well-dressed, refined and precocious young lady from New Orleans and Calinda, Delphine?s mysterious black servant.  It is Noah?s decision to join the army and Delphine?s stubbornness that causes Tilly to learn more about her relationship with her mother and her own ability to ?put some starch in her spine.? <br />There is a great secret at work in this novel, and the reader knows it from the moment Delphine and Calinda enter the lives of the Pruitt family.  What emerges is a story about family, friendship, disparity, courage, enchantment, mystery, and war.  <br />Peck?s writing is brilliant in that he is constantly teasing the reader with hints, practically inviting him/her to just go ahead and guess what?s going to happen. This book will remind readers that accidental moments can change the history of entire generations of people.  <br />With this novel, Richard Peck has sealed his place as one of THE best writer's of young adult fiction!	2003-10-18
US	52302793	R1Y054V9PQW2Q9	0805063617	544206270	Keeper of the Night	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Character development at its very best!	Isabel was the first to come upon her mother's lifeless body and the empty bottle of sleeping pills.  Since that day, Isabel's dad-her Tata-is emotionally haunted by the ghost of his dead wife to the point where he can no longer function as parent to his three young children, choosing instead to spend long hours our on his fishing boat.  <br />Isabel's brother, Frank, has chosen to deal with his sorrow and anger through self-mutilation; and Isabel's little sister, Olivia, is now wetting her bed at night and waking up with nightmares.  <br />Though she needs time to heal and find herself within the remains of her life, Isabel has discovered that her new role in life is of caretaker of the family.  To make matters worse, a new American girl has arrived in Guam and threatens to take apart the comfort of Isabel's high school world, her native culture, and her traditional lifestyle-the last things that she felt she had ownership of.  <br />The beauty of this book shows in the easy flow of the words, in the detailed descriptions of the island of Guam, and in the souls of the characters; yet it is unmistakable anguish seen in the pain of the children that stays with you long after the book has ended.  The dialogue is honest, so honest that it almost feels as though the reader is invading the privacy of Isabel and her father-a father who still sleeps on the floor of his bedroom, comforted each night by the blanket his daughter lays over him once he has fallen to sleep. <br />There is nothing assuming or ridiculous about Isabel's thoughts on life, friends, or her mother's death.  In fact, her feelings about her friendships leave the reader both annoyed with her childish ways and reminiscent of similar patterns from youth. It's hard to think of a young adult novel that uses its secondary characters so fittingly-Auntie Bernadette, Mrs. Cruz, Teresita, Mary Kelly, and even Mrs. Johnson are all responsible for moving this novel along at a pace that keeps the reader transfixed and hopeful.  <br />While Kimberly Willis Holt is best known for her gentle southern characters, she has introduced the island of Guam with definite exotic warmth.	2003-10-18
US	52302793	R1ZR22LJDH9N45	0374340641	173416944	Keesha's House (Michael L. Printz Honor Book (Awards))	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Honest and Relevant	Years ago, young Keesha ran away from home, from her verbally abusive, alcoholic father.  Since then, she has found comfort in the home of a local resident, Joe, who had a large house and an even larger heart.  Joe provided Keesha with a roof over her head and a fresh start in life.  Now it's Keesha's turn to give back.  As she meets young people in trouble, she invites them to Joe's house, so that they may have a chance to sort out life's problems.  Though unconventional and not in line with the state's plans for runaways, Keesha's solution is helping many local teenagers, including Stephanie who is pregnant, Dontay, who is a runaway from foster care, and Harris, a young man whose family will not accept that he is gay.  We eventually watch these characters meet and learn from each other.  The tragic ending serves to remind us that there's not always a happy ending, but success comes from making the most of your life.<br />Helen Frost has created a wise and thoughtful character in young Keesha; however, she's not perfect, which makes her more believable and more likeable.  When Stephanie is accepted back into her parents' home despite her pregnancy, Keesha's comments reflect the jealousy you'd expect from a 14-year-old who always hoped that her own father would come looking for her.  All poems in the book are written in sestinas and sonnets, and each contains multicultural references that will connect the readers to the characters and their environment. The situations are real and prevalent in society, and even though they're sometimes uncomfortable to talk about and read about, young readers from ages 15 on up will appreciate each character's candid, poetic narration.	2003-10-04
US	52302793	R2MZCLW783EURD	0618174974	229492658	The World According to Dog: Poems and Teen Voices (Bccb Blue Ribbon Nonfiction Book Award (Awards))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Speaks to the Dog-Lover!	What does the world look like according to a dog?  It's all about noses, squirrels, stink, sleep, and love.  The dogs of our worlds are not only the ones we turn to when we need love, but they are also our sources for laughter, philosophy, and for helping us feel as though our own lives have meaning.  <br />The poems and short essays in this book represent the feelings of dog lovers and dog owners of all ages; yet, it is the words of young writers in the form of reflective essays that add the unique perspective to this book.  <br />Some highlights of the book include the advice poem, \\"Always Take a Dog,\\" which reminds you how to have a better morning walk and \\"The Usual Spots,\\" the title of which refers to the places in the home where the dog waits in the different seasons of the year.  <br />What will strike the reader first is the beauty of the book-the cover is inviting (making it okay to judge this book by its cover), and the high gloss, cleanly designed pages make each poem appear unique unto itself.  The photographs on each page--some clear, some blurred, all black and white--are beautiful representations of the emotions of the poem; they were taken by Doug Mindell in response to the writing.<br />Non-dog lovers may have a difficult time understanding the big deal given to moments like when a puppy nibbles on your toes, but the beautiful verse and descriptive word choice will not be unappreciated by anyone.  Verses like, \\"I want to / gather you back / midair / that handful of puppy / you once were / keep you curled / in my palm,\\" are sweet and sentimental, and they're sure to cause the reader to let out a little, \\"A[...]\\"	2003-10-04
US	52302793	R2PJ1SZ3JN32OP	0399231153	10166555	Locomotion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lonnie's Words Touch Deeply	\\"You have a poet's heart, Lonnie./  That's what Ms. Marcus said to me./  I have a poet's heart./  That's good.  A good thing to have./  And I'm the one who has it.\\"  <br />Lonnie Collins Motion does have a poet's heart, and the readers of this book feel honored to watch his gift emerge as he works to come to terms with what life has given him. Through poetic structures, Lonnie shares his life with us.  Lonnie was seven and away at a babysitter's house when a fire claimed the lives of his parents.  He and his little sister were taken into foster care and were soon separated from each other.  Like other adolescent boys, Lonnie makes decisions every day about friends and girls and school, but his painful past and his intense self-reflection give him greater dimension than the ordinary coming-of-age character.  It is Lonnie's love for his sister and his desire to rebuild his relationship with her that forces him to make big decisions about God and his future and, in turn, forces the reader to connect to him and want great things for him. Ms. Edna, Lonnie's foster mother, proves to be a greater inspiration than the reader initially expects, and his English teacher, Ms. Marcus provides him the opportunity to discover what really matters.<br />This book is what some might call a \\"quick read,\\" but the themes that emerge and memorable and honest.  I recommend this book to readers ages 12 through adulthood.	2003-10-03
US	52302793	R2L3WLQHXZSO2R	0375822739	176879219	The City of Ember: The First Book of Ember	Books	5	101	112	N	N	Not since Oz has a city been more intriguing	The city of Ember is in trouble, but the complacent citizens seem to ignore the food shortages and frequent blackouts. The Builders, when they created the city some 241 years ago, made provisions for its citizens in the form of a note called \\"The Instructions.\\"  Unfortunately, The Instructions were not handed down through the generations as they were supposed to be, and suddenly 12-year old Lina, a city Messenger, has discovered them.  After trying to tell her friends and even the Mayor about the discovery of the partially destroyed Instructions, Lina turns to a one-time school friend, Doon, a worker in the underground Pipeworks, whom she believes will understand their importance.  But what can two children do with such important information, and who would even believe them?<br />The City of Ember is a clever novel which tells the unique story of two unintentional heroes who fight the status quo in order to bring hope to their city.  The descriptions of the world of Ember are fascinating, leaving the reader to appreciate the incredible imagination of first-time novelist Jeanne DuPrau. The narrator thoughtfully informs us of the setting-the unusual and self-contained world of Ember-slowly throughout the novel, and not all at once in the first chapter.  It's only in chapter 8 that we even realize that there are no animals in Ember and the words \\"heaven\\" and \\"boat\\" have no known meaning.  The characters are outstandingly original yet touchingly familiar in their pre-pubescent views of the adult world.  The deaths of Lina's parents and then custodial grandmother create a sympathy for her that causes us to, all the more, wish for her triumph. It is the curiosity of Lina and Doon that drive this narrative, and it is the nice balance between primary and secondary characters that keeps the reader on his/her toes.  While we expect a happy ending, it's not until the final pages of the novel that we understand what has happened and why.  And, as always, we forgive a good author for the blatant suggestions of a sequel.	2003-09-12
US	52302793	R1DEABNX99CHFF	0786806966	935088954	Rat Boys: A Dating Experiment: Rat Boys	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Worth Avoiding	In the past couple of years, the world of young adult literature has been able to move past the desperate cliches of boy/girl dating and into a place where characters' thoughts, feelings, and comments about the opposite sex are realistic, albeit awkward and somewhat comical.  This book, however,  throws us back a few decades.  Yes, I realize that it's intended to be easy-going and fun, but it decends to the point of being surface and stereotypical.  The characters talk like two highschoolers out of the eighties, more Valley Girl than today's teens would ever be.  And their stereotypical eccentric shop-owner friend reminds us of so many other characters--see any John Hughes teen movie.  Admittedly, there are some funny moments as the girls set out to get dates by transforming pet rats into real boys.  But the whole theme of \\"the unpopular girl against the popular girl\\" ends up making the characters seem ridiculous and shallow.	2003-09-12
US	52302793	R31PRT9BLVME2N	0613123549	944079073	Stone Water	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	You'll Think About This Long After Putting it Down!	Eighth-grader Grant is a loving child whose affection for his dignified grandfather would never be questioned.  In fact, when his grandfather suffers a stroke and is sent to &quot;The Other Wing&quot; of the nursing home, Grant is the only one in the family who makes the time to visit him; his mother and father are both so wrapped up in their careers that they find neglecting both Grant and the grandfather too easy to do.  This story becomes complicated from the very beginning when the reader realizes that the letter and recorded story Grant has received from his grandfather is actually a cleverly disguised request for assisted suicide.  Throughout the remainder of the novel, we follow Grant's life through months of agony as he tries to make sense of the value of life and the inevitability of death.  The secondary characters--Grant's parents, his best friend Avery, and even Randi--become part of the reader's inability to put down this book.  You won't know for sure what Grant does until the end of the story, and you will be left questioning what you would do in the same situation.	2002-01-12
US	52302793	R2P3I01JDPP2RP	0064472078	972676639	Seedfolks	Books	5	23	27	N	Y	Life is Made More Beautiful by Simple Gestures...	The diversity of the world is represented by the very real and honest characters who live near the vacant, trash-filled lot that soon becomes a mecca of collaboration, peace, and beauty in this novel.   There are 13 chapters to this book, each narrated in the first person by a different character who somehow finds some answer to his/her life's needs through the transformation of a simple garden.  You will appreciate the honesty of each character, from the son who sees his father become a greedy liar to the man who understands that sometimes we are responsible for our own segregation.  You will love seeing the emotional growth in a Korean woman who is recouperating from a life of tragedy, and your heart will be touched by Curtis who is trying to make amends for his past decisions.  What is most impressive is that Fleischman is able to tell this delightful tale in such a way that the reader feels as if they're in on a secret--as if we know how the lives of the characters connect in a way that they do not understand themselves.  If you like this clever novel, you will also enjoy Paul Fleischman's Whirligig, which has a similar affect on the reader.  I recommend this book to young readers (6th grade+) as well as adults.	2002-01-12
US	52302793	R3071LYOD8PRBK	0439271991	892044078	Witness	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Not quite finished...	Karen Hesse won my heart with her novel Out of the Dust, so I was disappointed to realize the lack of character development in Witness.  To Hesse's credit, the story does a fantastic job of carrying the reader into the middle of a small community's crisis as it faces the development of the KKK within its town limits.  The poetic verse conveys the story beautifully, and the novel's structure is compelling.  Unfortunately, the characters come in and out with such little development that the reader is unable to become emotionally attached to the outcome.  Glimpses of what &quot;could have been&quot; come in the form of Sara and the young Jewish girl she cares for.	2001-12-22
US	52302793	R21D9UQOP2OQNX	0867095008	390765293	Reading Reminders: Tools, Tips, and Techniques (Great Source Professional Development)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A must have!	Today's language arts classrooms wouldn't look the same without the influence of Jim Burke.  In Reading Reminders, Burke is able to offer us a concise, easy-to-use book full of strategies and methods that can be used every day.  Best of all, the book's table of contents and index are user-friendly, making this an on-the-desk reference.  Each page is one &quot;reminder&quot;--a tip on how to complete a task to ensure student success.  The next time you're preparing a lesson, a simple thumbing through these ideas will give you several tricks that can be used to spice up your instruction.  Highly recommended!!	2001-12-22
US	52302793	R2WHKILL32IF1P	0689831749	428514755	Dovey Coe	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	You'll Love Dovey!	I'm completely impressed with Frances O'Roark Dowell's ability to create such a lovable  and inspiratonal character!  The main character, Dovey, is accused of the murder of her sister's evil suitor, Parnell.  Her honesty--the open admission that she cared nothing for Parnell--adds to her culpability.  You'll come to love the spirit of small-town, USA as you get to know Dovey, her brother Amos, and the rest of the characters.  By the time you put down this book, Dovey will have inspired to you to be true to your real self and to stand up for what you know is right.  Dovey is able to inspire growth in other characters as well, including her oh-so-pretty big sister and her well-educated court-appointed attorney.  What I appreciate most about this novel is that Dovey is able to be tough-minded and strong-willed without going &quot;over the top&quot; in the unrealistic way the many novel and movie charactres do.  I recommended Dovey Coe not only to young adolescent girls but also to boys who will enjoy the mysterious elements and surprise ending.	2001-12-22
US	52302793	R2V2A4KVXPLLM9	0060284544	496645228	Homeless Bird	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Homeless Bird finds a home in readers' hearts	Homeless Bird is a lovely story about a young girl, Koly, whose idealist world of comfort and love is ended when she is sent off to marry a young man who soon dies and leaves her as a 13 year-old widow.  While it would appear as though Koly's only hopes for happiness lay in the hands of her new family--Sass, Sassur, and sister-in-law Chandra--we soon realize (as Koly does) that true happiness must come from within...The language of this novel is stunning, complete with descriptive passages that will leave you feeling as though Koly is your great, personal friend.  You will cheer for this character!  This is an excellent novel of empowerment for young girls--ages 9 to 15.	2001-12-22
US	52302793	R1JXJCLA6X2B2	0440229049	520980382	When Zachary Beaver Came to Town	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	You'll Be Glad You Read This!	The creativity of Kimberly Willis Holt comes at you full-speed in this novel.  What's most impressive is the clever way that the seemingly simple small town of Antler, Texas is juxtaposed with the very complex happenings of its townspeople.  Toby, our protagonist, spends the summer of 1971 trying to understand his mother's ambitions, his father's lack of emotional expression, and his best friend Cal's under-appreciation of a brother fighting in Vietnam.  Toby is given a chance for adventure when a side-show comes to town in the form of the trailer-home of the anti-social Zachary Beaver, the fattest boy in the world.  In the end, Toby is able to make better sense of his own world through what he is able to offer to Zachary.  The dead-on descriptions of adolescent boys in any given summer in the 70's is captivating. I highly recommend this book to middle school-aged boys and girls.	2001-12-22
US	52302793	R27ZRLA9T15SQQ	0590360353	994570967	Midnight Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Couldn't put it down!	This is one of those books that keeps you up at night because you're just not able to put it down!  Congratulations to Avi who, once again, has created an adolescent novel full of interesting, complex, and captivating characters.  This story is packed with vivid, enchanting descriptions, including those of the castle, the hidden passage ways, the surprising twists, the secret conversations, and the mysterious ghost.  Additionally, the gentle use of medieval language serves to establish the setting well, without alienating readers who would normally be &quot;turned off&quot; by such dialogue.  As a teacher, I've recommended this book to many of my sixth grade language arts students, all of whom, upon finishing it, immediately ask for another just like it.	2001-08-16
US	52302793	R15ASC05J7AQ69	0876285922	1462441	Reading Workshop Survival Kit	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Is it really &quot;reading workshop&quot;?	While this book may be very useful to teachers looking for  reading skill activities, it is not developed in the true style of reading workshop.  This book is made up of 300+ pages of copy-ready worksheets, each addressing a particular reading skill.  If you're looking for a book addressing the procedures of reading workshop, including developing group dynamics and assisting students in reading choices and developing personal reading goals, then this is not the book for you.  I found the title to be misleading.	2001-08-14
