US	52306476	RNLF12JDS2CVL	140130799X	205833124	The Exception to the Rulers: Exposing Oily Politicians, War Profiteers, and the Media That Love Them	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Amy Goodman is one of a dying breed	Goodman writes about how Kissinger and Ford gave the go-ahead and weapons for the Indonesian dictator Suharto to invade East Timor in December 1975.  Jimmy Carter greatly increased military aid to Suharto and Vice President Mondale in 1978 personally stewarded the delivery of A-4 fighter planes that the Indonesian military requested to flush out Timorese hiding in the mountains. 200,000 East Timorese were killed by 1979. Indonesia allowed some of its foreign ambassadors to briefly visit East Timor in 1979 and they reported scenes reminiscent of the Biafra civil war/famine in Nigeria in the late 60's. Reagan gave 300 million dollars in aid to Suharto in 1986 alone. It was the funeral of a murdered activist in the Timorese capital Dili in November 1991 where Goodman and Alan Nairn were in the middle of, as Indonesian soldiers started an orgy of killing, which took at least several hundred lives. Goodman got thrown to the ground and beaten and Nairn had his skull fractured.  Because of the reports of Goodman and Nairn, there was a whole new upsurge in activism on East Timor and more media reports though most military aid to Suharto continued until Indonesian terror in September 1999 created PR problems. Clinton offered Suharto 20 extra f-16's when the latter visited D.C. in 1995. Corporate lobbying of congress insured that that support continued.  Goodman recounts here how she and Nairn went to the Reebok human rights award ceremony in 1992, to accept an award on behalf of an imprisoned East Timor activist.. Nairn decided to put a damper on the evening saying to the audience that East Timorese have been slaughtered and kept in jail because of U.S. military aid which also helps the Indonesian military suppress union organizing so workers for Nike and Reebok and Adidas have to labor under horrible conditions but the executives and major shareholders in those companies make many untold millions.     Goodman recounts the story of the New York Times Judith Miller.  Her going to jail as part of the Valerie Plame buffoonery has conveniently pushed her grotesque reporting on the Iraq war aside. She and Michael Gordon reported as established fact every bogus WMD story funneled to her by Ahmad Chalabi's Pentagon funded Iraqi National Congress. She followed the military unit META ALPHA around Iraq and in once instance threatened to negatively report on them if she didn't do a favor for the INC. She was allowed to pin a medal on one of the unit members in a ceremony. Goodman quotes a  former military psy-op expert on the Bush use of psychological warfare to convince the public to support the Iraq war. To this end they let loose a number of dubious stories-the missing fighter pilot from the first Gulf War supposedly still alive in Iraq, and so on.     Rumsfeld threw out stories without any evidence about alleged Franco-German cooperation with Saddam, which Scott McClelland said he personally didn't know anything about. Rumsfeld of course played a major role in 1983-84 in starting up U.S. support for Saddam. Goodman reports the story broken by a Swiss paper that the Bush administration took Iraq's December 2002 weapons report before it was released, and edited out the sections where were listed the WMD materials and weapons U.S. companies shipped to Iraq before 1990.     Goodman writes of the contract given by the CPA to the Science International Application Corporation to start an Iraqi media channel. The latter venture collapsed after six months when the workers protested at their slavery wages and the exorbitant wages paid to U.S. consultants. Goodman writes the very revealing story of Batelco, the Bahrain based company who set up a wireless phone service throughout Iraq after Saddam's fall. However the Coalition Provisional Authority ordered the company to shut down its operation and instead gave the cell phone contract to MCI, formerly the ultra-corrupt Worldcom. Pretty soon, only American officials and their hangers on in Iraq could usecell phones. Then there is Vinell corporation, whose installations were targeted by Saudi dissidents in terror attacks in 1995 and 2003, and which trains the Saudi National Guard using ex American military and intelligence to protect the barbaric Saudi regime. One time on a panel on CNN she tried to point out the connections of high Saudi officials to Al Qaeda and the efforts of the Bush administration to suppress evidence of those ties, the relevance of the attacks on the Vinell installations, etc. The anchor Miles O'brien kept interrupting and saying that such issues were off the topic of the War on Terror. TV news anchors tend not to have very penetrating minds. She writes of other confrontations with the powerful such as Gingrich and Clinton, the latter whose interview with her on Election Day 2000 left him raging and whimpering. She also writes of her amusing appearance on the Sally Jesse Raphael show in 1991.    Goodman and Jeremy Scahill won many awards for doing a documentary on Chevron's role in killing and environmental destruction in Nigeria. She writes about Clinton support for the Abacha regime. Goodman writes about how she and Scahill tried to disrupt the International Press Club ceremony where they got their award for the Nigeria documentary.. They kept trying to ask Richard Holbrooke, about how the U.S. made war inevitable in Kosovo by inserting a clause into the Rambouillet agreements demanding that NATO have access to all of Yugoslavia.     She notes that contrary to his claims of no remaining connections to Haliburton, he still receives six figures in deferred compensation from the company and stock options. With similar silly disingenuousness, he said that his wealth accumulated at Haliburton had no connection to corporate welfare. Of course, while Cheney was at the company received several billion in govt. contracts, export-import bank loans, etc. Cheney left the company with an inflated profit margin of 234 million, similar to what Clinton wasaccused of doing with Whitewater although involving much less money.     Goodman quotes a managing director in the Carlyle Group as explaining that in 1990 he was told that George W. was down on his luck and asked if the latter could sit on the board of a Carlyle subsidiary Caterair, getting himself a nice salary. The director reported that the future president contributed nothing to the board, had no interest in the company and told a lot of dirty jokes during his three year tenure before he was quietly asked to leave.	2005-09-26
US	52306476	R1CYY5YM1FOOSG	1567513107	424458169	Left Out!: How Liberals Helped Reelect George W. Bush	Books	5	22	25	N	N	The Democrats are almost as bad on many issues as Republicans	This book seems to have been very quickly written. It seems sloppy and lacking clarity at times. At the same time, the first half of the book at least, is very well researched.     The first half of the book is devoted to Howard Dean. Frank quotes an official at a right wing Vermont think tank who remarked during Dean's presidential campaign that the candidate's  populist liberal persona was quite different from the persona of  Howard Dean the Governor of Vermont from 1991-2003. Dean instituted welfare reform in Vermont and enthused over Clinton's national version of it. On law and order issues, he was a typical demagogue,. In 1999, as governor he blocked the provision for Vermont of 115,000 dollars in federal grants for legal representation for mentally ill defendants.     He praised Newt Gingrich's schemes for medicare. He repeatedly declared himself against any government run health program, a position which he seemed to reverse during his campaign. As governor he postured as a fiscal conservative in the usual fraudulent ways of politicians. He cut 7 million dollars in funds for state education and teacher's retirement, 4 million in health care for the elderly, 2 million in welfare benefits for the disabled and 1.2 million in medicare. Of course while he cut funds for the working class and the most vulnerable in the relatively small population of Vermont, he appropriated 30 million for new prisons (and for the pockets of prison contractor corporations and the rest), seven million for a low interest loan program for businesses and cut the state income tax by eight percent. By 2002, Dean had increased funding for Vermont's prisons by 150 percent but for it's colleges and universities, only increased 7 percent.     Dean is a strong supporter of Israel's oppression and apartheid in the Occupied territories. He supported the first Gulf War and said in February 2003 that he would support a unilateral U.S. attack on Iraq if Saddam failed to comply with UN resolutions (or at least if the U.S. claims that he hasn't complied with them)within a one or two month deadline.. Even more to the right, Frank notes, \\"anti-war\\" Wesely Clark, a war criminal and convert to the Democratic party apparently when Bush wouldn't appoint him to any position in the War on Terror, wrote in the British press in April 2003 that Bush and Blair should be proud of themselves for their \\"liberation.\\" Frank writes that Norman Solomon gave 1500 dollars to Clark's campaign.     Dean aroused the fervent opposition of Vermont grassroots activists with his environmental policies. He continually sided with big agricultural interests against persons complaining that pesticides were causing cognitive disorders, producing noise, dust, flies, reducing property, etc. His administration was notorious for issuing permits for virtually any development permit and the result was massive sprawl, strip malls,  the elimination of small farms, etc.     It is ironic that while during his presidential campaign, he denounced tax havens in the Carribean, but as governor only a few years before he had declared that he wanted Vermont to become the a \\"little Bermuda.\\" He was able to give tax shelter to certain insurance companies, including an Enron laundering operation and reduced the insurance premiums that corporations like Dupont were supposed to pay by 60 percent. Dean supported NAFTA and the WTO. He said that NAFTA had helped Vermont. Frank notes that in reality, after NAFTA, Vermont's exports declined by 38 percent and 6,000 plus jobs lost in the state's relatively small workforce.  Real wages at the height of the Clinton \\"boom \\", Frank writes  were still 10 percent below the Nixon-Ford era, even though U.S. economic productivity in 2000 was 50 percent higher than in 1974. The rich absorbed the vast majority of the gains in wealth during that time. The poverty rate declined by 4 percent, reversing its increase since the Reagan years but it only climbed back down to the level it wasin 1974. The poor acquired such tiny benefits during Clinton's regime however the GDP at the end of Clinton's term was 74 percent higher than in 1974, the stock market increased by 600 percent in value, etc. The rich got almost all the gains in wealth during that time. Measured in 2001 dollars, Frank writes, the amount of money needed by the average impoverished family to move across the poverty line went from $1538 in 1993 to $1620 in 1999.     He writes about how establishment environmental groups like the Sierra Club serve as covers for destruction of the environment by endorsing Democratic politicians like Ron Wyden and Max Baucus who have nice rhetoric on behalf of the environment but are heavily funded by environmentally destructive industries and push forward highly destructive actions like Clinton's salvage rider bill. Then there was the destruction of 2.5 million acres of old growth forests in Oregon under the Fire Prevention Bill.  Frank notes Fox river case in Wisconsin. It was recommended that the Fox River be reduced to .25 ppm's of PCB's in sediments in the river. The Sierra Club brokered a compromise whereby the sediment level would be reduced to only 1 ppm PCB's, ninety percent higher than concentrations of ppm PCB's that are fully protective of human health. The river is a heavy source of fish, so people consuming the latter are at a high risk for cancer and other things. Then the club endorsed a plan in Montana which allowed for timber sales and clear cutting on 14,000 acres. Frank writes that the annual board feet of clear cutting of forests was vastly greater under Clinton than under Bush so far, as bad as Bush is.     Frank writes of the interesting episode in 2000 when Richard Holbrooke and Paul Wolfowitz came together at a function at John Hopkins University. Holbrooke played a leading role as under secretary of state for Asian affairs in the late 70's in. sending U.S. weapons to Indonesia as it slaughtered many tens of thousands of people inits occupation of East Timor. Wolfowitz was once ambassador to Indonesia and a Suharto apologist. Holbrooke said something interesting at the function about keeping the issue of East Timor out of the 2000 campaign.	2005-09-13
US	52306476	R3LPEGZQPP4DXB	1904859038	243643749	Dime's Worth of Difference: Beyond the Lesser of Two Evils (Counterpunch)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Instructive look at how both parties suck	Jeff  Taylor points out the mediocre record in the senate of Paul Wellstone, the senate's supposed leading raging liberal, and notes the rather surreal  reaction of a Human Rights Campaign official after Wellstone voted for the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996. Michael Donnely has a chapter on Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, the timber industry's biggest recipient of campaign cash besides President Bush, who helped push through destruction of thousands of acres of Old Growth forests (which are most resistant to forest fires) in Oregon with Clinton's so called Healthy Forest initiative. Josh Frank  discusses Montana's Democratic Senator Max Baucus.     Jeffery St. Clair writes about the Democrats energy policy. Clinton opened the National Petroleum Reserve up in Alaska, an area much more significant than ANWAR. In 1996, he ordered that oil exploited on Alaska's North Slope could be exported. This reduction of supply for the U.S. helped drive up energy prices in the Midwest. Oil drilling was begun with Clinton's support all around the coast of Alaska. Under Secretary of Interior for Energy David Hayes bragged to Congress, about the vast increases Clinton supported in drilling for oil and gas on public lands. St. Clair notes that Bush's recently departed deputy Interior secretary Stephen Griles  got into some trouble after he broke out in rage at an EPA report which stated that exploitation of Coal Methane deposits at the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and Colorado, would greatly harm drinking water supplies.. The companies pushing for this project all formerly employed Griles as a lobbyist.      St. Clair notes that Ralph Cavanaugh of the National Resources Defense Council testified on behalf of Enron's effort to gain control of the public utility in Oregon, Portland GE. . Contrary to Cavanaugh's predictions, rates rose very high, the Enron execs bilked the ratepayers of tens of millions.  Cavanaugh similarly lobbied for deregulation of utilities in California. In this new situation power grades deteriorated and of course, companies led by Enron, decided to turn off their readily available supply of electricity in order to gauge Californians. Ralph Cavanaugh was given an award by Teresa Heinz Kerry's foundation, on which Ken Lay sat, for his work in \\"free market environmentalism.\\" Cheney used the resulting high energy prices to push for opening ANWAR to give his oil cronies even more short term profit but that would only have the effect of reducing gas prices by a few cents for a short period.        Cockburn and St. Clair note that at the height of the so-called Clinton boom, real wages were still ten percent below the level of the Nixon-Ford years. In 1996 the Congressional Budget office reported that there were three to five people needing work for each available job. Currently, in Bush's America, the ratio is about ten to one. In a University of Chicago study in 1998, at a McDonalds in Harlem, there was found an average of fourteen people applying for each available job. 73 percent of those seekers still had been unable to find even minimum wage work a year later. The official unemployment rate dosen't count people who have stopped looking for work, which makes the real rate at least twice as high. The minimum wage is well below the poverty level.  The workforce is dominated by low paying temp and service jobs.  The Democrats helped launch the deregulatory initiatives which led to such criminal activities as by Enron and stock speculators vastly over inflating the market. Cockburn quotes Robert Pollin that a way to dramatically reduce poverty would be to empower unions in this country and try to stop the U.S. from forcing neoliberalism on third world countries. The CEO to worker pay ratio rose from 113 to 1 in the early 90's to 449 to 1 in 2001.     Bruce Anderson writes about Mendocino County Northern California, long controlled by Democrats. The county is represented in Congress by Mike Thompson. The wine industry dominates the county and Thompson is a very reliable front for them. He has fought against efforts to ban the herbicide Ethyl Bromide. Many workers in the grape fields, mostly Chicano immigrants, in the county have died from the effects of such things. An effort by the county to ban aerial spraying at one point was overturned by Democrats in Sacramento      St. Clair has yet another essay, this one on Marc Racicot, who was governor of Montana and later chairman of the Bush re-election campaign and the RNC. As governor Racicot implemented electricity deregulation which caused Montana ratepayers to go from paying the lowest rates to the highest rates in the Nation. He privatized Montana's mental health system with 400 million dollars of the taxpayer's money but by two years later, many hospitals were failed and mentally ill people out on the streets.  He gave out contracts to his corporate cronies including in the prison building industry in spite of Montana having a surplus of prison cells. He successfully pushed for an exemption for open pit mine operators to not have to clean up the toxic debris they let out.  He sold off to his corporate cronies forest and parkland to build shopping centers.     Sean Donahue has an article about the aerial spraying program against cocoa plants in Colombia, which was overseen at the state department during the Clinton and most of the first Bush administration by Randy Beers. Beers left Bush to become a consultant to the Kerry campaign.  The cocoa farmers are people who cannot making a living growing legal crops. They are taxed by the left wing guerillas, the FARC. These people don't make much money from producing cocoa but the processors and exporters do. The latter are supported by right wing death squads, supported by the U.S. funded Colombian military. These death squads play a useful role in driving peasants off the land so mining, ranching, oil exploration and other operations can take over, and killing peasant and union activists.  The herbicide contains a chemical which kills all green plants, legal or illegal, that it touches and has wiped out the legal crops of many peasants. Peasants complain of many ailments like rashes, respiratory problems. and temporary problems Donohue quotes one woman who was living on a government subsidized Yucca growing co-op farm which was destroyed by the spraying..  This woman told Donahue that she had lost all her assets in the farm and only had the choice of going to the big city to beg, but death squads controlled the exit to the city and they had already killed her brothers.	2005-09-02
US	52306476	R2D4G5U4K8TEPP	0812504364	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An enjoyable read	Almost all of the novel features the narration of Hank Morgan, a foreman at a weapons factory in Connecticut who in the year 1879 is hit on the forehead by a crowbar by one of his unruly workers. When Hank wakes up he finds himself in England in the Sixth Century where King Arthur reigns.<br /><br />He is captured by a knight, brought to Arthur's castle and it is determined that he should be executed for he seems to be some strange demon sorcerer, what with his 19th century clothes and speech. But he just happens to be in possesion of the knowledge that on that particular day on which he finds himself in the sixth century, a total eclipse is going to occur. Of course, 6th century England dosen't know anything about eclipses and thinks such natural occurances are the work of various demon sorcerors or signs of god's anger and so on. Hank threatens to use his powers of sorcery to cause the sun to be completely blotted if they go through with his execution. The eclipse occurs and the people in the court are thus flabbergasted. King Arthur makes Hank his Prime Minister and Hank uses his political powers over the next decade or decade and a half to use his elementary knowledge of late 19th century technology and institutions to reform Arthur's kingdom. He introduces telephones, telegraphs, grammar schools, military academies, newspapers. He tries to reduce the barbaric oppression of the serfs and slaves. He tries to introduce enlightenment ideals in the country. He successfully discredits Merlin, the charlatan court magician, in part by pretending to perform miracles, using his knowledge of electricity and construction of munititions. 6th century England, of course is completely ignorant of all these technologies and so takes Hank's use of them as evidence of his extraordinary supernatural powers. He blows up Merlin's castle. At one popular monestary, the monks and nuns are terrified because the water in their very large indoor pool has been reduced by a large amount. They think the reduction has happened because of God's displeasure with them for engaging in the decadent and self-gratifying act of bathing in the pool but Hank discovers that the water is leaking out the bottom of the pool where some bricks have loosened. He constructs a big scene to reveal his miracle, including fireworks which the people have never seen before and the loud sounds and explosive lights he explains are the evil spirit being expunged from the monastery that was allegedly restricting the water level in the lake. This alleged miracle gives Hank the credibility he needs to convince the monks that they could bathe without retribution from God.<br /><br />There is much critique in the narration from Hank on the social, economic and political conditions in Arthur's England. He reports on the conditon of the serfs. What little income such as from the produce that they create on their own plots, is stolen by taxes and as tribute by the nobility and the church. The feudal lords drive their serfs to starvation, disease and death so that they, the lords can live luxurious lives without working themselves. The lords execute or imprison serfs who get too uppity or refuse orders to have their daughters be sexually abused or often times for no reason at all.  Hank works to try to release some of the prisoners, whose minds have all been deostroyed by their experience, in the castles of the nobles.  The serfs and the slaves, the vast majority of England's population have been trained by centuries of oppression to be mentally docile. They think they deserve to be slaves and think their oppression is the way things should be. Hank notes in relation to this, how the world has traditionally recoiled at the execution of about 10,000 rich people during the French Revolution's \\"Reign of Terror.\\" But there was an incomparably greater terror which affected hundreds of millions of french peasants who suffered a reign of terror lasting many centuries as they were starved and robbed and worked to death by the aristocracy.<br /><br />Hank tries to introduce the elements of the Enlightenment. He tries slowly and subtly to spread the idea that the English nobility has illegitimate power and that the people deserve to control their own destiny. He tries in the same way to inculate a basic spirit of independent thinking, to undermine the spirit of submission to authority. Hank writes that in his opinion true patriotism is quite the opposite of submission to governmental institutions and the laws. Institutions and laws grow outdated, tyranical and ineffective and people who do not voice their opinion about the need to change such things are not true patriots. He succesfully undermines the barbaric and silly custom of knight errantry--he gradually converts the knights into travelling salesman for soap and the other things he is trying to encourage. He fights a bunch of the nights towards the end of the book while wearing gymnastic tights and using a gun and lasso.<br /><br />The end of the story brings a sort of twist and one fully understands the satire as it relates to Hank's vanity and overconfindence in his late 19th century intellect and technological know-how.<br /><br /> This a good story, very well written, intelligent, amusing and every so often something comes up in it that makes you laugh out loud.<br /><br />There may be a few minor mechanical problems with the flow of the story, such as one or two actions not being fully accounted for. The last part of the episode where King Arthur and Hank get taken as slaves is kind of rushed through.ed to death by the aristocracy.     Hank tries to introduce the elements of the Enlightenment. He tries slowly and subtly to spread the idea that the English nobility has illegitimate power and that the people deserve to control their own destiny. He tries in the same way to inculate a basic spirit of independent thinking, to undermine the spirit of submission to authority. Hank writes that in his opinion true patriotism is quite the opposite of submission to governmental institutions and the laws. Institutions and laws grow outdated, tyranical and ineffective and people who do not voice their opinion about the need to change such things are not true patriots. He succesfully undermines the barbaric and silly custom of knight errantry--he gradually converts the knights into travelling salesman for soap and the other things he is trying to encourage. He fights a bunch of the nights towards the end of the book while wearing gymnastic tights and using a gun and lasso.      The end of the story brings a sort of twist and one fully understands the satire as it relates to Hank's vanity and overconfindence in his late 19th century intellect and technological know-how.     This a good story, very well written, intelligent, amusing and every so often something comes up in it that makes you laugh out loud.     There may be a few minor mechanical problems with the flow of the story, such as one or two actions not being fully accounted for. The last part of the episode where King Arthur and Hank get taken as slaves is kind of rushed through.	2005-08-21
US	52306476	R29UFPZRB88PTT	0745321518	169097636	How America Gets Away with Murder: Illegal Wars, Collateral Damage and Crimes Against Humanity	Books	5	34	41	N	N	U.S. humanitarianism is (...)	Michael Mandel writes that former  U.S. secretary of state Cyrus Vance and former British foreign secretary David Owen presided over a peace process for Bosnia in the early 1990's attempting to make all the ethnic groups in the country  feel that they had all their rights and safety. An agreement was reached in early 1992.  Everybody supported the deal except the Bosnian Muslims, who were encouraged by the Bush Sr. administration to hold out for more. Almost four years of horrific civil war followed. The U.S. succeeded in convincing its allies at long last in 1995 to bomb the Bosnian Serbs and pressured the Bosnian Muslims to the negotiating table at Dayton and an agreement was signed.  Bhoutros Bhoutros Ghali noted later that the old Vance-Owen plans were more or less the same as the 1995 Dayton accords. The whole point of the exercise from the U.S. point of view was to undermine the leadership of its West European allies in reaching a peaceful settlement, maneuvering them to playing second fiddle,, while U.S. military power eventually solved the problem.  In 1992 Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, undermining attempts to get the Bosnian Serbs to compromise, announced suddenly his belief that the Serbs in Bosnian and Belgrade should be treated as war criminals.. This is the same man Mandel notes, who was a key state dept. planner while such Nuremberg style offenses took place as the U.S. slaughter of 600,000 Cambodians in 1969-75, U.S. support for the slaughter of 200,000 in East Timor,U.S. support for the terrorist contras and the death squads which slaughtered tens of thousands in Central  America in the 80's,  the deliberate destruction of Iraq's vital civilian infrastructure by U.S. bombing during the first Gulf War, etc. etc. .Journalists were full of dubious atrocity stories, circulated by the PR firm Rudder Finn, in the pay of the Izetbegobic govt. For instance Roy Gutman wrote in Newsday about a supposed Bosnian Serb Death camp at Brcko. He claimed that  3000 people were slaughtered there, many by having their throats slit. However, years later, the commander of this death camp was only convicted at the Hague of  12  counts of murder and only 66 bodies were found, almost all with pistol shots. Similarly Omarska was claimed to be a death camp reminiscent of the Nazis, but its commander, Dusko Tadic, ended up being charged with only 9 counts of murder. Srebrencia, everybody's favorite Serb massacre could only yield about 2000 bodies.  The tribunal investigators conceded that some of the bodies showed signs of having been engaged in combat before death. Mandel estimates about 4000 dead in this case when estimating the alleged \\"missing\\" bodies.  He notes that these are all terrible atrocities, but hardly the Nazi-style acts that liberals and leftists sobbed over.  Bosnian Muslims were convicted by the Hague tribunal too for running the sort of torture and rape camps accused of the Serbs. In August 1995,under cover of U.S. air strikes on the Bosnian Serbs, and with U.S. air and logistical support, the Croatian army murdered and looted and raped, as hundreds of thousands of Serbs were ethnically cleansed from its province of Krajina. The Croatian commander of this operation was indicted by the tribunal in 2001 but of course, no U.S. officials will ever be.<br /><br />In the Kosovo situation, the author portrays the real motives of the U.S. as being about asserting its military hegemony in solving European problems. Richard Perle praised the war because it was launched without UN approval.The U.S. called Kosovo Liberation Army actions terrorist in early 1998 but denounced the Serbs as engaging in \\"state terrorism\\" in their \\"retaliation\\" against the KLA. UN and other reports during 1998, as the author shows, are full of citations of KLA atrocities and less those of Serbs. Michael Ignatiev while traveling with his hero Holbrooke wrote that the KLA seemed to be attempting to provoke Serb atrocities and thus to give the U.S. led NATO an excuse to intervene.<br /><br />At Racak in Jan 1999, William Walker proclaimed a Serb massacre. This is the same guy, Mandel notes, who was U.S. ambassador to the death squad regime in El Salvador who had played down the murder by a U.S. trained battalion in that country in November 1989 of six Jesuits, their cook and her daughter.. The leader of the Finnish forensics team, under heavy pressure from Walker, claimed that a particular pathological test had been done which discredited Serb claims that the dead Albanians had been engaged in combat. However, the author says that this pathologist later admitted to him that that test had not actually been done at Racak. Members of the team broke off from the leader and conducted their own investigation which rebutted  U.S. claims. Only twenty two bodies were found, all but one of them adult male and all but one of them shot from far away, not the 45 bodies of men, women and children Clinton claimed had been machined gunned in a ditch<br /><br />He goes on to show how the U.S., when the Serbs accepted the principle of an international peacekeeping force in Kosovo, tried to raise the bar higher to avoid a peaceful settlement by demanding that the Serbs accept an all NATO occupation force that would have access to all of Yugoslavia-obviously as a sovereign govt. they would not accept this.  He notes that despite the wild claims such as William Cohen's 100,000 killed after March 24th (when the bombing began and the escalation in Serb violence and refugee flight not coincidently occurred), only 2,250 or so Albanian bodies were actually found afterwards. The Hague tribunal eventually gave up trying to prove Milosevic committed genocide in Kosovo.<br /><br />The bulk of this book is about the Balkans but he has other interesting stuff. He shows that U.S. effort to block UN action in Rwanda in 1994 was motivated by a desire to block an action in which it had no imperial interest.  He shows clearly that U.S. has committed the supreme international crime of aggression many times and has an interesting discussion about the concept of wars of self-defense.  He notes in Eastern Europe, most of the people strongly opposed their govt's support for the Iraq war.  He shows how the U.S. sabotaged any possibility of getting Bin Laden in its demands on the Taliban after 9-11 and how the cutoff of medical and food aid during the bombing of Afghanistan seems to have killed as much as 20,000; he quotes the NYT as reporting that 600 people in three particular villages died because of such a situation.	2005-08-06
US	52306476	RK1KORGAG24PX	1565849051	634475490	The New American Empire: A 21st Century Teach In On U.s. Foreign Policy	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The more things change the more they stay the same	In his chapter Thomas McCormick notes during the Cold War, Europe subordinated itself to American political and military leadership against anti-capitalist currents. America got rid of nuisances for Europe in the form of Saddam's threat to the ME oil supply on which Europe is so dependent and in the form of Milosevic. They subordinated themselves to Clinton's leadership in advancing corporate globaliztion.  However the ever increasing American military activity in the ME since the late Clinton years and the blatantly imperialist NSS of the Bush Republicans has many European elites vocally criticizing the U.S. The U.S., has tried to use the  periphery of the EU (Italy and Spain) and the weak pliable govts of East Europe against its critics in the rich EU Franco-German core. However, the population in the former two sets of countries tended to be against the Iraq war and favor orientation towards the EU and not the U.S. so their govts. couldn't give much practical help to the Americans.     The U.S. killed hundreds of thousands of Filipinos at the turn of the 20th century, Prof. Young notes in Ch.2, with such a mentality as evinced by the old Indian butcher General Jakob Smith, who ordered his boys to kill everyone they saw over the age of ten and to make Samar province a \\"howling wilderness.\\" Michael Adas in Chapter Seven gives an instructive overview of the American occupation of the Philippines. American officials praised themselves to the skies for their pure humanitarian motives towards the Filipinos.  They introduced agricultural programs creating hybrid seeds, new fertilizers,etc. The vast majority of the people were oppressed tenant farmers, wage slaves on sugar plantations, etc, who had no use for such expensive innovations, while the landlord minority reaped the overwhelming profit from increases in productivity, improved ports and transportation facilities.     Prof. Young in Chapter 2  quotes Colonel Nathan Sassaman as saying \\"With a heavy dose of fear andviolence, and a lot of money for projects,\\" the Iraqis can be convinced that the Americans are out for their best interest. U.S. soldiers do things like shoot at Iraqis who when meeting U.S. troops cannot understand their English commands and arrest family members as hostages against suspected insurgents and blow up the houses of such suspects. Whole towns and villages are surrounded by miles long barbed wire fences.. Young quotes the mayor of pro-American  Husayba as saying as saying the nature of the occupation was making the townspeople anti-U.S. . Lt. Col. John Nagl explained that brutal American counterinsurgency methods in civilian areas would continue and that they would worry about cultivating pro-Americanism in Iraq later. The Arab mind only understands force, one officer explained. Meanwhile, as Prof. McCormick notes, Proconsul Bremer imposed a radical program of neoliberal \\"shock therapy\\" that will perhaps wreck more destruction on Iraq than it has on the rest of the third world.       In Central America, the U.S. has always blocked attempts to decrease the exploitation of the poor, after WWII the pretext often being fighting commies.. In 1968,  Greg Grandin quotes in the book's best chapter, the deputy chief of mission at the U.S. embassy in Guatemala City, Viron Vaky, warned his superiors that the torture and mutilation practiced by the CIA trained and funded death squads was breaking down any semblance of law and order and everyone in Guatemala to the left of Hitler was turning against the U.S. During the years 1981-83 alone, the Guatemalan army killed about 100,000 Mayan peasants, destroyed 400 villages, etc. In a Nov. 1982 meeting with the dictator General Rios Montt, Reagan's handlers had him say that the General was being unfairly attacked for his human rights record, though the Inter-American affairs officer at the State Dept, had reported a month earlier that the military was regularly massacring people. In El Salvador, U.S. backed forces killed60,000. In Nicaragua, the Contras did similar things. Reagan asst. Sec/State Thomas Enders suggested that the barbaric nature of U.S. allies in the region was hurting U.S. interests.     Now, in Central America, the poverty is worse than ever and the old oligarchs are still very much in control  Democratic elections are held for the masses to choose between such elites.  Such top down \\"democracy\\" is what at best the necons have in mind for their future projects in the Middle East. El Salvador has a murder rate of 120 per 1000 and horrible gang violence.  The military in Guatemala terrorizes its enemies with shadowy gangs that are involved in drugs and racketeering. Thirty labor and peasant activists were murdered in the run-up to Guatemala's 2004 election.  The U.S. forced its client govt. in Nicaragua after 1990 to more or less give up its claim to the 1986 World Court ruling which ordered the U.S. to pay billions in reparations for Contra terror. Grandin compares the poor social indicators in U.S. dominated Central America to those of Iran and Syria, two countries outside of U.S. domination (but maybe not for long!). He notes the similarity between the Bush administration manipulation of public opinion for going to war in Iraq and the Reagan administration's illegal Office of Public Diplomacy. Trying to stimulate a public largely not supportive of direct military intervention in Central America, the Reaganites through the OPD threw out a large number of false stories to the media about the Sandinista's running drugs, formenting terror in Costa Rica, etc. Meanwhile, mild COINTELPRO style operations, were launched against anti-intervention organizations and Oliver North drew up plans to intern anti-war activists.     Grandin notes apropos Central American death squads that the U.S. seems to have formed death squads in Iraq with selected Kurds, Shia and ex-Saddam agents converted to the Wolfowitz idealism. This probably includes the Wolf brigade as well new interiorministry commandos made up of ex Saddamists who seem to be responsible for some of the dead bodies lying on the roads and rivers in Baghdad.  The new Iraqi Human rights minister recently estimated, confirmed by the State Dept, that about half of all detainees in prison in Iraq, have been beaten or tortured or other maltreatments.	2005-07-06
US	52306476	R3UXREO19G6VMX	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	The first 65 pages are good......	I remember trying to read a little bit of \\"Ulysses\\" when I was in high school and gave up flabergasted at the \\"stream of consciousness\\" prose, thinking that it was all beyond the comprehension of a mediocre intellect like mine. Well its been about nine years since then and I've learned quite a bit about the world to know that just because something is unintelligible, it does not neccessarily follow that that thing is profound.  <br /> <br />Once the novel gets going after the first few pages, it presents a diverting story through Joyce's alter ego, Stephen Dedalus. When we meet Stephen, he is a student at a Catholic private school in Ireland, probably in the late 1880's or early 1890's. I'm guessing that his age is somewhere in early adolesence. We are treated to scenes of Stephen contemplating his loneliness, and receiving gratuitious sadistic punishment from Father Dolan which he did not deserve. We are treated to an excellent dialogue at Stephen's family's Christmas dinner where some family friends and Mr. Dedalus get into violent discussion on the subject of Parnell. Parnell was the Irish nationalist, founder of Sinn Fein, who apparently died under disgrace heaped upon him by the Irish clergy for adultery or some such indiscretion.  <br /> <br />Then as we get into Chapter two, about the time we are told that Stephen's father is going bankrupt and plunging his family into poverty, the novel somehow starts to follow apart for me. The story startsto lose its feel for the characters and their trials and tibulations. The narration starts to get a little sloppy, jumping around everywhere in an opaque, spacey way. Exactly what is happening is a little opaque but here Joyce starts to introduce mysticism. Suddenly out of the blue, we receive vague hints that Stephen is having severe spiritual struggles. He has very depraved thoughts in him. The end of chapter two sees Stephen having his first session with a prositute in Dublin's red light district. These spiritual struggles are introduced with great clumsiness. <br /> <br />Well Chapter three begins and Joyce starts pouring on the mysticism. At this point he quite loses me. The spiritual struggles of Stephen don't seem real; they are not interesting to me. I really started to lose interest in the novel, what with the lengthy boring speeches of the priests and so on. I got to the point in the novel where Stephen has confessed his sins, felt much better and then started to wonder about his spiritual strength in the face of sin, and so on. Then I decided I had more urgent things to do than complete this book.	2005-06-11
US	52306476	RSBG2NMUDFD2A	1902593774	83100355	The Politics of Anti-Semitism	Books	5	78	103	N	N	Useful stuff	The book has some relatively brief instructive stuff about the history of anti-semitism, anti-semitism in Europe, the Israeli Disinvestment campaign and a moving article by Yigal Bronner about Palestinian suffering. <br /> <br />One of the longest essays is by Alexander Cockburn. The latter gentleman has been involved in plenty of combat over the years with Zionist intellectuals and their libels, from the Commentary crowd to the New Republic. He discusses an article about him in TNR by an individual named Frank Foer. Comrade Foer discussed Cockburn's recent discussion of various stories circulating around, including that of the Israel Spy Ring and the harassment of an Arab scientist by a Jewish scientist, Dr. Philip Zack. The latter has been suspected in the post 9-11 anthrax scare which he, the scientist, may have perpetrated in order to blame it on Arabs.  Foer allowed that Cockburn didn't exactly endorse these stories but since there wasn't even any credibility to them, it proves Cockburn is an anti-Semite because he spread them. Foer claimed to have done a Lexus Nexus search about the allegations against Dr. Zack and found nothing. Cockburn notes that such a search actually reveals articles on the subject from the Hartford Courant, the Philadelphia Inquirer and Salon.com. Anthrax samples and other biological agents had gone missing, about the same time Zack was videotaped sneaking into the lab after hours. He and another scientist voluntarily left Fort Detrick after they constructed and sent a poem to the Arab Scientist, filled with racist stuff and a drawing of a camel with various sexual appendages on it. On the Israeli Spy ring, Foer implied that only the right wing libertarian site Antiwar.com was spreading it, but in fact that story was covered in a four part series by Carl Cameron on FoxNews, also covered by Le Monde, and Jane's Defense Weekly. Cockburn makes an interesting point about the reaction to the 1989 revelations of Billy Graham's conversations with Richard Nixon.  In one of them, the two men agree that Jews are bringing down the nation because they are producers of immoral tv shows and movies and incline towards the left.  This sparked great outrage but in the same revelations Graham was quoted as arguing for the bombing of all the dikes in North Vietnam, which would completely obliterate the North Vietnamese economy and kill about a million. This advocacy of war crimes gained no outrage. Arthur Seys Inquart was hanged at Nuremburg for implementing such policies in Holland. Of course, Cockburn notes, the U.S. did such a thing during the Korean war, bombing dikes in order to flood rice fields in order to induce starvation.  <br /> <br />Jeffery St. Clair writes about the U.S.S. Liberty attack by Israel, of June 8th 1967.. 34 U.S. sailors on that vessel were killed in the attack, and 170 plus wounded, many seriously. That attack was very notable in that Robert McNamara and his lieutenants blocked any plane from the U.S. sixth fleet from coming to defend the ship and it took about twelve or sixteen hours for any U.S. aid to come to the ship, some hours after a Soviet ship offered the crew assistance. James Ennes, one of the survivors in his 1980 memoir, pointed out the fact that the Israelis had jammed the ship's communication was classified as top secret by the initial Navy investigators-obviously the Israelis knew they were attacking an American vessel for one cannot jam the communications of someone of whose identity you are unaware. The initial Pentagon claim that it was all just an unfortunate accident but this caused some bureaucratic murming. The judge Advocate General of the navy and the navy's legal officer both reached the conclusion that Israel had purposely attacked the ship. The last two constructed a report about their conclusions but it was classified as were CIA, NSA, and other agency's reports that the attack had been ordered by Moshe Dayan. The co-leader of the Navy report that claimed it wasall just an accident, admitted to the Navy Times in 2002, that he knew that the attack on the Liberty was intentional but that he had covered it up on orders from superiors. Ennes claims that the pilot of the first Israeli plane, Evan Toni, sent to attack the Liberty told him that he had recognized that the Liberty was an American vessel and had informed his superiors of this by radio. They had ordered him to go forward with the attack but he turned around and flew back to base where he was arrested for disobeying orders.  Dayan had wanted to kill everyone on the ship and blame it on the Egyptians. Israel also probably didn't want the Liberty, an intelligence ship to discover its plans to break its cease fire and occupy Syria's Golan Heights.  Also, in Al Arish on the Sinai Peninsula, the largest tower in which the Liberty was using to coordinate itself, Israel was in the process of executing about 1000 Egyptian and Palestinian POW's. The U.S. for its part already had a close alliance with Israel, and didn't want to offend them. Many powerful people wanted to remove the ban on arm sales to Israel and the Liberty affair was a nuisance.  Since then the Pentagon has relentlessly persecuted the survivors of the attack and any effort to remember the victims has been smeared as anti-Semite.  <br /> <br />Jeffery Blankfort has a rather clumsy essay where he tries to refute Noam Chomsky's thesis that the power of the Zionist lobby is greatly exaggerated. He implies that the U.S. would not support the oppression of the Palestinians if the Israeli lobby wasn't so vicious towards our politicians. He conveniently misses some of Chomsky's main evidence....He misses how Chomsky shows that both Labor and Likud support the subjugation of Palestinians while Israel controls the best part of the occupied territories. The only difference between them is tactics: Labor has the rational Allon Plan, where Jewish settlements take all the best land and maybe Palestinian population centerscan elect their garbagemen; Likud despite its racist rhetoric thinks the same thing but has crazy schemes to build settlements in the most god forsaken places in the territories. The George H.W. Bush-Yitzhak Shamir combat of 1991 was simply about putting the boorish too blatant racist Shamir in his place. It was only about minor issues.. The labor party won the 1992 elections and put into effect the Allon Plan style Oslo accords-not dissimilar to the 1989 Shamir-Peres Plan that Bush supported.  <br />	2005-06-01
US	52306476	RTE5JK5DKQK1C	0394722744	255418638	Son of the Revolution	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A harrowing adventure of growing up in China 1954-80	This book, by Liang Heng, apparently co-written by his wife Miss Shapiro, is a very quick read, one of those books with a well-flowing style to its prose and simplicity and power of its description. You don't want to put it down.     It is a story of how Liang Heng grew up as his family was  torn apart by the ever changing and eratic policies enforce by the state of which Chariman Mao sat at the helm. He was probably about five when his  mother was branded a rightist devationist. She had been encouraged to make criticisms of the party during the \\"Let one hundred flowers bloom\\" campaign and after honestly thinking it over, decided to criticize her bosses at the local police department for elitism and abuse of power.  Of course, the Hundred Flowers campaign was eventually transformed into a rectification campaign. His mother was sent to the countryside,eventually being able to return once a month  home to see her children and face the frenzied abuse of her husband, a very indocrinated, humorless, pious party member and journalist at the local state run paper. Liang's father for political safety eventaully got a new wife who, like the father, also had questionable associations and links with the old KMT regime. This new wife was posted as a school teacher in a far away city and due to bureaucratic restrictions on movement, they could not see each other for many years.     The most vivid parts of the book deal with the cultural revolution. Liang Feng as a zealous primary school student, initially lifted himself up at the beginning of this time by making cartoons of his teachers accusing them of being capitalist roader,bourgeois counterrevolutionaries, etc. But soon, his father got caught up in the trap because he was an intellectual, had briefly been part of a KMT group during the dark days of Chiang Kai Shek and the rapacious landlords before he was exposed to Maoism, and so on. Liang was branded a \\"stinking intellectual's son\\" and shunned and sometimes physically abused by his peers. His father was forced to go through many \\"struggle sessions\\" and paraded around town in a dunce cap.     The Cultural Revolution years are indeed described with the most simple and powerful indepth vivideness. The Cultural revolution for Liang had many harrowing adventures including his participation in mock long march and a stay in Peking to be part of a Red Guard group at a Musical conservatory during which period Liang caught a glimpse of Chairman Mao. Another episode deals with the armed combat of the rival \\"conservative\\" and \\"rebel\\" Red Guard groups and all sorts of splinter  groups fighting for control of the city of Changsa, Liang's home town.  Liang Heng gets caught in the middle of one battle and witnesses horrible death and destruction. He eventually joined a street gang  made up of children of counterrevolutionaries and of communist china's lowest class, what Marx called the Lumpenproletariat. He spent some time being a cart pusher and custodian of a pig pen on a train,under the mentorship of the wise old migrant worker and street person Pockmarked Liu.     The climax of the book's vividness is probably when Liang Heng's father is transfered to the countryside for hard labor in a peasant commune. The particular commune where they are sent is in a very neglected area and the peasants very benighted. Liang's dad is assigned the duty of teaching Chairman Mao thought sessions to the peasants. Liang and his father are forced to live with a peasant and his wife, who have serious difficulty accomodating them. Unfortunately, Peking had launched another mass movement this time about elminating capitalist practices,  and so the local leadership used the opportunity to harrass the peasants. The state gave this particular commune, in contrast to other areas, not much resources, and the peasants could only survive by raising revenue by selling produce from their livestock which was now being confiscated. During this episode, there are such notable incidents as Guo La Da' and the confiscation of his ducks. (...) The peasants in this commune seemed to be able to be more independent, beyond the reach of indoctrination if only because the government couldn't quite afford to put its tentacles into their remote area. Another incident deals with the hard suffering of Guo Lucky Wealth's wife, the wife of the peasant household they stayed in. She wanted to get pregnant but she had been manipulated into getting a birth control device put inside her. Guo Lucky Wealth's wife enlisted the services of a local witch doctor to make her fertile, but the witch doctor couldn't get quite the right potions.     After this point, the story loses some of its vividity as the events in his life are told more briefly. But it still is very interesting. By the early 70's, Liang Heng started to get some breaks, including being assigned a decent job at a factory to while he played for the factory's basketball team. He admits that though living standards on the whole improved(only slightly for all too many he claims) in China from the dark days of the KMT, he began to fully grasp that the cruelty,   stratification and corruption in the economy and government in his society was quite different from the propaganda conception of what socialism was supposed to be.  He tried to pursue girlfriends but his unfortunate political status ruined those relationship. Then he managed to get bribe his factory party officials and others to help him get accepted into college. This was after the lunacies of the Cultural revolution had died down and colleges were reoopened for competitive examination after the \\"Gang of Four\\" and their followers were purgedd after Mao's death. He eventually met Miss Shapiro who was working as a foreign language teacher at his college and fell in love with her. After college, his first postition was that of a school teacher and was dissapointed that though the post-Mao era was seemingly enacting great changes, the students he taught still exhibited the same inability to think critically that his generation had. The students still had alot of their time devoted to blindly memorizing the same silly Party slogans and being trained to worship the state, as Liang did as a youngster.	2005-04-18
US	52306476	R13L8EECR8IX0A	158322601X	828517158	The Oh Really? Factor: Unspinning Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly	Books	5	50	63	N	N	Makes O'Reilly look pretty ridiculous	FAIR quotes O'Reilly's citation of a Heritage Foundation study which claimed to show that the average poor family receives $40,000 a year in government subsidies. They note that this study from that great intellectual organization calculated into their $40,000 figure, government programs like Medicare, Pell Grants and reduced school lunches which go to non-poor families. In a show shortly after, O'Reilly would further go off from reality, changing the statistic from $40,000 per family to $40,000 \\"per person.\\"     O'Reilly claimed in 1999 that the average American was paying twice as much taxes as back in 1985, but his figures cited from the Census Bureau did not include adjustments for inflation which the Bureau provided in a nearby table that O'Reilly ignored. The latter figure made the average figures 1985 at $7,335 and 10,388 in 2001. Of course, incomes, at least of the rich, went up during that time, so taxes inevitably did too. Average incomes figures are skewed upwards because of inclusion of incomes of the rich minority. The average tax payments of the middle fifth of income earners have been relatively stable since 1977, according to Congressional Budget office numbers.      O'reilly claimed that according to the Federal Government 58 percent-then a little later, he lowered it to 52%-of single mother homes are on welfare. He was later forced to admit that the figure was actually about 14 percent, but claimed it should be about 33 percent when single mother food stamp recipients, which should be considered welfare according to him, would be computed into the stat.     During one show, O'Reilly stated that according to a study at Columbia University, 20 percent of welfare recipients were using drugs, 15 percent according estimates of the U.S. dept. of Health and Human Services. Some shows later he was saying that every study, including Columbia's, showed that  \\"anywhere from 30 to 50 percent\\" of welfare recipients were on drugs.     O'Reilly denounced a blackFlorida state representative for attacking Jeb Bush on the ground that the latter's policies had resulted in blacks being 37 percent of students at Florida's colleges. FAIR quotes the Jacksonville Sun Times that the 37 percent figure actually accounted for all minorities at Florida colleges.    O'Reilly complained that concern over the tens of millions who lack health insurance was nonsense because he claimed one could receive free care in any emergency room. FAIR quotes an analyses by David Himmelstein and Steffie Woolhandler of a 1987 National Health Expenditure Survey which found that that year, when the number of people w/o health insurance was smaller, that 945,000 were unable to receive care in emergency rooms that year, two thirds of those 945,000 citing high costs of the care or lack of insurance.     O'reilly predictably enjoys bashing the wicked and cowardly French whom he said opposed the Kosovo war but Clinton ignored their objections, \\"to his credit.\\" Of course, FAIR notes, the French actually supported that war and provided the NATO alliance's second largest air force.     O'Reilly announced on one show that he had a dossier detailing how Al Jazeera didn't report Saddam's slaughter of Kurds in the 80's or in 1991.. His guest pointed out to him that Al Jazeera didn't exist until 1996.  Regarding O'Reilly's denial that Rumsfeld's visit to Iraq in 1983, set the stage for U.S. support of Saddam, including giving him materials to make WMD, FAIR quotes a Newsweek article detailing that U.S. support for Saddam    O'Reilly declared that he had never heard at any time whatsoever a pro-life, a skeptic on global warming or any conservative generally on NPR. FAIR points out that David Brooks and Joe Laconte of the Heritage foundation are regular commentators both by themselves and interviewed as sources for news stories. Global warming skeptic Myron Ebell was on NPR three times in 2001 and an official of  National Right to Life Committee  was used as a source eleven times  on NPR's national broadcasts' news stories in 2001.     On one show O'reilly claimed that Judith Levine's book on children and sexuality contained a phrase that declared adults should \\"relish\\" sexual attractions towards children. One of his guests on that show investigated and found that phrase in the book but it was actually Levine quoting someone else to the effect that adults \\"relish\\" sexual attraction towards children as demonstrated by child beauty pageants like those Jon Benet Ramsey was in, but are horrified by the sexualization of those pageants at the same time.     He claimed on his February 24th, 1999 show that the Los Angeles Times had never mentioned anything about Juanita Broaderick. FAIR points out that the Times had actually run a short story about her four days earlier, though they couldn't do much in depth about her until the NBC interview with her about Clinton's alleged rape ran a few days later. In a 2001 interview in \\"Mediaweek\\" O'reilly was again claiming that the LA Times, \\"never mentioned Juantia Broaderick's name, ever.\\" Up to the latter point, a seach of the archives of the Times yielded 21 citations of Broaderick.     O'Reilly makes many amusing claims such as that the Nixon-Kissinger bombing of Cambodia was only confined to the Ho Chi Minh trail, that the War Powers Act of 1973 gives the president the power to seize illegal immigrants and deport them, that drug users merely posessing drugs are not thrown in prison, that the Constitution doesn't say anything about treason. He claimed that the Ecstasy trade is run out of Holland by Arab Muslim terrorists , then read a government report to back himself up which stated in contrast that Israeli Mafioso run the ecstasy trade in Holland in conjunction with Russian and Georgian (the Central Asian republic)dealers out of Holland and that the Slav gangsters merely have \\"Middle Eastern ties.\\"     O'reilly said that putting U.S. troops to guard the Mexican border would save lives \\"becauseMexican wetbacks, whatever you want to call them, the coyotes,\\" aren't going to die anymore trying to get into this country. According to a journalist of an Allentown Pennsylvania paper he also at a particular speech denounced the INS for not keeping out \\"the wetbacks.\\" Regarding Chicano immigrants, FAIR notes, during one interview he let Dan Stein of the Center for Immigration Reform talk about the Ford Foundation's funding of pro-immigration groups but did not mention that Stein's group receives money from the Pioneer Fund which advocates eugenics.	2005-03-26
US	52306476	R1JVTMYM3WMGVX	082481830X	172464515	Shanghai Express: A Thirties Novel (Fiction from Modern China)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A fine novel	I would disagree strongly with the notion that this is a \\"trashy\\" novel. As William Lyell says in his afterward, just because this was a \\"popular\\" novel i.e. one intended for a mass audience, does not automatically mean it is trash.     The story is told in simple and vivid prose, aided by the masterful translation of Dr. Lyell. The author obviously was a gifted story teller. He shows in this novel an ability for evoking the reality of his characters as he simply describes their actions. The story does not exactly evoke the profoundest human emotions but it does do so with considerable skill nonetheless, particularly at the end. In addition, the author's eye for details is quite profound; life on the trains are described with great precision, particularly life in and the denizens of, the train's third class car.     About eighty five or ninety percent of the story takes place on the \\"Shanghai Express\\", a train going from Beijing to Shanghai. The novel takes place in the mid 30's, when it was first published. The story takes place over the several days of the trip and involves the eventually successful intrigue by passenger Hu Ziyun to get into bed, a young female fellow passanger, Liu Xichun. Ziyun is a very successful banker and Xichun claims to have married into the family of one of his friends.     The novel is quite drawn out and, perhaps consciously intended for its popular audience, well into the book springs upon the reader, a major twist, relating to the character of Liu Xichun. After this twist is fully exposed, we jump forward about ten years and look at the very profound tragedy of what has become of Hu Ziyun. That evocation of that tragedy by the author is probably the most impressive part of the book.     I was most bothered in the novel by some of the lengthy dialogues about their relationship between Xichun and Ziyun which sometimes seem a little unnatural and slightly abstrusely over-intellectualized. Overall, however, the novel is pretty impressive.	2005-03-08
US	52306476	RW0765LBI8Z3F	046501755X	488299736	Holler If You Hear Me: Searching For Tupac Shakur	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The metaphysic of Tupac Shakur	Here is an overview of some of the issues and ideas expressed by the Reverend Professor Dyson in this book about Tupac Shakur.     Tupac's mother was a Black Panther, who had served as her own lawyer to acquit herself out of a COINTELPRO frameup. For the most part, it seems from the mid-70's onward, her involvement with the Panthers, had blacklisted her from the mainstream. By the early 80's, she had developed a severe addiction to crack cocaine. But she nonetheless managed to cultivate in Tupac a precocious intellect. He became a very literate young fellow, interested in political issues, art, literature and the theater. Tupac's family moved to Baltimore in 1986 and there he entered a School of Arts where he excelled. According to Dyson, he organized Stop the Violence and AIDS awareness campaigns as a student. However his mother was getting more crazy and kicked Tupac out on the street. He ended up in Marin City CA outside of Oakland in the home of the wife of the then wrongfully imprisoned Geronimo Pratt. The Pratt home was apparently very broken. According to Dyson, Tupac had a great difficult fitting in upon arriving in Marin City. He didn't know how to play basketball, wrote poetry, dressed like a hippy, and was a target of gangs. According to the taped interview of Tupac at age 17, that Dyson quotes extensively from, Tupac complained that he was rejected by a girl on the ground that he was \\"too nice.\\" Tupac in the tape declares that he will keep treating the girls right and maybe they won't fall for the bad boys anymore and turn to sensitive, decent fellows like him.  Tupac fled the Pratt house, and ended up in an abandoned apartment with some of his friends. He got a job at a pizza parlor. He started selling drugs but apparently some street people dissuaded him from it. He had just turned seventeen, when he met Leila Steinberg, a lovely young white woman with an admixture of Jewish and Chicano ancestry. Steinberg conducted workshops in the inner city high schools in the area that allowed youth to engage in various artistic forms. Tupac moved in with her and her then husband, a black rap promoter and children. He became her assistant.     By the early 90's  Tupac with Steinberg as reading partner, was consuming religious tracts of all the religions, such novelists as Alice Walker, Herman Meliville and William Styron, the poetry of Sonia Sanchez, Nikki Giovanni and Maya Angelou, books of investigative journalism, Nietzsche,W.E.B. Dubois. He read Eurocentric works and tried to discredit them. He also read Sigmund Freud to discredit him, according to Steinberg; he held the opinion that Freud was \\"a frustrated homosexual who never fully formulated his opinions.\\"     Beyond the great intellect, Dyson writes, Tupac struggled with some mighty demons. His relationship with his mother had really wrecked havoc with him psychologically. Like a lot of ghetto youth, he had identity problems. He came of age in an era of the \\"white blacklash\\" and \\"white flight\\",of the deregulation that allowed the fleeing of working class manufacturing jobs to poor countries, of declining government subsidies. Meanwhile, more and more blacks were hoarded into prison on such principles of justice that places harsh justice on the consumer of crack but relatively light sentences on the predominantly wealthy white users of powder cocaine.     According to Dyson, Tupac defined thuggery in terms of someone who is trying to survive and be a man in a society that shuns and oppress them. Tupac made an acronym of thug life-\\"the hate you give little infants f-ks everyone.\\" Dyson quotes Vijay Prashad on the interesting roots of the word \\"thug.\\" It apparently is rooted in the Indian subcontinent and referred to brigands who robbed bullion cargos being looted by the British imperialists.     The thug life gives ghetto youth self-esteem and fellowship with other males.  Tupac had similar motivations according to Dyson for entering the gangsta rap world with his second album. He tried to live that life to the fullest, getting drunk and high a lot. He lived life very recklessly, challenging god to bring death on him. In this flirting with death, Tupac expressed the psychological state of all too many ghetto residents, including chiliastic impulses, a deep down severe pain with life on this earth.     Dyson writes that most folks don't really consider Tupac really guilty of the offense for which he spent eleven months in prison. The woman claimed that Tupac had participated in a gang rape of her. He was only convicted of \\"forcibly\\" touching her buttocks. The prison experience damaged him. He might have been raped there. Dyson discusses sexism in the black community. He writes that the Million Man March sponsored by Farrakhan was an example of black men getting together to affirm that they going to live constructive lives.     Tupac's embrace of thuggery seems pretty silly to say the least.  No doubt he was trying to make some money by cultivating the image, as the Notorious B.I.G. later claimed Tupac told him.    Dyson at times writes clearly and simply, even musically; much of the rest of the time, he writes in a rambling, gnarled, bookish style. There are times particularly in the last chapter, when he is almost unreadable. Nonetheless, he paints of moving picture of Tupac, who, in the true style of the poet, could evoke profound emotion with simple words and his vocal skills in his songs.	2005-02-21
US	52306476	R2U476JX7032F	1844675122	486876158	Bush in Babylon: The Recolinisation of Iraq	Books	5	20	25	N	N	First rate stuff	The British imposed \\"protectorate\\" on Iraq after World War one, writes Tariq Ali, greatly transformed the country. The British deregulated land ownership and it inevitably fell into the hands of the richest Iraqis.The British brutally suppressed native uprisings, including using poison gas. In order to keep Iraq weak,restricting its access to the Persian Gulf, the British the British created Kuwait, installing its brutal and corrupt clients, the Al Sabah family. The British took all the oil.    British intelligence called its client regime running Iraq \\"an oligarchy of racketeers.\\" In 1948, the regime made an agreement to continue British economic and military domination of the country. This set off a nationwide uprising, culminating in a Tiananmen Square style massacre on a bridge in Baghdad.     Civil liberties were restricted most of the time. In 1954, the much despised Prime Minister Nuri Al Said held legislative elections most of whose seats were only contested by single  pro-government candidates. This new parliament then rubber stamped Nuri's new laws which severely restricted free speech. After a July 1958 coup, the revolutionary regime of Abdul Karen Qassem launched a campaign of social welfare and empowered labor.. He placed the communists in a coalition government in a subordinate position to himself. The Iraqi commies were instructed by the Russians not to seize on their mass base to seize power so as not to upset Nasser.  In 1948, writes Ali, Iraq's commies were the only in the Arab world not to follow the Soviets in supporting the creation of Israel.   T  he Ba'ath in February 1963 launched a coup. King Hussein--who often made use of CIA protection and such foreign mercenaries as the Pakistanis led by General Zia the future Pakistani dictator and instigator of Wahabbi terror sects who helped the King slaughter Palestinians in 1970, Ali observes-- told Mohammed Heikal in an interview that the Ba'ath's slaughter after the coup was augmented by CIA supplied lists of suspected communists.  Ahmed Hassan Al Bakr seemingly admitted later that the CIA backed the coup.. Later in 1963, a weird Ba'ath congress passed a sort of anarchist platform and was disbanded violently on the initiative of Michel Aflaq. The Ba'ath were out of power for a few years. In 1972, the commies joined a coalition government with the Ba'ath, which at this point had close relations with the Soviet Block,  but they, the Ba'ath continued to arrest and torture communists.. Ali tells the interesting story of Khalid Ahmed Zaki, who was part of a more libertarian splinter faction of the Iraqi commies.      Our soldiers, writes Ali, have been blowing up homes and other buildings of suspected \\"terrorists\\"--. probably often folks merely exercising their legitimate right to engage the military force occupying their country-- holding their families for  ransom and placing barbed wire around villages to confine unrest. Of course, death squads seem about to be introduced in Sunni areas. Mr. Negroponte the U.S. pro-consul has plenty of experience with from his days in Honduras.. Ali writes sardonically that the goons of Narender Modi, the director of the anti-Muslim slaughter in the Indian state of Gujarat in 2002,, could perhaps be offered by the BJP for service to commit the worst necessary atrocities.       Ali writes that the U.S. subjugation of the Philippines, 1898-1902, killed 20,000 Filipinos , then another 200,000 died from disease and famine. Expropriated land from the Catholic Church was distributed to a small pro-U.S. element who formed an oligarchy that relentlessly exploits the Filipino masses to this day. Ali writes that Filipinos are a large part of the menial labor being imported to Iraq to work on U.S. bases. In the same spirit a few years after the U.S. colonized the Philippines, Imperial Germany exterminated about 60,000 of 80,000 of the Herero people in SW Africa. The U.S., engaged in widespread chemical warfare in South Vietnam...., supported Suharto, dumped Depleted Uranium all over Iraq, causing cancer outbreaks. It gave Saddam material to make WMD's in the 80's and thought he was a swell fellow until 1990.    The final postscript to the paperback edition is devoted to the born again imperialist C. Hitchens, who wrote back in 1991 that Bush Sr. and his lieutenants should be tried for war crimes. The bombing destroyed \\"the web of water, electricity and sewage lines\\" that held Iraq together. Iraq became afflicted by mass epidemics and famine    There has been an election in Iraq. It has taken place in the middle of such U.S. atrocities as the destructive invasion of the Abu Hanifa mosque and war crimes as the emptying of the Fallujah hospitals because they were giving out info of civilian deaths from U.S. crimes. Another problem was that apparently some Iraqis were threatened with cutoff of their food rations if they didn't vote. Another was that in many areas turnout was low, contrary to official proclomoations. Whether it is the former Ba'ath goon Allawi or someone more independent, Ali writes that Iraq is envisioned by the U.S. to be locked into the economic structure of being the most privatized and free flowing place for capital on earth. It is such a formula that has caused such horrific disaster in the third world. And the U.S. military will probably not leave unless forced to.  Ali notes that the continuing U.S. propping up of Mubarack and the Saudis and Yemenis, and so on. makes one question if the U.S. is really going to tolerate genuine democracy in Iraq.    I think Ali probably could have eliminated the first few chapters of the book......He calls for the Iraqi resistance to become something like the movements that have sprung up across Latin America. That is quite a long shot at the moment. The best hope for Iraq at the moment seems to rest around the grassroots movement around Sistani which pressued the U.S. to hold the election that it, the U.S. desperately tried to avoid.	2005-02-03
US	52306476	R3R69PK0MCZ621	1583671129	794944187	Pox Americana: Exposing the American Empire	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Useful, pertinent, honest essays	The authors of Chapter one, Magdoff, Mchesney and Bellamy Foster give some insights into the U.S. war in the Philipines. Villages were regularly burned and their inhabitants placed in concentration camps. The \\"water torture\\" was regularly used on Filipino detainees. One general told his troops to attack anyone over ten, to burn everything they saw and to turn the island of Sumara into a howling wilderness. Another said in California said that the U.S. might have to kill half of all Filipinos. It came out in Congressional testimony that the Americans killed fifteen times more Filipinos that they wounded, probably killing several hundred thousand. According to a private letter of General Arthur Macarthur in 1899; it appeared that, the vast majority of the country supported the anti-U.S. army. It took quite a few years to subdue the Moro Moslems in the Southern part of the islands(the U.S. of course has  military \\"advisors\\" in this area today under cover of fighting terrorism). The culmination of that effort was the massacre of about 900 Moros hiding in a volcanic pit, by artillery bombarding, many of them women and children. Mark Twain wrote sarcastically \\"this is incomparably the greatest victory that was ever achieved by the Christian soldiers of the United States.\\" President TR was perfectly serious however when he congratulated the troops on this event.  <br /> <br />Roxanne Dunbar Ortiz shows how opposition to British rule in Ireland from the sixteenth century onward was repressed by exterminating whole clans, relocating villagers, suppressing indigenous Irish culture. She quotes a governor of an Irish province Sir Humphrey Gilbert as recommending that severed heads and scalp of Irish be placed along paths to homes to sufficiently terrorize the people.  Imported to North America from Britain's Irish wars was the practice of placing bounties on the heads and scalps of the rebels. The Irish were soon to be declared as barbaric people, on the level with non-whites,by European ideologues. Americans would take up the burden of expansion for the superior races. In the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson denounced King George for preventing WASP expansionism west of the Alleghenies and blamed him for the villainies of the \\"merciless Indian savages.\\" Andrew Jackson spoke about \\"expanding the realm of freedom\\" as he cleansed Indians east of the Mississippi and helped white settlers introduce slavery into and eventually annex Texas.  <br /> <br />. By the Vietnam War era, the European Union and Japan had grown to be economic rivals of the U.S. In that new competitive environment, the U.S. could no longer tolerate regulated exchange rates, capital controls, or strong unions within the U.S.  Noam Chomsky, Immanuel Wallerstein and Michael Klare all write that control over the dispersion of Persian Gulf Oil, not necessarily direct control over it, is what has always motivated the U.S. in the Middle East. Europe and Asia are more than ever dependent on Persian Gulf oil; the U.S. primarily gets its oil from Latin America and West Africa. The American puppet state in Iraq will disperse oil at prices and amounts which the U.S. approves, to U.S. economic rivals. Meanwhile, on the domestic fronts, Europe and Japan have been trying to imitate the U.S. economic model. It is not much observed, by planners in those countries that the boom of the Clinton years was actually a bubble based on stock market fraud and speculation. America's only really successful sectors vis a vis Europe and Japan have been related to the Pentagon run military industrial complex, out of which things like fighter jets and the internet have come. Even these sectors have been surpassed by Europe and Japan.  <br />. <br /> Klare notes that Laurence Eagleburger, declared that George W. Bush should be impeached if he invades Syria. Eagleburger was perhaps speaking for business elites uneasy about the open flouting of international law(which the U.S. has always engaged in Chomsky observes) and are worried that economic cooperation with Europe was being disrupted.  Joseph Halevi and Yanis Varoufakis point out that since the worldwide stagflation of the seventies, securities investments from Europe, Japan and the third world have flooded to the U.S., are what keep our economy afloat and allow us to maintain such levels of debt from households on up. As George W. Bush drove up our deficit to previously unheard of heights while cutting taxes for the rich, the message to \\"Old Europe' was obviously that it better increase its investments in the U.S. to keep pace in covering for the U.S. debt.  The Germans and French were not pleased. Related to this, Halevi, et.al, quote a Unocal executive testifying before congress. This man proposed to intimidate China into easing its restriction on its foreign investment in Western securities by occupying Afghanistan and increasing the U.S. military presence in Central Asia and the Gulf where China is becoming exclusively dependent for its gas and oil supplies.  <br /> <br />Amiya Kumar Bachi writes that there has been heartening opposition within India to Hindutva fascism, which triggered the slaughter of 3,000 Muslims in Gujarat in 2002. She writes that the anti-dam movement in India, the picquitaroes in Argentina and the Landless Workers movement that elected Lula in Brazil have been hamstrung by the power of international finance.  Bernadine Dohrn  notes the use of fear as an instrument of control in the U.S.; she notes how many Muslims were held incommunicado for months in terrible conditions and ordered to undergo insulting and stressful registration with the govt.  These methods found no 9-11 plotters. Ashcroft melodramatically announced terrorist charges against two Muslim charities; both were quietly acquitted some time later. Barbara Epstein recalls that the executive order to intern Japanese-Americans, signed by FDR was based on reports that later turned out to be fabricated of radio and light communications from the Pacific to spots on the West coast.  <br /> <br />Some of these essays are harder to read than others, but they are all outstanding.  <br />	2005-01-01
US	52306476	R2UXGTF8U7QC96	1594510296	359942660	Letters from Lexington: Reflections on Propaganda (Series in Critical Narrative)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	New edition of old Chomsky observations on foreign affairs.	Chomsky writes that the Sandinistas won an election in November 1984 widely perceived as free and fair but U.S. elites put this down the memory hole. Michael Kinsley noted the \\"Orwellian\\" rhetoric of the Reaganites in blaming the Sandinistas for Nicargua's ruined economy, after it had been the official policy of the U.S. backed contras to destroy it. But he praised Nicaragua's 1990 elections as free and fair. Anthony Lewis praised the elections too but criticized the Central American  policies of the administration--which included the economic embargo on Nicaragua supported by liberals like him. Chomsky quotes the UNO  economist Fransisco Mayorga as estimating that the embargo cost Nicaragua  3 billion.     The implications suggesting that the U.S. is a terrorist state in that it was telling the Nicaraguan people that Contra terror and the embargo would continue unless they voted out the Sandinistas in Feb. 1990, was not noticed in the U.S. media.  Indeed Time magazine celebrated the attacks on Nicaraguan civilian infrastructure i.e. U.S./contra war crimes as causing the Sandinistas to be voted out.  The killing of the poor by the U.S. backed security forces in El Salvador and Guatemala, which ran elections under extreme terror, received little sustained attention.     Chomsky observes that Laurence Pezullo, while the last U.S. ambassador to Somoza, had advised the National Guard to continue its final mass murder operations which were killing tens of thousands. After Carter couldn't prevent the Sandinistas from taking power, the National Guard, the future Contras, were flown out in U.S. military planes with Red Cross markings (a war crime). The media had nothing to say about the U.S. successfully pressuring the new UNO government in Nicaragua after 1990 to drop its demand that the U.S. comply with the World Court ruling of 1986 that the U.S. stop terrorizing Nicaragua and pay 17 billion dollars in reparations. After the U.S. withheld desperately needed aid, the Chamarro government dropped its demand for U.S. compliance     The media suppressed that evidence of Libyan involvement in the murder of one American that led to the \\"retaliation\\" against Libya in 1986 which killed many dozens of civilians,  was non-existent according to the West Germans. . Chomsky writes that likewise evidence for Libyan involvement in the Lockerbie bombing is negligible (and years later this is still the truth, see--William .Blum's new book \\"Freeing the World to Death). In any case, Lockerbie may have been \\"retaliation\\" for the U.S. shooting down an Iranian civilian airliner in 1988, killing 290. The commander of a nearby vessel, David Carlson later wrote that the Iranian plane was clearly civilian.and not acting otherwise.. The shoot down, by the U.S.S. Vincennes, Carlson suggested,was designed to test the ship's Aegis missile system. This atrocity was the culmination of U.S. support for Saddam in the Iran-Iraq war; for a few days later Iran capitulated to a cease fire on Iraq's terms. When the commander of the Vincenes came home, he was awarded medals by George Bush Sr. In another case of the U.S. and blowing up planes, Chomsky writes that George Schultz later admitted \\"in a backhand way\\" that the terrorists who blew up the Air India Flight over Ireland in 1985 killing 329, originated in a mercenary training camp for Central America in Alabama. It was a sting operation that went haywire.     The U.S.  funded Noriega's candidate in 1984 elections in Panama that Noriega stole with great violence, a period when he was knee-deep in the drug trade.. George Schultz went down to the inauguration of the candidate, Barletta. The U.S. later soured on Noriega of course, for reasons having nothing to with his bad qualities. As the U.S. invaded Panama to install more reliable drug tycoons in the name of freedom, the Bush senior administration was resuming high tech sales to China and lifted a ban on loans to Saddam's Iraq.  After the U.S. suppressed peaceful settlements of the first Gulf war and killed tens of thousands of Iraqis, Thomas Friedman and Alan Cowell explained that after the first Gulf War the U.S. undermined the anti-Saddam rebellion.. They hoped Saddam would remain in place until a more pliable clone of the dictator could overthrow him and restore Iraq to the \\"iron-fisted\\" rule that the U.S. had so admired before August 1990.. Ahmad Chalabi complained in the British press about the U.S. supporting Saddam's butchery of the rebels. Chomsky notes that the late Senator Moynihan was heard a great deal during this period about his devotion to the UN charter/international law. Of course, Moynihan had bragged in his 1978 memoir about blocking UN efforts to stop Indonesia's aggression against East Timor in 1975 while U.S. ambassador to the UN. He admitted that the invasion, supported by the U.S. until 1999, had killed 60,000 people by early 1976... The media did not juxtapose proclamations of U.S. opposition to aggressive dictators with U.S. support for aggression in  East Timor, Morocco in Western Sahara(also helped along by Moynihan at the UN), Turkey in Cyprus, Turkey's ethnic cleansing of its Kurds, South Africa in Namibia and Angola, etc.     Chomsky analyzes a review by Caleb Carr about a book about America's mid 19th century Indian wars and notes its similarity to a hypothetical apologetic for Nazi expansionism. He exposes some embarrassing contradictions and fallacies in the venerable A. Schlesinger's claim that JFK intended to withdraw from Vietnam without victory.	2004-12-25
US	52306476	RHJDBTG3YA6WX	1583226036	134627651	North Korea/South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis (Open Media)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Outstanding; clear and concise discussion	After WWII, Feffer writes, the Americans installed Syngman Rhee in the South and the Russians installed Kim Il Sung in the North. The Rhee regime had little popular support. In 1948 on the island of Cheju, in suppressing a rebellion, the regime killed about 60,000. Overall the U.S. backed regime killed about 100,000 oppositionists in its first five years..  South Korea started many border clashes with the North beginning in the Summer of 1949 causing huge casualties <br /> <br />Kim Il Sung, in the famous early 1950 meeting that gets anti-communist ideologues all excited, was granted permission to invade the South after he convinced Stalin that he would get the operation over with quickly and thus hopefully discourage the Americans from intervening militarily.  The Americans were eventually able to push the North Koreans back. . Macarthur's deliberately provocative march northward up the peninsula towards the Yalu river, Korea's border with China, brought the Chinese army into the conflict. The Americans engaged in extensive bombing and napalming of civilians. They wiped off the map about three quarters of North Korea. In June 1953, they started bombing dams and water reservoirs in North Korea, which effects included the mass flooding of rice and other agricultural fields. Thus by inducing starvation the Americans induced the North to agree to a truce. Some Nazis got hanged for implementing such a policy during WWII. The North Koreans committed their share of atrocities. <br /> <br />U.S. planners were embarrassed as the North's economy regularly outstripped the South's into the mid-70's.  General Park Chung Hee seized power in the South in 1961. He set up a state planning economic regime. It was based on tight state discipline of labor and consumption  austerity with workers treated pretty badly. Unrest spread and in 1980, the military under the new dictator General Chun perpetrated a bloody massacre in the city of Kwangju.  A revitalized labor movement eventuallyforced democratic change on the U.S. backed military.  By the late 80's South Korea was one of the top economies in the world; in 1960 it had been at the level of Sub-Saharan Africa. Its principles  violated all the prescriptions of the free market-as did the rest of the Asian tigers and has the U.S. with its military-industrial complex fueling its hi tech economy. . In any case, South Korea was pressured to remove controls on capital flows and this led to the Asian financial crises of the late 90's. Western companies swarmed in to buy up the fire sale of bankrupt indigenous companies. This incident of course, makes North Korea pause about extending its free market reforms) as does the extreme poverty and social chaos existing in China's Free Market revolution.  <br /> <br />In the 70's North Korea borrowed from foreign creditors and fell heavily into debt. Agricultural plots for private sale were allowed in the 80's. The latter led to clearing of land and deforestation, which contributed mightily to the floods contributing to the future famine in the mid-90's.The communist block disappeared as a source of trade and subsidies.  One of the key pillars of the 1994 agreement with the U.S. was to move towards the lifting of U.S. sanctions on the country. The Clinton administration made and broke promises regarding the sanctions issue and helping the North become a member of International financial institutions.  Meanwhile, it greatly increased the amount of arms flowing to U.S. allies in the region. Aid in constructing the light water reactors was scant. The Clinton administration promised North Korea the lifting of all sanctions if it would freeze its missile program; when North Korea agreed to this, it then further demanded its missile production be completely eliminated. In 1998, it announced that its North Korean plans included a possible first strike on it and revived missile defense research. <br />. <br />The only \\"admission\\" of NK might have been that they merely have the capability produce nuclear stuff. In the meeting with James Kelly, they made huge concessions on many issues. The North Koreans paint an exaggerated picture of their military capabilities to deter the neoconservative militarists in the Bush administration. and American elites want to exaggerate it to justify subsidies and sales for American arms manufacturers. The author writes that American planners also want to keep the Korean peninsula divided and the conflict alive; they are fearful that Korea would be part of a potentially powerful economic and political block in NE Asia including Russia and China.. The North has not the technology to make its missiles go far and be accurate. It has not the ability to miniaturize its warheads that it might use, assuming the not confirmed notion that it has preserved enough plutonium for a nuclear bomb from its pre-1994 operations.  There is no evidence its missiles have heat shields to protect them from burning up on re-entry into the atmosphere.  In other words it has not the capability to deliver biological and chemical weapons, which it may not have enough of to be any remote threat.   Its nuclear related facilies are about 50 years old  and unable to obtain any repair. The neoconservatives raised a bugaboo about two possible nuclear processing facilities in the late 90's and North Korea allowed them to be inspected but nothing was found. North Korea's army is badly malnourished and under clothed. It seems to have been put to heavy use in rebuilding the country's crumbling infrastructure instead of military training. The author quotes an account of a naval skirmish between North and South in 1999 where the North Koreans were so backward they had to operate the vessel's weapons exposed on deck while the South Koreans were all tucked inside their vessel with all the latest radar and computers. In North Korea's entire government budget is several billion dollars less than South Korea's military budget.     <br /> <br/>North Korea has a vicious dictatorship, the author writes but the Americans have made things much worse.The Bush administration has greatly cut back on food aid in the country which significantly reduced, though far from eliminated the malnutrition problem in the country.  <br />	2004-11-24
US	52306476	RCUBQHT0FH8Q5	0742631230	174993173	Crome Yellow (Collected Works of Aldous Huxley)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	I like this novel	Crome Yellow was Adolous Huxley's first novel. It describes the life of leisure of the Wimbushes, an aging aristocratic couple and the relatives and young intellectuals who are staying with them over the Summer in their estate at the village of Crome.<br /><br />It has often been remarked that this novel is unserious.There was not really much hilarity contrary to my expectation; the bulk of such stuff as there is was in the first part of the novel. The one passage which made me roar with laughter is Mr. Wimbush solemnly reading to his family and guests a particular excerpt from the history he has just finished of their estate which was built back in the 16th century. The founder of the estate was his wife's ancestor, Ferdinando Lapith whom Mr. Wimbush explains devoted his time to figuring out and publishing his ideas on sanitation. He built privies (indoor outhouses) at the top of each tower for he thought that the act of depositing human waste was such a degrading act for noble creatures like humans that they should be far away from the sanitation disposal system in the ground and as close to heaven as possible. He advised that the privy have a big window on which to look out at nature; a bible, Greek and Roman philosophy and other reading material on hand to console oneself in the act. Sir Ferdinando called his book \\"Certaine Privy Counsels by One of Her Maiesties's Most Honourable Privy Counsels, F.L. Knight.\\" Mr. Wimbush says Sir Ferdinando wrote on the subject \\"with great learning and elegance\\" and Mr. Scogan, one of the Wimbush's guests expresses enchantment of such great achievements of English aristocrats.<br /><br />Other amusing incidents include the conversation between Denis Smith, the hero of the novel and Mr. Barbecue Smith, the spiritualist New Age author whom Mrs. Wimbush's patronizes. Barbecue-Smith claims to be able to produce an amazing amount of his wisdom on paper in a very short time, merely by finding his \\"inspiration.\\" He claims he is able to find his inspiration to produce profound writing by hypnotizing himself by staring into a electric desk light. While he is thus entranced, his mind produces really profound stuff and he writes it down. Another amusing episode is the phamphlet produced by Mr. Bodiham, the village pastor, during WWI which tried to prove using biblical text that that war presaged Armegeddon. It was a war of righteousness between Protestant nations and Germany which was under the sinister influence of Catholicism according to Mr. Bodiham.  Long after the war's end, Mr. Bodiham still is seeing portents that the second coming is at hand.<br /><br />The novel suprisingly has a pretty serious side which comes to the fore in the second part of the novel. The author shows great skill in portraying the humanity and emotions of Denis and Mary as they confront their own emotional immaturities.The author uses some big words but his narration is very simple, intelligent and charming.. The rest of the characters have less depth to them but they are likeable and the story gets to be fairly interesting and even a little profound at the end.<br /><br />Sure the lenghty conversations of the characters, particularly Mr. Scogan's discourses and the poetry, sometimes seem to divert the story from its path.  However I was never really bored at any point in the book. Too bad Huxley succumbed rather early in life to spiritualism, quackish medical cures and the other world and devoted his writings to them; he could have  built on the excellence of this book had he not been so diverted.iration to produce profound writing by hypnotizing himself by staring into a electric desk light. While he is thus entranced, his mind produces really profound stuff and he writes it down. Another amusing episode is the phamphlet produced by Mr. Bodiham, the village pastor, during WWI which tried to prove using biblical text that that war presaged Armegeddon. It was a war of righteousness between Protestant nations and Germany which was under the sinister influence of Catholicism according to Mr. Bodiham.  Long after the war's end, Mr. Bodiham still is seeing portents that the second coming is at hand.    The novel suprisingly has a pretty serious side which comes to the fore in the second part of the novel. The author shows great skill in portraying the humanity and emotions of Denis and Mary as they confront their own emotional immaturities.The author uses some big words but his narration is very simple, intelligent and charming.. The rest of the characters have less depth to them but they are likeable and the story gets to be fairly interesting and even a little profound at the end.     Sure the lenghty conversations of the characters, particularly Mr. Scogan's discourses and the poetry, sometimes seem to divert the story from its path.   However I was never really bored at any point in the book. Too bad Huxley succumbed rather early in life to spiritualism, quackish medical cures and the other world and devoted his writings to them; he could have  built on the excellence of this book had he not been so diverted.	2004-11-08
US	52306476	R1QNIXUX97MTVD	1585423424	286855196	Banana Republicans: How the Right Wing is Turning America Into a One-Party State	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Some useful observations about the right wing	Right wing think tanks set the agenda, the authors write. Foundations like Gates, Rockefeller and Ford have huge budgets dwarfing those of right wing foundations that subsidize the think tanks but they devote themselves to charity and education, while right wing think foundations concentrate exclusively on funding right wing intellectual work.     The Koch family funds the Cato Institute. The authors report  a story from the mid-90's, where two teenagers were blown up in a butane gas explosion caused by a leak in a Koch industries pipeline beneath their Texas town. The company has caused innumerable oil spills and got fined 35 million dollars by the EPA in the 90's.. In early 2001, Koch was facing 97 counts of releasing 91 metric tons of the carcinogen Benzene from its Corpus Christi TX plant.  Ashcroft's people let them off with a 20 million dollar fine. The company has assets of more than 25 billion dollars. Koch also funds Citizens For A Sound Economy(CSE).     A typical example of think tank intellectual standards. As CSE wrote position papers arguing against preserving Everglades land, Florida sugar growers that would loose land in such preservation were giving it $700,000;; it got  $175,000 from ExxonMobil as it was dismissing Global Warming as \\"junk science\\"; a million from U.S. West as it argued for phone regulation, and so on.    . The authors write about the compromised relationship intellectuals like William Buckley and George Will had, serving as heavily paid informal advisors to the now disgraced reactionary Canadian newspaper mogul Congrad Black, while praising Black's books and public commentaries and not letting their association with him be known.     The authors go over the Bush administrations effort to suppress reports of toxic  chemicals, which have caused respiratory problems in many,  released into the NYC air after the WTC collapse and the industry \\"experts' they appoint for government oversight bodies. The authors quote the Health instituteof the National Academy of Sciences that 18,000 people die unnecessarily each year in this country because of poor health care coverage.    The authors quote an episode where John Stossel in one of his documentaries showed a protest against inflated CEO salaries and criticized this on the ground that factory wages were up 70 percent since the early 80's. The authors note that Stossel did not adjust his 70% figure for inflation which would reduces the factory worker wage rise to three percent, while the Boss's income went up 360 percent. Then it appears that Stossel resorted to outright forgery in 2000. He claimed that no pesticides were found on tests of organic and regular produce and that organic food had a much higher concentration of E Coli than regular produce. The pesticide tests were never taken and the scientists who did the tests claimed that the bacteria tests they took were not equipped to show E-Coli presence.     The authors write that New York Times reporters concluded that James Baker's team in 2000 was able to have countedmilitary ballot and other ballots in counties where Bush had an advantage that were turned in late, didn't have the right signature, etc.  Katherine Harris used the database company to kick off people from the voting rolls who had names similar to black felons, and numerous other eligible people.  54 percent of the names kicked off were black, though only 15 percent of Florida is. Majority black counties in Florida showed a high rate of ballot rejection in contrast to white majority counties. The report of the Center for opinion at the University of Chicago, which commissioned news organizations to count the ballots, found that in six of nine counting scenarios Gore would have won Florida.      The authors note the story of Ed Rollins claiming that he bribed democratic workers and black preachers not to get out the vote in the New Jersey governors race in 1992. . Rollins later claimed he was trying to have some fun with J. Carvillebut Whitman's brother Dan and a campaign spokesman implicitly confirmed this... In 1990, the Jesse Helms senate campaign produced leaflets in black neighborhoods claiming people would be arrested if they voted and had moved less than a month before and in a black neighborhood in Baltimore, leaflets were distributed telling people, the wrong day for an election and saying they would be arrested if they tried to vote and had overdue rent, outstanding parking tickets, or outstanding warrants. Republican polling place observers (like Chief Justice Rehnquist in 1964 in Arizona) have been known to stop black voters, take their picture and harass them. The authors quote racist caricatures of blacks that appeared in a Dartmouth paper when Dinesh D'souza edited it and in a college paper Ann Coulter once wrote for.  Dinesh of course, wrote some really astounding things about matters such as segregation in \\"The End of Racism.\\"    The authors point out how Republican sponsored redistricting in Pennsylvania and Illinois, where democrats represent the highest number of registered voters, has led the majority of congresspersons in these states to be Republicans. In Texas, the Republicans eventually prevailed in 2003 in getting a second redistricting scheme that favored them even more to replace the one implemented after the 2000 census. This was the first time in Texas history that a second redistricting plan was implemented between censuses.     The authors point how the Center For Public Integrity reported that Bush had wealthy campaign contributors' stay in the Lincoln bedroom. Republicans were silent about this in contrast to the holy uproar over the CPI's reports on similar violations by Clinton.	2004-11-01
US	52306476	R2UFHHSSZ72ZVY	0375422870	751438850	From Oslo to Iraq and the Road Map: Essays	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Some last powerful words from Edward	As the most visible and certainly the most articulate Palestinian in America, the late lamented Dr. Said was a prime target. He mentions a few of the personal attacks in these essays. There was the buffoonery in Commentary trying to prove Said had been lying about his past. . Then there was the hocus pocus of holy horror about Said throwing, along with other Lebanese, a stone into a vast empty space in Israel from Southern Lebanon.  Of course, Israel had just spent decades blowing up Lebanese villages and bombing Beirut hideously in 1982 and killing tens of thousands and conducting the hideous Khiyam torture chamber where thousands of Lebanese passed  through in almost bestial conditions.      From Israelis, Said justifiably demands a lot. Israelis must realize that the Palestinians under Israeli rule have lived for thirty-seven years where their land massively has been taken away at will and given to the Israeli military or most often Israeli settlers. The settlers live on magisterial estates and steal most of the water while the indigenous inhabitants. Palestinians in large numbers for decades have forced to endure housing expropriation, beatings by Israeli soldiers, arbitrary detention, killings and torture by the racist settlers and soldiers. As Tony Judt observes in his intro to this book, the born again racist Benny Morris now says that major massacres  by Israel were the cause of the Palestinian flight in 1948.     Arafat signed the Oslo accords in order to shore up his eroding power base and getting a new power base, that of policing Palestinian population centers for Israel.,. Palestinian land continued to be expropriated.  Arafat & co. made little objection to this except when the crude tactics of Netanyahu necessitated a response. The territories were criss-crossed by these new settlements and Jew only roads, which isolated Palestinians into several cantons.  This cantonization was essentially the \\"generous offer\\" for a state made by Barak in July 2000.After six weeks of the intifada, the number of Palestinians killed, as Clinton sent Israel its largest helicopter shipment in a decade to use on Palestinian apartment buildings, was about 200 and the number of Israelis was fourteen, about half of them soldiers. \\"Collective Punishment\\" of Palestinians accelerated greatly, endless curfews were imposed, houses were blown up more wantonly than before. In October 2001, Israeli cabinet minister Rehavan Ze'evi, a racist thug, was killed in retaliation for the killing of Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) leader two months earlier. Sharon retaliated by, engaging in \\"targeted assassination\\" of five more Palestinian leaders and killed twenty-one civilians and injured 160. He notes that the suicide bombings that occurred around December 1 2001 were terrible but should be seen within the context of the assassination of the Hamas leader Mahmoud Abu Hanoud, the killing of five Palestinian children in Gaza, as well the whole horrible human rights abuses of Israel over the decades.. Sharon has accelerated the humanitarian catastrophe by killing on a greater school and cutting off Palestinians even more so from each other and enclosing their agricultural land, cutting it off from their villages, within the Israeli side of the \\"wall.\\"     As it is Sharon hopes that as he gallantly sends his tanks and missiles and helicopters against Palestinian children and people, armed  with rocks and maybe some machine guns--people who have the right to resist under international law the occupation of their land--eventually the Palestinians will be ground down and accept the complete Judaization of Palestine.. Then as Said writes, he, Sharon, can make a deal to set up a rump \\"state\\" full of isolated areas controlled by various Palestinian gangsters. The remnants of the Palestinian authority want restored the situation of the 90's where they had their little fiefdoms and could make tons of money with Palestinian resources andreal estate. But on the Palestinian side a secular mass movement has arrived led by Haider Abdel Shafi and Mustafa Barghouti. The Palestine National Initiative is based on participatory democracy, coordinated shipments of food and attempting to provide health care to besieged Palestinian villages. The courage of these people is unbelievable; Said writes about them with great power.       In front of a gathering of American Jews,  Said notes, when the right wing zionist Paul Wolfowitz, as a representative of the Bush administration was forced to say a few platitudes about \\"Palestinian suffering\\" he was booed off the stage. Palestinians are dehumanized; Israel's assertion that Palestinians it kills are terrorists or unfortunate collateral damage in pursuit of them has had wide and ugly acceptance here.  He spends a lot of time denouncing the Arab states for their ignorance of Israel. He notes that West originally set up many of these Arab regimes and in particular the United States props up the most brutal of them.     On Iraq, he notes that the great suffering at the hands of the Iraqi people since the Gulf War, with their infrastructure for basic living destroyed, has been largely ignored. Iraqis are a proud people who in spite of Saddam's hideous human rights record, led the Arab world in education and technology before 1990. What right does the U.S, asks Said, have to decide to remove Saddam, when they provided him with so much of the materials to make the weapons that Bush, Cheney & co. have so terrorized the American people with? The Bush regime has used alot of bogus info passed on by Iraqi and Arab exiles who tell the neocons what they want to hear. Said writes that Cheney actually used the authority, of Fouad Ajami to assert that Iraqis would welcome Americans would ticker tape parades and flowers and stuff. Of course, Ajami has spent most of his career and life in the U.S. and really can't know what genuine Iraqis are thinking...Kanan Makiya is another suchfraud; Said gives him rough treatment in another essay. Said notes that instead of chosing an Arab/Muslim expert with intimate knowledge of the peculiarities and complexities of Iraq and the region, to head the drawing up Iraq's new constitution but instead they chose Noah Feldman.	2004-10-22
US	52306476	R15AUJ5NNJ99PW	1567513166	573439491	Ralph's Revolt: The Case for Joining Nader's Rebellion	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Very effective defense for a third party, even now	Support for the Central American death squad regimes was organized by many of the people currently in power. The Reaganites, the author writes, spied on activists opposed to such support and the director of FEMA drew up plans to intern Americans on a massive scale if such opposition got too intense. Cheney and Powell presided over the murderous Panama invasion and to that resume should be added the massive war crimes against Iraqi civilian infrastructure, etc    The democrats are no different. Bates quotes George Kennan, the State Department policy planning chief under Truman in 1948, explaining that the United States should devise a pattern of relationships where it could keep a large part of the world's wealth.. Jimmy Carter sent arms to Morrocco,Indonesia and Turkey to support their ethnic cleansing in their occupations of Western Sahara, East Timor and Cyprus respecively. He covered for the South Korean military's Tiannamen square style massacre at Kwangju, sent officers from the Argentinian neonazi military regime to train the Contras, etc.      Clinton's welfare reform forces mothers with children to go to work for minimum wage, which even for a full time worker is not close to a livable income. Poverty decreased slightly during the Clinton years. After years of decline, wages rose back to their level of 1974. The slight improvements in the plight of ordinary Americans in the 90's is contrasted by the author (quoting Pollin) with the fact that from 1974 to 2000 the Gross Domestic product rose 70%, productivity rose 61%, etc. But the \\"booming\\" economy  was based on fraud, huge debt-financed consumption and speculation. The democrats helped the Republicans effectively repeal the Glass-Steagal Act of 1934, eliminating much government oversight and restrictions on close relationships between corporations with stock, accountants and other sectors.  Thus banks, accountants and corporations could conspire to cover up bad corporate financial data to keep the corporation's stock high.. During the Clinton years, the gap between CEO and worker pay went from 113 to 1 to 449 to 1. According to Bob Woodward, Clinton privately said in late 92' that his administratiion was Eisenhower Republican and that his policies would \\"help the bond market and hurt the people who voted us in.\\"      Bates shows how provisions in his first budget to restrict gold mining and federally subsidized grazing and timber sales on federal land were removed by his chief of staff Mack McLarty. This reduction in corporate welfare and land preservation could have saved the taxpayers a billion dollars. Clinton signed an Act in 1996, which lifted the ban on the export of Alaska's crude oil and limited the government's auditing of corporate profits on oil taken from federal lands. It allowed oil companies to sue the government to get interest payments. Bates then points out how Clinton-Gore curiously used the Antiquities Act of 1906 to preserve mountainous areas and forests in swing states. Other than election periods in 1996 and 2000(both of which Bates suggests was to take steam out the Nader campaign) the Antiquities Act was never utilized by Clinton.     Mr. Kerry  recently announced that he is willing to appoint anti-abortion judges. He has called for lowering corporate taxes, already very low or non-existent, to bribe manufacturers to bring jobs back to America. His health care plan consists of nothing more than partially subsidizing some corporate health plans. He voted for aid to the Contras back in 1988, when two years before the world court had ruled that support illegal. At the World Court, a French priest training nurses told of horrific atrocities of the contras, gouging out eyes, forcing a girl into prostitution,etc. The Bush II regime has been handing off the Iraqi economy to American corporations often without any bidding, regardless of what the Iraqi people might think. The author quotes the Wall Street Journal explaining that the \\"democracy\\" imposed in Iraq consists basically of commissions with American representatives that can veto anything detrimental to American interests. Mr. Kerry is not against any of this-he just claims that he can do it better and not alienate the allies. Kerry refers as an ideal to the coalition Bush I assembled in 1991, which was got together with bribes and threats. His foreign policy advisors include Rand Beers, architect of the odious fumigation campaign in Colombia. Another is Richard Morningstar, pusher of a disgusting pipeline project in Central Asia. Kerry is well aware of the need of American imperialism to vigorously participate in the new \\"great game\\" in Central Asia.     The author writes that Kerry is such an unbelievably weak candidate; a leftist needs to fill the vacuum.  Bush has an economy that may or may not rise on the strength of his Keynesian military spending. He has the support of large numbers of people, fearing the terrorist bugaboo. In many swing states, gay marriage bans will be on the ballot; thus the evangelical base of the Republicans will be out in full force. Kerry has hid behind the \\"civil union\\"/state's rights position on this issue, failing to encourage the many Americans who already support some rights for gay couples to become more progressive. President Kerry might be more militaristic and socially regressive in some ways than Bush. The democrats can often put through extreme measures favorable to the ruling class better than the Republicans can. The democrats have kept hanging the bugaboo of Republican extremism before voters, but keep moving to the right themselves. The author suggests that socialist Norman Thomas's 1932 presidential run might have played a role in forcing The New Deal on the democrats.     I do not agree with the author that Nader had no responsibility to build the Green party after the 2000 election. He's not my ideal canidate; he seems to have something of an authoritarian leadership style. I'll probably vote for him as I did in 2000. Gore might have won that election if he had carried his home state or Clinton's .	2004-09-02
US	52306476	R2DS82Q2TQFXJ9	1583226060	842214830	Colombia and the United States : War, Unrest, and Destabilization (Open Media Series)	Books	5	13	23	N	N	Engaging book about latest target of U.S. imperialism	After WWW II in Colombia, writes the author, only 3 percent of the population owned 50 percent of the land. Half the population was illiterate, most lived in the countryside.  After election in 1946, President Mariano Ospina launched a reign of terror against the peasants, increasingly restless as they were for better land and not to live in misery. After the 1948 assassination of Populist politician Jorge Gaitan, the decade long period of \\"La Violencia\\" was in full swing, resulting in the deaths of hundreds of thousands.     The Betancur government made a deal with the FARC  guerillas in the mid 80's that allowed it to demobilize and participate in legal politics. The FARC formed a political party called the Patriotic Union (UP) along with indigenous, union, women, peasant and other groups representing the masses. However, almost immediately UP activists and political candidates were subjected to assassination by the thousands. The FARC returned to the battlefield and began increasingly getting involved in drugs to finance better military equipment. It's human rights record deteriorated and its popularity plummeted.   The AUC death squad arose during this period, to do the dirty work of the Colombian military, to terrorize against peasant aspirations stimulated by the UP.     About 2100 to 3000 people are killed every year for political reasons in Colombia, 70 to 75 percent of them  by the AUC(United Self Defense forces of Colombia), and other smaller death squads, according to human rights groups.. The author writes that in the city of  Barrencabermeja dozens of union organizers have been killed, \\"disappeared\\", forced to leave the country, etc by the AUC. Women's organizations in the town have launched courageous protests against all this despite AUC threats and violence. Coca-cola has been linked to the killing of union organizers at its bottling plants in the country and BP to the killing of activists protesting its pollution of the town of El Morro.     Peasants have been forced to grow cocoa and poppy to survive, because the opening up of Colombia to transnational Agribusiness, has made them unable to compete in their own market.   Peasant movements have demanded to be provided with replacement crops; the government has promised but never delivered. The U.S. backed fumigation against poppy and Cocoa growing and terror by the AUC and to lesser extent the FARC have created close to three million internal refuges. The fumigation (designed by John Kerry advisor Rand Beers back in the late 90's) seems to have caused major health and environmental problems.  With the peasants driven off their land, ranchers, oil companies and so on can seize the latter. He describes the AUC massacre in the `lush\\" Naya region. In late 2000 many indigenous and Afro-Colombian leaders in the area were murdered, including three 200 meters from an army roadblock. The AUC caused a refugee flight by its demands that the people in the area leave their homes. In April 2001,a Colombian military unit appeared, demanded to know where some units of the ELN guerillas had gone and when the villagers said they didn't know, warned that their \\"cousins\\" in the AUC would soon appear.  In the subsequent orgy of killing and burning, AUC leader Carlos Castano, denounced the government tally of close 50 dead as too low and claimed 100 dead in what he called a \\"glorious patriotic act against subversion.\\"     The author notes the atrocities done to Indians by American oil companies. The was the extermination of the Yariguie Indians due to forced labor and disease working at an oil concession granted partly to a subsidiary of Standard oil after 1905. Then there was the robbery of most of the land and decimation of the population of the \\"Motilion savages\\" in order for Gulf Oil, owned by former U.S. treasury secretary Andy Mellon,  to drill on their land in the 1930's. Today Occidental oil has been trying to drill on the lands of the U'wa.    The current president, the reactionary Alvaro Uribe has made a great show of decommissioning military officers found to be associating with the AUC.  But Human Rights Watch and other groups  say that all this is just cosmetic. Very few AUC members have ever been prosecuted for crimes. The U.S. placed the FARC and ELN on its list of terrorist groups in 1997 and demonizes the FARC as \\"narcotraffickers.\\"   In August 2001, it placed the AUC on that list. However it has continued to send the Colombian military half a billion dollars annually, claiming decreasing paramilitary-military collaboration when in fact the evidence is the exact opposite. Uribe has been waging total war against the FARC. The author writes about how the peace talks were substantially sabotaged by the unwillingness of the previous administration of Andres Pastrana to curb the paramilitaries and consider alternatives to fumigation. As peace talks opened in January 1999, the AUC killed about 150 people in a show of force. Pastrana originally presented Washington with a \\"Plan Colombia\\" that dealth with alternative crops and poverty reduction but the massa objected......The author writes that many of the AUC members currently being \\"demobilized\\" by negotiations with the government are actually filling up the ranks of Uribe's new rural \\"civilian defense\\" forces. In other words the paramilitaries are quietly being institutionalized under a different guise. . In 2002, the U.S. requested that Castano and two of his lieutenants be extradited for five counts of drug trafficking. The author suggests that Uribe may try to convince the U.S. to drop these demands \\"in the interests of peace.\\"     Meanwhile, U.S. backed drug eradication has not done anything to reduce the drug trade. Poppy and Cocoa growing is merely drifting south towards Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru.  The drug war is merely a cover to expand U.S. political and economic domination, indirectly supporting major drug traffickers and killers. The author shows how Uribe is really notthat popular as the polls claim.	2004-08-20
US	52306476	R3VHMAOXJA64AZ	1576752925	329664482	Regime Change Begins at Home: Freeing America from Corporate Rule	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A book about our lack of, and potential for, true democracy	The author writes that the costs of the Vietnam war weakened American economic power ; in the meantime West Europe/Japan had grown into full-fledge economic competitors with the U.S. In order to better compete in this environment, corporations decided that they couldn't tolerate the New Deal concessions to unions and other measures, so America began its rightward shift.  <br /> <br />He writes, quoting the New York Times and Paul Krugman in The Nation(see endnotes), that from the early 1970's to 2000, the average income in real terms fell by seven percent for the bottom ninety percent in this country. Meanwhile, the income of the top one percent rose by 148 percent, the top tenth of one percent rose by 343 percent, and so on. The unemployed and \\"working poor\\" today comprise 40 percent of our employed class.  Reagan's tax cuts helped this upward redistribution. In 1998, General Motors, Pepsi, Chevron, Texaco and Enron paid no federal taxes.  Bush tax cuts have targeted the wealthy in obvious ways: taxes on capital gains and dividends,, which the vast majority of Americans do not report on their returns. Then there was the estate tax...Meanwhile a treasury department report suppressed in Bush's 2004 budget  report projected the national debt reaching eventually reaching 44 trillion dollars. . Bush has proposed the further draconian measure of allow tax-shelter savings accounts where if enough money that only the rich can afford to save is placed it will be tax-free forever.  <br /> <br />He should have quoted David Stockman's admission that the Reaganites embarked upon their insane military spending produced deficit in part in order to have an excuse to slash social programs.  Bush is repeating this.   Bush has already set in motion a partial Medicare privatization. Our political order encourages companies to move overseas to exploit repressed third world labor while leaving in wake a horde of workers who have to grasp for short term/temp jobs and have no health insurance, etc.  It allows speculators to move two trillion dollars around the globe a day and leave financial disaster in their wake.  It allows for companies to manipulate their stock value with their accountant's complicity. Now mutual funds are getting ready to have the government give them social security funds, so they can gamble with them on the stock  market, an alarming prospect giving the recent accounting scandals on Wall Street.  He quotes Fortune magazine as saying that the Enron-style chicaneries were quite widespread, not a few bad apples. Meanwhile the trade deficit may become completely unmanageable. The rich continue to get their corporate welfare, speculative bonanzas, etc but the country in the long term is heading towards a catastrophic debt.    <br /> <br />He notes that the Cold War was a cover to support right wing dictators and death squads that repressed third world workers for the benefit of corporations. He mentions the flat tax imposed by Bremer on Iraq and the giving away of Iraq's economic assets to foreigners. He notes that Bush later admitted that there is no evidence of an Iraq-9/11 connection; for the Iraq war, he invoked a law that allowed the president to move against countries who played a role in the 9-11 butchery. Obviously the law didn't apply here.  The \\"war on terror\\" is mainly about distracting Americans from Bush's draconian domestic measures and a cover to increase support for such pro-American, pro-oil and gas company  murderers as Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan. He observes that Wolfowitz, Feith, etc. set up a Pentagon body (OSP) that would feed them the bogus intelligence for the war they needed.  <br /> <br />Kerry would be somewhat better than Bush, but both are supporters of the current monstrous corporate order, though less extreme than Bush.    The Republicans can gerrymander themselves into congressional victories.. They can throw voters off the rolls.   But  student, labor and other currently growing grassroots groupscan affect a great change. He points to Moveon.org mobilizing its grassroots to get congress to repeal an FCC deregulatory measure . \\"An amazing organization!\\" he gushes about Moveon(but will they treat a democratic president as harshly when he does similar things as Bush?). He observes that Dennis Kucinich is one who has been overwhelmingly re-elected by the \\"Nascar Dads\\", \\"Reagan Democrats,\\"  by strongly articulating a populist economic message. Half of Americans don't vote; the dems could mobilize them but.... <br /> <br />The author is a little simplistic in his invocation of American nostalgia. Teddy Roosevelt preached that corporations needed to be controlled in the  public interest but that was mostly fraud. Corporations may have been paranoid about FDR but they were still very much in control. Inequality stayed the same from the beginning to the end of his rule. But his empowering to some extent of unions did play a role in eventually creating the American Middle Class. Gene Debs was a much better American hero.  <br /> <br />The author's \\"new democracy\\" scheme for America, though accepting capitalism, goes a long way towards expanding democracy in this country.   <br /> <br />I think the author should have made his factual points less vague; as it is, his main concentration seems to be to exhort the reader.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-08-09
US	52306476	R3VWD28FYISF6H	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fine piece of work	Oceania, with the British Isles, the America's and other lands, and London as its capital is a totalitarian state. Winston Smith works on changing past newspapers and other documents to make them doctrinally consistent with the short term needs of the party running Oceania, INGSOC. Thus documents are changed to make it seem that Oceania has always been at war with one of the two other nations of the world, Eurasia and in an alliance with EastAsia, the other nation; similarly is the construction when Oceania goes to war with EastaAsia.  Similarly documents will be changed that have some INGSOC official uttering an inaccurate prediction about economic performance so that the official will have originally made an accurate prediction.. Documents are changed to eliminate mention of former favored party members after they fall out of favor and are sent to a forced labor camp or are \\"vaporized.\\"  Winston and other bureaucrats throw doctrinally inaccurate documents into the \\"memory hole\\", a chute, attached to his cubicle where they are sent down to the inner recesses of the government building to be burned.<br /><br />Party members have in their homes and offices \\"telescreens\\" where they receive propaganda, are led in mandatory morning exercises but through which are also watched by officials for suspicious facial expressions, or any activity that might indicate independence of mind or feelings of love, enthusiasm or any other human emotion that are not directed at Big Brother, the possibly non-existent ruler of Oceania. People who exhibit such tendencies towards \\"thought crimes\\" are immediately arrested, executed or released back into society brainwashed and then rearrested and shot or sometimes sent to a forced labor camp.<br /><br />INGSOC indoctrination ensures that its party members will not be able to not think logically and instead be completely subordinated to their emotions, which are completely engrossed in worshipping Big Brother. \\"Doublethink\\" is what is calledthe ability of the INGSOC party member to somewhat recognize the logical fallacies and outright falsehoods the party propagates as truth.  At the same time such fallacies and falsehoods are accepted as the truth because one's emotions are trained to accept the party's pronouncements as truth whatever common sense says. Thus, it is easy to accept that two plus two equals five when logic says two plus two equals four. Or to not see anything wrong in the Ministry of Torture being officially called \\"The Ministry of Love,\\" The ministry of truth management/propaganda, etc, where Winston works, as \\"The Ministry of Truth, and so on. Or to have the party denounce the original ideals of socialism while declaring itself to be a repository of socialist purity. Logic seems to be only tolerated when examining the crimes of official enemies of Oceania.<br /><br />The bigger one's vocabulary is, of course, the more one can utilize it to articulate opposition to the party; so INGSOC wants to keep Newspeak-the language it is developing--and the remaining use of \\"Oldspeak\\"-old standard English-- as small as possible. In Newspeak there is no bad to good. Instead bad is called \\"ungood,\\" \\"very good\\" in oldspeak is called \\"doubleplusgood.\\" INGSOC indoctrination and throwing old documents and dictionaries down the \\"memory hole\\" has made \\"freedom\\" have no political connotations but only is defined as in the sentence \\"She was now free from the illness.\\" Most documents before 1960 are sent down the memory hole or like the Declaration of Independence, altered to express doctrines of INGSOC.<br /><br />Orwell is not just talking about Stalinism in this book. He sort of touches on elements of our own society. The bottom eighty five percent of Oceanic society, the non-party members are called \\"Proles\\", for Proletarian. The Proles are far less constrained by party discipline than INGSOC members produces for them and encourages them to consume dumb popular songs, pornography, trashy novels, play lotteries.. They are encouraged to jingoist frenzies where they attack foreigners and watch parades where they can jeer at foreign POW's and so on. All this distracts them from organizing to seize economic and political justice for themselves. They are still economically enslaved as they were under capitalism.<br /><br />The sort of Trotsky of the story, Goldstein, notes that Oceania's rulers want to keep throwing resources into war-making so as not to have to divert them to making an equitable standard of living for the masses. Erich Fromm notes in his 1961 Afterward notes a few examples of how we in the U.S. practice \\"doublethink.\\" He gives the example of the person who works for Corporation A and defends its products and everything about it as perfect regardless of what one's common sense might say.  However the person will attack his employer's rival corporation B, trying logically to look for flaws in the latter's products and so on. Then the person might switch to employment in corporation B., thus switching loyalty to the latter, and attack the flaws of Corporation A., its former employer. Fromm also notes how American propagandists described U.S. allies as part of the Free World even though it contained viscous Latin American military dictatorships, apartheid South Africa, Salazar's Portugal, Franco's Spain, and so on.<br /><br />As a piece of literature, this book is excellent. The structure, the parts of the story, are well put together and flow together well. Winston's struggle to maintain his intelligence and impendence is very realistic and well told. I liked the views of life among the Proles as seen by Winston. How Winston and Julia make contact and their first meeting where they end up fornicating are all a little unreal..  But despite this the Winston-Julia love story is very charming, full of real feeling. Winston's experiences in the last part of the book are described vividly, if being slightly incredible.	2004-08-06
US	52306476	R2MPI7ZOTRVUP9	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A beautifully crafted novel	What stands out in this novel the most is Vidal's economical use of words. That is to say he is a master craftsman of sentences. He is a prose stylist of uncommon power and grace. He is a perfect storyteller; his reader is always interested and certainly never bored. He keeps his reader interested and certainly never bored. <br />The story is told through Lincoln himself, his wife Mary Todd, William H. Seward the Secretary of State, Salmon P. Chase the secretary of the Treausury; David Herold, in his elder teenage years, a future conspirator of John Wilkes Booth; and William Sprague, the roguish and clownish millionaire Rhode Island governor cotton magnate whose arrival on the scene portends the coming tribulations of the Chase family. The prime perspective through which Vidal tells the story is probably John Hay, future secretary of state, one of Lincoln's two secretaries. <br />Another virtue of the story is Vidal's ability to paint a picture of Washington D.C. in the early 1860's. With his great gift for words, Vidal paints a picture of the town that the reader can almost literally see it in her mind, at least as it was seen by the almost exclusively privilleged characters in the book. It was a pretty tumultuous town, the capital of a nation beginning to undergo severe change and Vidal provides the reader a good feeling of the effects on the town of wartime. There are hordes of people swarming in the city for government jobs, soldiers, profiteers, and after a while discharged starving desperate Confederate POW's, a few of whom we meet at the end of the book joining John Wilkes Booth's conspiracy. <br />Lincoln is fairly well crafted, a very calm and quiet man. Vidal makes him into a likeable character but the reader is able to see through his cryptic personality, the effects of the severe trials and tribulations of the war on him. But Lincoln is also an immensely crafty politician, something his much more worldy rivals like William Seward find out too late. Seward assumes that he will manage the government at the outset of Lincoln's election and Lincoln simply be a figurehead but by 1863, Seward has been outmaneuvered subtly and has become one of Lincoln's lieutanents. Chase tries to take advantage of Lincoln too and is outmaneuvered likewise. <br />Vidal describes Lincoln as a fairly ruthless politician beneath his veneer. He suspended habeaus corpus and threw opponents of the civil war in prison by the thousands. He used the army to manipulate politics in the border slave states. His goal in fighting the civil war was to preserve the union; if he could have save the union by expanding slavery he would have done it. Vidal describes Lincoln's indignation at a general whose order he countermanded in the Summer of 1861 to free the slaves of rebels in the Missouri area. By the summer of 1862, he had become convinced of the military necessity of declaring free, slaves in states rebelling against the union. The result of this was the Emancipation Proclamation. Lincoln eventually became an advocate of abolishing slavery all together by 1864. He also put forth fervently the idea that as many American blacks as possible should be transported to colonize somewhere in Latin America or someplace far away from white Americans, in order to avoid racial warfare(so the excuse went). He was in favor of &quot;compensating&quot; slave owners for the loss of their slaves and only giving black union soldiers and the &quot;most intelligent&quot; the right to vote. In other words, the course that Andrew Johnson (the episode as described by Vidal, with his drunken speech after he was sworn in as vice president at the beginning of Lincoln's second term is amusing) would follow after the war before being defeated by the Radical Republicans in 1867. <br />Vidal makes constant use of subtle sardonic humor in describing the actions of his characters. But he also shows a great deal of intelligent compassion for them. As I say, he his never boring, evokes considerable color in the story. We see alot of John Hay, but don't get terribly deep into his character; he is more of a reporter for Vidal than anything but he is interesting nonetheless. David Herold is very real in his childish yearning to become a hero for the confederacy in spite of being stuck as clerk and delivery boy at a pharmacy and lies to his friends that he had something to do with a failed attempt to poison Lincoln. The pharmacy is frequented by the political elites for their medical needs. David is assigned mainly the duty of picking up what gossip he can from the customers of the pharmacy, but he dosen't get a whole lot. <br />Lincoln is portrayed compassionately but his and his colleagues' not exactly credible political intrigues are described vividly. Mary Todd is described vividly in her extremely capricious spending habits which she tries to hide from her husband and places her in a compromised position which causes some trouble for her husband. Mary Todd is followed through the death of her son Willie, the episode which Vidal describes with his usual skill, and to the end of the administration. She is afflicted with severe headaches which cause her bouts of insanity. I liked the scene at the front where Lincoln is off with the Generals and Mary Todd is slowly going into a bout of insanity. Here she rages at Ulysses S. Grant's wife and others and calls the wife of a general a &quot;[prostitute]&quot; and makes her burst into tears because the wife had been riding next to Lincoln and thus is perceived by Mary in her extreme paranoia to be trying to seduce the president. It is a pretty tragic scene but it is funny in its absurdity. <br />I must say I was particularly struck by the troubles that suddenly beset toward the end, Salmon Chase and his beautiful daughter Kate. They are shown to be well intentioned people but who are caught up in the terrible game of politics and privillege and thus are tragic figures. Chase's quest for the presidencyends in comic failure. The story of Kate's decline has a sort of air of Dostoyevksy.<br />Vidal says in his afterword that he did little inventing in this book, only for the most part, inventing David Herold's life before his joining Booth's conspiracy. Booth appears late in the book but Vidal does a good job in portraying him as the slightly unstable and decadent theater star that he was.	2004-07-15
US	52306476	R37M2LADC9OCLS	089608681X	43879917	Vietnam: The Logic of Withdrawal	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A 1967 book that is eerily relevant today	The Vietnamese puppets of the French running the South knew that Ho Chi Minh would win any free and fair election so they would repeatedly refuse North Vietnamese requests to hold the promised elections that were supposed to reunify the country as called for in the 1954 Geneva accords.  Zinn quotes Bernard Fall, the French right wing military analyst much respected by hawkish American planners, as saying that from 1957 to 1960, the U.S. installed South Vietnamese dictator Ngo Dinh Diem built 425,000 square of high rent villas and Apartments but only 6500 of hospitals and 86000 of schools. Fall noted the peculiarity of Diem's law banning dancing. <br />Zinn notes that guerilla activity started in the late 50's, by the reactivated units of the Viet Minh, after Diem's stolen elections, torture,&quot;manhunts&quot; etc. He quotes experts on Vietnam that the National Liberation Front (&quot;Viet Cong&quot;) was created early in 1960, months before Hanoi authorized its creation, solely on the initiative of Southerners resisting U.S. backed terror. . He observes the Americans already had a couple thousand military &quot;advisors&quot; in the South in violation of the Geneva accords long before the state dept would claim &quot;infiltration&quot; and &quot;aggression&quot; from the North i.e. what it admitted were largely South Vietnamese, crossing the illegal 17th parallel to fight in their own country the American occupiers. Zinn quotes Senate Majority leader Mike Mansfield's committee report that in January 1966 there were 14,000 North Vietnamese troops in the 230,000 NLF force in the South. At the same time there were 170,000 American troops; other foreign troops included 21,000 from South Korea. So the Americans and allied occupying forces infinitely outnumbered the North Vietnamese who were of course fighting in South Vietnam, part of their own country, Vietnam. The Mansfield report stated that from 1962 to 1965, 14,000 North Vietnamese &quot;infiltrated&quot; into theSouth but during the same time 100,000 persons in the South joined the NLF, the only force in South Vietnam addressing the needs of the peasant masses. In 1965, 100,000 deserted from the ARVN. <br />He notes that in 1964the  NLF made one of its many peace offers at this point that entailed allowing it to participate as a political party in a South Vietnam w/o American occupation and military aid to the oligarchy (a &quot;neutralist&quot; state). He quotes Neil Sheehan and Charles Mohr of the New York Times as saying that the NLF represented true social change for better or worse against the reactionary South Vietnamese oligarchy. He quotes a French foreign correspondent as observing that when what would become the NLF  began assassinating South Vietnamese govt. officials in 1959-60, the peasants apparently supported these actions against their oppressors. Zinn observes that the NLF committed atrocities but had a long way to go to catch the Americans in this regard. <br />He writes that communism has inspired activists in deeply impoverished capitalist countries, independent of any Russian or Chinese meddling, and they have adapted it to their local needs.  He might have added that what the U.S. has smeared as communism in the third world is often mild socialism (as in Guatemala in 1954) that cuts slightly into the profits of multinational corporations and so is overthrown by the U.S. or forced to turn to the Russians.  Economic development has been harsh at best in communist countries, though development for the masses was pretty bad in capitalist countries before welfare states, came along, unions gained power,etc. . Communist states have developed a standard of living, which allows for the development of educated dissent. <br />He goes over some of the reports of U.S. atrocities in the mainstream press. In November 1965, Neil Sheehan reported several dozen hamlets completely destroyed or heavily damaged by U.S. and the ARVN (South Vietnamese army) in order to root out the supposed NLF presence in them. Sheehan reported South Vietnamese government figures that 184 civilians were killed in the five hamlets of Duchai during this attack but the figure might have been as high 600. He reported that each month about 600 to 1000 civilians were being brought to the provincial hospital, injured by American weaponry. Sheehan reported in February 1966 that U.S. napalm and bombs had destroyed 1000 peasant homes in three hamlets and a hundred civilians were killed in the village of Tamquan. The Honolulu Advertiser reported a hundred civilians killed or wounded near a Mekong Delta hamlet. Charles Mohr, reporting the case of an old  woman who could no longer close her eyes and lost her arms and two of her children all because of U.S. napalm, stated &quot;Few Americans appreciate what their nation is doing to South Vietnam with airpower.&quot; Civilians were &quot;dying everyday in South Vietnam.&quot; Zinn quotes former Green Beret Donald Duncan as saying that he and his fellows regularly used torture against Vietnamese. <br />He goes over the innumerable cases of the U.S., on bogus anti-communist grounds, supporting right wing dictatorships that repressed the masses. He notes how in Laos the U.S. supported a right wing military coup in 1958 as the leftist Pathet Lao were about to win an election there. The U.S. would subvert in the next few years a neutralist government that allowed the Pathet Lao to be politically active. The U.S. backed military alliance SEATO insisted that the Pathet Lao were not commie stooges. <br />This book was published in 1967. The U.S. after it destroyed the country, in 1975, placed an embargo on Vietnam that threw it into the arms of the Russians and maintained brutal conditions in the country.	2004-06-27
US	52306476	R3GR166BOL0HCE	0375422854	460992127	Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, and the Roots of Terror	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Highly recomended; tender-minded Americans beware.	The author discusses the U.S. effort to overthrow Congo's leader Patrice Lumumba in 1960, because he was too independent. The West wouldn't help him suppress a rebellion in Katanga province sponsored by Belgian mining interests, so Lumumba turned to the Soviet Union for aid. The U.S then had an excuse to get rid of him.   Mamdani  shows how the mercenaries the U.S. used to crush a Lumumbaist rebellion in Kivu province in 1964-65 committed horrible atrocities.. Then Lumumba's killer General Mobutu seized power and ravaged and looted the country with Western aid. <br />The author notes that the U.S. and South African backed rebels in Angola,UNITA, were cited by Africas Watch as being behind the planting of the landmines that made Angola one of the amputee capitals of the world, laying siege to villages to starve civilians, kidnapping, and so on. This was another example of the U.S. opposing \\"ultra-nationalist regimes\\" that had to turn to the Cubans for aid. He shows how the U.S. encouraging of South Africa 's aggression against its neighbors undermined moderate tendencies in it and set back the end of apartheid. A State Department report concluded that the South African backed Renamo guerillas, which was supported by Bob Dole and the Heritage Foundation., were responsible for 95 percent of the atrocities in Mozambique's barbaric civil war. South Africa heavily invested in the U.S. media and Jerry Falwell.<br />He discusses the libertarian tradition of Islam, i that allows for a participatory democratic and modernized \\"Itjihad\\" to interpret Sharia law. He shows how little jihad as \\"holy war\\" was part of the Islamic tradition before the Afghan war. <br /> He notes the U.S. began aiding the Mujahadeen at least six months before the Russians invaded.  In March 1985, the immortal Reagan compared them, the  Mujahadeen, to our  founding fathers.. The CIA approved the Saudi selection of Bin Laden as leader of the \\"Arab Afghans\\" and gave him the contract to build the Khost tunnel  complex. Training of trainers for Pakistan's mujahadeen camps took place in many bases in the U.S. The majority of U.S. aid went not to the most viable political and military Afghan groups but to Gullubdin Heckmatyar's Hizb-e-Islami.. Heckmatyar had during his younger days led mobs in throwing acid in the faces of women not wearing the veil. The CIA liked Heckmatyar's warriors because they were the most brutal. Pakistan's dictator General Zia and its ISI  gave him control of Afghan refugee camps in Pakistan and he ruled them with murder and violence.  He operated heroin factories just inside Pakistan, in Southern Helmand,. In 1988-89, Heckmatyar' and another Mujahadeen leader who enjoyed castrating landowners who refused to grow opium for him, fought the largest battle of the whole anti-Soviet war not against the Russians but each other for control of the opium growing and heroin processing business in the Helmand valley.  Afghan war related CIA assets like Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and Ramzi Yousef went on to many infamies including the WTC bombing in 1993 (he notes the trouble that an FBI regional director got into for pointing this out). The CIA sponsored recruitment tours of the U.S. conducted by Sheikh Abdul Azzam, a founder of Hamas and Al Qaida. Today Pakistan produces 75 percent of the world's heroin., whereas before 1979 it produced almost none.The DEA was instructed to ignore Pakistan's facilitation of  the Mujahadeen heroin trade. The CIA Afghan operations head later said that the CIA should have to apologize for all this. The author should have noted that U.S. forces have recently been trying to assassinate Heckmatyar.  The author goes over the previous CIA facilitation of the drug trade in France, Burma and Laos. <br />The CIA worked with military officers from the fascist regime in Argentina and Israel in order to support the Contras in their early years, which were made up of right wing politicians and military officers formerly allied with the barbarian dictator Somoza, as even some U.S. funded Contra leaders like Arturo Cruz began to complain. Israel as proxy for the U.S. had supplied Somoza with 98 percent of his weapon in the last horrific months of his rule. Former CIA analyst David MCMichael testified that the U.S. hoped by Contra terror to provoke the Sandanistas  to various atrocities to get ammunition to use against them.<br /> Mamdani quotes Oliver North's notebook and the infamous 1985 CIA training manual about how U.S. backed Contra terror hoped to destroy Nicaragua's economy and make the people of the country loose faith in the ability of the Sandinistas to provide security. The Notebook also quoted reports by North's aide Robert Owen of drug running by Contra leaders.  The biggest evidence is provided by the 1998 report of CIA Inspector General Frederick Hitz. Despite Hitz's denials to the contrary the fine print of Volume 2 of the report revealed the CIA had worked with 58 drug running Contra officials and allied with the powerful Caribbean drug lord, Alan Hyde. The report also revealed that CIA director William Casey had made a deal in 1982 with the Justice Dept.  that allowed the CIA not to report any drug dealings by its non-official employees. <br />He points out how the U.S. deliberately destroyed Iraq's infrastructure necessary for the maintenance of civilian life during Gulf War I, a war crime, then blocked Iraqi repairs of such things as water treatment plants on ridiculous grounds, causing horrible epidemics. It's use of depleted uranium weapons in 91' and 03 has killed hundreds of thousands of children and infected U.S. troops with \\"the Gulf War Syndrome.\\" The U.S., after Rumsfeld's 1983-84 visits with Saddam, massively helped Saddam get materials for his WMD arsenal, and protected his gassing of Kurds from UN scrutiny. The U.S. then kept Saddam in power after Gulf War I, as the author quotes Thomas Friedman of the NYT. He notes the Shendon PR firm, the facilitators of the bogus babyincubator story back in 1990 was placed on contract in early 2002 by Rumsfeld's OSI.	2004-06-21
US	52306476	R3R9119TA1RVIW	1560255617	478882083	How Much Are You Making on the War, Daddy?: A Quick and Dirty Guide to War Profiteering in the Bush Administration	Books	5	29	31	N	N	An Engaging Book	The author points out how Rumsfeld as Secretary of Defense in 1976, was a prime mover behind the CIA's infamous Team B. That panel forced acceptance of its \\"findings' that the Soviet Union was rapidly overtaking the United States in military power. The author notes that the Soviet archives reveal that even the supposedly too low original estimate of the CIA was vastly exaggerated. .Rumsfeld of course, played a key role in the late 90's arms industry funded movement to portray  North Korea as able to quickly develop missles to hit the U.S. These frauds avoided addressing the issue of whether North Korea would really build up some missiles, then just haul off and launch them at the United States, knowing full well North Korea would be wiped off the planet in retaliation. Rumsfeld, he observes, played a role in opening the funnel of American arms and WMD materials to Saddam in his visits with Saddam in 1983-84. <br />He shows how Rumsfeld might have alerted Carlyle Group CEO Frank Carlucci about the planned cancellation of one of it's subsidiary's programs to build the Crusader artillery system. Several months before the cancellation, Carlyle suddenly put the subsidiary on the stock market so that it might draw in shareholders and took out a huge loan based on the inflation of the value of the subsidiary and distributed it to shareholders and execs. Carlyle is of course the group which George Bush Sr. advises and whose executive James Baker and his law firm are representing the Saudi royal family against the families of 9-11 victims. <br />Rumsfeld was on the board of the Swiss engineering firm ABB for years.. That firm made the contract to oversee the construction of North Korea's two light water nuclear reactors. North Korea of course is one of the reasons we have to spend 400 billion on defense according to people like Rumsfeld who of course advocates that the reactor deal shouldn't have been made. . Rumsfeld claimed ludicrously to know nothing about the deal. Of all the ABB board members, all but one, who insisted on anonymity refused to talk to a Fortune magazine reporter about  Rumsfeld and this deal. Rumsfeld is obviously very feared, the author notes.  <br />He discusses the deal  that had the Pentagon be leased a hundred Boeing commercial aircraft to be transformed into aerial refueling tankers. And it seems from documents released by John McCain's office  that Darleen Dryun, Airforce undersecretary, gave Boeing the details of its rival Airbus's bid for the project. Dryun then quit her Pentagon job to become a top official of Boeing's Missile Defense division. The author discusses the none-too subtle campaign contributions made to Senator Ted Stevens, Senate appropriations chair just before this deal was put through.<BR> <BR>The author notes that Richard Perle, while head of the Defense policy board, used that position to try to lobby some rich Saudis into investing in his new security oriented firm, Trieme. Perle claimed that he wanted to talk about Iraq, but his interlocutor in the deal, Adnan Koshoggi of Iran-Contra fame, only mentioned in his message to the Saudis about investing in Trieme. Then Stephen Laboton of the New York Times revealed that Perle offered his services to the bankrupt telecom firm Global Crossing to influence the U.S. government to allow it to sell one of its firms to China, which is not allowed to receive U.S. high tech resources. Perle advertised himself in his affidavit to Global Crossing as someone with great insider connections because of his post. Perle insisted that this affidavit was a clerical error. He tried to use his influence to allow Loral to resume selling high tech satellite stuff to China. According to Hirsch none of Perle's fellow board members knew of the existence of Trieme and were quite upset about it.  <br />Then there's the redoubtable Mr. Cheney and Halliburton. After going through the motions of competitive bidding under public pressure, the army corp of Engineers suddenly accelerated the schedule for work in Iraq's oil infrastructure so that Halliburton would be the best placed firm to do that under the schedule, it already being in Iraq as a result of a no bid contract to put out oil fires. Cheney receives hundreds of thousands in \\"deferred compensation\\" from the company. He denied any remaining \\"ties' with the firm but his spokesperson, accoding to the author, said that the deferred payment technically did not constitute a \\"tie.\\" <br />The author notes one of the more blatantly questionable appointments in the present administration, former Lockheed Martin executive Everett Beckner being picked to oversee the Nevada Nuclear test site, which Lockheed partly runs. Many Bush officials sit on the board of groups like the Center for Security Policy run by Frank Gafney Jr. Gafney dosen't seem to think his intellectual integrity is compromised by his group being funded by the arms companies who stand to make huge profits with the policies he advocates. The author cites some statistics about the dramatic rise in CEO pay since 9-11. He points out that Lockheed Martin's annual income from government contracts is more than that for the top Federal program for the poor. The Leave No Child Behind Program is being underfunded by 10 billion. <br /> About 800 million in taxpayer money was used to subsidize the merger of Lockheed and Martin Marietta, supposedly to encourage these two firms to consolidate, making them more efficient. This Clinton administration encouraged merging has left a few big firms in control of the arms market and with this oligopoly are in an even better  position to easily get expensive contracts from the government. The merging-consolidation has also encouraged defense worker layoffs as this impresses shareholders that the firm is trying to become efficient.	2004-06-03
US	52306476	R2LHEZYCR5MS9L	0312149964	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Bedford Series in History and Culture)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A fine if at times flowery exposition by the young Dubois	Doubtless it was a frustrating experience back at the time this book was published to try to contemplate solutions to black oppression. Lynching  (mostly, though far from completely confined to the South) was reaching its high point ever or since in taking the lives of black Americans. As Dubois notes a few times, the Western European nations (including the U.S. in the Philippines, Cuba, et.al.) were subjugating the colored races of the world. <br />As to what to do with the black lower class black majority Dubois agrees a lot with his rival Booker T. Washington. However he points out the absurdity of Washington's agreement with white supremacy that little attention should be given to higher education for blacks. Since Washington argued that blacks needed to accumulate wealth as industrial laborers, artisans,, and so on, who was going to give them the vocational education that they needed? White people weren't going to teach them, so they need black teachers trained at all black colleges, Dubois points out. Moreover, Dubois argues in another chapter blacks need education as a forum with which to stimulate their creativity and to articulate their own rich experiences wrought from the fact of being black. If blacks are restricted in developing their intellects or any of the other opportunities to live a constructive life, it will deepen their own resentment against white society and make them turn to anti-social pursuits. The black masses will turn to demagogues. There needs to be a strong professional class (\\"the talented tenth\\") that will lead the black community. <br />Dubois at one point seems to say that if the white capitalist class of the post civil war South would receive for themselves the fruits of higher education that was mostly neglected in the antebellum South, then they might not act so barbarously towards their black laborers. This seems pretty naive. Dubois at one point launches in to a violently flowery tribute to the place where he was teaching at the time, Atlanta University. It is interesting to observe the excessive slightly affected refinement Dubois exudes in this book. Obviously, as is on display in his ending paragraph in chapter six, Dubois took refuge from the barbarousness of American apartheid in the high planes of the European enlightenment. <br />Another chapter includes an account of Dubois's two years (1886-87) teaching school in a rural village in Western Tennessee. He portrays the struggles of the peasant inhabitants against severe poverty. In a sort of postscript, he comes back ten years later to the village to see what has become of everyone. To take one example. He had been impressed with a young girl named Josie who had an insatiable appetite to learn. Well ten years later Josie was dead from exhaustion at the fruitless debt ridden toil for her family. Her brother had grown angry at his inability to advance in life and taken to petty theft. Other inhabitants had been able to buy more land, though most that were still there were farming away, trapped by the inescapable debt imposed by the white financial elites of  the area. <br />In another chapter he pays tribute to the black abolitionist preacher Alexander Crummel. He writes in a maudlin way about the latter's effort to be a true Christian in the midst of white supremacy in the North. In another, he produces a somewhat tedious sociological analysis of the Black Belt in Georgia. In another he produces a really excellent short story called \\"Of the Coming of John.\\" The story is about how John, a black from a Georgia village goes away to college for about seven years.  At a New York theater, the manager genially asks John to leave and fully refunds his ticket, on the ground of objection to having to sit near John, by a white man who turns out to be an old playmate from the Georgia village. John returns to his village after seven long years of educating himself and thinking about the world.  He has grown very intellectual and cold and cynical. This does not please either the blacks or whites of the town, the whites because he has grown uppity as they feared when he left, the blacks because he is so emotionally remote from them.   <br />In another chapter Dubois laments the death of his baby son though speculates that maybe it is good the little fellow didn't grow up to feel the pain of American racism that he himself feels and wishes for escape from. <br />There are two essays by Dubois attached to this edition of the book. One is \\"The Conservation of Races\\" a speech delivered by Dubois to the opening of the Negro Academy in 1897 and \\"The Development of a People\\" written in 1904. Dubois seems to exhibit in the first an excessive, though typically bourgeois concern for the allegedly poor morals and financial management of the black lower classes. I understand that he is here preaching self-help and betterment for his racial brethren. However I think he should have spent more time (here and in \\"Souls\\") elaborating on  the economic oppression that made blacks, and has always made it frustrating for poor people to pursue their dreams. In the \\"Development of a People,\\" he really cuts deep into white supremacy's claims to superior morality. He notes that the slavery t the Arabs introduced into Africa had the benefit for the slaves in  that the latter could become members of the slave-owning household e.g. marrying into it. It was up to the Europeans to introduce slavery based on skin color with all its unspeakable brutalities.<br />One further notes the importance of this book in that it was written at a time when Booker T. Washington was exercising dictatorial control over black intellectual life...	2004-06-01
US	52306476	R14CZ4XE62PGO8	0813341477	131709528	King Of Fish: The Thousand-Year Run of Salmon	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Capitalism can't protect the Salmon	Dr. Montgomery shows that if the toxic and human waste poured into the rivers of the industrial revolution did not poison Salmon, the incipient capitalist institution of commercial fishing would swallow most of them..  Montgomery quotes records from the holder of fishing rights on a specific part of the Thames river. The  records of this particular holder shows he caught 66 salmon in 1801, 18 in 1812 and only 2 in 1821....by the 1960's, the annual salmon catch of England and Wales was a quarter of that a century earlier.  He quotes an account of MP Robert Wallace about parliament blocking effective salmon protection laws at the behest of the commercial fishing industry, dam operators, etc. <br />He quotes accounts from the early 19th century including from Henry David Thoreau about the severe depletion of salmon stocks in Northeast U.S. rivers caused by the disruption of salmon spawning beds by the transportion of boats and logs down the river, dams, factory poisons and so on. <br />Salmon stocks continued to decline to near extinction in Eastern U.S. waters. The Danish government agreed to ban its fisherman from engaging in their highly destructive open ocean fishing off the coast of Greenland, where salmon from Britain, the U.S, and Canada often converge for their sojourns in the Ocean, in 1972. However Danes continued to fish heavily near the Greenland shore, and used vessels under other nation's flags to circumvent their salmon catch quota under the 1972 agreement.  <br />            Montgomery shows how salmon have been sacrificed since the Great Depression in favor of  the dams which have provided water and electricity in the Eastern Pacific Northwest from the Snake and Colombia Rivers. In 1937, U.S. fisheries commissioner Franklin Bell  let it be known that he wasn't going to strain himself too much on behalf of the Salmon. \\"Aside from blind restriction\\" of commercial fishing, he explained, \\"the protection of individual runs menaced by virtual extinction mustbe left to chance.\\" <br />        Native Americans in the Pacific Northwest thrived on salmon for subsistence, and to preserve the run, would commonly allow half of the run to pass through its nets. But with the coming of commercial fishing dominated by whites, Indian livelihood was wiped out. They could not compete in commercial fishing, lacking the wealth to purchase the sophisticated boats and nets increasingly becoming common. Indians became a racist scapegoat for the depletion of salmon stocks. He notes He notes though that state records that the entire Indian fishing catch from 1935 to 1950 was less than the total commercial catch during a typical year. <br />Washington State had always claimed that on traditional Indian fishing grounds based on treaties made regarding Colombian basin rivers in the 1850's, Indians merely had the same rights as whites to exploit salmon. But in 1970, federal district court judge George Boldt ruled that the treaties actually reserved for Indians half of the annual salmon supply. In 1975, the Supreme Court upheld Boldt's decision. In 1980, Federal Judge William Orrick declared that under the old treaties,  maintaining decent habitat for salmon spawning fell to Washington state. Shortly thereafter a three-judge panel of the 9th circuit overturned the decision. The issue of maintaining the habitat has not been resolved. He points out that native Americans have not been given \\"special rights\\" in fishing, as white fisherman and the demagogues inflaming them have claimed but the treaties, signed as they were under pressure, were grants by the Indians to the White man on the Indian's land. Not grants by the white man to the Indian. <br />    , Hatcheries were promoted as the catchall solution to salmon shortages. Huge investments were made in this new technology by Washington and Oregon governments beginning the late 19th century. However, writes Montgomery, in the long term, hatcheries have clearly failed. Salmon cannot simply adapt to any stream or river.  They seem genetically programmed to operate in limited regions. Hatcheries salmon are selected from a very limited gene pool i.e.  lack of genetic diversity and can produce defective offspring with their wild brethren. The hatchery salmon are found to be much more aggressive than their wild counterparts in eating up the food supply, thus making the wild ones lose out in the survival of the fittest.  In particular hatchery fish, can introduce deadly diseases to their wild brethren. In the mid-70's a parasite from hatchery fish wiped out restored wild salmon stocks in Norwegian rivers.  <BR> By the early 1990's, while the Colombia river held an estimated 11 to 16 million salmon before the arrival of Europeans, by then it had dwindled to around 2 million wild fish. Yet the number of hatchery fish in the river was estimated at the time to be around a hundred million.  <br />Likewise, on the East coast, salmon produced in \\"farms\\" i.e. maintained in cages at sea, sometimes accounted for the majority of spawning salmon in a river. An estimate of the National Research Council declares that 180,000 fish a year escape from their farms in Maine. They spread disease to wild salmon and mate with them, creating large numbers of genetically limited salmon. According to Montgomery, those 180,000 fish are ten times the number of wild salmon left in New England. In Europe, he notes, the amount of farm salmon being produced was 100 times the catch of wild salmon.  <br />He advocates strictly enforced moratoriums on fishing, increased preservations of wetlands to allow for the creation of flood produced salmon-friendly side-channels, strictly enforced regulations on placing passageways for salmon in dams, regulations to prevent salmon waterways from being polluted and to make sure that salmon do not end up as carcasses on farmland after being swallowed through irrigation pumps. The economic actors involved continue to block serious efforts to protect the salmonas they always have. He notes how the Bush administration has blocked efforts to address over-fishing.	2004-05-21
US	52306476	R3B5D7NE0GBTUI	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	33	43	N	N	There is no Santa Claus, kids	In 1986,Chomsky notes, the World Court of Justice ordered the United States to stop funding the contras and to pay massive reparations to Nicaragua. He quotes Michael Kinsley and Time Magazine lauding the massive attack on civilian targets that terrorized the Nicaraguan people into kicking out the Sandanistas as they did in 1990. He notes that the Sandinistas had won a free and fair election back in 1984. He observes that before U.S. terror had large effects, the inter-american development bank for laying a strong foundation for socio-economic development and UNICEF for dramatically reducing infant mortality praised Sandinista measures.  Since 1990, half of working Nicaraguans have left the country to seek employment elsewhere and it is their remittances that keep the society afloat. <br />He observes that the U.S. early on began supporting terrorism against Castro's Cuba by Cuban exiles. Sugar and oil refineries were destroyed, crops burned etc. Shortly after the Missile Crises, Cuban exiles blew up a factory killing 400 Cubans. In early 1962, the Joint Chiefs of Staff drew up rather diabolical proposals to stage terror attacks supposedly by Cubans to justify attacking Cuba. He points out that only a refusal of a Soviet submarine captain to fire nuclear missiles in retaliation for being fired upon by U.S. destroyer, saved the world from nuclear war in October 1962. He quotes a communication from the British ambassador to the U.S. in late 1959 that Allen Dulles wanted to deliberately turn Castro to the Soviets to justify overthrowing the former. <br />He notes how the Reganites praised Nicolae Ceausescu's human rights record and showered him with aid.  Most of the crimes for which Manuel Noriega was indicted occured when George Schultz was congratulating him for steatling elections. The U.S. invasion in 1989 managed to kill perhaps thousands of civilians (perhaps why only 11 percent of Panamanians according to polls supported U.S. military action in Afghanistan). And then there is Alan Simpson's former buddy Saddam... He notes how the U.s. avoided a peaceful settlement to the first Gulf war and deliberately destroyed Iraq's water and sanitation facilities, and prevented them from being repaired causing vast epidemics. <BR>He notes how in 2003 Al Qaida blew up in Jiddah the civilian headquarters of a U.S. firm which trains the Saudi Palace Guard to protect the dictatorship from its own people. He observes that people in the Arab world despise Al Qaida but tolerate it as the only force standing up to unjust U.S. support for dictatorships and other unjust policies. <br />Chomsky shows how the U.S. is worried about threats to its hegemony by events in East Asia. An oil pipeline from Siberia, through North Korea to China, South Korea, etc. would increase the regional strength of that region and leave out U.S. hegemony. Related to this is why the neocons are hostile to China.<br />He quotes Arthur Schlesinger's report to JFK in Jan 1961 that Castro was inspiring the poor masses in Latin American countries to improve their lot. The fruits of Kennedy administration policy of course were the setting up of hideous regimes in Brazil in 1964 and Indonesia in 1965. Then there is what Bernard Fall bemoaned as the extinction of Vietnam. Then of course hundreds of thousands of people were slaughtered by U.S. backed forces in Central America in the 80's.  <br />He notes that in the Khrushchev years, the Russians unilaterally cut back significantly their conventional military forces in favor of concentrating on internal development but recieved no reciprocal gestures from the U.S. If the Russians had been able to seriously concentrate on internal reforms instead of military spending, then maybe the horrors woul have been avoided in the 1990's (e.g. ten million extra deaths in the 1990's largely result of privatized health care system) as well as things like the invasion of Afghanistan. The arms buildup of the U.S. in the Kennedy years might have been that which helped destroy the Soviet Union with all its terrible side effects, Chomsky suggests (not the build-up during the Reagan years). Chomsky quotes Adam Ulam and Melvyn Leffler that Beria and Stalin proposed a reunified Germany that would not be part of Nato.<BR>He notes who the U.S. &quot;roadmap&quot; gives Israel the right to essentially continue building settlements indefinitely. He notes how the path of Sharon's wall follows the division of land of the &quot;generous offer&quot; Camp David 2000, plus more land is being expropriated near the wall. If one actually looks at a map of that supposedly generous proposal Chomsky notes, one sees three isolated cantons on the West Bank, separated by Israeli settlement blocks. The goal of the &quot;Peace Process,&quot; according to Barak's foreign minister Shlomo Ben Ami in his 1998 book was to make the Palestinians into a &quot;permanent neocolonial dependency.&quot; He observes that the suicide bombings have reduced the ratio of Palestinians to Israelis killed as decreased from 20 to 1 to 3 to 1. He points out how Israel deliberately avoided Sadat's 1971-peace offer and the 1976 UN resolution for a Palestinian state. He writes that the Osirak reaction was along way from producing plutonium but Israel's 1981 attack on it, accelerated Iraq's nuclear program.  <br />He writes a lot about how the administration's &quot;missile defense' insanity, part of its overall plan to &quot;own&quot; space is causing arms proliferation. He writes that the Bush-Putin treaty of May 2002 appears to be a meaningless gesture. Russia will in fact upgrade its nuclear missiles, continuing to place them on hair trigger alert in response to U.S. plans. He notes how the Chinese were encouraged to buildup up their fleet of nuclear missiles in return for agreeing to dismantle arms control agreements.<br />He notes how the Bush administration has undermined the Alien Tort Claims act.....	2004-04-09
US	52306476	R1NEOPSUP6DAK6	0582437474	627247262	Castro (2nd Edition)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	A brief but judiscious look at the Cuban revolution	The author describes how the U.S. had an agreement with its puppet governments in Cuba until 1959 to purchase annually half of Cuba's sugar produce. He shows how this quota could be lowered or threatened to be lowered if Cuba for instance, built flower mills that would compete with U.S. flour exports to the island or if the amount and quality of the rest of its sugar, that which it did not sell to the U.S. under the quota, competed with U.S. growers. The 1934 &quot;reciprocal trade agreement&quot; allowed U.S. exports to flood the island.<br />The U.S. backed dictatorship of Gerardo Machado was overthrown in 1933 and Fulgencio Bautista emerged to crush the movements of workers who had overthrown Machado, while at the same time instituting through his subsequent puppet governments slight social reforms. The communist party declared Bautista to be a swell democrat and several communists assumed cabinet positions once he took direct control of the government himself in 1940. Bautista governed mainly by dispersing state funds to journalists, businessmen and others to win their favor. Castro entered Havana University in 1945 in the midst of a much worse political climate. The government of Ramon Grau San Martin, bribed remnant groups from the 1933 uprising to take over many government functions and serve as death squads against the regime's opponents. Castro entered the University of Havana in 1945 and developed a political philosophy heavily influenced by the social reform and anti-imperialism of Cuba's independence leader Jose Marti. He apparently read Marx but wasn't much interested in it, contrary to his own assertions after he became dependent on the Soviet Union that he had always been a commie. <br />The author gives an excellent analysis of Castro's economic policies once in power. He writes that the U.S. campaign of terror and sabotage and hostility to Cuba's economic nationalism made Castro's turn to the Soviet Union inevitable.  He observes subtly that the United States had decided to fund paramilitary activities against Castro in March 1959 when the anti-Bautista liberals that it favored where still, formally at least, in control of the government.<br /> The initial policy of Castro and Che Guevara until 1963 or so was providing basic necessities for the population while working them hard to produce initial industrialization and then use the wealth from the latter for further economic expansion and further social benefits. Agriculture was neglected in this process and the resources necessary for the industrialization drive were severely lacking. Soviet advisors then compelled a program where the workplaces would be governed by capitalist notions of material incentives for workers, from and to each according to his ability, etc. The indigenous communists were greatly irritated by the chaotic, one-man direction of the economy, which Castro engaged in. In March 1962, Castro attacked a faction of the communists led by Anibal Escalante for undermining the Cuban revolution and putting their friends and relatives in positions of power. He quietly asked the Soviet Union to replace its ambassador whom he claimed had been involved in this affair. In 1966, as the economy seemed to be going downhill again, Castro began to push for a decrease in the material incentives for workers and instituted &quot;voluntary&quot; i.e. more or less required overtime work. The Soviets were disturbed by this and particularly Cuba's insistence on supporting guerilla groups in Latin America that would help Cuba break out of its regional isolation when the Soviets were calling for a non-violent &quot;united front&quot; approach. Castro boycotted the fiftieth anniversary celebration of the Bolshevik revolution in Moscow in October 1967. The Soviet Union began dramatically reducing its aid to Cuba.  In 1968, there were show trials against &quot;micro factionalists,&quot; pro-soviet communists accused of various crimes. But with increasing discontent with the austere conditions and voluntary work, if the enthusiasm for Castro himself remained high, Fidel decided to return to Russia's guidance, particularly after the disasterous sugar campaign of 1969-70. In 1968, he had declared the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia as a violation of sovereignty but a necessary evil for he saw Czechoslovakia leaning towards Capitalist restoration and he believed this would empower the U.S., which was seeking capitalist restoration in Cuba. <br />Cuba began to develop under the chairmanship of Soviet advisors and Cuban officials with economic plans based on layers of delegated authority in industries.  The 1976 constitution enshrined the &quot;People's Power.&quot; The People's Power are the legislative branches at all levels of govt. in Cuba. At the local level, the People's Power functions as a form of direct democracy, greatly engaging the masses(within fairly wide but strict paramters set by the party of course). <br />Cuba's revolution brought great gains to the standard of living of Cuban masses. Before the revolution, Cuba's per capita income had been falling dramatically. The average wage of the agricultural labor, marked by chronic underemployment and unemployment was $80 dollars per month compared to $120 a month for factory workers. But thirty years after the revolution, the life expectancy had risen from 57 to 74. Infant mortality rate had fallen from 60 per thousand live births in 1958 to 13.3 per thousand in 1989 (It's like 7 per 1000 now). There were 400 doctors available per person in compared to 5000 per one in 1958. There was none of the widespread disease and misery that afflicts capitalist third world countries with the best economic growth statistics. But with the collapse of the Soviet block and the loss of most of its imports and exports and the tightening of the U.S. embargo Cuba found itself in a dire situation. In the late 80's a campaign of &quot;rectification&quot; against corruption in the economy, material incentives for workers were scaled back and extensive criticism of Castro and other officials was tolerated so long as they did not question the legitimacy of regime's basic institutions.<br />He also gives some discussion of Cuba's involvement in foreign affairs such as in Ethiopia-Somalia.  Cuba entered Angola in late 1975 to help block the South African backed UNITA from taking over the country from the MPLA. UNITA and its allies, he observes, had launched military warfare an early 1975, breaking an agreement brokered between the guerilla groups to hold an elections	2004-02-19
US	52306476	R1NCCTPMNOJ0IC	1588261085	75938401	Venezuelan Politics in the Chavez Era: Class, Polarization, and Conflict	Books	5	50	60	N	N	A judiscious look at an increasingly important country	The pact of Punto Fijo after the overthrow of dictator General Marcos Perez Jimenez in 1958 effectively placed power of state institutions in the hands of the social democratic AD and the Christian Democratic COPEI. Kenneth Roberts notes in chapter three that the supposedly radical policies of the AD government between 1945-48 had played a role in the seizure of power in 1948 of General Jiminez supported by the Venezuelan elite. The AD at Punto Fijo promised to engage in no serious egalitarian policies. An oil boom in the 1970's raised the standard of living of the country a great deal though serious poverty still remained. Declining oil prices and increasing debt in the country compelled the government to engage in a series of austerity measures at the beginning of the eighties beginning with the devaluation of its currency. <br />But trouble really began with the 1988 election of Carlos Andres Perez of the AD who had been president previously from 1974 to 1979 at the height of the country's oil boom. He explicitly promised not to enact massive cuts in social spending and privatization in government owned industries. Shortly after assuming power in February 1989, he announced that he had reached an agreement with international lending institutions to do exactly that. The ensuing weeklong protests, riots and clashes with police may have killed thousands. Daniel Hellinger in Chapter three quotes a statistic that the percentage of the population living below the poverty line went from 36 percent in 1984 to 66 percent in 1995. In 1981, the bottom forty percent of the population had 19.1 percent of the wealth where as in 1997 it had only 14.7 percent of the wealth. The top ten percent of the country saw its wealth increase from 1981-97 from 21.8 to 32.8 percent. Tariffs were eliminated that protected key domestic industries from foreign competition. Presumably this played a role in the ruining of the agriculture sector. 600,000 people left the countryside for the citiesbetween 1989 and 1992. The percentage of the workforce employed in the precarious informal sector of the economy jumped from 34.5 percent in 1980 to 53 percent in 1999. Rafael Caldera won the 1994 elections after Perez was impeached, running on an anti-neoliberal platform but he decided to continue Perez's privatization policies in 1996. <br />Chavez set out to democratize the country's main trade federation the CTV, long controlled by the AD. Direct elections were ordered for its leadership, which had previously been handpicked. However, writes Steve Ellner in chapter nine, these elections in late 2001 were marked by disruption and accusations of fraud. Carlos Ortega, the AD's candidate, was declared to be elected as CTV leader in spite of only four of the members of the new electoral commission for union elections certifying his victory. <br />Chavez's health, education and credit programs for the general population seemed to improve their plight by 2000, much of it carried out by the military. This was particularly the case in the region of Vargas, wracked by severe floods and mudslides in late 1999, The army was accused of engaging in extra-judicial executions in attempts to restore order there. These accusations were repeated in early 2000, notes Deborah Norden in Chapter 5, by the foreign minister and the interior minister (both civilians), which resulted in a split in much of the military officers in Chavez's movement as Chavez refused to condemn the accusations. <br />Chavez's key principle of \\"participatory democracy\\" has been given small attention in practice. Chavez's congress has avoided handing over to committees of citizens to choose candidates for the supreme court, the attorney general and other positions. Maria Pilar Garcia Guadilla in chapter ten notes that Chavez denounced opponents in the Grand Sabana region who objected to a plan he had to deliver energy across their region to Brazil. They objected on ground of its violation of indigenous people's rights and environmental principles and their feelings should have led to the calling of public assemblies on the issue but Chavez condemned them as \\"traitors, spies and foreigners.\\"<br />Julia Buxton describes Chavez's land reform law which limited the amount of hectares in land one could hold (ranging from 100 to 5000 hectares) and set a tax on landowners who let more than 20 percent of their land sit idle. Presumably land exceeding the former provision would be redistributed (under government trusteeship) to the landless. This really made the elite crazy and dire predicitons of impending communist dictatorship intensified. All Chavez was actually doing was taking mild steps towards rectifying the severely unequal distribution of land in Venezuela (3 percent of the people own 70 percent of the land). <br />The writers note that it has been pre-dominantly the upper and middle class minority of the country which has engaged in the protests against Chavez. As Steve Ellner notes in Chapter nine it was difficult to tell exactly what the workers thought of engaging in strikes to protest Chavez since companies in FEDECAMERAS, the country's main business federation, all induced work stoppages by giving their workers days off with pay. Nonetheless, the CTV, notes Ellner, had great trouble bring out workers in the streets to support the U.S. backed coup attempt  of April 2002. Many unions condemned the CTV for seeking an alliance with the country's main business federation FEDECAMARAS. The U.S. backed coup placed FEDECAMARAS head Pedro Carmona in power for two days but he was removed by a mass uprising of Caracas's poor. The coup leaders, Buxton notes in chapter six, were \\"overwhelmingly white, elite...[they] represented a return to the exclusion and inequality of the fourth republic.\\" <br />Patricia Marquez in Chapter 11 discusses Chavez's persona of being a dashing caudillo devoting his life to the poor. Chavez receives thousands of requests every day from ordinary people. Marques gives the example of Chavez paying for the repairs of the motorcycle of a slum-dweller who called up his radio show.<br />Chavez will no doubt become an official U.S. bugaboo if covert action dosen't work against him and the Venezuelan elite is not able to overthrow him.	2004-01-02
US	52306476	R219TTXK5CFAVE	0802131867	727771871	The Subterraneans	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A story well told despite the rambling	I don't know what you'd call the prose style of this book. It seems to be a \\"stream of consciousness\\" style where Kerouac tells a story and includes all of his related thoughts as he is telling the story, whether those related thoughts are intelligible to the reader or not. <br />I'm not a fan of styles of novel writing other than the standard format of normal sentences and paragraphs(such as that found in ON THE ROAD). Jack rambles on and on at times for two pages in this book without the benefit of a paragraph or a period breaking his flow.  <br />But regardless of its difficult style which makes somewhat less effective than it could be, the story is presented with skill and coherence. Jack is able to evoke coherent human feeling through his writing, in the midst of the rambling . <br />This story written in and set in early 1950's San Francisco. It is based apparently on a true story, the love of Kerouac, who in the story is called Leo Percepied with a half-Cherokee half-black mentally unstable bohemian lady whom is called Mardou Fox. Mardou is portrayed as a tragic figure, a very beautiful lady, a sex object of the junkies and raffish intellectuals that Kerouac knows, abused and neglected in her childhood, full of the spirit and sadness of the Native American and the African American. I suppose the best writing is towards the end of the book. Here we actually see paragraphs to break the rambling and periods! Here the story becomes more coherent and the reader sees Leo reaching the climax of his struggle as his jealousy and unreliability and alcoholism takes its toll on his relationship with Mardou. He never 100 percent certain about whether he wants to be with Mardou. Mardou herself is a sometimes real, sometimes hard to grasp, a distant figure. The best part of the book is Leo (Kerouac). In his flaws and his actions the reader is able to grasp his humanness. I felt some empathy for him.  I liked the part where he is at the railyard ,weeping, and reflecting on his mother and upbraiding himself for being unreliable.	2003-12-22
US	52306476	R2ET1ABFVOSCY4	0195161106	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	4	4	9	N	N	An elite liberal looks at the flaws of our foreign policy	. Nye argues that an aggressive unilateral military approach will backfire on U.S. interests in the long-term. If we are genuinely seen as a responsible player in the international arena and not a self-righteous out-of-control bully, then more people will buy more of our products, will seek America's aid, will come to America to study, will support U.S. positions in international affairs, and so on.  In other words our soft power will be greatly increased and help the U.S. maintain an edge over its rivals even as those rivals increase their power.. In this country, he notes, the national poverty rate was at 22 percent in 1960, 11 percent in 1973, but up to 15 percent in 1993. In this country in 1995, the richest fifth of the population had 45 percent of the income while the poorest fifth had only 5 percent. In Brazil, cited over the decades as a prime example of third world capitalist success, the richest fifth had 64 percent of the income, while the poorest fifth had 2.5 percent. He quotes from the Economist a statement, which seems to state that the poor in Japan are much better off than than the poor in the U.S. <br />Nye's declaration of the benefits of globalization while pointing out statistics which show increasing inequality and even decreases in rates of growth (such as in labor productivity which dropped from previous decades during the deregulated Reagan years) is rather odd. He seems mostly concerned about the disruptions caused by in the third world and the opposition to corporate globalization as a hindrance to America's soft power  He notes that our economy rests precariously on foreign investments in our capital markets, which could be easily withdrawn due to deregulated currency flows. Nye writes that the welfare state is needed but has only been \\"constrained\\" not \\"destroyed\\" by globalization. Well, I think it safe to say that the welfare reform of 1996 and the recent Medicare bill giving massive subsidies to companies that offer Medicare-type plansare steps along the destruction of our measly welfare state.  <br />Nye refers to what he calls the pro-democracy policies of the Reagan-Clinton years. If in the Reagan years, he means supporting death squad militaries to wipe out popular opposition movements to oligarchies in Central America on a bogus Soviet threat and then holding elections when such movements are banned or terrorized into nothingness then I would agree. Really is pro-democracy policies such that as that in not recognizing a free and fair election in Sandanista Nicaragua in 1984 and then continuing to use the contra's to terrorize Nicaraguan civilians to the point where the weak international court of Justice in 1986 would call on the United States to stop supporting the Contras and pay Nicaragua 17 billion in reparations? And to the point where the U.S. would have to veto a resolution at the Security Council calling on all states to observe international law? Are pro-democracy policies threatening the Nicaraguan people with continuing sanctions(made again in the Nicaraguan 2001 election) and contra terror if they didn't vote out the Sandanistas in 1990? <br />And as for the Kosovo humanitarian intervention, Nye is surely aware of the Western documentation claiming that the Kosovo Liberation Army was responsible for most terrorism in Kosovo in the year before Nato started bombing. He surely is aware that the Rambouillet agreement called on Milosevic to accept something he could not: an All-Nato as opposed to a more natural occupation force that would have the right occupy the whole of Yugoslavia. And he has surely read the heroic General Clark's memoirs where it is admitted that when Nato started bombing it dramatically increased the incentive for the Serbs to start cleansing the Albanians of Kosovo. But of course America's hard power \\"credibility\\" was greatly increased by destroying a state opposed to America's hegemony. Nye does allow that the ethnic cleansing of Serbs by Albanians under Nato's watch that occurred afterwards was not a good thing. <br />Nye mentions that U.S. economic sanctions failed to dislodge Saddam. Well he should know that the U.S. wanted him to remain in power after the gulf war because it didn't trust the Iraqi rebels and preferred Saddam remain in power for the moment and eventually be overthrown by \\"iron-fisted Iraqi junta without Saddam Hussein\\" that would govern Iraq like Saddam did when he was friends with Rummy Rumsfeld and Bob Dole. It surely did not increase America's soft power when throughout the Clinton years, the U.S. was vetoing at the UN sanctions committee Iraqi requests to repair its civilian infrastructure like its electricity and sanitation facilities which were deliberately bombed by the U.S. during the first Gulf War. Currently it surely doesn't help our soft power when we engage in bombing of fields and whole towns to \\"pacify\\" the resistance to our current illegal occupation and shoot dead protestors and arrest and harass people speaking out against the occupation.  It surely doesn't help when we handpick their government that will allow us to sell off their resources and use their oil money to partially pay for the reconstruction of damages we are at fault for. <br />Nye did not mention our more subtle interference in the internal affairs of other countries, such as through funding of opposition to mostly leftist governments by the National Endowment for Democracy which has played in a role in the subversion of Chavez by the opposition in Venezuela. And recently NED money poured into Georgia after the now-overthrown tyrant Shevradnadze made a deal with the Russians about an oil pipeline after which the U.S. suddenly expressing abhorrence at his rigging of elections. He mentions U.S. sanctions against Burma but fails to note that these sanctions allowed companies already in the country to continue to do business there and enrich the monstrous SLORC. <br />Dr. Nye was asst secretary of Defense during the Clinton years and is currently head of the JFK school of government at Harvard. He probably had a hand in many of the policies which I excoriate. Nonetheless this is a much more compelling discussion in this book that would would expect from say Henry Kissinger, who has a blurb on the back cover praising this book.	2003-12-21
US	52306476	R38G0OE6VSI9IQ	1583225781	339259784	Full Spectrum Dominance: U.S. Power in Iraq and Beyond	Books	5	44	51	N	N	Common sense and decency in these diabolical times	Mahajan notes that the U.S. from Bush Sr. through Clinton and George the dumber gave Saddam every reason not to fully comply with the disarmament provisions of UN resolution 687 by stating that contrary to that resolution, it would keep sanctions on Iraq and seek to overthrow Saddam even if Iraq was certified to be completely disarmed. The U.S. engaged in heavy spying of Iraqi government institutions about matters nothing to do with WMD, as noted by former Inspections head Rolf Eakus in his Financial Times interview. In Operation Desert Fox in December 1998, he notes, only 11 of 97 targets were WMD related. The rest were Republican guard and secret police facilities, command and control centers. He notes that the U.S. likely decided to invade Iraq in August 2002 when Rumsfeld started bombing command and control centers and non-active air defenses in the illegal \\"no-fly zones\\" whose bombings were causing hundreds of civilian casualties according to former UN humanitarian coordinator Hans Von Sponek. <br />The U.S. got the security council to pass UN resolution 706, in September 1991, the original \\"Oil for Food ,\\" which after \\"reparations\\" to go in large part to oil companies harmed by Iraq's occupation of Kuwait, left Iraq a maximum of only 930,000 dollars of oil to sell over a trial period of several months. This was well below the proposal of UN undersecretary Aga Khan that called for Iraq to be able to sell enough oil to be able to partially repair its vital civilian infrastructure destroyed by the U.S. in 1991. When the program started about $15 per capita got in, only about 26 out of the 41 billion directed for Iraq, and the Iraqi economy remained collapsed, unable to generate income. He quotes UN under secretary general Martti Ahtissaari from 1991, left Iraq in a \\"near-apocalyptic state.\\" Through 2002 the U.S. placed holds on billions of dollars worth of material needed to repair vitally needed civilian infrastructure as well as hospital equipment and vaccines,claiming absurdly that basic vaccines could be transmuted into biological weapons. He notes how the head of U.S. AID claimed in April 2003 that the vile Saddam had not repaired Basra's water/sanitation facilities. He said this after the British had gallantly knocked out Basra's electricity thus once again shutting down what remained of Basra's water treatment facilities. This of course is a vile lie, the U.S. had been blocking the importation of parts for their repair on the sanctions committee. Iraq's oil for food revenue was placed in a Bank in New York and directly dispersed to companies whose contracts with Iraq were approved. Saddam couldn't get at it so he could build palaces.<br />After the first Gulf war, the U.S. did all it could to impede the Iraqi rebellion. Brent Scowcroft who allowed that at that point he would have preferred the Iraqi military to retain in control rather than the rebels. The U.S. feared the rebels would not follow orders from the U.S. so they preferred to keep Saddam in power for the moment. Thomas Friedman, that shameless voice for the powerful on the New York Times explained that the U.S. hoped that eventually Saddam would be replaced by \\"an iron fisted junta\\" that would rule Iraq the same way Saddam did when the U.S. was giving him all he needed to \\"gas his own people,\\" blocking condemnation of him in congress and blaming the Halabja massacre on Iran.  <br />He notes that the U.S. will continue to support as much as possible the brutal dictatorships governing the region, who give oil companies huge profits in extracting their oil and then spend the massive revenues they get not for the most part on their own people but buying weapons in the West to repress those people, treasury bonds, etc. This capital flight is contrasted with the lack of spending by these oligarchs on increasing production capacity to meet the huge increase in demand for ME oil. Getting a client state with such awesome untapped reserves as Iraq that can supportoil production policies the U.S. wants against OPEC is important. But getting rid of rivals for political domination of the region is what U.S. policy in the ME is first and foremost about. <br />He notes how the U.S. played something of a role in the coup against Hugo Chavez in April 2002 and how they refused the Taliban's offer to extradite Bin Laden to Pakistan. It has refused repeatedly since 1995 Sudan's offers of its files on Bin Laden and dismissed the Sudanese arrest of two people after the 1998 embassy bombings.The U.S. destroyed the factory producing the majority of Sudan's most needed medicines in August 1998, claiming falsely it was producing precursors to BCW. Who knows how many thousands have died as a result of that attack. The U.S. of course always supports violations of UN resolutions and does it a lot itself. For example it provided arms for Indonesia to slaughter East Timorese for twenty-four years. It has supports Morocco's looting of the Western Sahara. It supports Israel's severe violations of the fourth Geneva Convention. It has never paid the 17 billion dollars to Nicaragua ordered by the World Court in 1986, which told it to stop using the contras to terrorize that country. Shortly after it vetoed a UN resolution calling on all states to observe international law. <br />He starts off with some good stuff about the foreign policy of the neocons and how these maniacs argue that the U.S. should use mini-nukes against non-nuclear countries and that the affects of such mini-nukes can be contained. He points out the absurdity of even the \\"strongest evidence\\" advanced for the Bin Laden-Saddam intimate alliance. For example the supposed medical treatment received in Baghdad by the number two leader of the extremist Ansar Al Islam which operated in Kurdish-U.S. controlled Northern Iraq and whose leader was probably telling the truth when he denied any connection with Al Qaida. Then there was Colin Powell his slimy way at the UN claiming that a video,in which Bin Laden denounced Saddam as a socialist infidel but said he was in solidarity with the people of Iraq, was proof of an intimate Saddam-OBL connection.	2003-12-15
US	52306476	R80S1ZO8X6M80	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A good, honest novel	This is a novel about Miller's experience bumming around Paris in the early 1930's. A large part of the incidents related in it deal with his experiences with the people who let him stay with them and feed him. He was more often than not in desperate straits, and was often forced to sleep on the streets.<br />Perhaps the most appropriate expression for the situation of Miller and his friends would be \\"on the margins.\\" In that way the book sort of has a Dostoyevskyan flavor. Even if they are having some success they are never far from the margin. Most of these friends are expatriate American intellectuals who are going through spiritual crises or have gotten themselves in trouble by dissolute behavior.<br />Fornication is probably the main passion of Miller and his friends. The subject of fornication is brought up right from the novel's beginning. Females of the loose or disagreeable variety are not uncommonly refered to by that obscene word refering to the outer female genitals which begins with a C.  Miller describes two of the most memorable prostitutes that he patronized at the beginning of the book. Another incident is where he meets a blonde french gal at a nightclub. He wishes to have some copulation with her and she manages to get him to give her 120 francs by telling a melodramatic story about how she is taking care of her very sick mother. They go back to her place and peform coitus. He dosen't quite believe her story and while she is downstairs supposedly checking on her mother, he fetches her purse, grabs the 120 francs and runs off with them.<br />Miller is involved greatly in his friend's love lives. One incident that stands-out involves the rich lady Irene and his friend Carl. Irene wants Carl to run off with her to Borneo and Carl wants Miller to go with them. He offers Irene for Miller to use carnally. Then there is his friend Van Norden. One night they catch the eye of a prostitute and return to where Miller is living with Van Norden and Miller watches his friend operate on the hooker but Van Norden is unable to consumate the exercise despite great effort.<br />Then there is MIller's East Indian friends. The first one is a decayed merchant who has an injury to his arm or something and speaks often, using the f-word, of his sub-par abilities in carnal technic in contrast to another East Indian friend of theirs. There is the publicist for Gahndi who arrives in Paris urgently wishing to visit a brothel and Miller obliges, he being a connisseur of those institutions in the city.  While Miller is in the next room waiting for his own sesssion to begin, he apparently misunderstands a question from the publicist from the next room about where the bathroom is in the facility. He tells the fellow to use the bidet, a french word for a bathing implement designed to wash the genitals or something Well, this fellow ends up excreting in a....anyway, I really don't understand how the bidet was used in this situation.<br />Then there is the week-end trip to the coast city of La Havre. Miller hooks up with his friends Fillimore and Collins.Collins has just evaded trouble because he had fallen in love \\"with a boy.\\" Miller meets an ex-hooker named Marcelle and they \\"play with each other\\" under the dinner table at Jimmy's tavern. Jimmy's wife started to fall in love with Collins and she started this brawl on their last night in town with this Russian girl whom she saw as a rival for Collins's attentions. Then there is Fillimore...<br />There is plenty of non-sexual material in this book. The best part of the book is the portrayal of life in a Paris which is quite different from that of Fitzgerald, Hemmingway, Gertrude Stein, etc. It is a life of living in utterly filthy apartments of  living on the street, of hookers, of begging. I enjoyed Miller's portrayal of struggling in this life(as I enjoyed his rather brief sketch of similar living conditions of his in America).At one point he gets room and board from a Russian truck drivernamed Serge who offers this in return for Miller giving him English lessons. But he is unable to stand sleeping on a matress surrounded by awful smells, bedbugs, and rotten food. He abandons Serge after a short time.<br />Miller is at his best when he is telling a story. I did not enjoy his flights of unintelligible mystical mumb-jumbo that he inserts several times between the incidents. Such rhetoric immediately greets the reader at the beginning of the book...<br />In this book there is plenty of obscene material. The S-word is used wihtout reticence, as are the C-word, the B-word, the p-word and particularly the f-word. The N-word is used once by the narrator; I wasn't happy about that. In any case I liked the characters of this book, I related to many of them.ver named Serge who offers this in return for Miller giving him English lessons. But he is unable to stand sleeping on a matress surrounded by awful smells, bedbugs, and rotten food. He abandons Serge after a short time. <br />Miller is at his best when he is telling a story. I did not enjoy his flights of unintelligible mystical mumb-jumbo that he inserts several times between the incidents. Such rhetoric immediately greets the reader at the beginning of the book...<br />In this book there is plenty of obscene material. The S-word is used wihtout reticence, as are the C-word, the B-word, the p-word and particularly the f-word. The N-word is used once by the narrator; I wasn't happy about that. In any case I liked the characters of this book, I related to many of them.	2003-12-06
US	52306476	R3L4O5QQ4CA4KO	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Better than Stupid White Men	Mr. Moore starts of by detailing the indirect connections between the family of OBL and George W. Bush. The Bin Ladens were heavy investors in the Carlyle group, which finances weapons sales to Saudi Arabia, which that government uses to terrorize its people. Bush Sr. was seen laughing with Bin Laden's brother at a Carlyle meeting the day before 9-11. Saudi investments in this country, he notes, are crucial for keeping our economy afloat. The Carlyle group is stacked by mostly ex-Republican politicians such as Bush Sr. The law firm of James Baker, another Carlyle consultant, is representing the Saudi government in the lawsuit against it by the families of the 9-11 victims. The Bush administration blacked the sections on the Saudis and 9-11 in its report to Congress.<br />Bin Laden's family has officially disowned Osama,.yet he still has access to the family fortune and seems to be getting money from them. Six months before 9-11, a tape shows several members of OBL's immediate family at one of his son's wedding.  The big surprise in all of this is two-dozen Bin Laden family members were allowed to fly out of the country in the days after 9-11 when all flights were grounded. Similarly several family members were allowed to fly from Florida to Kentucky to join other family members looking at horses. No law enforcement detained them to question them about OBL and 9-11.  Moore  suggests that the appalling perfection of 9-11 couldn't have been executed by the ill Bin Laden in his cave. The hi-jackers might have been professionals from the Saudi military and were funded by the Bin Laden sympathizers in the Saudi royal family. <br />He has a section where talks about Unocal's efforts to get the Taliban to agree to build a pipeline across Afghanistan to transport Central Asian gas. Zhalmay Khalizad, the new UN ambassador to Hamid Karzai in Kabul, was then on the Unocal payroll on advocated doing business with the Taliban. Karzai is also a former Unocal employee. <br />He goes into a discussion of Iraq. He notes the 1994 report of the Senate banking committee, which detailed the massive aid given by U.S. corporations to Saddam to build his WMD arsenal with the approval of the Reagan-Bush Sr. regimes. He quotes former Reagan administration official Howard Teicher that Reagan told Saddam that the U.S. would give him whatever he needed to defeat Iran. He notes that the Reaganites wrecked a 1988 house sanctions bill against Iraq because it would interfere with U.S. business opportunities. He notes that the inspectors and the IAEA said that aluminum tubes being used by Iraq to make small rockets but Bush quoted them as saying that Iraq was trying to make centrifuges to make uranium. Then there were the supposed mobile labs. At one point Rumsfeld claimed to have found two of them after the fighting ended but they turned out to be facilities for making hydrogen for hot-air balloons.<BR> <BR>He notes that while Colin Powell was bamboozling at the UN with evidence such as documents constructed by Tony Blair's PR people from a graduate student's paper from 1991, British intelligence leaked to the BBC that there was no evidence of a Saddam-Bin Laden connection. They had tried to be friends at one point just before the first Gulf war but Saddam is a secularist and Bin Laden is an extreme fundamentalist and Bin Laden was upset by the invasion of Kuwait. Similarly with the other supposed Iraqi-Al Qaida link of Ansar Al Islam. That group called Saddam an enemy and was in Northern Iraq out of Saddam's jurisdiction. Nobody was able to find their supposed weapons factories.  <BR>He has a good section about the raging anti-French cretinism. He notes that Fox news kept showing Jacques Chriac meeting with Saddam back in the 70's but neglected to show Rumsfeld meeting with Saddam as Reagan's envoy in 1983., he coalition of the willing seemed largely to consist of the governments of such countries and not their people. Opposition to the war was around 70 percent in Australia, Japan and Italy. In Spain only 13 percent supported the war on condition that the UN oversaw it. In Turkey 94 percent opposed the war. In this country, many people believe that Saddam took part in 9-11. Half in a poll thought incorrectly that one or more of the 9-11 hijackers were Iraqi (most were Saudi). The Bushies had them so scared out of their wits that at one point during the war, a quarter in a poll thought that Saddam had already used WMD against our forces. <br />He notes how Americans were bamboozled into buying up their remaining savings in stocks to vastly over-inflate the economy. He talks about a bill in congress to limit pensions for blue-collar workers because poor working conditions will cause such workers to die sooner. He talks about companies who secretly buy life insurance policies in the name of their employees, then when the latter die, pocket all the money. Moore quotes a study that at one superfund toxic waste site there were disproportionately high rates of cancer, asthma, respiratory sicknesses, etc. The tax to fund a superfund to clean-up toxic waste was passed in 1980; it was not renewed in 1995. By 1999 taxpayers were splitting the costs of clean up with the superfund; back in 1994, the superfund covered 80 percent of it. <BR> <BR>He notes that according to the department of labor workers in unions make an average of $717 a week compared to $573 a week for those not in unions. Since the early 80's, the income of the richest one percent has gone up 157 percent; that of the Middle class only 10 percent. Since 1980 states have seen a 157 percent increase in money spent on prisons.; their spending on education has gone up only 32 percent. Half the people don't bother to vote. He shows how many Americans endorse \\"liberal\\" positions on many issues.	2003-11-18
US	52306476	ROWEOI8DSQV8Q	085255057X	547879634	Slave Women in Caribbean Society, 1650-1838	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Paints a vivid portrait of Carribean women slave life	This book is about the role of black women in resistance to slavery in the British Carribean. <br />The author writes that life in the British Carribean was particularly savage; planters were so busy driving their slaves to make a profit that they didn't have time to formulate any paternalist ideology as happened with slave-owners in the American South. Some of the examples of the evidence presented here is given below. <br />She notes a large outcry by planters in Trinidad in 1823 when the whipping of female slaves was banned. The planters argued that it was the only effective device for specifically keeping  female slaves in line. \\"One colonial office official stated that female slaves 'more frequently merited punishment than males.'\\"<br />She quotes accounts from several planters about the particular insolence of domestic female slaves. Such domestics were often in a worse position than fieldhands for they were under much closer scrutiny of masters and vulnerable to the latter's sexual lecheries and subsequent raging jealousies of the master's wife. Even with benevolent masters as lovers, the slave women would manipulate and steal from them. Such manipulation and stealing by all slaves was seen as evidence of being inherent traits among Africans by people too stupid to comprehend that the slaves might be asserting their own individuality and freedom by this act. <br />She quotes an account from testimony before the House of Commons in 1790 by one Henry Coor who reported that the owner of a Jamaican plantation where he stayed one night nailed the ear of a domestic slave to a tree post because she had broken a plate. The slave in  the morning was found to have wrenched her ear out of this imprisonment and when found was severely whipped. She quotes an account from a Dr. John Williamson who related the story of a slave giving birth after having been confined in the stocks and then dying of a fever. <br />She quotes accounts from estates owned by two London merchants, Thomas and William King. In one estate she quotes a punishment book that of the 34 slaves punished in the first six months of 1827, 21 were women. She quotes a number of accounts of individual insubordination on an estate of the Kings in what is now Guiana in South America. Even though a slave named Clarrissa had her punishment increased from 12 hours of solitary confinement to 60 hours chained in the stockade, her insubordination did not decrease, writes the author. <br />She quotes accounts from a liberal planter named Monk Lewis who reported a scene of insubordination at his place where female slaves affected a work slowdown. When an overseer demanded that the women do their duty, one of the latter ran at the former and tried to strangle him. Lewis is quoted on reports of white overseers kicking pregnant black women in their bellies and thereby damaging the child or the mother. <br />Slave-owners began to enact legislation for their own benefit to ameliorate the harsh treatment of black women, for with slave importation being banned, they were concerned about slave labor not destroying the fertility of women. They also were under pressure from abolitionists. Black women generally received solitary confinement or being chained up in the stocks as opposed to the whippings still delivered on black men. Though the whip on women was still being used. The author quotes an account from a  plantation in Grenada in 1823 of a female slave being whipped and again apparently another female being whipped ten years later for destroying sugar canes and \\"general neglect of duty.\\" She quotes an account from this time of female slave at the plantation of Mrs. Carrie Carmicheal who colored her tongue a different color each check-up to make it seem like she was ill but then her tongue was whipe cleaned to reveal that she had been faking illness to avoid work and she was thus flogged. <br />She gives accounts of slave women being involved in many rebellions. There is the Jamaican maroon leader Nanny in the 1730's and \\"Cubah,\\" leader of the slave revolt in Jamaica in 1760. She quotes an account from a rebellion in Surinam in 1730 where 8 of the 11 executed for it were women. Six of the females were \\"broken alive on the rack\\" and the other two, youngsters, were decapitated but they had such nerve in facing these atrocities that they \\"did not utter a sigh.\\" She quotes an account from a male slave under interrogation that the only major uprising on Barbados, which took place in 1816, was formented by a woman  She states that from contemporary accounts, women played a big role in the mob actions to protest poor working conditions in St. Kitts in 1834 druing the brief \\"apprenticeship.\\" She  \\"transition\\" to emancipation. There were two women in the group of sixteen sentenced for sedition and mutiny in this incident. She quotes an account from an English official during the great uprising of 20,000 slaves in Jamaica in 1831 that women were heavily involved as guides for rebels, as provocateurs to try to cause harm to British forces, and so on. <br />She gives accounts of how black women were feared because of their knowledge of Obeah herbal formulas that could poison whites and their leadership in African religious ceremonies which could be occasions for plotting rebellion. <br />She talks alot about the sexual mores of slave women. The planters propagated the notion that black women were inherently inclined towards promiscuity. Contemporary abolitionists agreed that slave women were promiscuous, only arguing that the degradation of slavery made them that way. She goes through an analysis of West African and slave sexual and marriage customs. Many African socities seem to have had a custom of \\"trial marriage\\" and divorce was relatively easy to obtain. In marooon communities, according to the author, young women were accorded something like \\"coming out\\" parties perhaps similar to those for aristocratic girls in Europe. The author quotes a Barbados parliament report to the House of Commons in 1789 that the black women there were very gentle and virtous. She quotes a Jamaican slave doctor who estimated that black men were no more promiscuous then men in England.....The author concludes that most slave families were monogamous, with strong retention of African extended family structures despite the threat of enforced separation through sales. Polygamy was rather minor and according to  accounts, the first wives in such relationships obtained almost equal status with the husbands. She quotes slave-owners accounts of the generous and happy relations among slaves. <br />She explores the evidence that the low fertility rate among slaves in the West Indies was due to black women killing their babies within nine days after birth or willing their own miscarriage.<br />The book gets exceedingly slow to read towards the end.....	2003-11-06
US	52306476	RAJ95PBK5O94Q	0896083721	200676509	Remaking Society: Pathways to a Green Future	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very good treatise of anarchist thought	The author looks back first to ancient tribal structures and finds a very egalitarian ethos in all aspects of life. The growth of hierarchies related to age, gender, wealth, etc, to a large extent eliminated that egalitarianism. These hierarchies seem to have began with age: old people could claim special powers for their accumulated wisdom and knowledge of tribal customs. Then war was made necessary to defend the attacks of aggressive neighboring communities: hence men with their specialties in military affairs gained dominance over women and their sphere. This need justified the centralization of power. Male chiefs who had functioned as generous community leaders and in whom any concentration of wealth or arrogance was an ultimate taboo, became despots. But many communities retained an egalitarian ethos and some communities even reverted to non-hierarchal forms of society after undergoing a despotic phase, such as the American Mound Builders and the Mayans. He notes that a good example of egalitarian indigenous values was on display when Hopi Indian children were attempted to be instructed in competitive sports by the whites sent to \\"civilize\\" them but they couldn't understand the concept of keeping score. <br />The bourgeoisie was significantly thought of as a marginal and anti-social element in every area of the world before capitalism emerged in Europe In the middle ages, markets were largely local, carefully regulated by guilds of craftsman. The nobles mainly sat on their on butts and took huge rents from their miserable serfs. It never occurred to them to horde poor people in factories and not uncommonly drive them to death to make goods and then make sick money from those goods whose wealth was created by their slaves. The marginal bourgeoisie class seems to have aspired to accumulate enough wealth to buy estates so they could live like the nobles.<br />The bourgeoisie became most powerful in England in the early Renaissance years. The nobility had largely destroyed itself trying to loot and ravage France during the War of the Roses. The new nobles were appointed from a lower class, the bourgeoisie and other middling sorts who had the instinct to relentlessly accumulate wealth and find new ways to exploit the inferior classes. With the growth of the bourgeoisie, the power of the state grew. There was serious resistance to the growth of state power by the nobles and rural communities, the latter who might have initially seen state power as buffer against abuses by the nobles but quickly discovered the bourgeois state was in many ways worse. He points to the interesting obviously flawed but still relatively egalitarian utopian visions of people like Thomas More.<br />The author has some interesting things to say about Marxism. That history goes through automatic stages is bunk. Marxism denies any root of spontaneity for organizing in communal egalitarian fashion. It can lead to the acceptance of plundering the earth's resources and exploitation of labor on the ground that such is \\"progressive\\" development. He gives the example of Marxist social democrat Reichstag members in Weimar Germany in the 20's,vetoing anti-monopoly legislation on the ground that blocking increasing concentration of wealth hindered the \\"progressive\\" development of capitalism. Marx for some reason did not take into account the ways capitalism would have of reforming itself to stave off its destruction such as the welfare state and regulatory agencies. <br />I would be amiss if I did not mention that the relationship between ecology and hierarchy is one of the prime themes of this book. It is not human nature which leads to environmental degradation but the domination of people by people (hierarchy). The hierarchy created by capitalist competion leads to the unhindered power to exploit earth's resources. <br />Well, what is the author's vision of a just society? He is all for technology. He can't stress enough how much he regards as dangerous those tendencies in the environmental movement who move into the forests and worship Goddesses and witches or other such crazy and silly things. His vision of society is rooted in the Greek ideal of citizenship. Yes, he writes, the Greeks had slaves and didn't treat ladies well, but compared to other socities in that era it was pretty progressive for that and much later periods of development of humanity. In Periclean Greece, governance was carried on by direct democracy. Property owning males were able to come to city-wide meetings and determine and vote on policies affecting them. He writes that this had some equivalent in the early town meeting forums in the early Puritan settlements in New England. It was seriously expected that the primary responsibility of a citizen was to take a day-to-day hand in governance, to be very knowledgeable about current affairs, and not to accumulate excessive wealth and to be generous in using their wealth. <br />Interestingly the author is against worker's control of workplaces. Such workplaces should be managed by city-wide assemblies made up all of all people. Workplaces managed directly by their workers or consumers such as in co-opsk, no much more benign than regular capitalist enterprises, still have to enter the destructive realm of competition. Directly democratic assemblies would have the interests of a sustainable environment, just allocation of resources at heart and other human needs, rather than the narrow interests of economic competition. Officials to run economic enterprises (as well as other necessary enterprises) would be appointed and closely monitored and easily recalled if need be. <br />This society is probably not going to happen within our lifetimes, the author stresses. People need to be educated about visions of society where people could freely develop their creative and intellectual potentials and not be hindered by wasting their energy creating products that only capitalists will gain the wealth from. <br />This is an excellent book though written in a prose style that to read is somewhat hard on the cerebrum...	2003-10-25
US	52306476	R1VBTF2UDKVAHE	1585422762	756890865	Weapons of Mass Deception: The Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Really first rate investigative scholarship	The authors write that if searched hard, one could find such reports on as in the LA Times from Greg Miller about reports from human rights groups and doctors about hundreds of casualties, killings and maiming of Iraqi civilians, from cluster bombs. The authors write that civilian defense crews, presumably from the U.S. , were cleaning up a thousand unexploded cluster bombs a day in Karbala alone. The International Committee for the Red Cross visited Al-Hilla south of Baghdad and described a \\"horror\\" with \\"dozens of smashed corpses.\\" Amnesty International reported that video from the Hilla hospital showed innumerable persons injured or dead from shrapnel from those bombs, with children cut in half with their limbs blown off. <br />The authors note that that year the senate passed a measure called the Prevention of Genocide Act that would have imposed sanctions on Iraq. Senators Al Gore, Clairborne Pell (democrats) and Jesse Helms sponsored it. The White House then helped kill the measure in the house...the authors note that there were several stories that came out in the mainstream press detailing U.S. provision for Saddam of materials to make WMD during the 1980's. In September 2002 the warrior and father figure Rumsfeld was the victim of some unusual sassiness while being interviewed by Pentagon correspondent Jamie McCintyre of CNN. Macintyre showed him video of he, Mr. Rumsfeld, shaking hands with Saddam back in December 1983 when he was a special emissary for Reagan. Rumsfeld did not have time to let forth with \\"Well, we thought Iran was the greater threat at the time...\\" and instead burst forth with \\"Where did you find this, Iraqi TV?\\" Rumsfeld claimed that he had \\"cautioned\\" Saddam about using chemical weapons. Not true. He only mentioned them to Tariq Aziz, the authors note in their endnotes, as part of a list of things that were preventing the U.S. from giving even more aid to Iraq. The U.S. had more \\"similarities than differences\\" with Iraq, he told Aziz. The authors write interestingly about Laurie Myorlie....... Well, back in 1987, she was providing quite a different argument than she is now for the state she serves and worships when that state had a different policy. She authored a piece for the New Republic with fellow commissar Daniel Pipes arguing that Iraq was a bulwark for the West in the Middle East and would stabilize oil flows  The U.S. would continue to support Saddam, after the Iran-Iraq war, giving him a billion in credits to buy U.S. products in late 1989. <br />The authors go over how the Bush administration terrorized Americans into endorsing their disgusting war. They quote from a prominent PR journal a Republican insider who allowed that it was quite nice that during the 2002 elections nobody was talking about corporate scandals or the economy. Andrew Card, white house chief of staff, was quoted in the New York Times as saying that one did not begin marketing campaigns in August. That was his excuse for the coincidence that the campaign for war with Iraq, was began in September 2002, when the congressional election races went into full swing. The Republicans won last November from the minority of voters that bothered to cast ballots, on the Iraq-Al Qaida bugaboo. The authors notes that by Spring 2002 the New York Times was reporting that the Iraqi embassy official in the Czech republic, involved with the used car business, actually met with a used car dealer from Germany that was not but looked like Mohammed Atta. Atta was in Florida or in some place at the time. Later in the year it was reported in the Times that Czech president Vaclav Havel visited the U.S. and quietly tried to put the story previously advanced by his officials about the supposed Atta meeting to rest.   But administration officials cynically kept leaking reports that the Czech story stood up and there was a lot that was classified and more info would be coming. Richard Perle, the Prince of Darkness, advanced the most fancy of thesis in September 2002 to an Italian business publication that Atta had met with Saddam himself and evidence of this would be forthcoming which, of course, it was not. The author's note some important other lies floated by the administration. Bush claimed that the International Atomic Agency had said that Iraq was very close to developing nuclear weapons; the actual report that the authors quote said that they had no such weapons and the infrastructure to make them had been completely dismantled. He claimed that the IAEA had stated in January 2003 that Iraq had high strength aluminum tubes used to enrich uranium for nukes; it had actually stated that such tubes were too weak to enrich uranium and were probably used for the conventional missiles Iraq was allowed. The authors quote Colin Powell's in his harangue to the UN as saying that there was a poison weapons factory in Khurmal in NE Iraq; Luke Harding went to see the supposed factory and found a bunch of dilapidated buildings. The townspeople expressed fear about the U.S. targeting them; during the bombing, they were hit and several dozen of them were killed. Bush quoted Hussein Kamal but didn't point out that as the John Barry article in Newsweek containing transcripts of Kamal showed, Kamal claimed that had destroyed all its weapons after the Gulf War. He quoted Khidir Hamza, but failed to note that in Kamal's words the latter is a \\"pathological liar.' <br />There's lots of other interesting things in this book. The authors discuss the manipulations of SUV advertising.  They discuss how the Donahue show was eliminated in spite of being the highest rated show on MSNBC; according to a memo leaked to AllyourTV.com the network feared that having a liberal anti-war show was not good business in the midst of jingoist wartime. They discuss in detail the famous incubator story and its roots in the PR firm Hill &amp;Knowlton and how it re-emerged in 2002 in the HBO movie \\"Live From Baghdad.\\" They discuss Saudi Arabia andthe Carlyle Group.	2003-09-30
US	52306476	R3FGJEC8S34KCL	014015096X	186412137	The Portable Karl Marx (Portable Library)	Books	4	39	43	N	N	good intro to Marx's thought	In addition to Marx's writings, this book consists of introductions to various sections of Marx's writings by Prof Kamenka, a chronology of events in Marx's life, letters and other documents by and about him and a glossary of Marxian terms. The writings can be tedious, windy full of run-on sentences, sometimes unreadable. I skipped some of them, including his speech \\"Value, price and profit,\\" which Kamenka claims was a good laymen's introduction to the ideas of \\"Capital,\\" but I gave it up after a few pages.  The first section of writings is from before 1844. In the tradition of the enlightenment, he discusses the concept of \\"alienation,\\" how human nature is based on the need to maximize one's creative potential.  Yet under capitalism, the worker is turned into a machine; the product he makes, or help makes under the division of labor, does not give him any value, but the wealth from it goes to his boss. The workers intellectual capabilities and self-esteem are stunted. Thus, a truly just society would give the worker the freedom to pursue his dreams, not having to worry about renting himself out to capitalists to survive.  Workers, those who actually produce wealth, would directly manage businesses (not state bureaucrats).<br />As we progress along the years with Marx, he begins to develop his redoubtable historical materialist conception of history. This is a \\"scientific\\" thesis that all societies pass through slavery, feudalism, and capitalism and then capitalism starts to break down because of its own \\"contradictions.\\" In unrestrained capitalism, capitalists try to maximize profit anyway they can. They build up excess capacity of factories and other facilities to try to compete but unfortunately in unregulated competition, all but a select few are destroyed. The petit bourgeoisie i.e. peasants and small business owners are also wiped out by big business. The capitalists in order to keep up their rate of profit, increase the hours  of their slaves and try to reduce their wages and getting out of doing anything for them to make their conditions better. The capitalist system will eventually collapse from all of this and the urban wage slaves, the proletariat will take over the means of production, eventually instituting democratic workers control over these means. As Prof. Kamenka notes later, it is rather vague if Marx conceived of various measures to forestall capitalism's, destabilization. ...<br />His writings from the Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte are certainly interesting, though his efforts to apply his theories to the situation in France somewhat take away from his analysis of the events. He conceives the France under Louis Philippe (1830-48) to be under the control one of section of the bourgeoisie, basically stock market swindlers. The rest of the proprietered classes revolted against this one faction in 1848. The ruling classes promised the proletariat radical democratic reforms to get their support for the overthrow but once they had consolidated their power, they massacred them into submission. The peasants were the majority of France at that time, and they, of course, valued stability above all else to maintain their meager property. The Bourgeois republic that was consolidated in 1848 could not provide the requisite stablity for capitalist operations, so up rose Louis Bonaparte, nephew of Napoleon to establish a dictatorship.<br />In his article,\\"The Indian revolt\\" from 1857 he breaks free from the vague theorizing and comes out with first rate journalism pure and simple. He reminds his readers that with all the hocus pocus of holy horror in England of the atrocities of the Indian sepoys , British troops were raping and burning down villages in China not that long ago. He quotes the proud numerous proud accounts from British soldiers of routine racist massacre and torture. Such as \\"not a day passes but we string up ten to fifteen of them(noncombatants)\\" and \\"every nigger we meet we either string up or shoot.\\"<br />Another first rate piece of journalism, is his inagural address to the international working of 1864. Again, no tedious theorizing but a straightforward report on the condition of the British working classes. This was in a period, he notes, which the Chancellor of the Excheqeur slobbered over as a period of unprecedented expansion of wealth for all Britons. He contrasts this with a quote from William Gladstone that this increase in wealth was actually exclusvely confined to the property-owning minority. He quotes extensively from house of lords reports that worry about the severe malnourishment among agricultural laborers and which also noteed that the worst conditions of these laborers was better than the average amongst urban laborers.<br />The best writing by far is his stuff on the Paris commune of 1871, after France's defeat by Bismark's Prussia. Prussia and the French elite combined to crush these communes. These communes were set up as local, regional and national bodies. However, the local communes had the predominant power. Each body selected delegates to the higher bodies. Each body had reprehensive from the working class paid at workingperson's wages. Any government official could be removed from power at anytime by a recall type action. This is clearly what Marx had in mind as a system to govern the \\"transition to communism,\\" instead of the dictatorship over the proletariat that was set up in the so-called \\"communist states\\" under his name.<br />The Critique of the Gotha program for 1875 consists of Marx attacking the German workers party somewhat pedantically but it consists of interesting comments. He denounces the party for its advocacy of state power to achieve its ends. He even denounces them for calling for government control of the schools.	2003-09-14
US	52306476	R2EBJHD4LYGX54	0060830328	517744417	Great Short Works of Stephen Crane (Perennial Classic)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Among the very best fiction I've read	These 11 stories run from a few pages to about 125 pages. Crane evokes a great deal of color describing his scenes with a relative economy of words. He uses irony alot in his writing but is never cruel. He objectively writes about people struggling in harsh environments against overpowering fates but shows compassion.<br />The first story and the longest is \\"The Red Badge of Courage.\\" Of all the stories, it may be best overall. The motivations of Henry Fleming and his fellow soldiers are really well drawn. They really don't want to be there, but feel they have to be heroes and at times they force themselves to be. But when the going gets tough in battle, many of them turn around and run. Crane portrays Henry as overhearing a general as saying to the effect that Henry's regiment was expeendable cannon fodder and this revelation very much grates on Henry's fellows. <br />The next story is \\"Maggie: A Girl of The Street.\\" The story seems to be set in the late 19th century in an Irish tenament slum in New York.  The account of the younger years of Maggie and her brother Jimmie ends with a scene of the two huddling in a corner of the flat as their parents lay sprawled out asleep on the floor, amidst broken furniture and dishes, after a drunken brawl with each other. It is such an environment like this that Maggie grows up. Jimmie grows up to be a truck driver and a brute. But Maggie is something of a flower amidst tenament squalor and catches the eye of Jimmie's friend Pete. Jimmy hears, from an old lady in his building who overheard a conversation between Pete and Maggie after one of their dates, that Maggie begged Pete to say that he loved her. Obviously this is a discrete intimation that Pete has taken Maggie's virginity. Well, this sets Johnnie and his barbaric mother into quite a rage and it goes downhill for Maggie there. <br />The biographical note at the back of the book, presumably written by the author of the fine introduction, James Colvert, says that Crane dosen't get into Maggie's mind. I think that's because she's extremely ignorant, with a mind numbed by a violent environment and lack of stimulation. The characters in this story engage in really thick Irish accents. I think the funniest dialogue is Pete's drunken conversation with his lady friends in the bar towards the end. Another comes from Jimmie and Maggie's mother Mary's lamentations to the effect that she didn't understand how Maggie could turn out so bad after being raised so well by her, Mary. I liked the description of the scenes in the cheap theaters where Pete takes Maggie.  I don't understand what the next to last chapter with \\"the girl\\" walking the streets is about. <br />Other stories include \\"The Monster,\\" an effective tragedy about a black servant named Henry Johnson of a white doctor in rural New England, who gets his face literally burned off and his brain damaged after trying to save the doctor's son in a fire. Both whites and blacks in the town are terribly afraid of Henry because his burned off face makes him look like a monster....After several incidents, after Henry escapes from his confinement at the house of a black family rage, the town turns against the doctor for keeping him in the community. One incident is him merely looking into the window of a birthday party and scaring out of her wits, one little girl. The little girl's father greatly exagerates the harm done to her and talks of having the doctor arrested. The other is when he appearts in the black neighborhood in the evening and stops by his old girlfriend Bella's house where her family is sitting on the front porch. Bella's fat old mother breaks her leg jumping over a fence at the sight of Henry. Bella herself is reduced to crawling in terror on the porch trying to escape as Henry in his amiable mental retardation babbles invitations to her to go to a dance with him. Henry moves into his old place above the farm of the doctor's house, making one of the neighbors move away. I thoughtthe scene was really superb where the doctor's son Jimmy and his friends are competing with each other to see who can approach \\"the monster\\" as he sits solitarily in the barn.<br />\\"An experiment in misery,\\" is  an 11 page account of a night and  next morning experience of two homeless men. \\"A mystery of heroism\\" a tale about a civil war soldier's attempt to get water in the middle of a field where bullets and shells are flying back and forth. \\"The Open Boat\\" is a very technically well done story of four men, survivors from shipwreck, trying to survive at sea in their dinghy. The dialogue is excellent. \\"The Pace of Youth\\" is very succinctly written, about two young employees of a small merry-go-round place, who are prevented from having any communication by the girl's father, the manager of the place. Their silent flirtation is quite believable and really engaging. What they do at the end is incredible, but well managed by Crane. It is a superb romance. In \\"The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky,\\" I like the initial scenes where the young, naive couple, the groom being the sherrif of Yellow Sky, Texas, are viewed sardonically by the black porter and other passangers.  \\"<br />The last story is \\"The Blue Hotel.\\" It begins with the owner of a hotel in a small Nebraska town managing, fatefully, to convince three passangers on the train that has stoped there, to stay the night at his hotel. The travellers are refered to as \\"the Easterner,\\" \\"the cowboy,\\" and \\"the Swede.\\" A major highlight is the fistfight between the owner's son Johnnie and the extremely demented Swede, officiated by the owner. Indeed Crane is very skilled at describing fights whether they be on civil war battlefields or in bars. The other fight in this story, is, of course, at its end but I won't tell about that.	2003-08-09
US	52306476	R6RW7BT8M6Q4Y	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	2	27	56	N	N	The least obnoxious argument for war that I've seen	Hitchens is surely is aware that the \\"generous\\" offers made to Palestinian leaders, including the current post-war \\"roadmap\\" have been for a \\"state\\" consisting of a couple of isolated cantons, like the Bantustans given to the blacks by apartheid South Africa. He does allow that though he loathes Arab suicide bombers, the number of victims of their terror is quite small compared to the number of victims accumulated by the Hon. Mr. Sharon. <br />He writes that U.S. support for Saddam in the 80's was \\"about oil\\" but the first Gulf war was launched on moral grounds. That's impossible. He avoids that 200,000 Iraqi civilians died initially because the U.S. destroyed vital civilian infrastructure like electrical plants to power sanitation and water facilities and hospitals. He merely states that smart bombs didn't work too well in that war. He avoids that as late as May 2002 the Bush administraion was blocking billions in dollars of contracts to repair vital infrastructure in Iraq at the UN sanctions committee. <BR> <BR>Saddam was being supported during far worse crimes of his than his invasion of Kuwait. At the same time the U.S. was giving weapons and training to the Indonesian military in its much worse occupation of East Timor and (continuing today) to Morroco to loot oil and brutalize the Western Sahara. Apartheid South Africa secured a free port in Namibia with U.S. help in return for its withdraw from its decades of murderous occupation there. The United States was engineering the slaughter throughout the 80's and beyond the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of people in Central America. In 1986, the World court called on the U.S. to stop its \\"unlawful use of force\\" against Nicaragua and the U.S. responded by having its terrorist contras accelerate their attacks on farms and hospitals until the Nicaraguan people were terrorized into voting the Sandanistas out. Currently the United States is negotiating with Colombian right wing death squads who are heavily involvedin the drug trade and whom are on its official terrorist list. The death sqauds are indirectly funded by the U.S. through the Colombian military which has combined with the death squads to commit a significant majority of the atrocities in th at country.. The U.S. has been spraying chemicals all over the place in Colombia on the pretext of destroying drugs but is destroying most other crops and livestock and making peasants deathly sick and driving them off the land. It is giving military equipment to Indonesia to commit terrible atrocities in Aceh. It is supporting the ethnic cleansing of the Kurds in Turkey....Hitchens admits this latter but is quite sure that a few non-discrimination laws passed by Turkish politicians in order to placate the European Union will make things better. He points out that Turkey could not have maintained its occupation and ethnic cleansing in Cyprus since 1974 without U.S. military aid. He solemnly calls on the U.S. to withdraw this aid as if he really thinks they will do so. Paul Wolfowits has had a role in all of these atrocities, past and present, so why does Mr. Hitchens twice quote him so glowingly in this book about the menace of Saddam? <br />In a chapter which centers on the Bali bombing of Indonesia, he conccots a straw argument to the effect that leftists say we should not \\"upset Al Qaida.\\" No,leftists say that we should stop supporting dictatorships and killing Iraqis and so on for Al Qaida exploits these issues very heavily, which Hitchens seems to deny, and it helps grudging tolerance from ordinary people in the region. <br />He describes a visit to Safwan in Southern Iraq with a Red Crescent convoy after \\"liberation.\\" He found some friendly children, some of whom tried pick pocketing the foreign photographers, but several adults expressed undying devotion to Saddam.One man claimed to Hitchens that British soldiers had recently gunned down a couple of children with m-16's. Hitchens immediately sensed the story was fishy for the British don't use m-16's and the man was evasive as to the deeper details of the story. The man \\"was certainly a liar\\" as well as \\"a mean and low one.' Hitchen's \\"companion and interpreter,\\" \\"a vast bear shaped Palestinian whom I shall call Omar\\" led him away from the mob. \\"Come along Mr. Christopher,\\" he said , \\"These people are all liars.\\" Hitchens allows that the situation was probably more complex than that. <br />He argues that Saddam will fall inevitably with or without U.S. military intervention and U.S. troops need to be there to minimise the inevitable post-regime chaos.Well, many U.S. backed dictators, many Saddam clones-Jean Claude Duvalier, Mobutu, Suharto, Marcos, Mobutu, Ceacescu-were overthrown by their people without U.S. aid. The U.S. did not bomb water and sanitation facilities, and soak civilian cetners with depleted uranium in those countries to cause vast oubreaks of cancer and epidemics. He admits that the sanctions greatly weakened the Iraqi people and strengthened Saddam.<br />Like every other tender hearted viewer of 'embedded' media coverage, Hitchens writes that he was quite overcome by the cheering throngs, greeting the U.S. as Saddam's statue was torn down in Baghdad. The number in that throng was only about several dozen; the rest of the town was looting as our boys and girls gallantly guarded the oil ministry building. Hitchens admits that he was quite \\"numb\\" when he saw the destruction of some ancient artifacts from the looting.<br />U.S. corporations are coming in and buying up Iraqi public industries at cheap prices while U.S. corporations are preparing to flood into the country and overpower and destroy indiginous industry. Hitchens avoids these factors and instead goes into a discourse about how only American companies can properly reconstruct the country. Though of course, no effort is being made to restore civilian infrastrucure, except for sleazy photo ops like Tony Blair in Basra. In any case, The Iraq Body count groupsuggests that as many as ten thousand civilians may have been directly killed by U.S. bombs. <br />Hitchens manages to avoid a lot of salient arguments about the WMD situation....	2003-07-28
US	52306476	R2XVL26OZH85JJ	0062508113	135418128	The World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom Traditions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good intro	The author's first chapter is on Hinduism. Hindus believe that everybody has their inner Arhat or godly soul and one must work throughout one's life to strip away the selfishness and vanity that covers one's soul. He quotes the 19th century Hindu philospher Ramakrishna's statement that Hinduism is just one of many faiths in the world that are all equal in that they are different ways to worship god. He does a little exploration into the caste system and in his endnotes quotes a few authorities including Sri Krishna, that there is caste system does not exist among true believers of god. In an appendix to this chapter he has a section on Sikhism. This is the religion founed in 1500 in India, apparently with the goal of reconciling the Hindu and Muslim faiths. In tune with Islam, it rejects the Hindu use of symbols for worshipping god and the absolute authority of the vedas. It has its own scriptures. It has a \\"Khalsa\\" or pure order whose members abstain from meat, alcohol and tobacco and grow their hair long and put it in a turban, wear a bracelet to symbolize their being shackled to God and wear underpants to symbolize always being ready. In keeping with Hinduism, it teaches that there is a formless god that it is within all of us. <br />The next chapter is on Buddhism. He writes that Zen Buddhism is based on a special interpretation of the Flower sermon delivered by the original Buddha (Sidartha Gautama). The insights flowing from this sermon were carried by twenty eight patriarchs and transmitted to China in the sixth century AD and to Japan in the twelfth century. It tries to avoid verbal expression as much as possible, words being too permanent for things that are beyond descriptions; nothing in life is permanent to put labels or descriptions to them. If a disciple asks a senior monk about say, what is the exact nature of nirvana, he is slapped without a word. The disciple should be weaned off reliance on words. <br />He discusses Confucicius who was lived in thesixth and fifth century B.C. By that time China's golden age where armies of aristocrats fought each other and sent each other food and greetings had long past and wars were conducted with massive barbarity. Confucious wanted to get back to the traditions of the Golden Age. He was only a tutor who lived very modestly and only had one brief official appointment to an unimportant post. Government officials feared him. He elaborated concepts of viture where men would cultivate the virtuous, humble life. Wives would subordinate themselves to husbands, little brothers to big brothers, poor to rich, subject to ruler and so on. There is a problem with this rigid hierarchy in that it can lead to abuse of power, even though confucius set strictures against it. <br />He gives a good account of Islam. He quotes passages from the Koran which call for the toleration of different ways of worshipping god i.e. Christianity and Judaism and that there should be no compulsion in religion. \\"Jihad\\" is means a spiritual struggle to purify oneself and secondly, a war of defense against aggressors. He notes that in his charter for the city of Medina, Mohammed specifically gauranteed religous freedom for Jews and then Christians, even inviting Christians at one point to pray in the city mosque. Women on the Arabian peninsula were substantially liberated by Islam for before Mohammed's rule women were regarded as nothing more than chattel. Islam is also not quite as harsh as people make it, he writes. There are 192 references to God as compassionate and merciful and only 17 refering to his vengence. It calls for stoning for adultery but allows for many loopholes to get out of it and flogging for various crimes can be done with a sandal or the hem of a piece of clothing. Islam was the first tradition to grant women the right to inherit property; it calls for women to give their free consent to marriage and allows them to initiate divorce proceedings. In the Koran it is advised that men advisetheir women only to cover themselves in foreign lands so that they will not be harrassed. Under the Islamic empire of the Middle Ages in the Middle East, Christians and Jews had unlimited worship and generally were treated well during the worst rulers and attained to positions of influence. <br />He also has chapters on Judaism, Christianity, Taoism and the primal religions. I enjoyed the one on Taoism, which seems to be the most reasonable of all these faiths. Similarly with the primal religions. I suppose to enjoy this book completely one has to be in tune with the spiritual passions of the author. To agnostics, of which I'm one, it might seem a little long winded, with too many metaphors and advanced philisophical discourse and not enough succinctness. They might wish that the author would get to his points a little faster. I suppose persons who share his beliefs might feel this way too. This books IS NOT A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF RELIGIONS, merely the author's presentation of the basic practices and best spiritual goods of the world's religions. He spends little time dwelling on the bad side of the religions.	2003-07-05
US	52306476	R1TF7N3Z0S4I10	0742526992	307170852	Middle East Illusions: Including Peace in the Middle East? Reflections on Justice and Nationhood	Books	5	55	64	N	N	A great new offering from Chomsky	Chapters 1-5 and the bulk of the final chapters of 6-9 are about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The first five are based on Chomsky's 1974 treatise \\"Peace In the Middle East.\\" In Chapter one based on a harangue delivered at MITin 1969 attacks the concept of \\"retaliation\\" as contributing to security.He goes over the tribalalistic policy of \\"retaliation\\" launched by the Irgun and how their atrocities contributed to the escalation of violence. Of course, the mainstream Yishuv and its army, the Hagannah committed alot of atrocities too. I know Chomsky recognizes this and would probably today not repeat the rather kindly view of the Labor zionists and their intentions that he takes in Chapter one.<br />Israel is a state where non-Jews cannot own 92 percent of the land within pre-1967 Israel. Israeli Arabs lack the great resources in education, employment, housing, land that accords to Israeli Jews because of their exclusion from military service. He gives the example of the Druze Israeli army vetran who was not allowed to open a business in the Jewish town of Karmiel which had been expropropriated from Israeli Arabs on the grounds that it would be a military base but then it was converted into a Jewish settlement. He writes that Uri Davis, the Israeli activist was sentenced to 5 months in prison for entering this settlement without a permit. He goes over some early Israeli \\"fact-building\\" in the territories. He quotes John Cooley of the Christian Science monitor on the expropriation of thousands of acres of Palestinian land in Gaza. He quotes a report that most of the village of Aqraba on the West Bank was defoliated and its land handed over to a nearby Jewish settlement. He quotes a report of the mayor of the village of Kafr Kassem visiting the Knesset to protest the expropriation of most his village's land. This was the village of course where 47 Israeli Arabs were massacred in October 1956 as they came back from their fields for violating a curfew which had been announced an hour before. <br />Now on to the discussion of the conflict in Chapters 6-9. Israel refused Sadat's offer for a separate peace in February 1971 on terms indistinguishable from the Camp David Agreement of 1979 because as Chomsky quotes General Haim Bar Lev, Israel thought it could hold out for more. The near apopalyctic outcome of October 1973, convinced Israel and its U.S. patron that Egypt had to be removed from the conflict. But Israel continued to convert the occupied territory into an exclusivist Jewish utopia while the Israeli economy enjoyed the stimulus from increased military production and the captive export market in the territories. Israel began deliberately bombing Lebanese civillians and Palestinian refugees, often without any provocation of PLO shelling, in Lebanon in the 1970's for as former foreign minister Abba Eban explained there was a \\"rational prospect\\" that after being bombed these civilians would pressure the Lebanese government and PLO to come to Israel's terms. The Begin/Sharon invasion of Lebanon in 1982 initially killed close to 20,000 people and thousands more were killed in such operations as Shimon Peres's 1985 \\"Iron Fist\\" campaign against what the Israeli commander called \\"terrorist villagers\\" daring to resist the occupation of their country. <br />The arrangements of the peace process, he quotes Ehud Barak's last foreign minister Shlomo Ben Ami in a 1998 book in Hebrew, was that of a \\"permanent neocolonial dependency.\\" He quotes from the Israeli business press, Israeli business jubilation about setting up factories in the territories so miserable Palestinians can be exploited without Israeli elites having to deal with the demands for decent conditions by unionized Israeli workers. They have thus been dissapointed by the necessity of the Israeli state to institute \\"closures,\\" the economic and social strangulation of Palestinians that began in March 1993, long before Hamas suicide bombings, but that's what has to be done to make Palestinians accept Israeli-imposed arrangements. <br />Israel increased settlebuilding in the West Bank by 50 percent during Rabin's last government, Yossi Beilin bragged on Israeli tv in 1997. They did alot of what Netanyahu was being denounced for but, Beilin said, \\"quietly and with wisdom\\" without the crude rhetoric and tactics of the Likud which causes such PR problems. The Har Homa plan, he notes, was released by the Labor government in February 1996 and planned to go forth exactly in the manner a year later as Netanyahu did. He quotes Michael Kleiner, head of the far right Land of Israel party as pointing out as Netanyahu's government announced its implementation of the E-1 program, that Benyamin Ben Eliezer when he was head of the Labor government's housing ministry had started it with Rabin's approval. The E-1 program is the building of Jewish settlements and bypass roads in the Central West Bank that connect with Jewish settlements in Jerusalem and metropolitan areas within Israel. It cuts the West Bank in two and blocks Palestinian access to their cultural center in East Jerusalem. <BR>E-1 is something that is visible, Chomsky writes, if one actually looks at a map of Ehud Barak's supposedly ultra-generous offer of July 2000. The Palestinian \\"state\\" envisioned in that plan groups the Palestinians into several cantons that are isolated from one another: in the north (centered in Nablus), in the Center (centered in Ramalla), in the South (centered in Bethleham), with the city of Jericho isolated by itself in the East. In Gaza Israel would retain the Southern coast and in the middle the settlement of Netzarim, the latter being an excuse to retain all sorts of jew-only roads that cut up the strip and to retain a military presence there. <br /> He notes that Israel bombed Lebanon in December 1975 and killed 50 plus Lebanese villagers in retaliation for a UN resolution calling for a Palestinian state and recognition of Israel which the U.S. would veto in January 1976 but which had the support of the Arab states and the PLO. The PLO even wrote that resolution claimed Haim Herzog as he warned they did the 1981 Fahd plan (indistinguishable from the March 2002 Abdullah plan Chomsky notes)which Israel rejected.<BR>Israel he writes is useful to the U.S as a gendarme in the region that protects the status quo, against any threats to the U.S. backed oil producing dictatorships in the region.	2003-05-18
US	52306476	R1EP3FMC4AW94S	0745317766	505843580	Palestinian Refugees: The Right of Return (Pluto Middle Eastern Studies,)	Books	5	22	36	N	N	The Palestinian case	Nur Masalha in chapter 2 writes that Plan D was implemented in early 1948, officially implying the clearing and expulsion of Palestinian villages and villagers. Maslah goes through some of the 100 or so massacres by the Hagannah. For example he quotes the account of soldiers in Moshe Dayan's batallion about the massacre of 80-100 people at Al-Dawayma in October 1948. Safsaf, Oct. 1948, several dozen men dumped in a well and shot; hundreds massacre by Palmach, elite strike force of Hagannah, then hundreds more in forced march of inhabitants to Arab army lines; 70 Arab detainees massacred May 1948 at Ayn Zaytun.  Hula, October 1948, Shmuel Lahis murdered perhaps up to 80 villagers he was gaurding in this Lebanese village (Masalha does not mention that Lahis later became secretary general of the Jewish agency and was amnestied after recieving a seven year prison sentence for this crime and was given a liscence to practice law by the Israeli legal council on the ground the his act carried no stigma). Masalha writes this to show that massacres were a big part of the policy of the mainstream Hagannah; not simply those of the \\"dissident\\" Irgun and Stern Gang. Masalha continues with a discussion of the explusion of thousands of Azame tribesmen from 1949 to 1956. He notes that Northern commander Yitzhak Rabin, which like his role in the Lydda and Ramle expulsion of 1948 as Palmach commander, he recounted in his memoirs his using the cover of the Suez war in October 1956 to expel thousands of Israeli Arabs in Northern Israel to Syria. It happened one day after the Kafr Qassem massacre. <br />Wadie Said discusses the abysmal treatment of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon, where they have little chance of employment or getting the social services given to other Lebanese. They must even build their houses in their camps in ramshackle manner so as not to make them permanent. The reason given  is that the government insists that the they don't want to give up the Palestinian right of return to their homes in Palestine by integrating them into their society but they are more likely actually concerned about tipping the precarious confessional balance in favor of Sunni Muslims. Said gives an instructive incident from September 1995, when Gadaffi expelled all Palestinian workers from Libya as a way of protesting the peace process but the Lebanese government insisted those coming from Lebanon couldn't return but had to reapply for a passport even though Lebanese law said they didn't need to. <br />Noam Chomsky that the U.S.  supported Israel's rejection of Sadat's offer to recognize Israel in return for the Sinai in February 1971. When the Arab states and the PLO supported a resolution in January 1976 calling for adding a Palestinian state to resolution 242, promising to let Israel live in peace and security, the U.S. vetoed it but a month before Israel had engaged in a \\"preventive\\" bombing of Beirut, killing 57 civillians in Beirut to let the security council know what it thought while it was deliberating. <br />Salman Abu Sitta presents his scheme for possibly resettling refugees within Pre-1967 Israel. He reasons that there is alot of land available seeing as how only 14 percent of Israeli Jews live on 78 percent of the land. The refugees for instance could fit right in to their former homes in the Galilee which is already majority Arab anyway. In the Negev there is lots of space. Most of the Kibbutzim, which are mostly bankrupt in the area could easily be replaced by Arab farmers. However Israeli policy as crafted by Sharon and Rafi Eitan as ministers in Netanyahu's government in the late 90's has been to sell off the Kibbutz land i.e. former Palestinian land at exhorbitant prices to be shared with the former Kibbutzers to developers who will build houses for Jewish immigrants. <br />Jan Abu Shakrah gives a fascinating overview of the situation of the Arab Jews that came to Israel following that country's creation. In Iraq, she writes, there was no official discrimination but many Jews faced employment discrimination and were subjected to propaganda urging them to immigrate by Israel. In 1951, to try to stop the drain on the economy caused by the flight of Iraqi Jews, the government froze all assets of those leaving, giving them two months to return, with the exception of the elderly and students. The Jewish elite of Iraq, about 5,000 stayed on probably until the nationalist upheavals and the rise of Ba'athism and continued to exercise influence, administiring the \\"abandoned\\" Jewish property. In 1950 and 51, the Mossad launched a terrorist campaign in Iraq to try to make Iraqi Jews leave. Called Operation \\"Ali Baba\\" it was written about by one of its participants, an Iraqi Jew named Naeim Giladi who established a panel to seek reparations for abandoned Jewish property, holding Israeli officials and the Iraqi officials that they colluded with and bribed accountable, along with the Western governments. She notes that it is curious that no pother is made about Jewish property in Yemen. The airlift of Jews out of there was apparently made with the agreement of that government. She also interestingly says that the Allon affair or \\"the mishap\\" as Israelis like to call it where Israel sent agents to bomb American and British cultural centers in Egypt in the Summer of 1954. with the apparent attempt to disrupt relations between Egypt and the West but Abu Shakrah claims also that it was designed to terrorize Egyptian Jews into coming to Israel.	2003-04-15
US	52306476	R28F3H45DSRNWG	0393321126	702934503	The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	12	21	N	N	A good history by a serious moderate historian	Shlaim writes that a main reason for the Arab states invading Palestine in May 1948 was to undermine the abmitions of King Abdullah, who had agreed to partition Palestine with the Zionists in November 1947. He writes that Israel avoided peace offers from Syria and Jordan in 1948-49. <br />He writes that Israel committed many atrocities while making searches in Israeli Arab villages for Palestinian \\"infiltrators.\\" Most of these infiltrators, he writes, had come back for social or economic reasons to the land from which they had been cleansed in 1948 and between 1949 and 1956, Israel managed to kill between 2700 and 5000 of these persons, the vast majority of them unarmed. Israel insisted on the view that the Arab states were deliberately sponsoring the infilitration, when Israeli officials he quotes like deputy intelligence chief Yehoshafat Harkabi were aware that Jordan was trying to restrain the infiltration as best they could. He quotes defense minister Pinhas Lavon that Israel was deliberately sending military units into Jordan and committing atrocities but claiming to be responding to some fraudulent atrocity against Israel. Israel tried to disrupt relations between the West and Nasser's Egypt in the summer of 1954 by sending agents to bomb British and American installations in Egypt in what came to be known as the Lavon affair or \\"the mishap\\" as Israelis like to euphemistically call it. Likewise Israel hijacked a Syrian civillian airliner in December 1954, claiming that five Israelis had been kidnapped, but he notes that Sharett, whose diary he quotes alot, eventually went public that the five had actually infiltrated into Syria to take care of a wiretap on a telephone line. <br />The February 28 1955 Israeli raid on Gaza, Shlaim writes, destroyed the secret talks between Egyptians and Israeli envoys. After this Nasser began actively supporting fedayeen terror against Israel. The border between the two had been quiet in the previous months except for the killing of a cyclist and Sharett expressed irritation in his diary that Ben Gurion felt the need to make up a story that the raid had resulted from an Egyptian military unit invading Israel. In the run-up to the Suez war, he writes, Israeli plans for territorial expansion reached their heights. He quotes Sharett's diary on plans in 1954 for annexing Southern Lebanon up to the Litani river and installing a friendly Christian regime in Beirut, and destabilizing the Hashemite regime in Jordan and handing control over it to Iraq. They discussed taking the Sinai and exploiting oil deposits there with the French. Egypt had no right to it Ben Gurion wrote in his diary, because it was attached to it by Britain in the late 19th century, taken from the Turks. Ben Gurion read a few books that asserted, based on interpretation of the Byzantine writer Procopius, that an ancient Jewish kingdom had existed on the islands of Tiran and Sanafir in the Gulf of Aqaba and became convinced that Israel had a right to control the Straits of Tiran. <br />He calls the 1967 war a pre-emptive attack of self-defense on Israel's part. But he also writes that it was basically rooted in the Israeli-Syrian feuding over the Demilitarized zones from the 1949' armistice. He quotes a conversation with journalist Rami Tal that Moshe Dayan had in the mid-70's that was published in 1997 where Dayan estimated that at least 80 percent of the incidents since 1949 between Syria and Israel in the DMz's were provoked by Israel. He dismisses Dayan's suggestion that the Israeli settlers near the Golan Heights were only concerned about grabbing that territory for themselves instead of genuinely being about protection from Syrian shelling. He writes that they only mentioned security and nothing about land in their meetings with government officials. <br />The 1973 war, he shows, was significantly caused by Israel's settlement building in the Sinai as well as its rejection of Sadat's February 1971 for recognizing Israel in return for the Sinai and proposals for demilitarizing the Sinai.  <br />On Lebanon, he calls the Qana massacre an error on Israel's part. He does give an interesting account of what Sharon hoped to achieve by the war, namely the destablization of King Hussein and the \\"transfer\\" of Palestinians to the East Bank of the Jordan. <br />On the peace process, he was highly optomistic about it though he admits that Labor governments as well as those of Likud were the cause of injustices to Palestinians:increased settlement building, the encirclement of Jerusalem by Israeli settlement blocks, cutting off the West Bank from East Jeruasalem, the continued application of Israeli military ordnances instead of the fourth Geneva conventions, the continued lack of security of Palestinians from abuses by Israeli soldiers and settlers. I don't think he is quite right when he says that Har Homa was suspended by the Rabin-Peres government: it was actually approved to go forward in February 1996 and be implemented at the same time and manner as Netanyahu did. <br />In his intro to the paperback edition dated September 2000 he does not get too much into the unpleasant specifics of the July 2000 proposal for a Palestinian state such as Israel's control over water and the by-pass roads. He just says that the \\"state\\" offered would be \\"weak, demilitarized and territorially divided.\\"	2003-04-03
US	52306476	R3PO65L59OB6HJ	0896086976	868154879	Iraq Under Siege, Updated Edition: The Deadly Impact of Sanctions and War	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Read this for comfort in these viscious times	People going out of their minds from the pathological jingoism and pentagon produced santizied media coverage should read this book. Reading the essays by people like Kathy Kelly , a real hero, of Voices in the Wilderness, an utterly wonderful organization, is somewhat soothing. And to read about the depleted uranium that our troops are being exposed to....<br />Anthony arnove quotes a Washington post article from June 2000 that the little notice \\"No-fly zone\\" bombings were regularly killing civilians.. During the Gulf war, our \\"smart bombs\\" hit water treatment facilities, electrical plants, and other such vital civilian infrastructure leading to the indirect murder of tens of thousand of Iraqis. Under \\"dual use\\" bans imposed by the U.S. Iraq has not been able to import vital medicines, spare parts and chemicals like chlorine for water treatment, fertilizers to fight agricultural plagues. So Iraqis drink water filled with sewage and die hideous deaths in hospitals which don't have equipment or medicine. And it is noted that John Negroponte our ambassador to the UN did not mention that at the time of the passage of resolution 1409 in May 2002, the U.S. was blocking on the UN sanctions committee over 5 billion in Iraqi requests for vital civilian supplies. They have not been able to repair transportation systems to transport food or repair warehouses or get air-conditioned trucks to transport goods in the heat.<br />Noam Chomsky points out how the Republicans in the 80's were authorising the shipments to Saddam of materials to build his WMD arsenal. And plenty of credits to buy agricultural produce: in december 1989 Bush Sr. announced a major increase. Iraq needed to import food because Saddam had ruined Iraq's northern breadbasket in the 80's. Bob Dole and other senators came to soothe him in the Kurdish city of Mosul in April 1990 about a few scattered negative reports in the American press about him. He points out that the U.S. helped Saddam crush the post-gulf warrebellions; Schwartzkopf allowed Iraqi aircraft to fly over U.S. lines to crush it. The U.S. preferred Saddam Hussein to stay in power and then maybe some pro-U.S. \\"iron fisted junta\\" as Chomsky quotes the New York Time's Thomas Friedman, could take his place and hold Iraq together as well as Saddam did back in the 80's to the approval Turkey, the Saudis and the U.S. <br />Dr. Peter Pellet points out that the Kurdish North benefited during the sanctions era because it is the breadbasket of Iraq and it received more than 50 percent per capita oil for food aid than the Saddam controlled part of the country. NGO's also gave a lot more aid to it. <br />Sharon Smith points out that this is a prime time for anti-war organizing. What with the obvious links of the Bush administration to the corporate knavery of the 90's and their accelleration of the attack on worker's rights. With regard to the latter she notes the Longshoreman were threatened and finally forced back to work by the invocation of Taft-Hartley in Oct. 2002. She points out that much of the promised food aid to starving Afghans has not materialized and the Northern Alliance judges have ruled that women running away from their husbands will only be jailed, not killed as under the Taliban. She points to some success in organizing: I like her reference to the disruption of the staged \\"town meeting\\" conducted by Clinton officials in February 1998 where that ruthless killer Miss Albright was flustered by a question about U.S. funding of Indonesia's occupation and genocide in East Timor. <br />Barbara Nimri Aziz has an really moving and profound essay about this intellectual couple in Baghdad who were full of life in spite of being deprived of books and periodicals by the sanctions. The husband dropped dead of a heart attack, part of the enormous rise in heart problems caused by the deprivation of the sanctions. Iraqis before 1990, in spite of the Ba'ath regime had produced a vigorous society that was in many waysclose to the first world. The U.S. dosen't like third world people who do well. The bombing and sanctions have crushed ordinary Iraqis as many people have suddenly discovered(while their leaders whom Americans were suddenly told to hate after 8/02/90 have prospered quite well). <br />Dennis Halliday argues that the part of UN resolution 687 should be implented which calls for removing all WMD from the Middle East. He callslifting the sanctions from Iraq, once it fully complies with inspections and dropping the threat to overthrow the regime even if it does comply. It involves lifting the sanctions to empower the Iraqi people to overthrow Saddam. Not realistic anymore obviously but a good plan. It is noted in the endnotes to Halliday's and Phyllis Bennis's interview with David Barsamian that the U.S. is the biggest arms trader in the Middle east, selling at least a billion dollars worth to governments like Saudi Arabia, Israel and Turkey.	2003-03-28
US	52306476	R2AWG56NQKJLLW	1583225919	214933799	Against War with Iraq: An Anti-War Primer	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Good summary of why this war is aggression	Written before the current jihad began, but no less useful, this book outlines why the U.S. has no authority to unilalaterally bomb a sovereign country. Resolution 1441 stated merely a listed of extremely heavy conditions for Iraq to comply or else it would be declared in \\"material breach.\\" It called for the convening of the security council to hear the inspector's report. There was nothing explicitly granting the United states to bomb if Iraq was declared in \\"material breach.\\" Article 51 of the UN charter declares that no state can act militarily against another without security council approval or if they country is under immediate and sustained attack. The UN charter does not endorse the doctrine now explicity endorsed by the extreme reactionaries currently at the helm of power in Washington that the U.S. has the right to \\"pre-emptively\\" attack any country it feels to be threatened by, even if that threat is not imminent. <br />They note that the U.S. has obtained security council votes in an extremely compromsing way. E.G. cutting off aid to Yemen after it voted against a U.S. draft resolution back in 1990. They note that congressman Henry Gonzales drafted a bill of impeachment against Bush Sr. for the many \\"bribes and threats\\" used to get UN approval. In current times, it seems some backroom deals have been made with the French and the Russians to secure their existing oil contracts with Saddam post-war which is what the latter are really concerned about. American oil companies will probably have first pick of the oil resources. The Americans will install a pro-American government that will do America's bidding in the oil  rivalries with OPEC, they write.<br />And indeed the authors point out that Iraq is not an imminent threat, that U.S. intelligence deny this. They note that Richard Butler reported to the security council in January 1999 that the inspection process had made Saddam \\"substantially disarm.\\" They quote the conservative anaylst Anthony Cordesman that it is likely that stocks of biological and chemical weapons retained by Iraq after the gulf war have lost their viability. They quote Scott Ritter that the 800 or so mustard gas shells that Iraq is reportedly to have, does not represent any sort of option for them on the battlefield. Nor do the dozen or so blastic missles. And they do not have the technology to produce any significant amount of VX nerve gas, and the equipment they did have was found and destroyed by the inspectors in 96' and found never to have been used. They note that the International Atomic energy agency certified in October 1997 that Iraq was in \\"full, final and complete\\" compliance with its nuclear weapons program. They note in an endnote that the evidence about Iraq trying to gain enriched uranium from Africa is very tenuous, it simply does not have the infrastructure (this book was published before it came out from the IAEA that U.S. documents purporting to show Iraq's aquisition of uranuim from Niger were forgeries). <br />They point out, of course, Saddam's regime is unbelievabably bestial but that did not bother United States and its British lietenant when he was \\"gassing his own people\\" back in the 80's. They gave him substantial support to build up his arsenal of WMD. The link to Bin Laden is unlikely for the supposed meeting in the Czech republic seemed not to have taken place and Saddam would not want to give weapons to independent-minded fundamentalists who have a goal of overthrowing his secular dictatorship.<br />Most importantly they note that people seem not to care much about the humanitarian impact on Iraqis. U.S. bombing has and will continue to destroy much of Iraq's vital civilian infrastructure. Estimates vary about total casualties: from like 48,000 to 200,000. If Saddam does have any substantial WMD and is backed into a corner, there is no doubt he will use them. Various nations with bad human rights records like Russia, China, India, Israel have a green light to conduct terrorism in the name of fighting terrorism. Wahabi terrorism increased in late 2002 and will surely do so as a result of what happens in Iraq. <br />They note in an endnote that the dim-witted disciple of Jesus currently in the white house was not telling the truth when he said that Iraq was diverting oil for food money for weapons. Such money is placed in an escrow account in New York with purchases made by it directed by the United nations. They note that it is rather unlikely the president's claim that Iraq has possessions of drones that are capable of flying undetected accross other countries and U.S. military bases to bomb the United States.	2003-03-21
US	52306476	RLJ42SK447XAE	0060609176	48611944	Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time: The Historical Jesus and the Heart of Contemporary Faith	Books	4	10	19	N	N	A fine exposition of a humane Christianity	The author begins this book by giving an overview of his own bouts with scripture from Childhood to adulthood. He grew up in rural North Dakota and was schooled in traditional Lutheran doctrines. He started to emerge from the state of precritical naivete in his teenage years and started applying the scientific method in discerning the accuracy of the bible for himself and came dangerously close to the notion that it was all merely a bunch of folk stories passed down by generations in ancient Palestine. <br />He learned more about varying interpretations of the bible at his lutheran university and seminary school and eventually decided to devote himself to studying Jesus but his doubts remained. To make a long story short, he resolved those doubts many years ago. He is one of the premiere Jesus scholars in the country. <br />In brief he argues that the evidence shows that Jesus was a mere human being who did not believe that he was divine or the son of god or preached that the world was coming to an end. Such was how the Christian community in the decades and centuries after Jesus's death chose to put down his messages in the gospels and elsewhere, adapted to their own time and spiritual experiences. Jesus was a spirit person, Dr. Borg writes, one who experienced another layer of reality than other humans, one who had visions of such reality. Such visions are common writes Dr. Borg, accross the great religions of the world, within the context of their own cultures. They all experienced god as he is found in nature and in other humans; he is all around us, not merely somebody up in the sky. <br />Jesus was a spirit person. Throughout the bible, particularly Proverbs, the Wisdom of Solomon and Sirach, the spirit is spoken of as what translates into Greek as Sophia. Jesus is recorded in the New Testament as refering to himself as a child of Sophia. In Chapter 5 \\"Jesus, the wisdom of god\\" he connects the passage on \\"logos\\" in the book of John to the previous discourses about Sophia being with god during the creation of the world and imbibed with his wisdom and power since logos or \\"word\\" is spoken of in the same way as Sophia. The spirit of Sophia eventually \\"became flesh and dwelt among us.\\" In other words Sophia inserted herself into human beings, there for inviduals to discover if they tried. He writes \\"Jesus is the incarnation of divine Sophia. Sophia became flesh. \\" Jesus is called the child of Sophia, a child of the spirit, as he is called \\"son of god,\\" \\"lamb of god,\\" \\"the word of god\\"and other metaphors. There is certainly no actual evidence that he was actually biologically descended from god or was a lamb or whatever.<br />His vision is one of compassion. He is against applying the old Jewish purity system in Christianity; after all this is what Jesus fought against. He writes that what little the bible says about homosexuality, in Leviticus in the old testament, is rooted in that purity system of the second temple period. Jesus, in the tradition of the Old testament prophets was against conventional wisdom. Using the wisdom of Jesus and the philosophy of Paul, Dr. Borg advocates neither \\"believing\\" in Jesus nor following a bunch of rules to get into heavan. It is necessary to \\"know\\" God, to become a spirt person like Jesus. \\"To know\\" in Hebrew remarks Dr. Borg is the same word for sexual intercourse. One can feel something like the estacy people may or may not feel in the latter in knowing God. In cahapter 6 \\"Images of Jesus,\\" he argues that the bible \\"priestly story\\" has been subverted into a tool of theological docility. This message of deliverance from sin is not meant to be a justification for pouring out one's soul to pastors and being absolved by them but one of personal freedom. Freedom from the burden of having guilt over one's past sins. God loves all of us no matter what. The same with the story of the deliverance from slavery of the Jews and their Babalonyan exile. The latter two tend to be downplayed in the Christian tradition; they talk about freedom from slavery, metaphors journey towards spiritual freedom freed by constraints and so on.  <br />Not that he was really a feminist, but Jesus was against the subordinate status of women in the second temple period. Women were to a large extent segregated from men in public life and adult women had to be veiled. They couldn't be educated. He had a large number of lady followers, whom he accepted on equality. Paul too did so; in an endnote, he writes that many scholars have come to believe that Paul did not write the \\"anti-woman\\" passages in 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus. It may have been written several generations after Paul by a supposed disciple of him seeking to subvert his message. <br />Jesus was a Jew, he notes. His early followers were Jews. Most of the authors of the New Testament were Jews. A small band of Jewish collaborators with the Romans played a role in his execution. He was in a line of tradition of the Jewish prophets of the old testament subverting the status quo and conventional wisdom. It seems quite amazing how many Christians do not know of Jesus's Jewishness. In an endnote, he quotes the author Elizabeth Schussler Fiorenza on her experience in teaching an adult education class at her parish where she had a difficult time convincing her class of Jesus's Jewishness and one of her students responded \\"But the blessed mother for sure is not\\"<br />i should say that I am well within the agnostic camp. This book did not change that. I was compelled to read this in a religous class at my secular Lutheran university. I'm not convinced about the divinity of the experiences of \\"spirit people.\\" This is a scholarly book with a prose style that can be slightly dry in the second half of it.But societies could certainly not go wrong, certainly no worse than they are now, following the version of Christianity in this book.	2003-03-20
US	52306476	R1R06PAUZY4PS	1583225900	996674017	Power and Terror: Post-9/11 Talks and Interviews	Books	5	14	20	N	Y	Something new and refreshing from Chomsky	Chomsky notes that in the December 2002 issue of \\"Current History\\", distinguished academics praise the US war on Nicaragua as an example of successful defense against terror. He notes how the U.S. rejected the 1986 ruling of the world court to stop terrorising Nicaragua and veoted a UN resolution calling on all countries to observe international law and then officially authorized the Contra's to start hitting \\"soft targets\\" like hospitals and farms until the Nicaraguan people threw the Sandansitas out. The Current History historians list the biggest terrorist atrocities in 1985, the peak of the terror plague, as one the killing, of a US military officer in a hijacking and the killing of Leon Klinghoffer. This while Israel was slaugtering people in Lebanon and massacring Tunisans and a CIA car bomb killed 80 people in Beirut. Chomsky says the atrocities mentioned by Current History were indeed abominable things, though quite comparable with atrocities witnessed in early 2002 such as an Israeli tank, subsidised as they all are by the U.S. taxpayer, crushing a man in a wheel chair in Jenin or a young woman dying in the occupied territories because Israeli soldiers blocked her at the checkpoints from getting to a dialysis treatment at a hospital. He notes that the U.S. did order Sharon to remove Israeli tanks from Palestinian population centers in early 2002, because that was interfering with Dick Cheney's unsuccessful mission to the Arab world to try to get its Arab allies to support war on Iraq. <br />Maybe the most interesting section of the book is an account of his visit to Turkey in early 2002. He quotes Osman Baydemir as saying that by early 2002 three million Kurds were internal refugees with 50,000 slaughtered by the Turkish security.... He discusses several incidents: Baydemir  getting hauled before the state security court for using the Kurdish word for a New Year's celebration instead of the Turkish word in article, getting presented with a Kurdish-English dictionary after one of his talks, a really staggeringly subversive act in Turkey, a leading dissident .spending years in jail for writing about Turkish ethnic cleansing of Kurds, but refusing an offer from the U.S government's International fund for free expression, because he would not take support from the government that was so heavily funding his oppressors.  <br />After he went to Turkey, he went to Colombia where U.S. military aid is funding 80 percent of the atrocities in that war, committed by the Colombian  military and their paramilitary proxies. He notes that Colombian human rights is improving: recently a commander was removed from his post after his unit chain-sawed some peasants into pieces. He notes that Colombia does indeed go one better than our enemy in Cuba for it allowed an independent political party years ago, even though a couple thousand of its elected officials were assassinated by the paramilitaries.  This fumigation he says has led to the widespread detruction of crops and farm animals. \\"Children are dying, you can see them with scabs all over their bodies and things like that.\\" A side benefit of all this, he writes is that these peasants will flee into the big city and now the land will be cleared for strip mining, monoculture for agro-export, and other acitivities of benefit to the rich and powerful. He also notes our current embargo against blocking half a billion dollars in International American development bank loans that are designed to try to repair Haiti's health system and reverse the decline in life expectancy, all the while Haiti is forced to pay interest on these loans. In the meantime death squad leader Emanuel Constant is protected from extradition by the U.S....<br />He notes that Clinton plan for a Palestinian state in 2000 was actually a plan for 4 divided cantons in the West Bank, worse than anything apartheid self Africa planned for its blacks. Clinton started selling huge numbers of helicopters to Israel after it started firing on Palestinian apartment houses at the beginning of the Intifada. Clinton began the process of the U.S. \\"abstaining\\" on the issue of the applicability of the Geneva convention to the occupied territories. Bush Jr.'s regime has vetoed UN resoultions on having international monitors in the territories and did not attend a December 2001 conference on the Geneva conventions/territories that was even attended by its loyal lapdog Britain. <br />About Saddam, he notes what a difficult thing it is for intellectuals to address past U.S. support for him when he was gassing his own people. He suspects that the U.S. will not lean towards establishing a democratic facade in Iraq because that would have to give voice to the Shiite majority in the South who would lean toward Iran and the Kurds will want autonomy that Turkey will not stand for. He remembers the time Bob Dole led a Senate delegation to visit Saddam in early 1990 and gave him warm greetings from Bush Sr. and told him not to pay attention to occasional criticisms of him in the U.S. media and assured him that an anti-Saddam Voice of America commentator was being removed. <br />In a kind of funny remark, he wonders why people call him an apologist for Bin Laden and don't say the same about the Wall Street Journal or the National Security council from 1958..<br />On the Kosovo war, he notes that it documents from Western governments allege that the Kosovo Liberation army was conducting most of the atrocities at the point of January 2001 and things did not change much over the next few months. And that atrocities and refugee flight sharply escalated after the verification monitors were withdrawn and the U.S. started bombing. He notes that in the trials of the Serb criminals at the Hague, keep to atrocities that started after the U.S. bombing.	2003-03-10
US	52306476	R3QKC6KY5ZZVG1	1893956393	29457971	Target Iraq: What the News Media Didn't Tell You	Books	5	44	51	N	N	Good presentation of info being denied by the media	The authors point out the media dosen't cover the hundred thousand civillian deaths in the first gulf war; dosen't refer to the destruction of Iraq's water and sewage treatment systems and just about all the rest of Iraq's civillian infrastructure by the bombings...<br />Erlich has a section devoted to wheather this coming war is about oil. He notes that the U.S. would greatly prefer to get its hands directly on Iraqi oil: a post-Saddam Iraqi government would probably privitize the industry into the hands of U.S. companies and adopt the oil policies the U.S. likes at OPEC. He quotes an article from the British press apparently sourced from British Petroleum that Ahmad Chalabi, head of the INC met with officials from three American oil companies and promised to divide Iraq's oil resources between them as a reward for the U.S. toppling Saddam. Not that they wouldn't want to do business w/Saddam...Dick Cheney as head of Haliburton advocated lifting sanctions on Iraq before he became the VP canidate. Haliburton stands to get huge reconstruction contracts for Iraq's oil industry after the war. <br />Solomon points out how the U.S. got security council authorization in the last war. Yemen lost 70 million dollars in aid in late 1990 for vetoing a U.S. rough draft resolution and other rotating security council members were threatened w/a similar fate. Similarly in late 2002 Mauritius withdrew its UN ambassador after he opposed a U.S. rough draft, not willing to risk a cut-off of U.S. aid. <br />Seth Ackerman of FAIR has a section on media treatment of the U.S. using inspections to spy and scout targets for bombing.<br />Appendix 2 is an analyses by Institute for Public accuracy experts of George W. Bush's speech in Cincinanti on October 7th.  They respond to the president's pieties about stopping evil dictators from terrorising the world by pointing to the U.S. funding of Suharto's bloody rule and occupation of East Timor, the U.S. support for perpetrators of aggression like Morroco, Turkey and Israel and its own invastion of Panamma in contravention of UN resoultions and its refusal to pay billions in reparations to Nicaragua as called for by the World Court for its support of the terrorist contras. Others point out that the U.S. authorized the sending to Iraq of the seed stock of Iraq and many other lethal biological agents in the 80's when Saddam really was dangerous. <br />The experts like Phyllis Bennis, Francis Boyle, Mahajan, Glen Ragwala and James Jennings point out how resolution 1441 calls for the Iraq to grant access to stuff it has never been required to give accounting of before like possible unmanned aerial veichles, their parts and paperwork related to them as well as all Ballistic missle parts and records instead of just missles with a range of over 150 KM. It required Iraq to turn over all materials and records related to its chemical manufactuers even those unrelated to WMD within thirty days, a very impossible task to create 100 percent accounting for, giving the U.S. the opportunity to declare Iraq in material breach. It called for the inspectors to bring any equipment into Iraq that they wished obviously including devices that could be used for spying and the power to declare unspecified areas \\"exclusion zones\\"...The inspectors have the right to demand any Iraqi citizen and their families be taken out of the country for questioning about SAddam's WMD. Many are going to likely take this route for they want to get out of Iraq and will exagerate Saddam's threat, telling the U.S. what it wants to hear so they can get prestige.  1441 implies the continuation of U.S. policy through the UN of refusing to lift the sanctions once Saddam fully accounts for his WMD as called for in resolution 687, thus giving the Iraqi regime a heavy incentive to continue not to completely cooperate	2003-02-25
US	52306476	R28BPWHIHAUW2M	0060937319	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492 to Present	Books	5	37	53	N	N	One of my favorite books	Dr. Zinn starts off with Colombus's first encounter with the Americas. That is to say, with the Arawak indians, whom, Colombus wrote in his diary were very naive and friendly and offered him many gifts. After these observations, Colombus wrote that they would make fine servants and that with fifty men \\"we could subjugate them all and make them do whatever we wan't.\\" Zinn quotes De La Casas's description of the enslavement and genocide of the Carribean Indians. He notes that the great historian Samuel E. Morrison used the word \\"genocide\\" to describe Colombus's policies back in his celebrated book on Colombus in 1954. However this is lost in the middle of a book slobbering over Colombus as a courageous sailor and one driven by a devotion to god. <br />He notes that African societies also had slaves. But their systems were like European serfdom. Slaves could marry into their masters family, own property, testify in court. All in societies more egalitarian and with women considerably more empowered than in European societies. In contrast to the race-based chattel slavery peculiar to the Americas.<br />Zinn's overriding point in this book is that class warfare is as  During the revolutionary war there was continuing riots of the poor over the profiteering of merchants and the impressment of poor people into the army (the rich could get out by paying a few hundred dollars for a substitute). <br />The constitution was written by the wealthy minority of the country, he points out, who devised a very strong central government. He quotes James Madison explaining in Federalist paper #10 that the constitution aimed to eliminate factional strife and he listed the principle causes of such strife: demands for redistribution of land held by the wealthy elite, the issuing of paper money to pay off debts and any other \\"improper and wicked object.\\" <br />He writes about Andrew Jackson from the point of view of the southern Indians whom he helped drive off by encouraging terror againstthem and a lust for new land by speculators. He notes the case of Samuel Worcester and his missionary colleagues who were sentenced to hard labor by the state of Georgia for supporting the rights of the Cherokees, with Jackson refusing to enforce the ruling of the Supreme court saying that the arrest of Worcester & co. violated the Indian treaties. This in contrast to Jackson's attacks on South Carolina for refusing to accept a federal tarrif, an episode that so engrosses modern historians. <br />He writes interestingly that the populist movement was a complex movement. A multi-racial political machine actually elected blacks and whites locally in East Texas in the 1890's before being destroyed by white supremacist terror. Texas and Arkansas and Georgia populists actually tried to be multi-racial; for instance the 1896 Georgia populist party platform condemned lynching even while populists in the Georgia legislature were passing waves of anti-black legislation. <br />He gives an interesting statistic about the Spanish-American war. Only about 380 of 5,000 plus deaths of American soldiers during the war died in combat. The rest were subjected to bad living conditions, having to use food and other resources of bad quality sold by contractors to the government at hugely inflated prices. He notes government reports about food poisoning in soldier's food. Far from the first time he shows. He gives the example of J.P. Morgan during the Civil War making a fortune selling defective guns at inflated prices that he gotten from the army back to the army, and resulted in many soldiers getting maimed. He quotes the reports of soldiers, journalists and others from that war of the mass atrocities, mass tortures and  the extreme racism of that war fought to \\"civilize\\" the filipinos. He notes that labor was initially uneasy about the war before it began. He quotes an International Machinists union journal writer who pointed out that at about the time the U.S.S. Maine was mysteriously blown up and much anguish in the American media followed, massacres of American workers like the 18 protesting miners who were gunned down in Pennslyvania after refusing to disperse for police, elicited no noticeable outrage. <br />The \\"progress\\" made by Industrialization he points was not shared with the majority of Americans. He notes that while many immigrants came to America during this period, many of them would leave. Agitation during the \\"progressive\\" era compelled tiny reforms and tokenism by the white supremacist Theodore Roosevelt. Socialists picked up as much of a third of the votes in places like Chicago and New York in 1917. The IWW was at the height of its influence. He quotes the Committee on Industrial relations that 35,000 people were killed and 700,000 injured at work in 1914 alone. In the 1920's during the \\"Jazz age\\" there were about 25,000 workers killed and 100,000 permanently disabled annualy, he writes. He notes that in this great period, supposedly stimulated by 1923 tax cuts for the rich, 42 percent of families made less than a 1,000 dollars a year. 1/10 of one percent of the top one percent of families owned as much wealth as the bottom 42 percent. He quotes letters of people to congressman Fiorello Laguardia of people expressing the anguish of barely surviving from day to day.  <br />The New Deal, he writes, was designed only to stabilize the capitalist system. Roosevelt was against the Wagner bill granting basic rights to workers until the strikes in Minneapolis and San Francisco in late 1934 made passing the bill necessary for stability. He points out that 9 million people were still unemployed in 1938. There were 4 million unemployed at the end of the last economic slump back in 1921.	2003-02-08
US	52306476	RU74DZ45GF0OW	1893956385	534430544	War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You To Know	Books	5	15	20	N	N	A Republican causes discord in a jingoist frenzy	Ritter says that Iraq's nuclear infrastructure and nuclear weapons were completely destroyed. It's capability to produce Sarin and Tabin Nerve gas and other chemical weapons was destroyed too, with the destruction by the inspectors of the Muthanna state establishment. The Iraqis were weaponizing VX nerve gas but they were discovered, the stocks destroyed, 200 crates of gas lined equipment discovered and destroyed. \\"With that Iraq lost its capacity to produce VX.\\" Iraq was producing liquid bulk anthrax but its capability to do that was destroyed. He writes that discussion of the Iraqis turning L-29 single jet Czechoslovakian engines into drones to deliver chemcial and biological weapons is abusurd for to do so would be very detectable and he says that his old friends in the Israeli military says that such a conversion has not been detected. In short he says, Iraq's capabiility to produce Chemical, biological, nuclear long range missles and delivery systems were completely dismantled by the inspections. To rebuild it would be pretty difficult and expensive and easily detectable which it has it not been. <br />One interesting thing he refers to is the case of weapons inspectors not looking for biological weapons in Saddam's palaces in 1998. The U.S. inspector Dick Spertzel, says Ritter, refused to look for biological weapons in the palaces, even though there was so much talk about the time how we have to find anthrax which Saddam is producing because he's going to kill us all, and so on. Ritter writes that if the Iraqis were hiding any stocks of biological and chemical before December 1998 then those stocks would have lost their viability now. <br />He points out how the U.S. used UNSCOM's video and listening devices to spy on the Iraqi government on matters unrelated WMD. He writes that Butler led the way in seeking an excuse for the U.S. to disrupt the inspections. He violated the Sensitive Sites agreement of 1996 by sending in 12 inspectors in November 1998 to a Ba'ath party headquarters in Badghad, the Iraqi's compromising by only allowing in four as was called for by the Sensitive sites agreement. The headquarters was not covered in that agreement. This was cited as proof of Iraqi obstructionism and two days before Operation Desert Fox began, Butler received a phone call from deputy U.S. ambassador to the UN Peter Burleigh and withdrew even though the security council was supposed to tell him when to withdraw. Thus Saddam did not kick out the inspectors as current propaganda has it. <br />He refers to one incident where a lady inspector caught some of Saddam's bodygaurds tyring to run away from headquarters with suitcases and as they started to translate the documents contained within they though it was decisive evidence of biological weapons work but it eventually turned out to be related to testing for poison in Saddam's food.  Yet Richard Butler is fond of repeating this story today as decisive proof of Iraq's Biological weapons research. <br />As for Khidre Hamza, who has been getting so much attention in the media, Ritter says that he is a fraud, not Saddam's former bombmaker but only a mid-level bureaucrat in the nuclear program. He defected in 1994 says Ritter but the intelligence community rejected him as misrepresenting himself. He wasn't a designer of weapons, certainly not the head of the program. Ritter says that Hamza's alleged \\"smoking gun\\" document about Saddam getting a nuclear bomb was dismissed as a forgery by the late Hussein Kamal back in 1995. <br />As for Saddam and Bin Laden, he says that the evidence points to Mohammed Atta being in Florida at the time he was supposed to be in Iraq. Bin Laden views Saddam as a secular dictator, the devil incarnate and Saddam has spent his career butchering fundamentalists, particularly of the Wahabi school.  An alliance between them is unlikely. He says that there is no evidence that Salman Pak camp south of Bagdhad is used to train terrorists. It was set up in the 80's with the help of British special forces as a training camp for hostage rescuing. After that it was turned over to the department of External threats to deal with Islamic fundamentalists infiltrating into Iraqi Kurdistan from Iran.	2003-01-04
US	52306476	RYS68Z75K7RKK	158367070X	409447662	The New Crusade: America's War on Terrorism	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	The best book I've read on the war on terror	ountry, without evidence to his guilt presented. And, according to the London Daily Telegraph, the Taliban had agreed to extradite Bin Laden to Pakistan where he would be tried within the framework of Islamic law before an international tribuanal, which would decide to try him themselves or extradite him to the U.S. Apparently General Musharaff scuttled the deal, obviously under U.S. pressure. The author notes that the U.S. demanded that the Taliban open all \\"terrorist training camps\\" to U.S. inspection and the Taliban must hand over everyone in the vaguely defined \\"terrorist support structure\\" of Al Qaida. No sovereign state could accept these demands; thus the bar was set so high for the Taliban that war was inevitable. The author says that this war is simply about terrorising third world countries who refuse U.S. demands. Getting Bin Laden is a goal but it is really further down the list. The author points out that the threat of bombing and then the bombing itself caused the creation of about a million internal refugees within Afghanistan, severely exacerbating the humanitarian crises in that country. The threat of bombing and then the bombing forced aid agencies in the country to suspend their work most of the time. He quotes a Christian Aid official as saying that the humanitarian crises during the bombing was not related to the Taliban blocking the relief efforts but the U.S. bombing. He points out that with seven million people desperately needing food in the midst of the bombing, the U.S. government had to cover its tracks a bit. This was done by dropping 37,000 food packets on the country, ridiculous not just for the small number compared to the actual needy, but, as was denounced by the aid agencies, it is very difficult to distribute food to the needy that way. Aid agencies argued that it was perniscious that humanitarian aid was being dropped with bombs. The author points out that the U.S. really didn't block aid distribution after the Taliban fell; theyjust really didn't do anything to help that distibution, whatever the rhetoric. The author notes that the heroic efforts of the World Food Program averted widespread starvation for a few months last December. The WFP said that the danger of widespread famine was over but other agencies said it was only not a danger for a few months. The speculates that tens of thousands of people at minimum died because of the cutoff aid caused by the threat of bombing then the bombing from September to December 2001. This in adition to the probably 4,000 people who died from the bombs themselves or who accidently picked up a cluster bomb, which were strikingly resembled the yellow food and medicine packets that the U.S. was dropping as part of its sham humanitarian operations. The U.S. packets with medicine had instruction for dispensing written in English for a nation of people, the vast majority of whom can't read their own language. <br />The author notes that a hundred people were dying a day in January at the camp of Maslakh near Herat and that there was still numerous reports of inability to access isolated villages cut off by snow. Those villagers of course, were surviving by eating bread made of grass. The author notes that the amount of banditry and lawlessness, particularly harming aid distribution, vastly increased with the Northern alliance takeover of the country. And the author notes that the Northern Alliance barbarians, though including a few women in their government-- greatly impressing Western intellectuals-- instituted a harsh farm of Sharia (Islamic law) law and a judge announced that adulterers would still be stoned but with smaller ones than the Taliban used. <br />The author says some other interesting things. He refers to the furor about the CIA being \\"restricted\\" from doing business with terrorists, by the Church committe of the 70's, the law passed in 1995 requring CIA agents to get permission from headquarters to business with human rights violators andso on. He notes that the CIA managed to fund its largest operation ever in the 80's supporting the Al Qaida-types in the 80's in Afghanistan. He quotes Carter's National security advisor Zbygniew Brzesinski as as saying that the United States had been covertly funding the fundamentalist fanatics in Afghanistan, trying to provoke the Russians, at least six months before the Russians invaded in December 1979. He notes that it dosen't look very smart to give even more power to an organization, the CIA, that created, funded, armed and trained these \\"Afghan Arabs\\" organizations like Al Qaida and then left them to be set loose on the world. He points out that the CIA was able to fund very well the terrorist contras in Nicaragua. And he quotes the CIA spokesman as saying under the 1995 rule, agents have been rarely refused requests to work with various thugs. <br />He discusses other matters like the U.S. forcing the shutdown of the Hawala money transfer affiliate in Somalia, on the grounds of its suspected ties to Al Qaida, though no actual evidence has been found of it (U.S. government assertions don't count). The author speculates about the closure of the prime way of getting money into Somalia will lead or has led to the deaths of many thousands of people. He notes that the U.S. \\"humanitarian mission\\" in Somalia back in 1992-93 was actually intended to secure a foothold in a strategically important and mineral rich area. It had been undertaken after most of the famine was over. After funding the Somali dictator Mohammed Siad Barre, overthrown in 1991, whose bloody rule was largely responsible for bringing the famine about, the U.S. managed to kill 7,000 to 10,000 people during this intervention. Nobody remembers or even knows about that but they remember the American servicemen killed.	2003-01-04
US	52306476	R3647SYMP6OFWW	0820441864	395471575	The Myth of the Liberal Media: An Edward Herman Reader	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Outstanding Discussion	A few of the case studies in this book are paraphrased here.<br />He devotes a chapter to Suharto. He quotes an article by Philip Shennon of The Times with the headline \\"As Indonesia crushes its critics it helps millions escape poverty.\\" Herman notes that Shennon stated in the same article that most Indonesians were not making more than two to three dollars a day. Such was the portrayal of the regime which butchered hundreds of thousands of people in East Timor and West Papua and killed at least 500,000 landless peasants in coming to power in 1965-66 to the joy of the Western media. Suharto was portrayed as a benign dictator. Oil companies took out ads in the Times for him in 1992. He let Western corporations loot and pillage his country while suppressing independent unions. Hence, he was a \\"moderate\\" and his invasion of the former Portugese colony of East Timor in 1975 with U.S. approval and military weapons elicited virtually no U.S. media coverage in the late 70's at the highest peak of atrocities there while the media was moaning in anguish about the Khmer Rouge. East Timor was portrayed as a \\"complex\\" place with Indonesia intervening in a \\"civil war\\" and the group opposing Indonesian rule portrayed by the Times's Seth Mydans as \\"separatists.\\" He points out that after Suharto fell in 1998, the media cautiously admitted that Suharto gained his people's acquiescence with the use of fear and not any support for his efforts to maintain \\"stability.\\" Herman points to a Wall Street Journal article of July 1998 which stated that the World Bank had allowed Indonesia to define its poverty line at one dollar a day, thus creating the fabrication of Suharto's poverty reduction. Most Indonesians, the article stated were making well below a dollar a day.<br />He notes that the New York Times published an interview Luis Posada Cariles on July 12 and 13 1998, the Cuban exile and CIA asset, were he admitted to being behind terror attacks in Cuba which killed one and injured six,carried out by Salvadoran car thieves financed by Cuban exiles in Miami. Herman notes that Posada was fingered for being behind the blowing up of the Cuban airliner in Venezuela in 1976 which killed 73 and escaped as he was about to go on trial for a fourth time after getting acquitted three times on technicalities. The Times portrayed Posada as a principled man, a family man, who some people were accusing of being a bad guy, who just opposed Fidel Castro,stating wihtout any evidence that he had also opposed the Bautista dictatorship. In contrast Carlos the Jackal, whose murder total is about 83, is portrayed as nothing more than a beastly terrorist. <br />He points out that the media are firm advocates of policies benefiting the economic elite. Nafta makes countries give up control of their resources to corporate plunder and calls for disbanding any regulation that might protect against the ravanages of corporate profit seeking, making them \\"investor's rights' agreements rather than Free trade, Herman points out. He quotes Paul Krugman as lauding the agreement for being a device for keeping \\"free market reformers\\" in power in Mexico, since future politicians will be bound by the aggreement, whatever the people of Mexico might think. Or what the people of the United States think. He notes that the Washington Post eagerly posted totals of union donations to politicans opposing Nafta, carrying along Clinton's denunciations of the Labor movement for daring to try to influence the political process on something important. In contrast the corporate donations and lobbying which are just fine. The opinions of people like Ralph Nader were given scant coverage instead they focused on Ross Perot whose motivations and manner could easily be attacked. <br />He points out the media trying to find something good in the collapse of the Mexican economy in 1994 and that of Indonesia in 1998. They tried to argue that the the Mexican economy would have been worse without NAFTA, avoiding that Nafta induced a speculative flow of money to flow in to Mexico, along with reckless lending by banks which created a catastrophe when that money fled. He points out that Nicholas Kristoff, Thomas Friedman and Anthony Lewis of The Times all tried to say that the \\"free market\\" had brought Suharto down. Herman says yes it did bring him down but it was the economic crises created by the free-flow of speculative funds into the country along with concomitant reckless lending and then the sudden flight of those funds,in other words free-flow of capital, which created the economic crises which brought Suharto down. <br />Herman writes that the mass media in America represent \\"the triumph and consolidation of market failure.\\" That is to say, competition for ratings leads media companies to feature sex and violence and all sorts of \\"light fare.\\" A loss of a single rating point can lead to a rush of advertisers to other stations. He gives the example The Today show at one point in the 90's losing 380,000 dollars a day in advertising to Good Morning America despite being only a point behind in the ratings. He notes that the corporate media produce a pretty narrow spectrum of opinion with right wingers facing off against \\"liberals\\" i.e. weak-kneed centrists who accept many of the assumptions of the right wingers, only questioning U.S. foreign policy motives on grounds of tactics, costs, etc. He ends with a discussion about the possibilities for alternative media like Public Access, micro radio, community radio and the dismal Public Broadcasting System. It is the people, Herman argues, who should directly control and shape the content of mass media	2003-01-03
US	52306476	R37WWOJEUCV70U	0896085791	932505822	How Capitalism Underdeveloped Black America: Problems in Race, Political Economy, and Society (South End Press Classics Series)	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	How Capitalism Underdeveloped Black America	This at times slightly difficult to read book is very relevant even if the text of the book was published in 1983. Let me give you an idea of the discussion in the book below. <BR>This January 2000 edition contains a new intro by the learned professor. He tries to correct in it a few observations and predictions he believes he got wrong in the original addition. He points out that spectacular growth of the prison-industrial complex since 1981 with an increase of the prison population from 500,000 in 1981 to almost 2 million today. He points out that as jobs with livable wages continue to disappear and with the stock market casino which drove the economy of the 90's getting wrecked, thousands more poor and even middle class whites along with blacks and other minorities will turn up in the prison system. One in five Americans, he writes, now has a criminal record. <br />In any case, this book is about how Capitalism is black Americans greatest enemy. Racism is an integral part of American capitalism, he stresses. Blacks enslaved because of their race created the wealth which gave this country its economic foundations. Blacks in the South, imprisoned justly or unjustly, provided an ultra-cheap source of labor in the convict-work system under conditions not too far from Nazi concentration camps. He writes that in the 1880's, the mortality rate for blacks in prison in Mississippi was 11 percent. In Arkansas it was 25 percent. <br />he notes that blacks and white workers combining their power could have made great gains. That they did not is perhaps he says why the standard of living has been so low in the South relative to the rest of the country. White workers apparently were more comfortably keeping blacks down to maintain their status in the white supremacist culture. One interesting thing the author notes about Southern whites is their widespread ownership of firearms. He quotes C. Vann Woodward as saying that Alabama Whites spent more combined on firearms than on farm equipment and tools combined. Firearms were a unique part of the Southern culture and whites carried them everywhere they went and never avoided a chance to use them. He gives interesting statistic that while the national homicide rate of 1926 was 10.1 per 1,000 in Jacksonville Florida it was 75.9, in Birmingham 58.8, Memphis 42.4, Nashville 29.2. <br />He writes extensively about the idea of \\"black capitalism\\" empowering black progress. He spends alot of time writing about Booker T. Washington. Washington is portrayed as an opportunist politically with some bad ideas though he did give covert aid to civil rights activists while he was preaching accomodation with white supremacy in public. Marable says that the black so-caleld conservatives of today like Thomas Sowell are not even fit to carry his mantle. The latter are simply vulgar apologists and obfuscators of the racist/capitalist order. <br />The problem with black capitalists, the author writes, is that they are capitalists. That means they have to maximize their short-term profit at whatever cost. The well being of the black race only being incidental. Moreover, he goes through laborious statistics showing that black capitalists have had their only substantial successes only when they had captive markets in all-black communities, segregated or otherwise and mostly in \\"human services\\" such as barbering and small retail stores. So the author shows that \\"black capitalism\\" which was a main platform for Marcus Garvey (who was influenced by Washington), and extended to Elijah Muhammed to the Nation of Islam of current times and was even supported by W.E.B. Dubois until the Great Depression--really does not work. <br />He writes that the \\"crises\\" of capitalism which began in the 70's has hit hard black families the most, of course. Unemployment went down dramatically for blacks in the 60's, he points out because of the government implementing affirmative action to try to eliminate discrimination in employment, migration of blacks from the south to the north to get higher pay jobs and the expanding capitalist economy. The unemployment of nonwhites was 6.4 percent in 1969 and the unemployment for nonwhite married men fell to 2.5 that year from 7.9 in 1962. However nonwhite unemployment was 14 percent by 1975 and unemployment for married nonwhites was 8.3. <BR>He notes that workers losing their jobs because their industries couldn't compete in the U.S. market with foreign producers were awarded substantial amounts of their former pay for 18 months. In December 1980 almost 250,000 workers were obtaining funds for this program but a year later only 12,000 were able to use it. In January 1982, only 37 percent of the unemployed were getting any form of compensation. The umemployment rate reached 17.4 percent for blacks in late 81' though this did not, as no unemployment figures do, include the workers who have stopped actively looking for work for four weeks or more.<br />He notes the phenomenon of large numbers of workers unable to get employment during large parts of the year i.e. being underemployed and only getting part-time or temporary low wage work. Also he writes a little bit about the \\"lumpenproletariat\\"... <br />Chapter 9 is called \\"The meaning of racist violence in late capitalism\\"...IT includes citation (see the endnote) of Daryl Gate's speculation about blood not flowing through the veins of blacks as fast as \\"normal people,\\" the comment being made in response to several chokehold deaths at the hands of LAPD of minorities.	2003-01-03
US	52306476	R1PGGCW6FEV0KI	1859845010	169226275	War Plan Iraq: Ten Reasons Against War with Iraq	Books	5	43	67	N	N	A good answer to all the jingoism	Mr. Rai points out that attacking Iraq would be against international law. Article 51 of the UN charter, a treaty which are supreme laws of the land under the constitution, allows for armed force by nations only in cases of individual or collective self-defense. This armed force is clearly understood, the author notes, in response to a clear and verifiable military attack across a nations border. Rai also notes that no UN resolution from 678 of November 1990 (which was used to justify the Gulf war) explicity gives any nation, much less the United States the right to attack Iraq. <br />He shows that the United States has deliberately kept the conflict alive. They have refused to promise to support the lifting of sanctions on Iraqi exports if it complies with WMD accountability and destruction as called for in the provisions of resolution 687. They have tried to provoke Iraq as in the November 1998 UNSCOM appearance at the Ba'ath party headquarters carried out by their lackey Richard Butler, which demanded that 12 inspectors have access to that site, although such a site was not covered in the Sensitive Sites agreement of 1996. Rai notes that Bulter only cited 5 problems in 300 covered incidents in his December 1998 report, during which the U.S and British began bombing while he was delivering his report to the security council. <br />No the U.S. government and this means the Republican gangsters currently in power do not care about WMD or Saddam's human rights violations or whatever. They want to install a Saddam-style regime but without the unreliable gangster Saddam at the top. Fear of democracy in Iraq, Rai writes, i.e. fear of Saddam's regime dismantling was what led the U.S. to block access by the rebels to captured Iraqi arms and to allow Iraqi helicopters safe flight over U.S. lines to crush the rebellion. One can see this, the author shows, in the exiles the U.S. is looking at to replace Saddam. These include the former army chief of staff under investigationin Denmark for taking part in Saddam's butcheries of Kurds in the 80's., a commander in the Basra area when chemical weapons were being used against Iran and the Hashemite family. Of particular interest is the author's writing about the Iraqi National Accord (INA), a prime recipient of CIA aid, which carried out terror attacks in Baghdad in 1994 and 95 killing up to a 100 people. This according to a video admission that the author quotes of the man who carried out the attacks. The INA, the author notes also seems to have carried out terror attacks against the Iraqi National Congress(INC). He points out that most U.S. officials such as Colin Powell violently dislike the INC and prefer some sort of Sunni military strongman to take power after Saddam. In contrast the INC is supported by the reactionary policy makers of Baby Bush's regime like  Richard Perle. There is probably nothing to this the author writes, other than the INC being used as a pawn by the reactionaries in their rivalry with the liberals of the administration. <br />Rai notes that the U.S. virtually destroyed Iraq's electrical system during the Gulf War and that paved the way for the destruction of Iraq's water and sewage treatment facilities, hospitals, and so on. This biological warfare has caused horrendous epidemics the author points out. <br />Rai notes from Dec. 1996 to July 2002 Iraq has received about 55 billion in Oil For Food money. About 14 billion of that was taken to a fund to pay victims of the invasion of Kuwait, UN administrative expenses and so on. About 59 percent of that , the author writes, is distributed to the Saddam controlled Central and South of the country. 13 percent goes to the Kurdish North. But most of that money has been used by Iraq to pay for food and medicine. Iraq needs anywhere from 50 to 100 billion dollars to rebuild its civilian infrastructure. He points out that the Bush administration did its best to block the latter: the value of the \\"holds\\" placed by the U.S.on items for Iraq's infrastructure went from 3.71 billion dollars on May 14 2001 to 5.17 billion dollars on May 17 2002. <br />He responds to the BBC's John Sweeney's attempt to discredit the UNICEF report of August 1999 which found that 500,000 children under 5 had died because of the sanctions. He quotes David Albright as saying that his former protg Khidre Hamza is a liar and a reckless warmonger. He quotes the hardline British former inspector Terry Taylor that the words of Iraqi exiles should be taken very cautiously for they are seeking influence and jobs with the Western establishment and are thus heavily inclined to say things which the latter want to hear, regardless of the facts. He quotes an article from Seymour Hersh that interviewed several experts who could not detect any Iraqi signature on the common remote control devices supposedly planned to be used to assassinate George Bush Sr. which Clinton used as an excuse to lob missles at Baghdad in June 1993 and kill 8 civillians. <br />The author has a special section on the U.S. refusal of an offer to extradite Bin Laden to Pakistan. Noam Chomsky writes the intro where he points out the U.S. is the greatest terrorist state in the world. He notes that the U.S. greatly exacerbated starvation in Afghanistan by ordering Pakistan to close its border with that country, severely restricting food convoys. And that the bombing disrupted 80 percent of the 2001 fall harvest. He quotes a June 2002 Ahmad Rashid article in his endnotes which reported that food supplies had run out and international funders had put forth pledged resources. <br />Several relatives of victims of Sept 11. have brief essays here. Including one who visited Afghanistan and saw two child victims of our cluster bombs, one who died from picking one up and the other who lost his hand in the same explosion.. She contrasted that with the sorrow of her young niece at loosing her father on 9-11. They argue that their cause is not served by revenging their loved ones on innocent people.	2003-01-03
US	52306476	R2ZNZCCG0TB22U	0671866397	822596527	Warriors Don't Cry: A Searing Memoir of the Battle to Integrate Little Rock's Central High	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A searing tale by an American freedom fighter	This book tells the story of Melba Beals Patillo, one of the nine students to integrate Central High School in Little Rock in September 1957. Perhaps the greatest attribute the author holds is the ability to make the reader feel that they are right their with her as she gets acid thrown in her face, locked in a bathroom stall and had flaming toilet paper dropped on her, had a knife held to her face, students teaming up to walk at her heels in to the point of them bleeding, and faced innumerable minor physical and verbal assualts every second of her presence on the school grounds. <br />This book tells the story of young girl who before her junior year at Central was a pretty, sweet, pious, obedient girl who had pious, obedient friends and liked to sit alone in her room with her stuffed animals and look through magazines full of pictures of the pop stars of the day. As she went through the year, she hardened, got to the point where she could kick one her main tormentors in the crotch when grabbed from behind, bite the wrist of a boy who was holding a knife to her face. She was able to use techniques of mental self-defense that quite baffled the crackers. She became a warrior as urged by Danny, her gaurd from the 101'st Airborne division in the relatively brief time he was with her (before Eisenhower pulled the 101st out once Central High stopped being a PR nuisance). <br />She even, gasp, told her grandmother a lie. This is when she went with Link, the white jock a year older than her,possibly the closest thing to a white hero in the book, to go see Link's old black nanny living in the shacks of North Little Rock. This visit to the Nanny's neighborhood brought to my attention Melba's superior class position to other blacks in Little Rock. They lived in something close to a Middle class neighborhood, in large part because of her mother's teaching job. Towards the end of the 57-58 school year, her mother looses her job, her bosses attempting to blackmail her into getting Melba out of Central High in return for her getting her job back. She eventually outmaneuvers them and gets her job back though not before some anxiety. <br />She sets out Link, his character and motives, pretty clearly. She seems to want to let the reader decide. Link appears out of nowhere with a few months left in the school year and tries to protect Melba covertly, he, like the rest of the white students and faculty, too intimidated to make any overt displays of kindness to the black students. He seems to have some sort of Freudian attachment to her, related to his old nanny, and clearly wants her sexually. He became enraged when she refused to get romantic with him and breaks off contact with her when she married another white person, a soldier. She divorced this soldier seven years later on the ground that he wanted her to be a homemaker. It's interesting that she says that she later realized that this white soldier was a symbol like Danny and Link as well as the racist authorities holding black people at their mercy in the South, of her placing herself under the protective wing of white men.<br />This story also seems to contradict the dominant portrayal of the Little Rock integration as a relatively benign affair after initial uproars. As I said before, the author experienced terror every day of the school year and she is able to make the reader feel it.	2002-12-30
US	52306476	R17XVZS0V375RI	1583670327	512733048	Rag-Tags, Scum, Riff-Raff and Commies: The U.S. Intervention in the Dominican Republic, 1965-1966	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The limits of U.S. tolerance	The author portrays a very fascinating brief experiment in American  support of politicians in the Third World who were mild social democrats. The Dominican exile Juan Bosch and his Social Democratic party the PRD received a great deal of CIA support from 1959-62. The U.S. had decided to withdraw its support from the barbarian dictator Rafael Trujillo who had been in power since 1930. Trujillo had risen to the leadership of the Dominian army during the very brutal U.S. occupation of the Dominican Republic of 1916-24. They could not gain any sort of support whatever in the hemisphere against Fidel Castro if they continued to support Trujillo.    The U.S. tried, without disrupting the power of the military or the landed oligarchy, to get rid of Trujilloism in the DR, particulary after Trujillo himself was assasinated at the end of May 1961. Bosch assumed power through a democratic election in February 1963 and spent most of his time trying not to upset the military. It was no use. Bosch granted considerable freedom for unions to organize. Thus, for instance the U.S. owned La Romana sugar referinery, the largest in the DR, was forced to to grant a 30 percent increase in wages. He also made lofty plans to redistribute to the poor the vast estates held formerly by Trujillo and his associates but only redistributed them to about 600 families. He made the mistake of telling the U.S. ambassador John B. Martin that he planned to place limits on land ownership and redistribute land held over those  limits to the poor. He also wanted to place a twenty percent tax on the large landholders. Martin denounced this plan and Bosch withdrew it but it was one more sign to U.S. policy makers that Bosch was very unreliable. The Dominican military finally overthrew him in late September 1963, just eight months into his term. This coup had tacit U.S. support.    The new military junta proceeded to set loose death squads on the opposition. The U.S. was quite fine with this. Now we cometo April 1965 and the main focus of this book. Late in that month military officers calling themselves the constitutionalists launced a rebellion with the stated aim of restoring Bosch to power. The U.S. then invaded a few days later for the purpose of preventing this rebellion which was just about to succeed in taking over the country. Chester goes over laboriously U.S. actions over the next few months. The first stated reason for the intervention was to protect U.S. and other foreign nationals caught up in the fighting. Thomas notes that the U.S. had already been conducting an airlift of foreigners out of the country without an invasion and that this process could have handled the 2000 or so who remained to be evacuated. There is no evidence that these people were actually under any danger. After this excuse lost whatever power it had, there was the old communist card. LBJ believed at first that the rebellion was a plot directed by the Soviet Union but then came to realize along with his more liberal cabinet members that it was a true homegrown revolution. The pro-Soviet and Maoist parties were miniscule particpants in the rebellion. The de facto leader of the rebellion Francisco Caamano was an officer who had supported Bosch's overthrow but had been disgusted by the corruption of the military junta which replaced it. His father had been a general who had led Trujillo's massacre of twenty thousand Hatian migrant workers in 1937. U.S. leaders tried desperately to find evidence of his connection to communisism.     The U.S. tried other excuses such as that their intervention was \\"peacekeeping\\" to prevent a huge bloodbath. LBJ cynically cited the 1500 deaths in the slums of Santo Domingo as a rationale for intervening. Chester notes that indeed 1500 people were killed but by the U.S. backed Dominican military whose planes were supplied with fuel by the U.S. and who were being violently urged on by U.S. military commanders.     The U.S. used this occasion to set up acordon, an \\"international security zone\\" that effectively divided the rebels of Northern Santo Domingo from those in the inner city. They provoked several battles with the rebels and allowed passage of the Junta's troops and supplies through its cordon; all the while the while the Americans claimed to be neutral between the two sides.     Well, the U.S. managed after several tries  to set up a provisional government largely excluding any sort of liberals or leftists. The U.S. had continually been sending negotiators to Bosch in his Puerto Rican exile to  badger him into agreeing to U.S. demands. The U.S. was deeply disturbed that Bosch and his PRD would only agree to monitor communists and other forces that the U.S. defined as part of the \\"radical left\\" and only arrest them if they actually broke the law.    An election was held in June 1966 between Joaquin Balaguer, a who fronted as president for Trujillo in the dictator's last years, and Bosch. Bosch supporters were subjected to massive terror in the countryside away from media scrutiny in the year before the election. The number of voters had shown an implausible thirty percent increase since the 1962 election. Balaguer insisted that the rules be changed so that women over twenty five did not have to show any identification while voting, ensuring that, older women, his base of support could could vote many times. And there was ballot stuffing on a grand scale.     The activities of Norman Thomas and Sacha Vollman as portrayed in this book are certainly interesting.     The author writes that in the first decade or so of Balaguer's rule, the DR became an \\"economic miracle\\" as unions were crushed, dissidents killed by the thousands and multinational corporations flocked to the slave labor in the special \\"enterprise zones\\". U.S. military and economic aid dramatically increased. Ten percent of the population would leave the country between 1966 and 1990 too seek a better life..	2002-12-30
US	52306476	R33J0VQ4A31E6I	1565847229	621065733	Unequal Partners: A Primer on Globalization	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Refutes the logic of neoliberal capitalism	The author gives some examples of the logic of capitalism. For instance, he quotes the memo written by former Clinton treasury secretary and current Harvard president, Larry Summers, when he was Chief economist at the World Bank in 1991. In that memo he explained the \\"impeccable\\" economic logic of exporting \\"health-impairing pollution\\" to \\"vastly underpolluted countries\\" such as in Africa. And then there is recounting of former Bush treasury secreatary Paul O'neil's confrontation at a shareholders meeting with one of the workers at an Alcoa plastics plant in Mexico when he was CEO of that company. O'neil told him that Alcoa's plants were so clean in Mexico that one could eat off their floors but the worker responded that his excellency was lying and produced newspaper clippings to prove it. Alcoa pays virtually no taxes in the town of the Mexican plant of that worker and the town's infrastructure (schools, hospitals, sewage, etc) is in shambles. Half of the town's 15,000 residents use backyard latrines. Alcoa, along with Ford, contributed 52,000 dollars to build a school for three hundred students, that has one teacher, a leaky roof......<br />He points to the workers at the Reebok plant in Thailand, workers in China's \\"industrial zones,\\" Nike and Alcoa workers in Mexico. Instead of working 80 hours a week, and getting constantly cut and bruised by machines, and getting chemicals in the eyes and nausea and headaches, or getting beaten up if you don't work fast enough and getting arrested if you try to leave work, these people could fight for their dignity if they had a viable union to advance their cause. <br />It is only labor rights, such as the right not to be fired for launching a strike, which allow workers to try to get rights to decent pay, humane working conditions and other such essentials while they make their bosses such huge profits with their work. The author goes over some of the public relations efforts of such companies. The Clinton administration helped in such an effort with top retail companies which created a \\"code of conduct\\" with companies policing themselves but such standards have been little enforced. <br />The author looks at the particularly interesting case of aids drugs. 17 million people and counting have died of AIDs in Africa. However U.S. companies have patents on the leading AIDs drugs which gives them a monopoly on producing them so they can charge 10,000 dollars to poor Africans for Aids treatment. Al Gore on behalf of U.S. pharmaceuticals threatened sanctions on South Africa when that country passed laws allowing for local companies to produce Aids drugs at 90 to 95 percent cheaper than American pharmaceutical companies demand. The Clinton administration argued that compulsory liscencing laws did not apply in that case. And the Pharmaceuticals have argued that they need to charge high prices so they can continue to research Aids treatments and if they are stricted their entrepreneurial genius will strangled. Of course, the problem is that these drugs have been substantially developed through U.S. government funded research. For instance the author points out that while the company Glaxo Wellcom claims to have developed AZT, it was actually the National Cancer Institute and Duke University researchers that developed AZT to suppress the Aids virus in human cells and Glaxo Wellcom did not do any of the immunological or Virological studies or test it on patients. The author points to a study by the National Bureau of Economic Research which found that of the 21 drugs \\"considered to have the highest therapeutic value of those introduced between 1965 and 1992\\" publicly funded research developed 15 of them. Most tropical diseases have been cured by U.S. military research or by private companies that do research on livestock and pets. The author notes that the U.S. government has offered 200 million to the UN's proposed 10 billion dollar program to fight Aids and has insisted that its money be usedto buy from American pharmaceutical companies. <br />He notes that neoliberal capitalism has been a horrible failure throughout the world. The deregulation of capital flows has led to increased financial panics such as the Asian crises a few years ago. 90 percent or more of international financial transactions are for speculative purposes. He notes that eliminating tarrifs for Western goods has led to the destruction of local industries, throwing farmers off the land, and so on. He notes that Western countries, with their usual grotesque hypocrisy, put tarrifs and huge subsidies on their agricultural products against foreign competetion. He quotes a study from the World Bank which states that greater openness to trade slows income growth amongst the poorest 40 percent of poor nations. The author refers to the subidized sugar industry of Mozambique and IMF efforts to privitize it. <br />The author notes that polls show that a majority of Americans symphathize with the views of Anti-WTO protestors. Real wages have stagnated for a majority of Americans over the last few decades. Job insecurity has greatly increased. His quotation of statistics about Americans crying on the job, getting inadequate sleep, problems at work affecting their personal lives, and so on is interesting. He quotes Human Rights Watch which points out the great attack on Unions launched by the U.S. government, continuing since the Reagan years. 54 percent of young workers say they would like to join a union but 80 percent of workers say it is somewhat or very likely that union organizers will face retribution from companies<br />The author devotes a section to the environment too, probably the most difficult of the book. He points out that drilling in the Wildlife refuge in Alaska will only produce oil in ten years and after that only 42 million gallons a day. He says that 49 million gallons a day of oil would be saved if the miles per gallon of SUV's would be increased by three miles.	2002-12-30
US	52306476	R3AZXA9TZHTOUH	0937694703	421439495	Israel's Sacred Terrorism: A Study Based on Moshe Sharett's Personal Diary and Other Documents (Aaug Information Paper Series)	Books	5	58	65	N	N	The diary says it all	This book consists of excerpts from  the diary of former Israeli Primer minister (1954-55 and Foreign minister (1948-56) Moshe Sharett, letters and other documents, narrarated by the late Livia Rokach. Some excerpts about the content of the book below.<br />Sharett paraphrases chief of staff Moshe Dayan, as saying that Israel's method to aquire more territory vis a vis its Arab neighbors would be one of  \\"provocation-and-revenge.\\" When the Arab countries responded militarily to these provocations, the Israeli government would claim that they were unprovoked acts of aggression against poor little Jews. The Israeli public would be stimulated into a righteous frenzy of \\"revenge\\" to support Israeli \\"retalitaion\\" which would develop into such a military conflict where Israel could achieve its imperial goals.<br />Sharett paraphrased Dayan as saying that Israel must see violence \\"as the main... instrument...Towards this end it may, no-it must-invent dangers....\\" Sharett  goes on to quote Dayan expressing  hope for war with the  Arab countries so that Israel may acquire its lebensraum. He adds that David Ben Gurion once said that it would be worth a million pounds to pay an Arab to start a war.<br />The \\"Lavon affair.\\" From July 2 to July 27 1954, 10 Egyptian Jews under the command of Israeli agents bombed British and American cultural and information centers and cinemas and Egyptian public buildings. This campaign ended when one of its participants was caught after a bomb exploded in his pocket in Alexandria.  Sharett did not know about these atrocities until after they were completed. The goals of these atrocities were described by Colonel Benjamin Givli head of military intelligence to an agent being dispatched to Egypt as to break up the friendly relations between the West and Egypt and to destablise Nasser's Regime.<br />In January 1955 Rokach quotes several excerpts from Sharett's diary of indirect contacts with the Nasser government in Egypt pressing for direct negotiations on peace. However this was shattered on February 28 1955 when Israel attacked the Gaza strip killing 39 people. Israel tried to say that this attack occured after an Egyptian military unit had infiltrated into Israel and attacked public transportations and attacked on Israeli military outpost. However Sharett lamented \\"how crushing\\" the evidence was refuting Israel's official version. He asked who would be foolish enough to believe upon seeing the huge amounts of explosives used, the blocking and mining of roads and the precise coordination of the attack, that it had developed from a sudden confrontation with an Egyptian military unit.<br />Israel engaged in irrigation on Arab lands in the Demilitirized zones between it and its neighbors and attacked fishing boats in Lake Tiberias. Sharett was told by the UN observers about this and inquired of the head of the Water Works department who confirmed that it was all true. He lamented that he had denied this publicly and been made to appear as a liar in front of the whole world.<br />Other interesting tidbits include some of the activities of Ariel Sharon. His most famous atrocity during this period was the massacre of 69 civilians in the Jordanian village of Qibya in October 1953 as commander of the infamous Unit 101. Nobody from Qibya had had anything to do with the killing of two Israelis earlier. Ben Gurion had tried to say that the act was carried out by refugees from Nazism living on the border with Jordan and had no Israeli army involvement but that is now known, of course, to be a lie. The Qibya massacre is discussed in some detail in the endnotes to the book, including examining Sharon's later dubious rationales. Then there was the Unit 101 attack on the Al-Burj refugee camp in Gaza killing about twenty defenseless people; this is described in an appendix to the book by one of the attackers. Sharett declared in his diary that the Qibya affair had portrayed Israel to the whole world as a bunch of blood sucking mass murderers.  Then there was the incident where two Israelis were killed after they had hiked onto Jordanian soil. The Jordanian authorities arrested the murderers but one of the victim's brother had apparently led four members of his army reservist unit into Jordan and killed 5 innocent Bedouins at random. Sharett reported in his diary that Sharon had organized this expedition and it seems to have been approved by Dayan.<br />Useful insights are provided into Israel's plans to destabilize Lebanon back in the early 50's when its border with that country was completely peaceful.  Sharett quotes Dayan as saying that Israel needed a Christian military officer to declare a Christian state in Lebanon that would cede South Lebanon from the Litani River soutward to Israel. It is noted that Israel has always been grasping out the bountiful waterways of South Lebanon. An exchange of letters between Ben Gurion and Sharett from March 1954 is posted in this book where Sharett declares that he would be willing to support Lebanon's destablization; but he worried about the lack of separatist agitation by the Christians which would make the plan unfeasible at that time. The comparison is made between these plans and Israel's later policies like the setting up of a \\"state\\" in South Lebanon under the mercenary Major Sa'ad Haddad.ood sucking mass murderers.   Then there was the incident where two Israelis were killed after they had hiked onto Jordanian soil. The Jordanian authorities arrested the murderers but one of the victim's brother had apparently led four members of his army reservist unit into Jordan and killed 5 innocent Bedouins at random. Sharett reported in his diary that Sharon had organized this expedition and it seems to have been approved by Dayan. <br />Useful insights are provided into Israel's plans to destabilize Lebanon back in the early 50's when its border with that country was completely peaceful.  Sharett quotes Dayan as saying that Israel needed a Christian military officer to declare a Christian state in Lebanon that would cede South Lebanon from the Litani River soutward to Israel. It is noted that Israel has always been grasping out the bountiful waterways of South Lebanon. An exchange of letters between Ben Gurion and Sharett from March 1954 is posted in this book where Sharett declares that he would be willing to support Lebanon's destablization; but he worried about the lack of separatist agitation by the Christians which would make the plan unfeasible at that time. The comparison is made between these plans and Israel's later policies like the setting up of a \\"state\\" in South Lebanon under the mercenary Major Sa'ad Haddad.	2002-11-22
US	52306476	R13P8OVO6RYN1S	0679737456	152178043	Black Ice	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A good story	This is a memoir by one of the first black female students at an elite prep school in New Hampshire, in the early 70's. The biggest psychological issue that come clearest through in this book, is the author's feelings of severe insecurity about operating in this rich white academic environment. She was ambitious to outshine everybody, of whatever race at the school and she ended up a neurotic mess, full of deep dissapointment that she did not. The author makes her deep confusion clear as she struggled with guilt about wheather she was betraying her working class black background to partake in the immense luxuries provided by the school. All the while so many hardworking working class people, like those she knew growing up, were deprived of that which the rich white snobs at the school took for granted. She seems to feel longer guilty about all this; she's proud of who she is and what she's gone through. Also of interest is her apparent deep fear of her white classmates, even though she developed many friendships. <br />One gets the impression that the author may not, when she published this book, have completely resolved her feelings. <br />For the most part, this is a well-told story (except towards the end). I particularly liked the contrast between her artistocratic life at St. Paul and her life when she came back to her working class home for the summer before senior year and worked at the Dinner. There she met Booker, the pot-smoking, tough-guy head cook and reveals him to be a tragic figure.	2002-11-22
US	52306476	R1EWLR8H5ZRZ1C	156584789X	84979174	The Other Israel: Voices of Refusal and Dissent	Books	5	39	49	N	N	Israel's true patriots	Jeff Halper goes through an outline of Barak's allegedly ultra-generous offer to his Quisling Afrafat at Camp David in July 2000, the myth of which has been such a powerful ideological justification for the current terror against Palestinians. He shows that this offer was probably somewhere around 90 percent of the West Bank. However the substance of the agreement was that the West Bank would be permanently divided up into several cantons of Palestinian population centers which have no contiguity with one another. Situated in between  and blocking access for Palestinian areas to each other, are and would be under the offer, most of the Jewish settlements, the settler bypass roads, Israeli army posts and so on. Halper laboriously examines the countours of \\"Jerusalem\\" \\"Greater Jerusalem\\" and \\"Metropolitan Jerusalem.\\" Israel, of course, does not define Jerusalem in its 1967 borders or Greater Jerusalem or Metro Jerusalem as part of the West Bank though such areas comprise a good percentage of the Central West Bank. This Jerusalem \\"block\\" effectively cuts the West Bank in two, consisting of strategically located Jewish settlements, a great many of them built by the Rabin-Peres-Barak governments. Halper notes that what Barak offered at Taba in January 2001 was somewhat better than at Camp David: Smaller settlement blocks, control over some bypass roads, control of the Jordan valley, but calling for Israel to access the Jordan Valley or the Palestinian controlled roads if it feels the need for security reasons. Israel still would completely control Palestinian water supplies, foreign affairs and dominate its economy. Barak abruptly cut off these negotiations before the elections of February 2001 and declared the continuing negotiations to be \\"null and void.\\" <br />Tanya Reihnart points to the old Allon plan of 1968 which called for Israel to annex around 40 percent of the West Bank i.e. taking all the best land and strategic areas while giving Palestinian population centers some sort of autonomy where they can work for Israeli bussinesses and pick up their own trash or preferably, immigrate away. Other Israeli leaders  have always thought that the \\"limited autonomy\\" of the modern Allon plan of Oslo gave too much to Palestinian nationalist aspirations. Sharon other writers note, is continuing to murder Arabs as he has been doing all his illustrious career but he his simply retrying his old plan against the PLO in Lebanon in 1982, to try to use such overwhelming, continuous violence against the Palestinians to crush all their hopes, so that perhaps the territories will be \\"diluted\\" of Palestinians, from immigration or death. The rest who manage to stay can be slaves of Israel or be killed. <br />Other writers such as Amira Hass, Gideon Levy and Halper give on the ground reports from the territories of day-to-day lives of Palestinians. In particular spending time observing first hand the ubiquitous checkpoints which exist for no reason other than to detain Palestinians as they try to travel a mile for three hours and engage them in various harrassments and sometimes even manage to help kill sick people and newborn babies by refusing to let ambulances through to get to hospitals. <br />There are some writings from some of Israel's prominent military \\"refusenicks.\\" Perhaps the most interesting is by Assaf Oron. He served for a period in the notorious Giv'ati brigade which terrorized Gaza during the first Intifada and he partook in some of its least violent human rights violations. But he gradually did some reading and realized some things and would thereafter only allow himself to be posted to gaurd forlorn radio transmitters or gaurding bases and so on. One of the commanders of the brigade Effi Eitam had a notorious feitish for personally beating Palestinians but now he is leader of the National Religous Party and a minister in  Sharon's government and along with many of his colleagues discoures on the \\"cancer\\" of Israel's Palestinian citizens and hints heavily of his desire for a repeat of 1948 vis a vis the Palestinians in the occupied territories. <BR>Refusenick Sergio Yahni writes an \\"Open Letter\\" to the  director of extrajudicial assassinations and defense minister  in the Sharon-Perse government,Benjamin Ben Eliezer and places responsibility for creating the suicide bombings on him and his fellow gangsters. Another writer points to a poll which shows that the majority of Israelis think that \\"targeted assasinations\\" do nothing to stop Palestinian terrorism or will increase it. However a majority of the respondents supported such policies.	2002-11-13
US	52306476	RCZA7YRHQJX9F	0060921072	201571332	Vietnam Wars 1945-1990	Books	5	27	44	N	Y	U.S. imperialism getting out of hand	Let me give you an idea of the discussion in this powerful and well-written book on the Vietnam war by Prof. Dr. Marilyn Young.<br />In 1954, the French had to withdrawl and the Genevea accords were signed. This called for Ho Chi Minh and his group to withdrawl to the North of the country and the French puppet Bao Dai's government to be in control of the South. A provisional line separated North and South Vietnam, to be completely eliminated when elections for the reunification of the country took place in July 1956. The Americans then moved from supplying arms to the French to taking over the whole effort to crush independent nationalism in Vietnam.<br />The U.S., she shows, understood that the Viet Minh would win any free and fair election and that Ho Chi Minh was more of a nationalist than a communist. Therefore, it was necessary to set up a permanent separate nation in South Vietnam, under the dictatorship of Ngo Dinh Diem, who launched a campaign of slaughter and terror against his opponents, leftist or otherwise. In an endnote she quotes Diem's former chief of staff as saying that had the Diem regime confined the police state terror and torture to only communists or communist sympathizers, one could symphathize with them for such persons inherently deserved such treatment. But his terror spread to other political parties, people who simply did not like his government and those resisting extortion by government officials. Despite being constantly slobbered over as a great humanitarian statesman in the U.S. media and among American liberals, conservaties in South Vietnam were beginning to openly oppose his regime, worrying U.S. officials about his regime's stability. <br />Finally in 1959, Hanoi authorized the Viet Minh in the South to resist in self-defense the terror of Diem's government. A couple thousand North Vietnamese, most of them natives of the South, began infiltrating the country. In 1960 the National Liberation Front (NLF) was formed amongst many South Vietnamese dissidents led by the former Viet Minh (\\"viet cong\\" in U.S. propaganda).<br />Diem's biggest problem from the U.S. perspective was that he had begun negotiations with North Vietnam on the withdrawl of U.S. troops from South Vietnam and agreeing to allow for the NLf to join South Vietnamese policial life and disucss possible reunification of the country in the future. This was a real horror to U.S. officials as comes up many times in the documents the author quotes. <br />In any case Diem was overthrown and killed on November 1'st 1963 in a U.S. backed coup. The problem was that the U.S. had trouble finding any military officer that was not intent on continuing Diem's efforts to reach agreement with the NLF and North Vietnam. They installed a series of military dicatatorships over the next few years until they finally found one sufficiently pliable represented by Ky and Thieu.<br />The U.S. extended its bombing to North Vietnam, then launched an all out invasion of South Vietnam, accelerating its program of mass murder. Some of the more interesting documents quoted in this book come from the Rand corporation. The infamous \\"strategic hamlet\\" program is examined in the village of Duc Lap in one document. Another notes that villages in militarily contested areas often felt hostility towards both the GVN (South Vietnamese government)and the NLF but hostiliy towards the NLF tended to be based on the U.S.-GVN bombing that its presences in villages caused, excess taxation, and sometimes military defeat. Anger towards the NLF was based more on despair than hatred. On the other hand hositlity towards the government of South Vietnam was based on a \\"a more basic hostility resulting from GVN aims and behavior...\\" Another document spoke of increased support for the NLF resulting from the massive defoliation program launched by the U.S., allegedly to deny food sources to the NLF which it did not do but greatly devastated peasant farmers. This exacerbated the feelingthat the U.S/ GVN were \\"at best minimally concerned with the peasant's welfare.\\" <br />The author quotes the elite political scientist Samuel Huntington who was deeply impressed by the massive refugee exodus to the cities caused by the American terror bombing of the countryside. It was good because it was the only way to deprive the Vietcong of its supporters, the people of rural South Vietnam for the Viet cong was a powerful organization which could not be separated from its \\"constituency\\" so long as the constintuency continued to exist. <br />The author goes on to discuss the domestic aspects of the Vietnam war as well as the mass murder operations conducted in Laos and Cambodia. She notes that the U.S., as in South Vietnam, avoided opportunities to make peace by backing the forming of a coalition government with the left wing insurtgents there as proposed by the dictator Prince Siahnouk. Siahnouk had been overthrown in early 1970 because he was vehemently opposed to the U.S. bombing his country despite U.S. claims that he supported it. When the U.S. bombing reached its horrific peak in 1973, Cambodia's infrastructure and moderate and progressive civil society were just about completely destroyed, leaving the harshest and most brutal elements, in this case the Khmer Rouge, previously a very fringe wacko group of the insurgency, to take power.<br />Thieu's regime fell in 1975. The author notes that in his final pathetic words in power, he attacked Kissinger for allegedly selling out South Vietnam in the January 1973 peace agreement though the author notes that Thieu continued to attack and seize territory held by the NLF, continuing the war as if there had been no peace agreement with U.S. support. The U.S. gave him all the military aid in the world but Thieu was opposed by virtually all sectors of South Vietnamese society and he could arrest and kill tens of thousands of people and steal every election but the fundamental illegitamacy of his regime could not be hid.	2002-10-15
US	52306476	RSIIBIUQGOJZX	1560254009	518636548	A Just Response: The Nation on Terrorism, Democracy, and September 11, 2001 (Nation Books)	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Beware, sceptical thoughts found here	An overview of some of the contents found in this book, a collection of writings from The Nation magazine written in the few months after the 9-11 massacres. <br />William Greider, Bill Moyers and others address corporate knavery since 9-11. <br />Katha Pollit asks why we have to fund barbaric dictatorships like the one in Saudi Arabia and oppose progressive forces in the ME. She points to the really unbelievably courageous work of the Revolutionary Women of Afghanistan, operating for years within Afghanistan as fierce opponents of both the Taliban and the Northern Alliance. She also staggers humanity by explaining why she would not allow her daughter to fly an American flag out their living room window. <br />Victor Navasky calls for Ann Coulter to be host of \\"Politically Incorrect\\" instead of Bill Maher. Coulter was fired by The National Review Online for saying racist things that not a few readers of that great publication probably believe but don't say so loudly publicly. On the other hand Bill Maher immediately backtracked after his infamous comments after a few advertisers for his show withdrew and he said he didn't mean what he said he loves our military people and so on. At least, he says, Miss Coulter was actually being politically incorrect in contrast to the whimpy centrist liberal Maher. <br />Chalmers Johnson, the former CIA analyst, has a particularly powerful piece. He quotes the U.S. Space Command's document \\"Vision for 2020\\": \\"the globalization of the world economy will also continue, with a widening between the 'haves' and the have-nots.\\" He quotes the eminent senator from Georgia, the Hon. Zell Miller, as saying on the day after 9/11 that he didn't care if there was \\"collateral damage,\\" lets bomb the hell out of everybody. He notes that collateral damage is one of those terms that isued to describe our destruction of Iraqi and Serb civillians by our high-flying plains. And that this might have been the term that our ambassador to the UN, John Negroponte, might have used while he was helping coordinate the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of Central Americans in the 80's while Ambassador to Honduras. <br />Richard Falk outlines his case for the attack on Afghanistan being a \\"just war.\\" Numerous letters are printed in response to this including from Howard Zinn. The latter writes about the effects of our bombing: bloody young children staggering accross the Pakistani border, enitre villages and families wiped out, the evil cluster bombs, a red cross warehouse bombed. <br />Noam Chomsky quotes the New York Times about U.S. pressure on the military oligarchy running Pakistan to close its border to truck convoys carrying food to Afghanistan. He quotes from various aid agencies which condemned the American bombing as exacerbating the humanitarian disaster by blocking the distribution of desperately needed food aid. The 2001 Fall harvest in Afghanistan was 80 percent disrupted. Other contributors point to the sleaziness of the public relations gesture in dropping 37,000 food packets a day on a population where seven million were needing food. He refers to the massive refugee exodus from the American terror bombing of Kandahar and Herat into land-mine infested rural areas. He quotes from Michael Kinsley, Time magazine and other open supporters of the U.S. terrorist war against Nicaragua in the 80's as they openly advocated terrorist methods that would bring \\"democracy\\" there i.e. to terrorize the Nicaguan people into voting the Sandanistas out in 1990.<br />Alexander Cockburn points out that we on the anti-war left support eradicating Bin Ladenism. It's just that the so-called \\"war on terrorism\\" is only going to increase it over the long run. He like alot of other of the contributors, argue for non-violent legal means to aprehend the perpetrators of 9-11 such as through the international criminal court, the UN, coordinated international police work and so on. <br />Robert Fisk has an article from September 1998 about his interviews with Bin Laden. He quotes Bin Laden as calling the Israeli massacre of the refugees at Qana in 1996 \\"international terrorism\\" and calling for trials for the perpetrators. \\"Clinton used almost exactly the same words about bin Laden and his supporters in August [1998]. But the deaf, as usual, were talking to the deaf.\\" Bin Laden lays out in the midst of ranting, in which he curiously accuses the Saudi regime of financing the defunct radical \\"communist\\" regime of North Yemen, his view that the slaughter of Iraqis because of the sanctions as a \\"war against Islam.\\" <br />Fisk and Michael Massing write about the barbaric Northern Alliance led by the late Ahmad Shah Masood and Abdul Rashid Dostum and how they raped and plundered and bombed Afghanistan 1992-96, making people willing to accept the Taliban takeover. <br />Christopher Hitchens boldly shows that the Bin Ladenists are not misguided freedom fighters but barbaric terrorists. Of course nobody is actually contesting that notion and...oh why bother. Michael Massing's account of the critique of U.S. foreign policy of Fareed Zakaria and even Falk's deeply flawed arguments are much better ... <br />This book, inevitably, is becoming a little bit dated as time goes on for none of the articles are after December 2001 but the arguments in it still hold power.	2002-10-15
US	52306476	R2JSTQ1AEWVRHK	1583224939	480932076	Terrorism and War (Open Media Series)	Books	5	27	33	N	N	A deeply profound book	Dr. Zinn says in this book--probably more correctly than he could ever know at the time he said it-- that it is foolish to advocate indiscriminatley dropping bombs on Afghanistan or anywhere else to end the terrorism of groups like Al Qaida. <br />He says that it might make alot of difference if people could see close up the suffering of the victims of our bombing as we have seen constantly in the media about the victims of 9-11. He quotes from several backpage stories in the media from reporters on the scene describing kids blinded with amputated legs, people who are lone survivors from villages destroyed, parents who have lost their children and their spouses and children who have lost their parents. Or the refugee who have been fleeing their villages and cities by the hundred of thousands who have been bombed. Or the red cross warehouse twice bombed by the U.S. which was supposed to be bombed a third time but hit a residential neighborhood instead. Or the camp at Maslakh camp near Herat where dozens of people are dying every day from starvation and exposure. It is such an idea which made him circulate a letter to him by an Iraqi exile doctor in London about the time of the bombing of Iraq which started in December 1998. His brother and father had been killed by Saddam Hussein but in this bombing an American cruise missle struck his mother's home on the outskirts of Baghdad, killing his mother and his brother's widow and there three children. Saddam Hussein started the killing of his family and Bill Clinton finished them off. This adds the human face to bombing defenseless people rather than seeing it through statistics and explosions from thirty thousand feet.<br />He has some interesting things to say about \\"why they hate us.\\" And he says that there is a very simple test. Why did Bin Laden like us before 1990 when we were helping him and his bandits destroy Afghanistan and dislike us after that time. Well, after that time, U.S. troops occupied Saudi Arabia and we just about completely destroyed Iraqi civillian infrastructure and our murderous sanctions have increased that destruction. Zinn, remarks that though Bin Laden invokes \\"religous symbolism and Islam\\" he expresses great rage about these things and U.S. providing arms to Israel to slaughter Palestinians. He notes that while medieval religous fanatacism played an influence in the Sept 11 attacks, there is obviously something deeper there. You don't just commit terrorism like that because you're just a lunatic. He notes that there are millions of people out there in the world who are enraged about  U.S. policy but are not yet willing to commit terrorist acts. Though this could change if we keep perpetrating death and destruction against their countries.  <br />He responds to our president's pieties about how we are a \\"peaceful nation\\" with god on our side and all that. Of course, he notes we have been an extremely warlike nation, particluarly since World War II. There was Korea, where we killed about two million civillians, then Vietnam where we killed a couple million more, then a couple thousand in Pannama, and invading the Dominican Republic and Grenada, destroying Iraq, bombing civillians in Yugoslavia, bombing medicine factories in the Sudan, providing crucial support to killers like General Suharto of Indonesia get into power by slaughtering hundreds of thousands of people then a couple hundred thousand more in East Timor after 1975. We actively train terrorists at places like the School of Americas. <br />As to how Zinn would have responded to Sept 11, he mentions the International criminal court but he notes, the U.S. dosen't want that because people like Henry Kissinger might possibly be at risk for the massive war crimes they committed. He talks a great deal about his theory of what a \\"just war\\" might be. <br />He notes the planned drastic cuts in health care and housing programs in the midst of Bush's 1.3 trillion dollar tax cut and demands for another 50 or70 billion dollars to be added to our 300 billion dollar annual military budget. This is not to increase our security but to enrich the military industrial complex which the Bush administration and the rest of our politicians serve. And there is of Course the Patriot Act and the military tribunals. He quotes economist Edward Alexander as saying that the richest one percent in this country own 38 percent of the household wealth and 47 percent of the financial wealth. Real unemployment is rising and the number of homeless on the streets is quietly rising. He speculates that this might come back to haunt Bush Jr's administration once the \\"War on Terrorism\\" loses its Public relations momentum, as economic malaise came to trouble Papa Bush after the Gulf war.	2002-10-15
US	52306476	R1A92ODXOPCOWL	0896084442	685142298	Year 501: The Conquest Continues	Books	5	63	72	N	N	Devastating indictment of Western capitalism	This is a book by Chomsky that is probably even more scholarly than usual. At least in the way it is written. Chomsky wrote this book on the 500th anniversary in 1992 of the beginnings of the invasion of much of the world of what Adam Smith refered to, in a rather narrow context as \\"the savage injustice of the Europeans (\\"revealing himself to be an early practicioner of the crime of 'political correctness,'\\"Chomsky comments sardonically)\\". Chomsky begins his survey by analyzing the policies of the major European powers and the United States as they grew to dominate the world. Such policies., he explains, are not the free market doctrines stressed by right wing talk radio hosts, University of Chicago professors and other such bores and frauds but by massive state subsides, huge tarrifs to block foreign competitors, extreme violence and colonial occupation. <BR> <BR>Places like India and Bengal (Bangladesh) which were highly advanced industrial societies by the mid-1700's but all of the industries which were superior to their counterparts in Britain were deliberately undermined or simply forced out of existence by the British colonisers. India and Bangladesh became extremely poor, feudal agricultural countries supplying Britain with raw materials and as a captive market for British goods. The latter is a familiar pattern outlined by Chomsky in this book. The West, since World war II, dominated by the U.S., has always sought any way it could to block advanced economic development in the third world. The exceptions to this that Chomsky points to are Japan and its former colonies in Asia who violated all the laws of the free market to create very dynamic, if, of course, very far from perfect economies. The British, noted Chomsky, started to adopt \\"free trade\\" as policy as the United States would do later under similar circumstances, around 1846 when they had no competitors in their field but this changed around 1930 when they, along with the Americans, French and Dutch erected high tarrif walls around Japanese exports to their colonies in Asia with which they could not compete, a major factor in staring Japan's wars of conquest. <br /> He examines the U.S. role in the slaugter of half a million people in Indonesia in 1965 as the independent nationalist Sukarno was overthrown and \\"a staggering mass slaughter of communists and pro-communits.\\" The U.S. media, rejoyced at the massacre of landless peasants and the destruction of the only mass-based political party the communist PKI. General Suharto took power initiating ongoing plunder and exploitaion of Indonesia's resources by Western corporations while engaging in mass murder in the U.S. backed occupation of East Timor and elsewhere. He examines the media reaction to this slaugter and the reaction back in 1990 when this great event was brought up again by Kathy Kadane.<br /> He examines the showcases of capitalism in the third world like Brazil, whose liberal capitalist president Goulart was overthrown in 1964 with U.S. aid by a group of Neo-nazi generals who compiled over the next few decades a truly horrific human rights record but who were praised for producing an \\"economic miracle\\" as the population sunk into quite horrific levels of malnourishment and disease and land became ever more concentrated in fewer hands and millions of street children arose in the big cities. And Nicaragua where the massive terrorism, celebrated by the media liberals that Chomsky quotes, brought to force upon the Nicaraguan people a defeat of the Sandanistas in \\"democratic election\\" in 1990 (the 1984 election won by the Sandinstas dissapearing into the memory hole). This has predictably resulted in a terrible rise in starvation and disease and drug running and street children and on. <br />He continues with an in-depth examination of the woes of Haiti and the American and Western efforts to ravage it since 1804, and particularly since 1915 when the U.S. invaded and reestablished virtual slavery, with aU.S. imposed constitution ratified with five percent of the voting public participainting under the U.S. marine bayonets, reversing the ban on foreign ownership of land. <br />He compares the podering of the unique evil of Japan in being unable to fully face up to their past crimes and the comparable ignoring of things like the hundreds of thousand of tortured victims of U.S. chemical warfare in South Vietname, which occasionally elicits a comment in the science pages of the newspapers about how we are missing a great opportunity to study the effects of dioxin on a control population	2002-10-15
US	52306476	R37SM3ZXPDXVMP	0671899333	589706656	The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A first rate piece of writing	The author, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip, is of mixed race parentage, her father more dark skinned black than her mother. Her mother, the youngest of her family, was abandoned by her brothers and sisters and her father, a mulatto, her mulato mother having died. Most of her surving relatives (those of Mrs. Haizlip's mother) moved away to other places and passed for white. The last child of the family, she was a painful reminder to them of the black experience they inherited. This abandonment happened around 1916. She passed into several gaurdianships and then ended up in the home of a light skinned couple, a dentist and lady who was slowly loosing her sanity. Her female gaurdian spent most of her time covering her furniture with white sheets,pulling down the blinds of the house and running around in rags. Her mother eventually met Julian, a part white and part Indian, a divorcee son of a prominent black minister. They married and Julian Jr. settled in as a pastor to the small black community in the working class town of Ansonia Connecticut.<br />In the pictures provided in the book, Margaret and her mother look rather Mediteranian. Margaret and Julian their three children, plus some foster children, lived an exceedingly happy middle class lifelife. There were summer homes to vacation, pleasant trips to Baptist national conventions, regular shopping trips, a vibrant social life, guests at home from NAACP leaders to Jackie Robinson. Racial problems were a little part of their life in this community. The children, except for the only sun Julian Jr. nicknamed \\"Brother,\\" one of the few problems in their lives, were very successful in school,full of extra-curricular activities, camping, clubs, and so on. <br />Not exactly the life of the average black family in the 1940's. The author would marry a gentleman named Harold Haizlipp, attend Ivy league schools. They were amongst the elite of New York, sitting on a bunch of trustee boards, knowing all the famous intellectuals, and itwas in such genteel circles that she and her husband conducted activism against racism. One interesting incident was a party thrown by the Haizlips in apparently the late 60's in New York. Attendees included Betty Shabaz, widow of Malcom X and a daughter of Nelson Rockefeller. A white woman, apparently some sort of civil rights worker, was brought along with one of Shirlee's friends. She apparently was so overcome by the interracial socilization going on, in addition to the nature of the party which called for guests to wear costumes revealing as much skin as possible (inspired by the play \\"Hairspray). The woman gripped around Harold's Cousin tightly and started screaming that the black males there wished to rape her before she was subdued and taken to a mental hospital. <br />Harold was commissioner of education in the Virgin Islands from 1971 to 1980. Shirlee had to fret about things like worrying about wearing the same dress as Queen Elizabeth when she met the latter. She became manager of the local CBS affiliate on the island and tried to make its programing reflect the interests of the natives. When she returned to the U.S., she became a director until 1986 at New York Public Television station WNET and had a few unpleasant racial situations there. She moved on to be the director of the National Center for Film and Video preservation at the American film institute and she found quickly found herself out of place in this organization which declared \\"Birth of a Nation\\" to be one of America's greatest film treasures. She didn't last long there. She expresses a great deal of disillusionment with race relations in this country. <br />The author towards the end of the book (set in the early 90's) helps her mother seek out her \\"white\\" relatives and there is mostly happy reunions. The interaction with Shirlee's Aunt Grace is particularly interesting. That lady was apparently quite sincere when she said she had no memory of her early life of things that related to the \\"black\\" part of her life. She had blocked it all out. Grace also is quoted bring up the issue more than once of her Spanish translator grandaughter going out with Hispanic men. She says \\"what's wrong with a good white man\\" and that her grandaughter's boyfriend is \\"dark--like a black man.\\" <br />This book, except for the first part which is somewhat stiffly writen-- where the author laboriously describes, her ancestors, their physical features, their houses, personalities and so on--is a first rate piece of writing. The author has lived an exceedingly romantic life, one with lots of family love, friends and activity. ...	2002-10-12
US	52306476	R35HFSHVKIGJEF	0156443503	453970176	Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An excellent piece of literature	This book is the memoir of an ex-slave woman published in 1861. The author is a gifted story-teller and evokes feeling very well. The author was inspired by religous conviction and great personal confidence. This book is too genuine to think that someone else wrote it for her, such as her white editor. It would have turned it into just another political phamphlet from the civil war era if that were the case. She had a great deal of intelligence and obvious natural ability to write despite her lack of formal education.<br /> She goes through her nonage at the mercy of a lecherous master, Dr. Flint, whom she successfully avoids against being raped yet is subjected to constant verbal and sometimes physical abuse. She managed to escape and hide in her Grandmother's house in some sort of extremely small space where she had to remain almost all the time for seven years.<br />She escapes to the North eventually and joins her two children, products of a relationship with a white man, a future congressman, of her town as she was trying to get away from her master. She falls into the hands of various abolitionst-inclined aristocrats who help protect her, particularly after the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, until one of her white benefactors was able to negotiate with Dr. Flint's son-in-law, Dr. Flint being dead by this time, to \\"buy\\" her freedom. Having to have her freedom bought was very distasteful to her for she had long fully reasoned herself a human being and not a cow.<br />It is good to read books like this that remind you just how horrible slavery was. Hardly a system where happy and content slaves worked for benevolent philospher aristocratic gentleman. It was a system which subjected slaves without protection of the law to the short term profit and personal whims of the white elite. To put it mildly. Blacks were treated worse than animals with all the whipping and constant mental degredation and the breaking up of slave families at a whim. The author asserts after visiting England as a nanny for one of her benefactors and observing the life of some of the dirt poor in rural England that the poorest of them lived better than the most pampered slave in America.isiting England as a nanny for one of her benefactors and observing the life of some of the dirt poor in rural England that the poorest of them lived better than the most pampered slave in America.	2002-10-08
US	52306476	R32C73VBSIB2YB	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	5	13	N	Y	Michael Moore is a treasure	The best part of the book is the last fifth or so of the book where he deals with the fraudulence of democratic party populism. He goes through the list of Clinton's Republican policies. Clinton had us drinking 1942 arsenic in our water until the last days of his presidency. Bush then reversed Clinton's last second order decreasing arsenic (not to take affect until 2004), simply rerverting to levels that we had been drinking for eight years under Clinton. Moore notes that Tom Daschle and sixteen other Democratic senators had blocked efforts to reduce arsenic in October 2000. The same with the four greenhouse gasses whose reductions Clinton ordered at the last moment would not have taken affect until 2010. He notes that the democrats in Congress were actually very receptive to Bush's agenda. For instance the 37 democratic senators who voted for The Bankruptcy reform act making certain that families drowning in medical bills will continue under crushing debt. He notes that Clinton-Gore actually oversaw the lessening of fuel efficiency standards for veichles which had been at their highest during Reagan-Bush Sr. Clinton-Gore oversaw the accelerated drilling for oil and gas on Federal lands at the same level of Reagan-Bush Sr. Pollution, according to the Sierra Club has doubled along the Texas-Mexican border since Nafta was implemented. He notes that Clinton signed off on a bill denying money for abortions in foreign countries. This was the groundwork, he notes, for Bush signing a bill that denied funds to groups that advocated abortion as an alternative. <br />Moore ridicules liberals who support Clinton who threw poor people out on the street, who expanded the death penalty, who bombed Iraq, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Sudan, who allowed only a few conglomerates to own most of the media. He notes that at the end of the Clinton administration there was not a doctor willing to perform an abortion in 86 percent of the counties in the U.S. He says that what Clinton did was simply say that he was fervently devoted to the environment and abortion and his opponents were not. It didn't matter if he actually did anything in support of those things. To his liberal supporters, saying was the same thing as doing. In reality,he could harm abortion rights and pollute the air, yet his image was not hurt. <br />He suggests that the democrats and Republicans should merge into one party. Then there would be actual differences between our parties (The Republican-democratic party vs. The Greens) \\"There are about 200 million of us who would like to see a real two-party system (or three-party, or four-party--hey it's a big country), with one party fighting for the right to write off one's backyard tennis court as a business expense and the other fighting for the right to see a doctor if one gets sick.\\"<br />He voted for Ralph Nader like I did. He notes that Gore would have won had he carried his home state, or Clinton's state Arkansas or the traditionally democratic West Virginia. Or if Bush hadn't stolen Florida, a topic to which he devotes his first chapter. <br />The funniest part of the book is his dealing with the Stem-cell research issue. It's very funny. Perhaps the most interesting of all the interesting things in this book is his pointing out how the Bush administration goons pardoned the goons from Koch industries of 90 plus counts of pouring 91 metric tons of Benzene, a cancer causing agent, into the air and water and covering it up from federal investigators. He contrasts the media's treatment of this with the hocus pocus of holy horror Clinton's pardon of Mark Rich.	2002-10-08
US	52306476	RH4J01UBD1N5A	1567511309	94089758	The Annexation of Mexico: From the Aztecs to the IMF	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A good history of Mexico	The author discusses the dictatorship in Mexico of Porifiro Diaz (1876-1910). Dissidents were thrown in gulags. The author writes that in the slums of Mexico city, 43 out of every 1000 adults died a year compared to 6 out of a 1,000 in not very healthy London and half the babies did not survive their first year. In the rural areas, wages in 1910 where 35 centavos a day, exactly what they were in 1810. But American business elites were very happy with General Diaz. They could pludner Mexico all they wanted. Andrew Carnegie called him \\"the Moses and Joshua of his people.\\" <br />The author goes through the period after the 1910 revolution which saw the U.S. engage in assasination, aggression and ideological warfare to keep the revolutionares from threatening the interests of the American businesses which had made so much loot under Diaz. 1929 saw the creation of what would later become the PRI, a political party to legitimize the dictatorship of the 1910 revolutionaries. That revolution was by that time quite deradicalized and co-opted by the U.S. The most radical revolutionary, Emiliano Zapata, was murdered under president Carranza's orders in 1919, a year before the latter met the same fate. After the presidency of populist Lazaro Cardenas (1934-1940)Mexico's government settled into a state capitalist one-party dictatorship, which controlled some sectors of the economy bbut always allowed foreign participation in those sectors. U.S. investment in the country continually rose as did military aid. The PRI tolerated dissent but always was willing to arrest and \\"dissapear\\" such persons if they got too uppity and always could commit fraud if they were about to lose an election. On October 2nd 1968, the Army massacred 337 people as they were about to disperse from a non-violent protest at the Plaza of Three Cultures at the Tlateloclo housing complex. <br />In the early 80's Mexico, burdened with a huge debt and low world oil prices, went into serious economic decline. Wages went down too and the one bright spot was Mexico's trade surplus with the U.S. as the lowest wages in the hemisphere were paid to the maquiladora workers of the exporting multinational corporations. <br />Carlos Salinas won the presidential election in 1988 through outright fraud and violence. Salinas engaged in massive privitization policies, earning him much praise from U.S. politicians and business leaders. He crushed strikes at businesses about to be privitized. The creation of NAFTA created unregulated movement of capital. Massive capital flight took place as stronger U.S. multinationals overtook local competitors in the Mexican market and sent their money back to the U.S. In December 1994, Mexico was in serious crises as it had to default on short term bond payments. Mexico was in its most serious crises since the Great Depression and its people suffered more terribly than usual. <br />He tells stories of what ordinary people throughout Mexico are dealing with and the hell their country has been put through. He looks at people attempting to block Jack Nicklaus's \\"Golden Bear\\" company from building a golf course and resort complex in their community and stealing all of their water supply, at people fighting the thuggery of the state oil company, at people fighting the looting of their forests and the destruction of the environment of their communities. He looks at people whose land was expropriated to build tourist hotels, who have launched armed rebellions such as in Gurererro and Chiapas. All of these people have encountered U.S. backed terror and torture in response. <br />The prose style in this book is somewhat plodding.	2002-09-13
US	52306476	R14FOFT1KU6QVD	1583224947	626486948	Silencing Political Dissent: How Post-September 11 Anti-Terrorism Measures Threaten Our Civil Liberties	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	The War on Dissent becomes official	According to the author of this book, at least 104 people were still being held in INS custody as of May 2002. Back in November 2001 the total may have been around 2000. They are all of Middle Eastern or South Asian descent. They were brought to the attention of the authorities soley because of their ethnicity and then held incommunicado on immigration charges. Reverend Ashcroft had granted powers to the INS to detain immigrants 48 hours without charges. The government has not been able to discover that any of these post-Sept 11 detainees have any connection to terrorism. The author points out that a disproportionate number of cases of the 718 of which anyone has been able to find anything about, have featured much longer detainment than 48 hours before being charged with their immigration infractions. One man was held 118 days. <br />The author notes in that in four decisions, judges ruled against Patriot act provisions including the effort to close immigrations hearings to the public of detainees of \\"special interest\\" and relating to the efforts of the government to block access to the outside world for the detainees and to not release the names and other info about the detainees. It is rather extraordinary, it is noted, for the judiciary to challenge the government in a time of national crises. One judge ruled against the government's use of the material witness statute to imprison witnesses for grand jury testimony. The case of Osama Owadallah was under review in that case. He was repeatedly assaulted, the author writes, by prison gaurds while he was in prison for three weeks. <br />The author notes some other stories. A Pakistani man was beaten by inmates as prison gaurds stood by after a newspaper article circulated in the prison that he was suspected of terrorism.  Another, the plaintiff in Turkmen Vs. Ashcroft, complained of his face being kicked and slammed into walls by prison gaurds, loosening his lower teeth. He was in a great deal of pain but not allowed to see a dentist. A Pakistani man, was detained after a pastor at a local church pointed him out to the FBI and he had only overstayed his visitors visa. He had agreed to leave the U.S. but had to stay at a correctional center while the FBI completely cleared him of links to terrorism. In the meantime he died of a heart attack.  An Iranian suffered a stroke and spent three months in solitary confinement but got no treatment. In general these poor immigrants have been heavily shackled and forced to stay in windowless rooms with bright light on 24 hours a day.<br />The author is particularly concerned about the new crime of \\"domestic terrorism\\" delineated in the \\"Patriot Act.\\" Terrorism is no longer defined just as the use of violence against civillians for political ends. Domestic terrorism is defined as using force or coercion to intimidate the U.S. government. The author is certain that civil disobedience or any sort of confrontational protest will fall under \\"domestic terrorism. Combined with the enhanced powers of surveilance granted in the Patriot act and Ashcroft's very permissive guidelines issued on May 30 2002 for domestic intelligence, the other worries that Cointelpro-type activities are receiving official sanction. Under Ashcroft's guidelines, the author notes, relatively little restraints are placed on FBI infiltration and disruption of groups whose only crime is opposing the government. The author goes through some cases of such activities already known to be in existence such as the Denver Police department's \\"spy files\\" on peaceful organizations and their members. <br />Of particular interest, is the author noting that Bush (or rather Cheney and the rest of his advisors for Bush doesn't know what he's doing) in November 2001 vetoed the release of records from the Reagan administration that were supposed to have been released on January 20 2001. He signed an executive order essentially overiding the Presidential records act of 1978 that called for the release of records from a presidential administration twelve years after it leaves office. The order gave sitting presidents and former presidents and vice presidents the right to veto the release of past records. Bush's executive order essentiallty overrode the Presidential Records act. The president made a law to replace a law of congress, which is unconstitutional. Such are the notions of accountable constitutional government in the present administration of \\"conservatives.\\"<br />If you are a pure-hearted American who cannot comprehend the notion that your leaders might have something other than your best interests at heart as they supposedly strive to protect you from Bin Laden, then this book might be too much for you. But if you are sceptical of the dominant institutions in this country, and are aware of the many abysmal episodes with civil liberties in this country's history, then read this book.	2002-09-06
US	52306476	RBESCOBZWSFZA	0872864057	838343161	The Terrorism Trap: September 11 and Beyond	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A fine performance from Dr. Parenti	What are the true motives of the gangsters of the Bush administration and their colleagues in congress as described by the learned Marxist-Leninist author? Well, to exploit 9-11 to strengthen the powerful interests they represent. They attempted to get their \\"stimulas package\\" i.e. even more tax cuts and tax refunds for the corporate world, through congress. The gave billions to the airlines with no strings attached, airlines which, as he notes had been in financial difficulties before 9-11. The problem with the airlines, Parenti basically says, is that they couldn't compete once the industry was deregulated. They too much competition so they couldn't make any profits from taking a huge slice of the market share, so their friends in D.C. came in to protect them from the invisible hand of the market. Of course helping the tens of thousands of laid off workers would be against free-market principles. <br />Mr. Parenti says that tax cuts for corporations is really illogical since these scum have been making more money than they ever have been. .... <br />And of course after 9-11 we heard from the administration's trade representative that we must confront Bin Laden and the other enemies of freedom by passing \\"fast track\\" legislation which legalizes the right of the president to sign trade agreements with scant congressional or any other involvement so now we can get more agreements which further the process whereby governments can no longer place hindrances on corporations plundering labor and resources unless in the extremely unlikely event that unelected representatives from the corporate world on secret tribunals declare them to be OK.<br />He notes that the United states governent is the greatest terrorist in the modern world. Our government has slaugtered millions of poor people lately in Afghanistan and trained death squads and overthrown governments that obstruct transnational corporations from plundering their countries. You know the list. He surveys the quitebad effects of U.S. intervention in Grenada and Panamma. Our government is the leader in pushing on poor countries neoliberal programs from the World bank and IMF which places countries in virtually permanent debt and forces them to privitize all essential services so that you don't get clean water or decent health care if you need it but rather if you can purchase clean water and health care at market price and if it is profitable for the private sector put such things on the market for you.<br /> Our government provides massive aid which props up terrible dictatorships in the Arab/Moslem worlds, dictatorships which stifle civil society and give rise to hopelessness and despair give rise to Bin Laden type groups. He places Afghanistan under the Soviet backed regime as an example of the U.S. working to destroy a government which provided for the needs of its people. He notes that the regime gave free health care, gender equality, free education, land reform and so on to the deeply poor peasant masses and this provided the basis for the U.S. to support the landowning and Islamic oligarchy as represented by the Mujahadeen \\"freedom fighters\\"--barbaric killers significantly representing the Northern Alliance--, as early as six months before the Soviets actually invaded. U.S. support for Afghan Islamic reactionaries produced all sorts of results including powerful organizations created by Afghan war vetrans like Bin Landen full of many other war vetrans who have been responsible for many of the more infamous acts of retail terrorism in the past decade. He is right in alot of things on this issue but he seem to want to idealize the Soviet backed regime which on the whole governed in the matter of Saddam Hussein	2002-08-22
US	52306476	R1I9KW06IXMAWQ	0679749861	967695947	Race Matters	Books	5	19	27	N	Y	What is the matter and what is to be done	In this book Dr. West provides an incisive survey of the problems of the African American community and suggests strategies for solving them. It was published in 1994.<br />One problem is economic. Real wages have declined significantly for the majority in this country since the early 70's. Industrial and manufacturing jobs which once helped the black community have disappeared exacerbating unemployment and underemployment. Declining tax bases and cutbacks in federal services have seen the infrastructure of cities crumble. This has contributed to the breakdown of the black family. It leads to a loss of hope of leading a constructive life and many people adopt a crude form of our country's crude laizze faire ideology. That is to say, they try to get ahead in life by any means possible, maximizing their short term profit and pleasure, no matter what the consequences, no matter what other people get hurt. Dr. West is not a fan of the free market as manifested in the mass media which encourages massive conspicuous consumption and overwhelms one with images of sex and violence, having a negative effect on vulnerable people.<br />Dr. West argues that a revival of political participation and what others have termed social capital is necessary to create hope in disadvantaged people. Grassroots organizations should be led by democratic, accountable, leaders and educate people on the issues and make them feel that they are capable of changing their lives significantly for the better .<br />He critiques Malcolm X's version of W.E.B. Dubois's \\"double consciousness.\\" It was Malcolm, says Dr. West, who was most successful in advancing ideas of black self-worth and self-pride and cracking the dependence of blacks trying to live up to the dominant white perceptions of intelligence, beauty, behavior, etc. and usually failing in their own eyes. <br />But West is concerned about these negative self-attitudes still persisting. One example he gives is of the Clarence Thomas episode in 91'. Thomas had a dreadfully mediocre career prior to this and supported policies greatly harmful to black people and was obviously chosen by George Bush Sr., despite cynical rhetoric to the contrary, because he was black. Many blacks avoided the grounds on which the congressional black caucus objected to Thomas which was his supreme lack of qualifications. Instead the debate centered on how \\"black\\" Thomas might be, helped along by Thomas's own bellowing about his racial authenticity. The Nation of Islam, despite viewing the Republican party as very racist, endorsed Thomas. Anita Hill, a right wing Republican like Thomas, and her dignity were thrown in the garbage. West writes that many blacks seemed not to want to object to a black person for an important position, no matter who, because if they did object on the grounds of his mediocrity, they feared it would reinforce white supremacist beliefs about blacks lacking intelligence. <br />Another example of blacks reacting not very well to white supremacist beliefs relates to sexuality. A disproportionate number of disadvantaged young black men lacking hope of leading a constructive life, adopt a machismo of sexual prowess and willingness to use violence. Since the myths of black men being inherent sexual studs is so wide-spread, young black men can feel superior to the white race in just this one way by flaunting their sexuality. or so Dr.West seems to say. Black females fall into different but still negative stereotypes. <br />West argues that only multi-racial, multi-gender and multi-sexual preference organization can lead to substantive black progress. Black nationalism he says can sometimes be very counter-productive. He laments Malcolm X's failure to embrace the hybridization of mass movements. He argues that though black nationalists do a good job in awakening self-pride and racial consciousness in blacks, such things should not always lead to exclusivist nationalism. <br />He devotes a chapter to analyzing black-Jewish relations and black anti-semitism. He gives factors contributing to the latter inclduing rightward direction of politically active Jews since the late 60's and Black sympathy for Palestinians and strong Jewish suppport of Israel. He notes that some black professionals are upset by the increasing Jewish opposition to affirmative action. Many black professionals in the private sector, he says, would not have been hired had the government not been monitoring company hiring practices. There is no evidence, he says, that whites would not prefer to hire qualified whites over qualified blacks. And support for cutbacks in social services upsets blacks who with few chances to make a decent living in the job market, might sink completely without government support. <br />Overall, he argues black anti-semitism is a a very irrational reaction to class differences and a rapid climb up on the social ladder for an ethnic group that is now very much part of the white elite, which used to be a \\"comrade\\" in the struggles of black Americans. He argues that anti-semtism or homophobia or any other form of bigotry is absolutely unacceptable if Blacks want to get any progress. Espcially bad is when these black ultra-militants sit up and talk about Jewish conspiracies while ignoring economic and other issues that have very serious importance for their audiences. And, of course, he reminds us that anti-semites are far from being only black and many blacks speak out against anti-semitism whatever the media perception to the contrary. <br />His idea for grassroots black movements that are free of patriarchy, exclusivism, homophobia, bigotry,classim is not completely impossible as it is not impossible for Americans as a whole. He is right that black social progress can best be made in concert with people different races and other backgrounds.	2002-06-25
US	52306476	R2KMZW1B9ZNYLY	0896086542	789206808	The Decline and Fall of Public Broadcasting: Creating Alternative Media	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A brief but compelling argument	In this book David Barsamian quotes Ben Bagdikian as saying that in 1983 there 50 corporations dominating the media. In 2000 there were six. We have an ever shrinking handful of interlocking massive conglomerates controlling media outlets which people are forced to turn to for news. In the beginning of the book Barsamian covers the accession of Michael Powell, son of our eminent imperial foreign minister, appointed by George W.Bush, after he got the presidency to head the FCC. Now Mr. Powell wastes no platitudes about serving the \\"public interest.\\" He says that his job is to serve his \\"clients\\" i.e. the major media conglomerates. And this means accelerating the process of removing anti-monopoly provisions, the type which say that one network can't purchase another network or that no company can own a tv station and a newspaper in the same region. The philopsophy of folks like Powell, extended to the other sectors of the economy as well, is that companies can buy up all the newspapers and tv and radio stations that they want, no matter how large a part of the market they might control. <br />Barsamian quotes from the commission that established American public broadcasting back in 1967. The stated goal, in brief, was to offer public media that would give a voice to marginalized groups in society, to those other than corporations and their representitives, intellectual or otherwise. After all the public owns the radio and television airwaves. The media, as Thomas Jefferson recognized, as the primary source of information for the citizenry, are maybe the most crucial component of a true democracy. If only a few conglomerates can buy space on the radio and TV airwaves to dissimenate information then something is wrong. <br />In the United States, the way it was set up, Public broadcasting was doomed from the start. Its funding is at the whim of annunal appropriations from our congresspeople. It must signficantly fund itself by looking for money from the corporate world.And it has been under attack from under right wing flacks particularly since the 80's who have called, for instance NPR a gathering place for the \\"discredited pro-Soviet left\\" (David Horowitz), the American mouthpiece for the Sandanistas during the 80's and other such incredibly stupid and silly labels. Recently NPR was denounced by the idiots at CAMERA for waging a hellish campaign of defemation of Israel, despite having reporters on the issue like Linda Gradstein being very supportive of the Israeli government. <br />Barsamian goes through the litany of documentaries and other productions--on issue ranging from genocide in East Timor and Iraq and corporate domination to domestic abuse and homsexuality. PBS often rejects them, for instance, on the grouds of conflict of interest between the position being advocated in the productions and the underwriters who are using the money to support that position. Of course they never have any qualms about showing advocacy films produced by corporations and other status quo interests. <br />Barsamian says that the government run public broadcasting occasionally does some good stuff like putting on Bill Moyers. But they are overwhelming slanted towards the center--right. William F. Buckley had \\"Fireline\\" on PBS for decades, as had Ben Wattenberg, John McClaughlin as well as the numerous shows dealing with Wall Street. And then there's The Lehrer News hour. All of this stuff gets plenty of corporate funding or \\"underwriting.\\" And then there's Charlie Rose who, Barsamian notes, benignly hosts establishment guests like Henry Kissinger or Thomas Friedman and lets them repeat their balderdash, but when an occasional dissenter comes on, like Edward Said, he subjects them to relentless cross-examination. <br />Dealing with NPR, he notes that they are hardly cemented in the Political center and beyond. For instance dealing with Iraq last year, Barsamian quotes them as letting Colin Powell say that humanitarian supplies are able to bedelivered to Iraq when he and his fellow criminals have been blocking billions of dollars of supplies from getting through the UN sanctions committee. He relates the time Noam Chomsky who is the leading intellectual of the Left had his one interview with NPR in 1988. If one accepts the theory of Horowitz and other such gifted analysts that NPR is home to anti-american subversives than you would expect Noam Chomsky to be all over NPR but of course the exact opposite is true as the story relates. <br />I don't quite know when some of the writing in here was produced. It was supposedly published in August 2001 but Barsamian says at one point that Chomsky has only appeared once in 1990 on The News Hour on PBS. He actually appeared again in early 1998 and then, I believe in early 99'. But of the point Barsamian makes is still very valid. Then he refers to Howard Zinn with producers Ben Affleck and Matt Damon trying to produce a series based on Zinn's book \\"A People's History of the U.S.\\" for HBO but HBO actually canned the effort around two years ago. <br />He ends noting the courageous efforts, fortunately just recently fullfilled of Amy Goodman and the people at Pacifica, the oldest listener supported network in the U.S., to wrestle control back from the corporate thugs who hijacked it. He also says somethings about Microradio, Free speech TV, Indymedia and other such efforts. Goodman writes the foreward to this book and Mumia Abu Jamal writes the afterward.	2002-04-19
US	52306476	R1LJ0XAHZOG90W	0295956887	149037816	Nisei Daughter	Books	4	11	13	N	N	An interesting, well-crafted memoir	This is the story told by a daughter of Japanese immigrants growing up in pre-World War II Seattle. She was in college when Pearl Harbor struck. <br />I think the best parts of this memoir deal with the description of Japanese culture and the conflict between the Americanism of the Nisei and their Issei parents most of whom heavily maintained Japanese customs. Perhaps the funniest part of the latter in the book takes place during the wedding reception held for her brother Henry and his bride in their camp in Idaho during the war. <br />I'd have to say that the best written, the most vivid part of the books is the family trip to visit relatives in Japan where her little brother Kenji fatally contracted dysentery. I'm guessing that this trip must have taken place around 1929. <br />The author gets released from camp mid-way through the war to go live with some former missionaries in Chicago who are very nice. She works for a dentist who is, however, a real pain in the butt and she eventually quits. <br />She then gets the opportunity to go attend Wendell college in Indiana where she lives with a nice old widow and she says that this college was full of alot of diverse foreign students. She made many close friends. During her post-camp period, her faith in American democracy was largely restored because she met so many nice white Americans who weren't racist louts. The book ends on a sort of patriotic note which I can't follow completely. In Chicago she was often mistaken for Chinese and people told her how much they respected the Chinese people, America's ally and she was sometimes mistaken for various Chinese celebrities. <br />It's obvious, that the author, who at the time of this 1979 edition, was still a clinical psychologist, knows how to write. She is a very gifted descriptive writer, though sometimes she lays it on too heavy. She tells her life story with a great deal of sentimentality; at times I think she pours it on a little too sweetly. But heck it's her story and she crafts it very well.	2002-04-11
US	52306476	R28E6MJDP3OX4C	0452273870	482176358	Under the Feet of Jesus	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A fine piece of literature	This is a short novel, 176 pages. The stories characters, a Chicano migrant family, are very finely crafted. They are very real. Perfecto is probably the most powerfully drawn. He is probably about 73, with a wife about 40 years younger than himself and several stepchildren including thirteen year old Estrella who could be said to be the novel's main character. <br />Estrella's father abandoned Petra, the mother and her children. Perfecto feels the urge to do just that towards the end of the book during a particularly difficult period. I'd have to say that the description of Perfecto's turmoil is probably a close second in the book to the scene where Estrella explodes in the medical clinic, where her class resentments are taken out on the poor white nurse. <br />Now, I got the feeling through reading this book that it might have been better edited. The author just might be the greatest confector of similes in the  history of humanity though I thought she might have laid them on in the book a bit too heavy. There are streches in the book where the writing is first rate, full of vigor; then other periods when it is less vigorous but still well done. But after I finished the book, I thought to myself that the book could not have been written any other way for better or for worse. <br />In conclusion, this is a very finely crafted story of a poor migrant family, perhaps very typical, as they engage in back breacking labor for long hours at ten cents an hour under terrible working and living conditions, breathing in pesticides, enriching their bosses and giving us cheap fruit and vegetables.	2002-03-16
US	52306476	R2MUCABFVKBNNQ	0452275334	564125943	Life on the Color Line: The True Story of a White Boy Who Discovered He Was Black	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great piece of literature	This book is masterfully put together. It's a memoir but it is also an excellent piece of literature. It may sometimes be very unpleasant but it is very real. I really liked it. <br />As the author's father is on the train from Virginia with his ten and nine year old sons, the author Greg and Mike respectively, after his white wife fled his violent alcoholism with their two other children, heading for Muncie Indiana after his previously modestly profitable business enterprises, including a tavern, had collapsed, he informs them that he is not Italian as they had always assumed but half-black, the product of a wealthy white Kentucky man and his black maid. <br />Their father, a dreadful alcoholic, eventually settles himself and his two sons with his mother in Muncie who is also an alcoholic, in her hideous shack which is a hang out for all sorts of neighborhood low life. The boys are eventually rescued by a widow of a prominent local hustler whom they call \\"Miss Dora\\"  a fifty two year old black lady who is very poor but strongly motivated vis a vis the boys by religous conviction and she lets them live with her. She is well acquainted with their father.  <br />Their father Anthony or \\"Buster\\", is probably the most picturesque figure throughout the book. He seems to have been one of the greatest hustlers in the history of humanity. He spents alot of his time in the shack with his mother drinking and fighting with her. He spends the rest of the time working odd jobs dragging his sons along to help out, gambling, swindling rummage sale clerks, asking for favors and money from local politicians and policeman, bar hopping and visiting the local brothel as well as engaging in sex with any woman willing (his abilities in this area have a high local reputation). My favorite episode involving him is when  heleaps up on the podium to kiss John F. Kennedy who was campaiging in Muncie in 1960 and waves to a cheering crowd. <br />The author was clearly regarded in Muncie and under the circumstances was forced to call himself black which he did not shrink from but was forced to endure pretty abominable racism. He was an excellent student and a pretty good athlete but the only serious guidance he got from counsellors or teachers throughout his schooling were stern warnings after he was caught engaging in suspiscious behavior with a white girl in a secluded part of  school. He was always very dilligent and polite and was particularly grateful to Miss Dora whose home shielded him and his brother somewhat from the vulgarity and violence of his father's life and to whom he gave all the income that he and his brother could muster from working odd jobs. But his father excersised a greater and greater alcohol-inspired tyranny over them as they got older though his wrath was directed the most at Greg. <br />This book contains a very vivid portrayal of the violence and misery of life in 1950's America. Not exactly \\"Ozzie and Harriet.\\" The author portrays very well his teenage years where his environment at his junior high and high school both of which contained a mixture of black and white students was very racially volatile. Towards the end of high school, he ends up falling in love with a pretty white girl named Sara whom he he will marry in 1969 but not before alot of pain particularly from her side as she experiences the hostility and ostracism of her family and anyone else who finds out she is in love with a \\"Negro\\" and participating in civil rights activism. His youth was in many ways what one would expect in an environment full of dreadful poverty and apathy. On the other hand it was a pretty typical American male youth.<br />The author is very far from reticient in dealing with matters involving sex. In his social circle sex or at least talking often about it was a big part of achieving one's maturity, though Greg always was far behind many of his friends particularly his closest friend Brian Settles. Though he did have quite some interestingexperiences with a pretty young gal named Hattie including when he was fifteen in Miss Dora's living room engaging in intense carnal stimulation while Miss Dora, Hattie's mother and his grandmother were in the next room. He ran up excitedly to his room in the atic and carried down with him his pencil pouch from school and Hattie said.......<br />There are alot of memorable or perhaps fascinatingly grotesque characters in this book. Like Fred Badders, a white man, twenty five years his grandmothers's junior but utterly hideous looking who shows up at his grandmother's house every time her social security check comes in and he allows her to use him sexually. Or his brother Mike who becomes involved with various gangsters and moves into a violent and very poor housing project in Chicago with one of his ladies and ends up sleeping with, among a good many women, a student teacher at his high school and two fourty year old women including \\"Bernice\\"  and Mike at one point tells his brother about a time that he had his dad were lying in bed with her and......Oh boy, anyway I should rap this up. Mike eventually straigtened out though not before he lost his eyesight in a shooting. <br />Anyway a remarkable achievement. The author, who is currently a professor of law, is able to tell his story in a very unpretensious and intelligent way. There is quite a few grotesque and shocking episodes in this book but they are molded into a story which is very real.	2002-02-18
US	52306476	R3RT47XU87M117	0252066162	474669325	Taking the Risk Out of Democracy: Corporate Propaganda versus Freedom and Liberty (History of Communication)	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Taking the risk out of democracy	Mr. Andrew Lohrey informs us in his introduction, to this collection of essays by the late Australian psychologist Alex Carey, that Carey was prevented from going to college by his parents after he finished secondary school as they wanted him to manage their sheep farm which he did with such success that he could sell it about a decade later and enter a university. <br />Here and there this book is dreadfully dry, particularly towards the end. His ideas probably would have been made clearer and much better organized if he would have been able to put together a regular book instead of a book of essays put together by someone else but he died in 1988 before he could get it done. But the topics he discusses are very important especially now when business and government propaganda has never been more powerful.<br />The main title of this book describes what big business and their intellectual and political minions have tried to do particularly in the United States as rights to vote and to organize in this country were extended to large segments of the population of this country over the last hundred years. Carey's old friend Noam Chomsky quotes in his preface the numerous intellectual advocates (Walter Lipmann, Harold Laswell,etc.) of what Thomas Jefferson called late in his life \\"a single and splendid government of an aristocracy\\" made up of the \\"banking institutions and monyed incorporations\\" whom he feared would destroy the freedoms gained during the American revolution. Many prominent liberal intellectuals devoted loyal service to the state during World War one particularly in the government propaganda agencies putting out massive bogus atrocity stories about the Germans and turning a largely anti-war population in a short period into a bunch of maniacs looking to destroy everything remotely connected with Germany and German culture. A young German soldier named Adolf Hitler was deeply impressed with the allied propaganda effort and blamed German weakness in this field for their defeat and vowed that Germany would learn its lessons by the time the next war came around. <br />The best part of Carey's text, by far, is about the first five chapters. The first topic discussed is the Americanization movement begun in the few years before World War one by big busisiness associatons who were particularly worried about such events as the victory of the IWW led strike of textile workers in Lawrence Massachusetts in 1912. Big business was particularly worried about the influence of IWW-type radicalism on the U.S. immigrant population which mostly worked under very bad conditions at very low wages and set to work with a somwhat successful drive to inculate immigrants as well as the population at large with \\"American\\" values like free enterprise and the status quo and social harmony and against alien values like socialism or the welfare state or non-pliable unions. Out of this campaign came the Fourth of July holiday signed into law into 1918. This campaign culminated in the government crushing of the labor movement during 1919-21 under the cover of chasing communists and German spies. <br />The labor movement, says Carey, did not recover until the Great Depression which forced the U.S. government to enact very basic welfare legislation and protection of unions. This greatly alarmed important segments of big business. The National Association of Manufacturers literature in 1938 warned of the \\"hazard facing industrialists\\" of the \\"newly realized political power of the masses.\\" <br />The end of World War two saw the beginnings of a massive attack on independent thinkers and organized labor under the cover of a red scare. After a lag in the early 1970's, the elites in this country began to steer this country towards a very markedly right wing political climate, seeing the rise of previously regarded fringe elements as represented by such think tanks as the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage foundation which featured such profoundthinkers as former Nixon and Ford treasury secretary William Simon who fulminated about how the Carter administration was steering the country towards collectivist totalitarianism. <br />He goes into some detail examining the right wing apparatus in his native Australia. He ends with discussion of some matters dealing with industrial psychology and industrial sociology culminating in a study of the Hawthorne studies, laborious research at an Illinois assembly plant made up of female workers in the late 20's and early 30's where a group of industrial psychologists tried to secure evidence that workers don't care about money and just want to be left alone to do the wonderful jobs that the labor market has forced on them. The Hawthorne chapter is in large part almost unintelligible and very dry, probably inevitable given that it is a scientific paper.	2002-02-09
US	52306476	R1XHQHQCP8KOW4	1583220445	604657862	Weapons in Space (Open Media Series)	Books	5	11	19	N	Y	An important topic  for the future of our planet	Important issues are rarely discussed with seriousness in the mainstream media; the efforts of the present Bush administration to go full speed ahead on the U.S. government's project to miitarize outer space is certainly a prime example of this. <br />While there is all sort of fulminations about \\"missle defense\\" from think tank pundits, talk radio hosts and other such fools about defending ourselves from ballistic missles from  North Korea, Iraq and the other favorite hobgobolins, few people actually knowledgeable about such issues talk about such quite bogus threats. Professor Grossman in this book digs very deep into easily availabe U.S. space command literature and other easily available documents to get at the reality.<br />And the reality behind the U.S. plans to militarise space is simply stated by the U.S. military: achieving hegemony in space will have a similar, though probably much greater effect, as the achievment of hegemony of the seas achieved by England and the other European imperialists centuries ago. And of course those powers always justified their aggressions as \\"defense.\\" <br />Perhaps the most interesting quote in the book comes from the Space command's \\"Long Range Plan\\" produced during the Clinton years. It explains that as the so-called globalization economy expands throughout the world \\"the gap between 'have' and 'have-not' nations will widen--creating regional unrest.\\" This is, of course, contrary to the propaganda that as time goes on globalization will create a literal utopia throughout the world.<br />The document goes on to say that \\"The United States will remain the only nation able to project power globally...One of the long acknowledged and commonly understood advantages of space-based plaforms is no restriction or country clearances to overfly a nation from space. We expect this advantage to endure...Achieving space superiority during conflicts will be critical to U.S. success on the battlefields.\\"<br />Another interesting documentquoted in the books is the report commissioned and endorsed by the democratic controlled congress in 1987 which describes how the U.S. might be able to hijack the deposits of minerals on the Moon collected by other nations. Like the hegemonic powers of the past, the U.S. will engage in piracy when it is able to. <br />Now the \\"missle defense\\" is one component of a vast array of offensive weaponery, in large part nuclear powered, that is planned to be placed in space. Of course, missle defense itself, adopting the dubious assumption that it works, would theoritically protect the U.S. from any retaliatory strike andywhere in the world, allowing the U.S. to engage in military operations probably completely unimpeded which is why other nations are and will be building up anti-sattelite weapons and space-based and conventional weaponery and capablities. In other words the U.S. is starting an extremely dangerous arms race. <br />Grossman goes into other some interesting stuff. Such as about the Challenger space shuttle which exploded in January 1986 was scheduled in May 1986 the Ullyses plutonium fueled space probe with 24.2 pounds of plutonium on board; thus it would have been really horrific if it would have exploded then. And he compares the Cassini space probe flight about 700 miles above the earth's atmosphere so it could get enought gravity to push to go on to Saturn to the Mars climate orbiter which was navigated too close to the Martian atmosphere and crashed into the planet because the geniuses at Nasa and Lockeed Martin working on the project had failed to convert English units of measurement to metric ones. He wonders what would happen had they made the same mistake with the Cassini, fueled by 72.3 pounds of plutonium.  Well, he says, in 1964 a U.S. navigation sattelite fueled with plutoniun failed to get into space and disintegrated into the earth's atmosphere dispersing 2.1 pounds of plutonium all over the earth, perhaps causing the global increase in lung cancer since then according to a Mannahaten project scientist. <br />Well, anyways, the point is stressed that our great leaders don't really carry about \\"defense\\" in the honest sense of the word but want to enrich the military manufacturers which subsidise them and the military buereaucrats. They will continue to pour hundreds of billions of dollars into the pockets executives of Boeing, Raytheon, Lockeed Martin and continue to spread suffering and terror around the world. The public is currently being roused to jingoism and fear so that the Bush administration has the support to do virtually anything under the guise of \\"fighting terrorism.\\" and they already have done a terrible amount. It's important that the work of the group Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear, disussed extensively in the last half of the book, is supported.	2002-02-03
US	52306476	R1JPOBLA10TWEK	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	32	46	N	Y	Devastating stuff;	Chomsky points out that the attack of September 11 was unique in that for the first time since 1812 U.S. territory  was attacked. He says that Pearl Harbor really dosen't count because Hawaii was not mainland U.S. and was a colony. The U.S. has slaughtered millions and millions of people from its inception as it exterminated the Indians, conquered half of Mexico, conquered the Philipines and Hawaii, intervened to support the slaughter of millions of poor people around the world. Europeans have also slaugtered millions of poor people around the world on even greater scale and up until 1945 spent a great deal of time slaughtering each other. <br />Chomsky asks: Why do they hate us? Well it's a complex question. He dismisses the self-serving bunkum about how they hate us because we are such a wonderful democracy or whatever. Instead he turns to the Wall Street Journal which several days after the massacres surveyed wealthy Arabs with close links to the West. They found that there was alot of resentment even amongst the upper classes at U.S. and Western propping up of feudal dictatorships which stiffle civil society and prevent development and which help send the oil wealth to the region away from their people and to the West. <br />They also, like the poor in the Arab world, are bitter about U.S. killing of hundreds of thousands of Iraqis while strengthening Saddam Hussein and his apparatus as well as continuing to provide Israel with advanced helicopters to massacre Palestinian civillians. The U.S. true committment to democracy in the Arab world was shown starkly in October when it was revealed that our kindly Secretary of State Mr. Powell had been pressuring the dictatorship in Qatar to &quot;rein in&quot; Al Jazeera, the only independent television station in the Arab world.<br />He also provides some very good stuff on the Sudan bombing in August 1998. Clinton's bombing of the Al-Shifa medical factory has according to wide estimates from impeccable sources killed tens of thousands of people who had made use of the factory which produced fifty percent of Sudan's medicine ,ninety percent of its most crucial medicines and all of its veternarian supplies. He also cites news reports that the Sudan had arrested two people in connection with the bombing of the African embassies in August 2000 which precipitated the bombing of Al-Shifa and had offered an immense database on Bin Laden and his top goons but because the U.S. state department so violently hated the Sudanese government they refused the offer and Sudan released the suspects after the bombing of Al Shifa.<br />He has an interesting response to a question from one of the interviewers in this book about the celebrating in Palestine or wherever else after September 11. He notes what the jubilation in the U.S. media after the U.S. backed Suharto seized power in Indonesia in 1965 and proceeded to slaughter at least a half a million &quot;communists&quot; i.e. landless peasants. Or when Nicaraguan voters finally voted out the Sandanistas after the U.S. proxy army had been deliberately destroying their civillian infrastrucure and killing thousands of civillians to the applause of the media. The U.S. of course escalated its terrorist war against Nicaragua, as similarly in El Salvador and Guatemala, in 1986 after Nicaragua obeying international law went to the World Court which ordered the U.S. to stop its slaugter and pay substantial reparations to Nicaraqua. Of course, Nicaragua is ruined probably forever. Its elections were recently subjected to gross interference on the part of the U.S. embassy which was campaiging for the ruling right wing party and against the now pro-capitalist and utterly decadent Sandanistas as having links with terrorist organizations.<br />Well, of course as he says the U.S. immediately ordered Pakistan to cut off truck shipments and food aid to Pakistan after Sept 11 over the intense objections over international relief agencies. The bombing campaign almost completely ended food assistance in Afghanistan. The U.S. air drops which according to news reports were suggested by PR advisors are very paltry among other problems compared to the seven million people who need assistance. Thousands almost certainly have already died, in addition to the possible thousands of civillian casualties.  <br />....	2001-12-09
US	52306476	R24FKTLF80CQNK	0745312748	959977178	Reaping the Whirlwind: The Taliban Movement in Afghanistan	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Some good stuff on Afghanistan	There is some good stuff in this book about America's new friends in the war for freedom and against terrorism, the Northern Alliance. I've noticed recently some commentators saying that the Northern Alliance leaders had nothing to do with the massive bloodshed in Afghanistan from 1992-96 and that was all the fault of Gullubdin Heckmatyar. Well, according to this book Heckmatyar's organization received through Pakistan about half of all the money funnled by the West and the reactionary Arab regimes into the Jihad against the Soviet Union in the 80's. He the guy wholikes to throw acid in women's faces who don't wear the burkha and has been involved in the drug trade, though his influence has been reduced dramatically in the past few years. After the communist government was overthrown in April 1992, Heckmatyar began massively bombarding civillians in Kabul. President Rabbani made him prime minister of his government in mid-93 but he took to bombarding Kabul again on Janary 1st 1994 along with general Rashid Dostum and the Shiite group Hizb-i-Wahdat, two of the prominent members of the current Northern Alliance. The Taliban drove them away in February 1995 shortly before they began their own massive bombardment of Kabul. In May 1996 Rabbani, who recently reinstalled himself in Kabul, once again made Heckmatyar prime minister and bans on certain forms of entertainment were introduced, as well as Sharia law and Islamic dress code and so on. <br />Other mass killings are described in this book like those by like the current northern alliance forces of Ahmad Massoud's army in the Shia Hazarajat and Abdul Malik, whose forces defected from Dostum's government to allow the Taliban to capture Mazar-i-Sharif in May 1997 but almost immediately turned against the Taliban and conducted a Saddam Hussein-like massacre of Taliban prisoners of war and it seems, thousands of civillians. <br />Of course it is hard to reach the utter barbarism of the Taliban. There is no need to repeatthe horrific details. They emerged as a group friends in Kandahar province in late 94' who gained noteriety for fierce piety and honesty in contrast to the former Mujahadeen warlords whose forces were running around looting and raping and killing everybody. The U.S. clearly hoped that the efforts of Unocal to make arrangements with the Taliban leaders for a trans-Afghanistan oil pipeline from Turkmenistan would succeed. The dictator of Turkmenistan had switched allegiances from Bridas of Argentina to Unocal. After the whole thing blew up and they were left with a regime that was sheltering Osama Bin Laden, the monster that the Reagan adminstration helped create in the 80's, and serving as a conduit for drug smugglers (The Northern Alliance people are very heavy into that business also though Griffin does not say this). <br />Al Quaida is a very decentralized organization. Bin Laden may not have known about Sept 11. The evidence presented for his involvement by the British government has been rather thin. Griffin says that the evidence for him being involved in the attacks on the U.S. embassies in August 1998 and his relationship to the Al Shifa medicine plant in the Sudan which Clinton blew up is very tenuous. (...)<br />The prose style in this book is in parts really leaden. One gets the feeling that the book as a whole was not edited very well.	2001-11-30
US	52306476	R2RPRR8JBPEO35	0465014909	962096979	The Culture of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things	Books	4	9	12	N	N	All you third rate journalists step aside.	I'll say that even though I don't agree with him on everything,Mr. Glassner clearly makes a serious contribution to discussions of the problems of this country. The elite of this nation have always supported the creation of horrific hobgobolins to scare the wits out of the general population of this country. <br />Whites are the majority of drug users in this country yet blacks are the majority in prison for this offense. As crime (including drug use) has been going down, public fear, at least of street crime, has been going up. Most people get their information about crime not from direct experience but from the mass media in its various forms. More people are being jailed and most politicians have advocated boot camps, trying kids as adults, hiring more police officers and building more prisons. These things have no affect on crime but politicians are rewarded with campaign contributions from companies involved in prison building and other crime-related industries, police officers unions looking to add more officers and voters scared out of their wits but glad to vote for people who promise to allay their fears. <br />Single mothers, most of the time, come from poor households. They have little incentive, given the bleak prospects of their lives and neighborhoods, to avoid behavior which gets them pregnant. They have small access to successful educational and employment opportunities before they get pregnant and it does not change after it. They are more likely to be underemployed, have to work two or three jobs and so on. Their children are likely to have access to far less adequate health care and education. But single moms tend to engage in less self-destructive behavior than do their childless peers. And their children do not turn out appreaciably different than children from two parent households at the same income level. <br />People have far more trouble with addictions to alcohol, tabacco and perscription drugs yet the media focuses primarily on the problem of illegal drugs. <br />The vast majority of perpetrators of anti-semtic acts as well as hate crimes, particularly on college campuses. Yet the media has elevated such obscure cranks as the late Khalil Mohahmmed, whom they claimed was a popular speaker among African American college students, to prominent status. Mohammed, of course, was African American as is Louis Farrakhan. The media have engaged in no comparable focus on white anti-semites among various right wing causes. <br />It is estimated that 40 percent of nursing home patients are malnourished. Yet the media concentrates all their attention on instances of assault and robbery by nursing home workers. These workers tend to grossly underpaid for a very stressful job. <br />He examines other bugaboos. Most of the people who get assaulted or killed on the job are policemen, security gaurds and taxi drivers. Yet the media at one point was caught up in a scare about people who are at risk of wantonly murdering their coworkers. Yet about 5,000 people die and 7 million people are injured on the job in a year, many of them under 18. The media devote scant attention of the oversight problems of OSHA.<br />He has theories as to why these bugaboos catch on so easily. For instance, there is no conclusive evidence that Gulf war syndrome was caused by exposure to chemical and biological materials or whatever. Yet people, at least journalists who should no better, prefer to avoid the abominable conditions under which many of the soldiers lived in Saudi Arabia, with restricted movement and unable to see their families. They were very ill at ease, which is to say they were much susceptible to all sorts of diseases or sicknesses or mental problems. People also don't want to contradict the picture of that war which killed and the effects of which still kills tens of thousands of Iraqis from the lack of repair to civillian infrastructure and access to basic life necessities, all for the purpose of rescuing the tyrants in Kuwait who had been driven out by the tyrant Saddam Hussein. <br />He also has some other interesting cases of bogus or mostly bogus scares: children abandoning their elderly parents, breast implants causing cancer and other diseases (which he says is one of the few legitimate excuses for tort reform), people poisoning the haloween candy they give to children, middle and upper class use of heroin, road rage, political correctness destroying traditional values on campus (my favorite) and, perhaps of some interest given current times, airplane crashes and hazardous conditions on them. <br />Clearly alot of people have a vested interest in avoiding real problems. The solution is to avoid the problem, often focusing on society's powerless and &quot;superfluous&quot; elements like minorities, single and welfare mothers, black crack cocaine users (instead of mostly white powder cocaine users), et. al.	2001-11-19
US	52306476	R3JCOLJIA0GND9	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An instructive primer on Afghanistan-Central Asia-Pakistan	Ahmed Rashid is a correspondent for the Far Eastern Economic Review. His knowledge of Arghanistan, Pakistan and Central Asia is, literally thorough and he has spent a great deal of time in these countries interviewing alot of the bigwigs including the Taliban mullahs. He is a native of Pakistan. <br />He has spent the last five or six years researching the new &quot;Great Game.&quot; Russia and Great Britain engaged in much intrigue in Afghanistan in the nineteenth century as each was trying to expand their empires. Since the Soviet Union collapsed the new republics of Central Asia have made available their massive untapped reserves of oil and natural gas. The cheapest way to transport it outside the Russian sphere would probably be a pipeline built across Afghanistan to ports in Pakistan. Unocal, in fierce competion with the Argentinian company Bridas attempted to make such an arrangement with the Taliban when they took control of Southern Afghanistan in early 95'. Unocal had the support of the U.S. government which also benignly stood by as its clients Saudi Arabia and Pakistan funnelled massive support to the Taliban. <br />The Taliban are led by Mullah Mohammed Omar who fought against the communist government in Kabul during its last few years , losing an eye, and then returned to Kandahar province to resume his studies at his local Madrassa sometime in 93'. The old mujahadeen warlords were rampaging around the area, raping and robbing everybody in sight. Omar and his Pakistani-Madrassa educated friends got together and executed and tortured these scum and gained a reputation for fierce piety and honesty. Omar and his friends called themselves the Taliban (students of Islam)and by early 95' they more or less controlled Southern Afghanistan, home to their ethnic group, the largest in Afghanistan, the Pashtuns, managing to quickly recruit hordes upon hordes of madrassa students from Pakistan.<br />The military dictatorship in Pakistan funnelled the money receivedfrom the U.S., the Saudis and many others into the most crazed organizations run by the various feuding warlords that made up the Mujahadeen during the war against the Soviet Union in the 80's. The Mujahadeen were called &quot;freedom fighters&quot; for PR purposes by the U.S. government and media. Many of them were and are extremely brutal, as I don't think Mr. Rashid stresses enough, and are now part of the Northern Alliance. They, along with top officials in General Zia's government in Pakistan with the knowledge of their CIA mentors, greatly profited from smuggling including in drugs. The Taliban has been very hospitable to smuggling groups and gained alot of its income from taxing them. These smuggling groups have expanded to ravage neighboring countries. For instance Pakistan had no drug problem in 1979 but it now has a massive epidemic along with lawlessness, corruption, collapse of basic infrastructure and dominance of a black market. Pakistan, up until Sept 11, almost unconditionally supported the Taliban, which has provided training grounds for fighters against India in Kashmir, even as they were inspiring Pashtun maniacs who hope to set up a Taliban-like state in Pakistan to seize areas of Pakistan's Pashtun belt and institute a reign of terror. <br />Saudi Arabia sent Bin Laden to Afghanistan in the 80's where he set up a training camp supplied with recruits from Arab countries and American and Pakistani arms and advisors. Saudi Arabia's official ideology is wahabiism a minority sect as barbaric as the Taliban's. Neowahabi sects which grew out of Pakistan and Afghanistan in the 80's have expanded across the region with notorious acts of terrorism and threatening the stability of Saudi Arabia and the other dictatorships and, of course, the relationship of certain of them with the World Trade Center are well known. <br />Mr. Rashid in this book provides some very crucial context for understanding the current horrors which is in very short supply from the media. The actors in the region--the U.S., Russia, the Central Asian police States, Iran, Pakistan, the Taliban, the anti-Taliban warlords--have all relentlessly pursued agendas of short term greed. And they are continuing to do so. I will not comment on the current bombing campaign and de facto food embargo (interspersed with the sleazy PR gestures like dropping 37,000 food packets along with cluster bombs on a country where seven million are starving to death) against the starving civillians of Afghanistan.<br />He does very well elucidating Taliban religous and ethnic policies. The Taliban are not so much enforcing their so-called version of Islam on Afghanistan but Pashtun tribal code which they mix in heavily with Islamic scriptures. They have engaged in ethnic cleansing against other Afghan minorities like Uzbecks and Tajiks and the warlords have responded similarly against Pashtun civillians. As for other Islamic sects, particularly Shiism, they have absolute zero tolerance. The Taliban have had an easy time holding on to Pashtun populated Southern Afghanistan but they have had a far less secure hold on the rest of the country as they have acted like an army of occupation, oppressing ethnic minorities and imposing their barbaric ideology, alienating the population that initially viewed them as rescuers from the warlords.	2001-11-13
US	52306476	R3P06OR6YRU5F0	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Really good journalism; the author knows his stuff	Phillip Gourevitch spent alot of time in Rwanda between the summer of 1995 and early 1997. This book is in many ways quite amazing. The author clearly knows a great deal about Africa and what is more makes it interesting even though I do not agree with every thing he says.  <br />The common conception in the West about conflicts in Africa is that they are based on ancient, insoluble ethnic hatreds which we in the West, with our tolerant, refined and orderly societies just cannot comprehend. This, of course, is a nice delusion for Westerners but like so much in the World today, the problems of Africa are substantially rooted in Western imperialism. This is never more so the case than in Rwanda where the Germans took control in the 1890's and then the Belgians after World War one.  Hutus and Tutsis had lived together peacefully for centuries; it was very difficult to classify one as one or the other because there had been so much intermarriage over the years. It's not that Rwanda didn't have problems before the Europeans came but almost none of them had to do with ethnicity. John Hanning Speke, a British explorer in the Great Lakes region of Africa in the 1860's, had applied European racist pseudoscience to the case of Hutus and Tutsis and declared his conviction that Tutsis tended to be long boned with sharp features and apparently lighter skin in contrast to the Hutus whom he said had round, dark skinned &quot;ugly&quot; negroid features and that the Tutsis were descended from an Ethiopian tribe of Caucasoid ancestery, had descended from King David, and so on. The Germans and the Belgians were influenced by these ideas and used selected Tutsis as their henchman in the context of a sort of aparthied rule against the Hutus. The old &quot;divide and rule&quot; strategy.&quot; <br />By the late 1950's, an primitive form of fascism had developed among various Hutu political demagogues and intellectuals and the Belgians eventually switched their allegiance to them so thatthey could be in control when Rwanda was granted independence in 1962 (In contrast Tutsis have often been the oppressors and killers of Hutus in neighboring Burundi). Hutus subjected Tutsis to regular government sponsored violence and massacres from 1959 under Belgian rule until about 1973 when Major General Habyarimana who had been directing the violence against Tutsis that year seized power and ruled with extreme brutality and corruption though he generally stopped government sponsored violence against Tutsis until the late 80's when a deteriorating economy made him and his apparatus make full use of the ethnic card and mobolize the severely impoverished, ignorant Hutu masses. The state sponsored violence and indoctrination of hatred increased to really terrifying degrees until early April 1994 when Habyarimana's plane was shot down over Rwanda's capital Kigali apparently in a veiled coup by his &quot;Hutu Power&quot; leaders who killed him and blamed it on the Tutsis and used it as an excuse to launch a mass movement of Hutus to literally wipe out Tutsis in Rwanda. <br />Habyarimana's and Hutu Power's leading patron from the 70's onward was France which made a fortune selling tools of violence and repression to the dictator. Indeed Gorevitch says that there is evidence that the immortal president Mitterand's son, an arms dealer and sometime government official, had some involvement in the marijuna business in partnership with some of Habyarimana's generals. <br />The United States did not much care what was going on in Rwanda as long as &quot;stability&quot; was assured though they were ready to give Habarimana anything he needed. During the genocide in April-June 1994 the United STates explicitly supported measures that severely crippled the UN force in Rwanda. U.S. officials refused to term what was happening as &quot;genocide&quot; because if they called it genocide then they would be compelled to do something about it. After the worst part of the slaughter was over France sent a &quot;peacekeeping force&quot; with the thinly veiled purpose of backing the Hutu regime against the &quot;Tutsi dominated&quot; Rwandese Patriotic Front rebel army though they backed off when the RWP became the dominant military force and took power in Kigali. <br />Millions of Hutu refugees fled to Zaire and other countries often forced by the Hutu militias which then were more or less allowed to control the refugee camps by the aid agencies which provided them and the international community did nothing to disband the Hutu killers. In Zaire, the West's favorite African gangster Mobutu Sese Seko who had been a close friend of Habyarimana supported the Hutu militias providing the services of his notorious so-called army as they rampaged throughout Northern Zaire engaging in massive ethnic cleansing against ethnic Tutsis and murderous raids into Rwanda. This in turn caused Rwanda and its ally Uganda to increasingly support the Anti-Mobutu rebels led by Laurent Kabila and intervene militarily. Kabila and his allies seemed to have killed a large number of Hutu civilians, many of them used as sort of human shields by the Hutu death squad leaders. The late Kabila and now his son Joseph have been warring with their former allies since August 1998, before this book was published. Kabila accused Rwanda and Uganda and their guerilla allies of trying to take permanently the territory which they occupy and rob it of its resources while they accused him of giving his support to the Hutu militias or something along those lines.	2001-10-26
US	52306476	RUA14C31GKHZ2	0679743626	707805727	O Pioneers! (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A superbly crafted, unpretensious story	This is a wonderful story based in the midwestern prarie of the late nineteenth century. I genuinely enjoyed it, more so than My Antonia (which is a great book too). The characters are very appealing. It is a story of human endurance, compassion, lonliness, rage and ultimately love, with a strong feeling of reality.	2001-10-01
US	52306476	R3J9GSOIQ1WCDC	1567510558	592766958	The Obstruction of Peace: The United States, Israel, and the Palestinians	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	This is what the future Palestinian &quot;state&quot; is going to be	In this book apparently published in early 1995 Naseer Aruri gives a compelling outline of America's support for Israeli apartheid and imperialism and how the Palestinians have been affected by it.<br />He describes American support for Israel as more or less based on helping enforce the status quo in the Middle East of brutal dictatorships and exorbitant oil wealth transfered to the West. Israel, of course, became a first rank asset of the United States after its smashing victory in the June 1967 war. It came to the rescue of King Hussein in 1970 and kept made sure that forces not inimical to American imperialism gained control in Lebanon. It has, most of all, repressed the Palestinians whose revolutionary nationalism has scared and still scares the U.S. supported reactionary middle eastern regimes out of their wits and who threaten Israel's purely &quot;Jewish&quot; character and are not completely willing to give up their land, resources and dignity to the Jews. <br />Unlike many persons of the Arab race who have ventured opinions on the &quot;peace process,&quot; including it seems the Palestinians' so-called leaders, Professor Aruri has actually thoroughly read the &quot;peace&quot; treaties, at least those which were signed before this book was published, and finds them to be a repackaging of Israel's occupation by other means. Meaning the Palestinian authority has &quot;autonomy&quot; though by no means absolute control over education, local police, garbage pick up and so on. At the border crossings they could wear nice uniforms and hand out forms while Israeli's did the actual stamping of documents and approval of passage for persons, and so on. Israel retains absolute control over the settlments and puts the degrading chore on the Palestinian authority of ensuring the &quot;security&quot; of the settlers. For decades of course the international consensus, apart from the U.S. and Israel, was that the settlements are completely illegal and must be disbanded.<br />Meanwhile Israeli settlement building and exproprations of Palestinian land and killing of Palestinian civillians accelerated after Rabin's last government came to power. Particularly this is the case with Jerusalem which now includes &quot;Greater Jerusalem&quot; which makes up a substantial portion of the central West Bank though Israel does not count it as the West Bank. Labor and Likud have continued to build &quot;Greater Jerusalem&quot; which builds a big circle of Jewish settlement around Jerusalem. The status of Jerusalem along with water, the refugees, the settlements, borders, and everything else important is supposed to be decided in &quot;final staus&quot; talks. Of course Israel is one of the strongest countries in the world supported heavily by the greatest superpower the world has ever seen. They are up against a bunch of petty gangsters, the Palestinian authority, whose constituents are in large part dependent on sweatshop jobs in Israel and exporting to Israel. The expected utter disaster of this arrangment (from the Palestinian point of view) of course has been confirmed in the past year beyond the expectations of those who knew the truth about the &quot;peace process&quot; from the beginning. Arafat at Camp David in July 2000 was offered ninety percent of the West Bank, that is to say ninety percent excluding the settlements and the Jew only bypass roads which isolate and break up the contiguity of the Palestinian enclaves, Greater Jerusalem, and so on. <br />I liked his discussion of Israel in American domestic life. The U.S. government has always prefered the Labor party over the crude tactics and reckless settlement building of Likud. This of course sometimes leads to conflict as during the Bush administration which hinted to Israel that it would have to give up its version of Greater Israel (the Likud version not the labor one) and witheld the loan gaurantees for the Soviet Jews in order to induce the old rat Shamir to stop trying to build settlements on every square inch of the territories. These feuds over tactics alwasy lead to politicians of both parties trying to outflank each other and the admnistration from the right,leading to such spectacles as Newt Gingrich calling Bob Dole &quot;anti-Israel&quot; and half-witted tirades from William Safire.	2001-09-17
US	52306476	R2R81LAUOPSY2G	0374523568	61305492	The Struggle for Black Equality, 1954-1992 (American Century Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A good basic intro to the civil rights movement	I had to read this book for my History 401 class, a week long seminar recently completed. I was not particularly staggered by anything in it but it was pretty solid<br />Some of the more interesting things about this book include its portrayal of Martin Luther King and the evolution of his thinking. After the civil rights laws of 1964-65, King began to turn more and more towards criticising American capitalism and imperialism in Vietnam (of which he was one of the very first to speak out against). The commercially acceptable version of course is his warm and fuzzy &quot;I have a dream&quot; speech of the march on Washington which was orginally initially to be a mass sit-in at congress, the white house lawn and other government buildings with an emphasis on demanding economic rights but was pressured by the Kennedy administration into being very watered down. <br />The civil rights period was basically one where tens of thousands of blacks (and whites) risked mental and physical torture and even death to try to dismantle a fascist police state in the South and to try to badger the federal government to enforce its own basic laws on behalf of blacks. But if blacks now increasingly had the glorious right to vote, if they had more opportunities to advance in white capitalist society, they still had no infrastructure in their communities, were still at the mercy of white landlords, police and businesses which overcharged them as consumers and paid them starvation wages as laborers. The ideas of &quot;Black Power&quot; from Malcolm X to the Black Panthers tried to deal with these problems. Since then some things have got better and some things have got worse. <br />I think the authors somewhat exagerates the &quot;white backlash&quot;, even at the time of this books appearance after the LA riots of 92'--it exists among whites to a perhaps signifigant extent but I think that he confuses the rightward shift among political elites and the media with the beliefs of the general population. If anything characterises the political beliefs of the white populations it is apathy e.g. in the 1994 congressional elections about thirty eight percent of those eligible to vote turned out and around nineteen percent of those voted republican. When the Gingrich revolutionaries took office polls showed that relatively few Americans had ever heard of the Contract with America. Polls show substantial support for social democratic measures amongst the general population of this country, despite all the campaigns against &quot;welfare queens&quot; and so on. <br />The author could have said something about Cointelpro and I probably would have given more or less emphasis to some things than he did.	2001-07-28
US	52306476	R1O7TUNG9OFM6S	1856498417	415996078	East Timor: The Price of Freedom (Politics in Contemporary Asia)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A good introduction to East Timor	Professor Taylor in this book presents a pretty thorough history of East Timor. He lays emphasis on the development of its indiginous culture particularly the kinship system which helped it survive Portugese rule and the barbaric Indonesian occupation. He examines the efforts of foreign powers particularly the United States and Australia and even Portugal (at least until the early 80's) to support Indonesia taking over East Timor, the United States taking the lead in replenishing Indonesia with advanced weapons when it ran into trouble as before its &quot;encirclement and annihilation&quot; campaigns of the late 70's. <br />He examines the East Timorese indigenous culture including the kinship system which is deeply ingrained in the society and helped it survive Portugese rule and (just barely) Indonesian rule; up until 1990 the major Indonesian military campaigns (Persuatan, the dreadful Fence of Legs, etc.), the World Bank funded forced sterilization of Timorese women, some of the major massacres, the ideology of Fretilin, the &quot;resettlement villages,&quot; the economic activities of companies like P.T. Denok in East Timor, the visits of foreign journalists and delegations of politicians, the apologetics for the Indonesian regime by the Catholic Relief services. <br />I think that his rather long introduction about the September 1999 incident and the chronicles of events during the 90's in the timeline at the end of the book serve as more than adequate updates. However I think he is rather too soft on the role (or lack there of) of the Western powers during the 1999 crises. Those countries continued to have normal military and diplomatic relations with Indonesia up until about two weeks into the crises when East Timor was basically destroyed and its population driven from their homes, when they finally engaged in minimally serious gestures, temporarily suspendeding military relations with Indonesia and agreed to a peackeeping force which was probably not needed under the pressure of Australian public opinion. Very little effort was made to conduct war crimes trials or investigations or help the country seriously rebuild from the years of destruction and occupation which America and its allies were in large part responsible for. There's alot more that can be said about this but the criticisms of Indonesia by U.S. leaders in the months leading up to the crises which Taylor lays great stress on are completely worthless. <br />In anycase a minor flaw; this is a very good introduction to East Timor, if slightly dry here and there with small print.	2001-07-18
US	52306476	R3L4NR30SIAZ5Q	0374102007	783258640	After Such Knowledge, What Forgiveness?: My Encounters With Kurdistan	Books	5	14	15	N	N	If you have a serious interest in the Kurds read this book	Johnathan Randall, the former Washington Post and New York Times reporter, has here compiled an extraordinary memoir/focused history of the Kurds. He knows more about the Kurds than one could ever possibly hope to know about them. He is well acquainted with Kurdish leaders--warlords is probably a better term--such as Massoud Barzani and Jalal Talibani and has made several rather dangerous journies to visit them in Northern Iraq. <br />He focuses very well on how the Kurds have been manipulated as pawns in the feuds of Middle East nations and how the West, specifically the United States, has ignored them except when its imperial interests are at stake. The U.S. encouraged the Kurds to rise up in Iraq against Saddam Hussein during 1972-75 in support of their friend the Shah of Iran but then were abandoned to Saddam's butcheries after Spring 1975. He, of course, points out the U.S. authorising the shipment of materials to make weapons of mass destruction to Iraq between 1985-90 and its giving Iraq loans and credits to buy a large amount of U.S. agricultural products. The U.S. encouraged the maintenance of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship as a bulwark against threats to the status quo in the region i.e. threats and possible domino effects to the oil-producing despotisms. It did not become fashionable to cry for the Kurds until in the aftermath of the Gulf War when the hundreds of thousands of Kurds in the Turkish mountains captured the attention of the TV cameras and a very reluctant Bush administration was forced to help repatriate and succor the miserable refugees in order to avert potential instability in the virulently anti-Kurd nation of Turkey. <br />Turkey itself where Kurds are refered to as &quot;Turkish mountain people&quot; has seen its U.S. military aid go up dramatically in recent years as it has used severe violence to suppress elementary Kurdish rights in regard to cultural freedom and economic equality with tens of thousands dead, thousands of villages burned, millions of internal refugees, as was partially admited by the Turkish minister for human rights in 1994. The war itself has the potential to unleash great instability in Turkey and big business has been warning the beuracratic-military complex to make serious concessions to the Kurds that would address the injustices done to them which provoked the war in the first place in order to avoid the severe potential internal strife. The U.S. government and its allies of course could withdraw their heavy support for Turkey; fulminating about Milosevic or Rwanda is fine but if you want to seriously stop ethnic cleansing in the world the very best course of action is to help pressure your government to stop supporting it in places like Turkey.	2001-07-13
US	52306476	RJG29P73M72QE	1840460024	884158591	Introducing Philosophy	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Gives a good feel of the thinkers and issues	This book gives a good feel for the major Western philosophers ranging from the ancient Greeks to Descartes, Hume, Hegel and Kant to Nietzsche, Marx, Feuerbach, Dewey and Sartre and how they have investigated epistemology, metaphysics, ethics, aesthetics and political forms. If you don't grasp everything completely don't worry; some of these fellows, particularly the post-modernists, need to be operated on by Ockham's razor.	2001-07-03
US	52306476	RWGNZ7NEV97ZA	1859848036	76438475	Al Gore: A User's Manual	Books	5	12	18	N	N	A good biography of a cheap politician	Find out in this book how Al Gore while vice president helped companies loot millions of acres of our forests, fastened the extinction of the spotted owl, blocked efforts to make companies pay more than little or no royalty fees to loot taxpayer owned resources, helped increase contractor fraud at the Pentagon, helped strengthen the racist and civil liberties destroying criminal justice system, supported drilling off the coast of Mexico and in the National Petroleum reserve in Alaska, supported stripping mining, especially that of the mountain top removal variety, supported the setting of emissions standards well below that of the Kyoto protocol which were never met, helped George W. pollute Texas by his support of Nafta, helped strengthen fossil fuel producers, helped weaken Affirmative action in government, supported the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, supported what will perhaps one day be the destruction of the U'wa people in Colombia through his very extensive relationship with Occidental Petroleum and support for the death squad government there, supported Monsanto's crusade to dump genitically modified foods on Europe, presided over an economy of stagnant and declining wages and greater insecurity for American workers. The list can go on and on.<br />They give a good outline of Gore's congressional career. They portray him as pro-gun (not too different than Mr. Cockburn's views of course), pro-tabacoo, pro-Reaganite arms buildup (he was a prime mober for the midgetman missle), a consisten support of the Jesse Helms line on the homosexual question, someone who while occasionally roaring against the more blatant corporate criminals turned a blind eye to the radiation tests that gave children leukemia ( killing at least one) at the Oak Ridge nuclear lab in Tennesse and helped establish a precedent by getting a waiver on the Endagered species act against the snail darter species for a worthless dam that only benefited construction and cement magnates. In the 88' campaign he campaigned as right wing demagogue because that is what Patrick Caddell, the pollster, told him what the &quot;silent majority&quot; were looking for. Actually a not insubstantial part of that group was inclined to support Jesse Jackson and Gore did very badly in the primaries but not before travelling to New York for the party elite to help ruin Jackson's canidacy along with the demagogue Ed Koch.<br />The section on Tipper's crusade against obscene lyrics is rather amusing--the supposed Gore family encounter with the music of Prince which originally spurred Tipper on her crusade and Gore praising the music of Frank Zappa during a senate hearing.<br />The authors could have done a little less of the &quot;tell-all stuff&quot;==e.g. how policy was supposedly made and interactions in the white house e.g. Bob Woodward's account of Clinton's alleged reaction to having to break his campaign promises and support Alan Greenspan's neoliberalism--and expanded on some of the more important issues. They say absolutely nothing about a very important issue, about Gore's working to pressure African countries, paritcularly South Africa, into complying with drug company patents which block countries from producing genereic AIDs drugs at very substantially lower cost. They repeat the canard about Gore claiming he invented the internet, that he and Tipper were the inspiration for &quot;Love Story&quot; and so on. <br />But overall this book is so much more substantive than the book put out by Cockburn's former friend Christopher Hitchens. The latter's book was fawned over by the likes of Chris Mathews, David Horowitz and Larry Klayment of Judicial Watch. Rush Limbaugh called Hitchens, a self-declared hardcore socialist, &quot;our favorite liberal.&quot; The authors have gotten no such attention and that is very telling.	2001-06-02
US	52306476	R2Q35UDQ3SPF5Z	0809001071	475900890	The Free World Colossus: A Critique of American Foreign Policy in the Cold War (American Century Series)	Books	5	11	17	N	N	A brilliant book by a.............Oh nevermind	The author published this book in 1965 and revised it in 1971. The edition which I just completed reading was the former. The author writes with clear and graceful English and shows extraordinary good sense and perception with a wide variety of immense and credible documentation. This is not the greatest left critique of American cold war foreign policy ever written but there are streches where it very much seems that it is.<br />The author shows very clearly the origins of the Cold war. It had always been the announced intention of the Western powers to destroy the Soviet Union. With the United States aquring virtually unchallenged and unprecedented world power after World War II it viewed the Soviets as its primary rival. The Soviet Union was occupying Eastern Europe through which it had been invaded three times in the preceeding decades, the latest of course being the immensely barbaric Nazi occupation. The Soviets hoped to neutralise Germany's military capacity and hoped to acquire immense reparations to help themselves rebuild. American loans of course, came with alot of strings attached, especially with regard to economic policies. The Americans refrained from discussing any sort of mutual withdrawl from occupied territories with the Soviets. They rebuffed Soviet efforts at mutual disarmament (or accepted then rebuffed as in 1955) prefering to have &quot;Open skies&quot; inspections whereby the U.S. could fly its U-2's over Russian territory unimpeded as it kept producing more sophisticated and lethal nuclear weapons. As the Soviets reduced their military arsenal and manpower the Americans increased theirs, helping to fuel the arms race. The theory was articulated George Kennan \\"Mr. X\\": the Soviet Union is incapable of negotiating with (which is to say succumbing to each and every U.S. demand), therefore it must be \\"contained\\" i.e. in large part meaning effecting its gradual weakening and hopeful destruction. In reality U.S. policies and actions (one example being announcing the Truman doctrine while the Western foreign ministers were meeting with Molotov in Moscow) tended to strengthen the most reactionary elements in the Soviet Union and its satellites and delay and weaken any movements towards liberalization; the Stalinization of Eastern Europe began in the months after the Truman doctrine was announced. This was recognized by a few elite intellectuals and planners like Walter Lipmann and later George Kennan himself and &quot;containment,&quot; would eventually be moderated somewhat later due to changing conditions of U.S. power vis a vis the Soviets.<br />The author also engages in extensive and important though not very profound discussion about the true intentions about U.S. fulminations about communist totalitarianism. The U.S., of course, used alleged Soviet expansionism as an excuse to block revolutions away from the misery of the vast majority of the populations of the third world, away from the right wing status quo. The British and then the Americans reinstalled Nazi collaborators in Greece to beat back the popular communist party whose rebellion Stalin was trying to put to rest as Milovan Djilas later revealed. In Italy it massively intervened to block the coming to power through democratic elections of the communist party and declared that any nation which voted communists into power would be ineligible for U.S. economic aid. In Korea, from the moment it occupied it,  it disbanded the communist dominated anti-Japanese resistance governing councils and installed a very brutal and corrupt dictatorship making the Korean war inevitable. In 1958 it occupied Lebanon in order to block a popular revolution there and contain the possible threat of the example of the 1958 revolution in Iraq.  In Guatemala he cites statistics from the Chase National Bank that that country was experiences unprecedented economic successs both in terms of its history and in relation to the rest of Latin America before the 1954 U.S. engineered counterrevolution. He quotes President Eisenhower in his memoirs as saying that Ho Chi Minh was the most popular leader in Indochina before the U.S. installed a very brutal dictatorship in South Vietnam and blocked the 1956 nationwide elections as called for in the Geneva accords. He quotes president Kennedy as saying that Cuba under Batista was the ultimate in neocolonial degradation for the vast majority of the Cuban people and he provides statistics to back up this point (page 203--I think of this when contemplating a recent statement by the author, who of course has become an extremely violent and wealthy reactionary, in one of his books to the effect that Cuba &quot;enjoyed&quot; a high per capita income prior to 1959). He points out that the extreme U.S. hostility to the change away from the right wing status quo in Cuba forced Castro into the arms of the Soviet Union. On page 229 in a footnote he provides citations from a Council on Foreign Relations report about the extremely barbarous conditions lived under the U.S. backed Somoza dictatorship. He provides a particularly superb account of Kennedy's Alliance for Progress and points out the contradiction between the program's goal of reducing poverty, increasing health, education, economic growth, etc. with U.S. laws designed to severely punish any nation which sought to restrict the rights of corporations to plunder their countries.engineered counterrevolution. He quotes President Eisenhower in his memoirs as saying that Ho Chi Minh was the most popular leader in Indochina before the U.S. installed a very brutal dictatorship in South Vietnam and blocked the 1956 nationwide elections as called for in the Geneva accords. He quotes president Kennedy as saying that Cuba under Batista was the ultimate in neocolonial degradation for the vast majority of the Cuban people and he provides statistics to back up this point (page 203--I think of this when contemplating a recent statement by the author, who of course has become an extremely violent and wealthy reactionary, in one of his books to the effect that Cuba &quot;enjoyed&quot; a high per capita income prior to 1959). He points out that the extreme U.S. hostility to the change away from the right wing status quo in Cuba forced Castro into the arms of the Soviet Union. On page 229 in a footnote he provides citations from a Council on Foreign Relations report about the extremely barbarous conditions lived under the U.S. backed Somoza dictatorship. He provides a particularly superb account of Kennedy's Alliance for Progress and points out the contradiction between the program's goal of reducing poverty, increasing health, education, economic growth, etc. with U.S. laws designed to severely punish any nation which sought to restrict the rights of corporations to plunder their countries.	2001-05-17
US	52306476	R2ZXAP100RPQ65	0394738853	349202085	TROTSKY FOR BEGINNERS	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A good introduction to Trotsky's thought	Lev Davydovich Bronstein A.K.A. Leon Trotsky was certainly a very complicated figure as this book shows. Early on he opposed Lenin's conception of the hierarchal, tightly centralized working class party and was very active in the Petersburg Soviet of 1905. Lenin accepted Trotsky's view of &quot;permenant revolution&quot; after the February 1917 revolution and Trotsky joined forces with him to oppose the liberals and leftists in the workers and soldiers soviet who supported handing over power to the liberal bourgeoisie, in the case of the leftists apparently because they thought the bourgeoisie should have their revolution first. The Bolsheviks won overwhelming majorities in the soviets accros the nation. They seized power from the liberals and then proceeded to liquidate their opposition which seemed to be excused by Trotsky on the ground of centralising power in order to fight the Whites and the imperialist invaders and the especially brutal &quot;war communism&quot; was instituted. Trotsky directed the violent repression of the workers and sailors at Kronstadt in 1921. He pretty much played the good solider, occasionally making noises about the suppression of democratic debate and the growing power of the bueracracy until Stalin consolidated his power after Lenin's death in 1924. He unwaveringly opposed Stalin who finally expelled him from the country in 1929. He was murdered under Stalin's orders in Mexico in 1940. <br />Trotsky once in exile gave full flower to his best thinking. The bueracracy in the Soviet Union owned everything (the means of production,etc.) and would not give up power but perpetuate itself as dictatorships tend to do. Trotsky advocated destroying the bueracracy, reinstitue free debate and, according to Mr. Ali, wanted to &quot;restore the Soviets.&quot; What this last means, I don't quite know. Does it mean he wanted to restore to them the power they held in 1917-18, as they were conceived to function during the revolution of 1905, perhaps even as the narodniks conceived them? Very interesting. Ali also points out that Trotsky saw clearly the menace of Hitlerism before just about everybody else did and advocated that the communists and social democrats join forces in a &quot;united front&quot; to try to stop Hitler which earned him even more violent abuse from Moscow and their sattelites in Germany. He vigorously attacked the &quot;United Front&quot; concept adopted at the seventh congress of the communist international in 1935 which called for Communists accross the world to join forces with social democrats and liberals in &quot;popular fronts,&quot; effectively maintainging the status quo, which had such disasterous results in Spain during the civil war.  <br />I thought Phil Evans's illustrations were entertaining.	2001-04-16
US	52306476	R1H2JRD25YIDAT	1859847897	593081815	A New Generation Draws the Line: Kosovo, East Timor and the Standards of the West	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Devastating refutation of The New Military Humanism	Noam Chomsky presents an utterly devastating refutation of the justifications used to launch the Kosovo war and the idea that the people of East Timor benefited from the new moral fervor allegedly unleashed in American foreign policy. <br />This book has his most recent writings on the Kosovo war. He presents evidence from mainstream western news sources, Western diplomatic sources, reports of the war crimes tribunal, the U.S. government and the OSCE, and so on to show that the situation in Kosovo in the year before Nato began bommbing was hardly genocidal. Merely violence against suspected KLA collaborators and disproportionate retaliation as a result of KLA attacks and kidnapping against Serb civillians and policeman with the stated goal of provoking Serb violence to try to draw in the Western powers. He shows that Nato i.e. the United States deliberately sabotoged the pre-bombing negotiations by inserting a clause in appendix B in the peace accord they drafted at Rambouillet calling for an exclusively Nato occupation of Kosovo that would have virtual control over the rest of Yugoslavia as well. He shows that the Serb parliament in the days before the bombing denounced the withdraw of the verification monitors and passed a resolution agreeing to an international security presence in Kosovo, which like the clause in Appendix B was ignored. Once the bombing began, Serb tactics shifted to refugee expulsion  and became much more violent, though vastly exagerated by Nato it seems, an absoultely predictable result of the bombings in the word of general Wesely Clark. The common response to this is that Milosevic was planning to expel the Albanians anyway, though the only evidence for this is the plan &quot;Operation Horshoe&quot; seemingly fabricated by the German defense ministry. Chomsky says that it is probably likely that Milosevic actually had such plans drawn up as it became likely that his country was about to be attacked by the world largest superpowers who wereindiscreetly supporting a rebel group claiming to represent its most volatile minority. Just as Israel no doubt has plans to expel the Palestinians if Iran or Syria attack it. What would we say if Iran attacked Israel which caused the later to implement its diabolical plan and then Iran justified its attack by Israel's implementation of that plan? Chomsky suggests tongue in cheek that it would have been better if Nato allowed Milosevic to expel the Albanians, then started bombing and then allow the refugees back; or perhaps ordered the Albanians to get out of Kosovo, then start bombing and then allow the refugees back. After several months of serious war crimes against the Yugoslav and Kosovar peoples, Nato accepted dropped its appendix B demand and agreed to an international occupation force &quot;with substantial Nato participation&quot; and nothing more. But that was only on paper. In practice Nato i.e. the Americans instituted an exclusive Nato occupation of Kosovo. The KLA since under Nato's eyes has conducted a campaign of ethnic cleansing against gypsies, Jews, Serbs, their Albanian enemies and watches over a country where they only thing functioning is the sex slave industry. <br />Chomsky asks why zero in on the crimes of Milosevic? Why not call for the bombing of Indonesia (or Washington and London), the country that committed the worst genocide relative to population against the holocaust in East Timor from 1975 onwards with heavy support from the U.S., Britain, France, Japan, Australia and other freedom loving nations. Why weren't the supporters of the bombing upset that thousands of people were being killed as the Kosovo war was happening by the death squads organized by Kopassus, the Indonesian secret police, beneficiaries of years of U.S. training and idealism? Why did they not call for Clinton and Blair to bomb or much more rationally simply withdraw their military, diplomatic and economic support? If these leaders did not respond, Chomsky asks sardonically, why aren't these brethren joining the Bin Laden network? Why did the U.S. provide forensics support for East Timor war crimes investigations long after the rain season had washed away most of the evidence? Why did it take some small but effective gestures after most of East Timor had been destroyed and its population expelled? Why is the U.S. continuing to provide heavy support for barbaric governments in Colombia and Turkey, which continues to make life hell for its &quot;miserable Kurds&quot;(Alexander Sohlzhenitsyn's words). Serious and important questions.	2001-04-15
US	52306476	R34PRYYEZ8PGHT	0895267063	714700767	The Arabs: A Short History	Books	5	18	23	N	N	A great introduction to a wonderful people	Philip K. Hitti, of Lebanese Christian descent, the father of modern Near Eastern studies in the United States originally published this book in 1943 as a service to U.S. government personel and others whose interest was becoming focused on the Middle East.<br />He portrays a people who had a very rich civilization, whose rulers were studying ancient Greek philosophy at the same time Charlemagne and his advisors in Europe were tyring to learn to write their names. The Arabs rescued the artistic and philosophical treasures of Ancient Greece and ancient Persia and developed standards in Medicine, biology, philosophy, architecture, agriculture that were unprecedented in their day. These achievements Hitti says spread into Europe through Spain and Sicily and were the major factor in sparking the European rennaisance. I particularly enjoyed his description of Abassid Baghdad at its heighth. Consider his description of the daily schedule of the &quot;man of learning&quot; or the institution of the &quot;ghilman&quot; the &quot;beardless young boys&quot; who .....well I won't get into that.<br />He describes the conditions of non-slave non-Moslems as equal though varying depending on the degree of liberalism of the reigning Caliph. At times Jews and Christians had to wear special clothing and fix devils to the fronts of their houses and could not testify against Moslems in court. But more than a few of them rose to high positions in government, in scholarship, in bootlegging. The Jewish community in Baghdad was very active and large and its chief Rabbi was treated with veneration.<br />What caused this relatively glorious civilization to die? The mongol hordes, unequal distribution of wealth, emergence of new competitors, epidemics, ethnic strife, rulers spending more time amassing personal wealth and fornicating with slaves than attending to pubilic affairs and finally the conquest of much of it by Ottoman Turkey.<br />Hitti a few times shows a slight chauvanism. I was dissapointed in his lack of treatment of one of the crucial problems in the Arab world, the sectarian feuds within Islam, particularly Sunni-Shia. If I'm not mistaken Shiism was born out of life of the Caliph Ali and his son Hussein. Hitti says absolutely nothing about this when talking about these two men. He only says that Ali, who ruled from 656 to 661, was very popular but was murdered and that his son Hussein was called &quot;the great divorcer&quot; as a result of his having ruined one hundred marriages by his omniverous fornicating which was his prefered activity in life and he had no interest in the caliphate so he ceded it Muawiyah in return for the payment of a lifetime subisidy.<br />At the end of the book Hitti writes that the Arab people &quot;have thus taken their place among the forward-marching democratic nations of the world and promise to make further contributions to the progress of mankind.&quot; It's hard to pin down when exactly that was written but that's obviously a bit too optimistic a statement in todays terms with most of the Arab world dominated by Western backed corrupt and brutal oligarchies. But perhaps its best to keep in mind Hitti's last sentence of the book:&quot;The achievement of the past is the promise of the present for the future.&quot;s dissapointed in his lack of treatment of one of the crucial problems in the Arab world, the sectarian feuds within Islam, particularly Sunni-Shia. If I'm not mistaken Shiism was born out of life of the Caliph Ali and his son Hussein. Hitti says absolutely nothing about this when talking about these two men. He only says that Ali, who ruled from 656 to 661, was very popular but was murdered and that his son Hussein was called &quot;the great divorcer&quot; as a result of his having ruined one hundred marriages by his omniverous fornicating which was his prefered activity in life and he had no interest in the caliphate so he ceded it Muawiyah in return for the payment of a lifetime subisidy.<br />At the end of the book Hitti writes that the Arab people &quot;have thus taken their place among the forward-marching democratic nations of the world and promise to make further contributions to the progress of mankind.&quot; It's hard to pin down when exactly that was written but that's obviously a bit too optimistic a statement in todays terms with most of the Arab world dominated by Western backed corrupt and brutal oligarchies. But perhaps its best to keep in mind Hitti's last sentence of the book:&quot;The achievement of the past is the promise of the present for the future.&quot;	2001-04-13
US	52306476	R72JIGAZE1JZB	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A great historical document with insight	This book is more of an inflamatory phamphlet than an intellectual overview of an ideology. But still it is unique and pretty interesting. The bourgeoisie, having taken control from the feudal structures the means of production in the unrestrained capitalist system, overproduces, overextends, speculates itself into great trouble and has to compete with new foreign markets. During this process the proletariat has its wages forced downward, becomes nothing more than appendages of machines. The proletariat become united in their increasing oppression and increasingly organise to fight the bourgeoisie. The bourgeoise is overthrown, with the petite bourgeois somewhere in between depending on the circumstances. It is inevitable that the proletariat will overthrow the bourgeoisie and set up a &quot;dictatorship of the proletariat&quot; which will transition society to one which will be &quot;an association in which the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all.&quot; <br />It is pretty clear, regardless of Bakunin's fulminations, that Marx and Engels hardly had in mind the dictatorship &quot;of the proletariat&quot; that Lenin set up. They seemed to have had in mind the Paris Commune of 1871.	2001-04-10
US	52306476	R3Q6PEYXI8HR19	0935028633	536090838	Chile's Free Market Miracle: A Second Look	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A devastating indictment of Chilean neoliberalism	This book contains an analysis of the economic and social effects of the Pinochet dictatorship by John Lear and Joseph Collins around 1990 and an epilogue by Stephanie Ronsenfeld from around 1994.<br />The authors show the effects of deregulation on all aspects of Chilean life. The public health system--which seventy percent of Chileans as of 1990 belonged to--has been rapidly defunded , farmed out to municipalities. Relatively few Chileans can afford the relatively new HMO-type companies whose primary focus is accomodating people who can pay the most i.e. the well-off. Thyphoid fever and Hepatitis rapidly expanded to epidemic proportions from the mid-70's until a decaded later--short term profit, absent government restraint, makes dumping industrial waste and chemicals into rivers into the water supply a reasonable cost-effective mean as does neglecting to ensure adequate sanitation standards in the food you sell. The government finally enacted some regulations in the mid-80's to try to roll back the epidemics. The authors point out the declining infant mortality rate, which neoliberal advocates point to with pride is, apart from the expanding birth rate in the upper classes, in large part due to &quot;socialistic&quot; government programs targeting new mothers and infants. The health of the infants and mothers after they conclude the program is, of course, another story. The authors show that Chile's privitization and municipilization of education has grossly skewed the benefits towards wealthy municipalities able to generate the resources and high-income students to be &quot;self-financing.&quot;<br />They show that the privitized social security accounts are of scant benefit for a large number of Chileans who cannot generate enough income to meet their stringent minimum requirements. This great mass of people inevitably have to fall back on the scant package offered by the government which, combined with required government payments to those who retired before the early 80's when privitization was implemented, promises to bring severe fiscal probolems for Chile in the next few decades. They show that wages have stagnated or declined relative to pre-1973 levels--per capita income did not return to its 1970 level until 1989. They show that the monumental economic crises in the early 80's which admirers of Pinochet's economic policies like to forget, was very much due to the extreme neoliberal policies of the junta. In the late 70's Chile's economy took off. Tarrifs were eliminated, restrictions on foreign investment lifted and the Peso was pegged at 39 to the dollar, considerably overvalued. The result was a flood of ultra-cheap imports, mostly luxury items and little productive inbestment. The banks, freed from regulation, recklessly loaned out. Then at the end of 1981 all of the suddent there was recession in the U.S. and thus restriction of its market, capital flight, corporations and banks under enormous debt went under and the economy was on the verge of collapse. Pinochet took over the bankrupt banks and corporations using the resources provided by Chile's immensely profitable government owned companies to get back into shape and then sold them to his friends and foreign corporations at grossly undervalued prices. During this process some unkind critics labeled it--&quot;the Chicago road to socialism&quot;--government ownership was as high as it ever was during Allende's term--after the proteges of University of Chicago free market gurus like Milton Friedman who took over Chile's economic policy after 1975. The immensely profitable public companies then followed into the private sector, again grossly low prices.<br />The show that working conditions, wages and living conditions have largely gone down hill, helped enormously by Pinochet's extreme anti-labor policies. The rapid elimination of native forests and fisheries protends serious problems. Miss Rosenfeld points out that the democratic governments since 1990 haveeliminated some of the harder edges of Pinochet's policies by increasing spending considerably for housing and other social services and increasing the minimum wage and have shown more success in narrow statistical indicators than he ever did. But the structure of his society is still more or less intact; Chile is still primarily an export-oriented economy, largely by exploiting non-renewable resources. Its over-reliance, for instance, of grape exports, the workers in whose industry are mostly temporary laboring under bad conditions and low wages, makes it very vulnerable to new competitors who are discovering more cheaper ways of production and can pay even lower wages. Government funding for research and development and funding of infrastructure before 1973 laid the basis for the industry's prosperity but since that time it has been eliminated. <br />The book is a little bit dated and I didn't understand one or two points but it is a very important book and, for an economics book, lucidly written.	2001-04-02
US	52306476	R1P1FPO7A0WRB7	0679767258	77011518	Peace And Its Discontents: Essays on Palestine in the Middle East Peace Process	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Eloquent voice for truth and justice	Edward Said in this collection of essays written between September 1993 and October 1995 lays bare the reality of what the &quot;peace process&quot; has been about from the beginning. The Palestinian authority gets &quot;limited autonomy&quot; in Palestinian population centers while Israeli troops &quot;redeploy&quot; to outside these centers. The settlements and bypass roads continue to be built at an ever expanding rate, but the world does not notice, at least when the labor party is in power. Jerusalem, which Israel is going to keep no matter what, includes &quot;Greater Jerusalem&quot; i.e. twenty five percent of the West Bank. Israel has veto power over seemingly every decision made by the Palestinian authority or the Palestinian legislature. The policy of &quot;dedevelopment&quot;--Sarah Roy's term--continues. No Palestinian economic enterprise is allowed to compete with the Israeli economy. Palestinians are to continue to serve Israeli business as sweatshop labor. Israel--as it did quite frequently during the last Rabin government--can institute &quot;closures&quot; at a whim, strangling the Palestinians to death, provoking violence and despair. The Palestinian authority continues to be Israel's clumsy and frightened proconsul taking every step to meet Israel's so-called &quot;security&quot; needs while the Palestinians remain exposed to Gush Emunim and Kach and the border guards to say nothing of Arafat's numerous secret police agenicies.<br />Said can be somewhat recondite at times when he is discoursing on philosphical matters but when dealing with current events in the middle east he is unbelievably clear, graceful and powerful.	2001-03-23
US	52306476	R3TB8ZAQMMR9UJ	158322081X	117270757	The Case of Mumia Abu-Jamal: A Life in the Balance (Open Media Series)	Books	5	11	20	N	Y	Points out the gross flaws of Mumia's trial	Amnesty International in this little pamphlet presents the gross problems in the way Mumia Abu Jamal, black journalist and activist on death row since 1982 for allegedly killing a police officer, has been treated by the legal system. And there are a great many gross problems. AI does not declare him to be guilty or innocent nor have they adopted him as a prisoner of conscience.<br />AI points out that of the three witnesses who claimed to have heard him confess to killing officer Faulkner after being brought into the emergency room, on, officer Gary Wakshul wrote in his log after finishing his shift that night that &quot;the negro male made no comments.&quot; Another, a hospital security gaurd, claimed to have handwritten a note to her supervisor after the incident. Another, officer Gary Bell, Faulkner's &quot;best friend,&quot; made no record of the incident until two months later.<br />The security gaurd did not come forth with her claim until two months later. The alleged handwritten note was not found but a supposed typewritten copy of it was. The security gaurd denied having seen that copy before but despite its dubious authenticity Judge Sabo admitted it into evidence. Wakshull, Bell and Durham, the security gaurd, all came forward two months after the alleged confession, after Mumia had complained of being beaten by police after his arrest. Mumia tried to get Wakshul to testify but he was for some reason &quot;on vacation&quot; and Judge Sabo refused to pursue the matter furhter.<br />The alleged witnesses to the crime. AI points out that Cynthia White, the prostitute, who changed the details of her story numerous times, was serving an eighteen month sentence in Massachusetts at the time of the trial, with three charges pending, and was arrested twice in the days following the shooting, though she was not prosecuted for those two incidents. They point out that in 1987 a detective involved in Mumia's case testified successfully in support of releasing White, who was then on trial for numerous felonies, on bail despite her very extensive criminal record. They point out that Veronica Jones, the second prostitute, testified at the trial that &quot;they [the police] told us we could work the area [as prostitutes] if we tell them [that Abu Jamal was the shooter].&quot; She said that &quot;they [the police] were trying to get me to say something the other girl [White] said. I couldn't do that.&quot; She said that she saw two men running from the scene but later retracted the statement, as she later testified in 1996, after being visited by police officers in jail where she was being held on charges of robbery and assault. Judge Sabo struck her original statements from the record. AI points out that Robert Chobert, the cab driver, intially told police that the shooter had &quot;run away.&quot; He was on probation for arson at the time and was driving with a suspended liscence for which he was not prosecuted and he approached the prosecutor, as he later testified, wanting to know how he could get his liscence back so he could earn his living driving his cab. &quot;We'll see&quot; the prosecutor replied.<br />AI points out that the police did not conduct tests on Mumia's hands or smell his gun to see if had recently been fired. The medical examiner, was declared at the trial by Sabo to be a ballistics expert though at the 1995 hearing he reversed himself. The examiner made a &quot;lay guess&quot;--Sabo's words--that the gun was a .44 calibre whereas Mumia's gun was a .38 calibre. The medical examiner testified that though the bullet found in officer Faulkner seemed similar to those from Mumia's gun, the tests were inconclusive as to wheather it actually came from Mumia's firearm. <br />They point out, among other things,, him being a frequent target of law enforcment, especially the FBI's COINTELPRO program and how the prosecutor exploited Mumia's political views to secure a death sentence from the jury.<br />I think he's probably innocent. Give him a new trial or release him immediately.	2001-03-11
US	52306476	R3MO4IN3NH8666	0872863239	196376689	A Little Matter of Genocide: Holocaust and Denial in the Americas 1492 to the Present	Books	5	43	66	N	N	A great, if dry book	This book is packed full of information for so relatively small a number of pages and at times, though not always, the prose style is, well, rather dry, to use the most polite term. There are streches where one cannot read more than two or three sentences without being directed to look down at large footnotes. But Mr. Churchill is man of immense learning and passion. In this inconclastic study he engages in a comparative study of genocide and its academic treatment with a specific focus on the history of Native Americans vis a vis the U.S. government and the dominant white race. <br />He starts off by dissecting the opinions of such professional holocaust exclusionists like Deborah Lipstadt, Yehuda Bauer, and Steven J. Katz. These brethren have made it their duty, allbeit ito fully ingrain in mainstream ideology the idea that the holocaust of Jews was an utterly unique even in human history; in contrast, they have written, the genocide of Slavs and especially gypsies by the Nazis, to say nothing of the genocide of Native Americans, Cambodians by the Khmer Rouge, Africans by the European powers, etc. etc. is not worthy of the same consideration. Professor Lipstadt goes even far as to say that people who say that they are are anti-semitic holocaust deniers. Obviously they do this so as to provide an ideological bulwark of vicitimization so as to deflect criticism of Israel and its continuing dispossession and brutality against Palestinians.<br />He goes on to examine the barbaric treatment of Indians in Latin America in modern times, two most prominent examples being that of the Ache indians in Paraguay by the U.S. backed neonazi dictator Alfredo Stroessner, whose fate managed to elicit a few crocodile tears from the great holocaust exculsivist Elie Wiesel, and the peoples of the Amazonian basin in Brazil. <br />The next sections are probably the most important. He provides a pretty damm near exhaustive account of European-Indian relations. He examines the activitiesof the Spaniards, the first European colonisers as they conducted a campaign of wholesale mass murder, rape, pillage, starvation and slave labor against the Indians who crossed their path. He says that their is no real evidence for the Aztecs allegedly commonplace custom of &quot;ritual sacrafice&quot; of up to twenty thousand people a year and says that it was an excuse contrived by Hernan Cortes and the other conquistadors to justify their murderous policies and was only &quot;confirmed&quot; by indians being forced under torture to testify during the Inquisition in Spain. He compares this theory offered up by respectable intellectuals to the theory of &quot;Jewish ritual murder&quot; contrived by their counterparts in Germany in the 1930's. <br />He goes on to examine the activities of the French (far less genocidal towards the Indians, if only for tactical reasons) and the greatest of mass killers of them all, the Anglo-Saxon races. He traces all the great Indian killers of American history and people who provide their ideological justification from Jeffery Ameherst to some of the soldiers marching through the streets of Denver after the Sand Creek massacre in 1864 with Indian male genitals for tabacco pouches and Indian female genitalia accross their saddles. The policy from the original Jamestown settlers to George Washington to Andrew Jackson to the settlers in Northern California to George Custer was pretty much along the following lines, often quite explicitly stated: destroy women and children, destroy their economies and infrastructure, exterminate or push them further west, disregard any treaties we might sign with them, they are only cockroaches. <br />In the next section he traces U.S. Indian policy since roughly 1890 after the Indian Allotment removal act and the implementation of the &quot;spare the man, kill the Indian policy.&quot; It was gradually discovered that Indian reservations were places of great mineral wealth, so they were prevented frombeing dismantled as they were scheduled to be and their indigenous tribal structures were eliminated in favor of a colonial type system that could put the government and corporations in a better position to exploit those resources. He points out that the high rates of cancer resulting among Indians who work or who are forced to live near, for example Uranium Ore or Plutonium based industries or weapons testing sites is more often than not deflected away from the hazardous conditions of the sites and towards theories about the victims getting cancer because of smoking or second hand smoke even though such descriptions fit very few of them.<br />He ends with a discussion of the effort to get a decent revision of the United Nations convention on genocide and examines U.S. and other countries evasions of it. He describes the U.S. as a violent and lawless state, as evidenced by its withdraw from World Court jurisdiction as a result of the 1986 World Court ruling against its terrorist war in Nicaragua, eliciting widespread international condmenation, including from Thatcher's Britain.	2001-03-08
US	52306476	R1GLSD7MNG2YF1	1859847854	33561867	Pinochet and Me: A Chilean Anti-Memoir	Books	5	17	27	N	N	Brief yet vivid portrayal of recent Chilean history	Marc Cooper, contributing editor to that fine periodical The Nation, was twenty years old when he arrived in Chile in 1971 after being kicked out of the California higher education system by govenor Ronald Reagan for his anti-war activities. At the time of the September 11 1973 coup he was a translator for president Allende. This book is made up of notes he made while living in Chile an in visits to it since. It is very well written.<br />When he arrived in Chile, Nixon had ordered &quot;make the economy scream,&quot; CIA money began pouring into opposition media outlets, parlimentarians, far right organizations and military officers, general Rene Schneider had been assasinated and so on. But Allende had the support of the poor majority and his party won handily congressional elections in March 1973. Bands of peasants, impatient that the opposition controlled congress was blocking land reform, took to seizing estates and dividing them amongst themselves. When the military attempted a coup in late June 1973, Allende urged workers to seize control of their workplaces which they did, to the consternation of the communist party, always among the most horrified whenever genuine socialism emerges (as they were during the civil war in Spain). About a week before the coup, a half a million workers took to the streets in support of Allende. But the U.S. backed military had the guns and they acted.<br />Over the next seventeen years, Chileans experienced massive terror. After ten years of neoliberal economics, the economy was on the verge of collapse in 1983, eliciting severe unrest from virtually all of Chile's classes and terrorism in response, particularly against the poor, from Pinochet. It is true that since 1986, with the exception of workers wages being well below what they were during Allende's time, a massive upward redistribution of wealth and half of the private social security accounts having less that a thousand dollars in them, Chile's economy has shown some nice statistics. But what is most remarkable is the utter alienation that most Chileans feel towards their political system. Relatively few people belong to a union, a church or any organization; everyone is an individualist fighting for themselves. People don't march for a living wage or free milk anymore; a more likely scene is that described by Cooper, of social security workers protesting very modest government attempts to prevent corruption in the way they earn their commissions. People are more likely to be concentrating on putting a toy phone to their ear while in their cars so that their neighbors will think they can afford a cell phone; or putting expensive times in their shopping carts to impress items in fellow shoppers and then discading them quickly before they leave. <br />But Cooper sees some hope in the arrest of Pinochet and his cronies, the reemergence of the previously almost dead Chilean left wing and the small steps Chile has taken towards a sort of &quot;denazification&quot; process.	2001-03-03
US	52306476	R1OMUAG3LQAV0B	1567510701	91867682	Race for Justice: Mumia Abu-Jamal's Fight Against the Death Penalty	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A solid defense of Mumia	This book was published in 1995 and is, I believe, made up of the documents prepared by Mumia's lawyers, led by Leanard I. Weinglass, in preparation for his entrance into the state apellate courts. It is somewhat dated, without the information that came to light in the following two years, not always easy to read, it being a legal document of course and there are quite alot of details to digest. But Weinglass does a very good job of making Mumia's side of the story acessible.<br />In brief, one witness--a cab driver serving probation for arson-- substantially altered his initial story that a much heavier man, &quot;a Jamaican&quot; shot officer Faulkner and ran away down South Locust street, but was prevented from being challenged for credibility and being cross-examined by Mumia's attorney by judge Sabo; another witness, a prostitute, though having engaged in mild consumption of alcohol and marajuna in the preceding hours, saw &quot;one or more&quot; people running down South Locust street; another witness who passed a polygraph test though the defense was not told this, viewed a &quot;Jamaican&quot; running down South Locust street; another witness claimed to have seen a man other than Mumia shoot Faulkner but was forced to sign a false affidavit and, under threats to his life, fled to North Carolina; another witness, a prostitute, the only one to have claimed to have seen Mumia actually fire the gun, substantially altered her story in several interviews with police, most of which took place after she was twice arrested for prostitution in the days after the shooting. She was never prosecuted for those offenses and evidence was witheld from the defense that she was operating her business under police protection. Veronica Jones, the first prostitute, testified at the trial on June 29 1982 that police offered her to continue to work the streets without police interference (Cynthia White, the second prostitute's name was refered to in the interview)if she testified that Mumia was the killer and various threats were made against her. This testimony was ordered stricken from the record by judge Sabo and she later changed her story and said that Mumia was the killer.<br />Mumia, being indigent, was accorded by the court very scant resources to provided expert testimony in his defense. He was unable to provide an expert in pathology or ballistics, who could have pointed out the absurdity of the prosecution's theory that officer Faulkner shot an upright Mumia while falling to the ground after supposedly being first shot by him--the bullet in Mumia's chest had a distinctly downward trajectory--or pointed out that the police failed to smell Mumia's gun to see if it had been fired recently or tested Mumia's clothes and hands for chemicals or pointed out the lack of sodium nitrate on officer Faulkner's back. The police were unable to prove that the bullet in officer Faulkner came specifically from Mumia's gun. The bullets in Mumia's gun and the bullet in Faulkner, though similar, were too mutilated for adequate comparison. <br />One of the main factors in Mumia's conviction and death sentence was the claim by three witnesses that he had confessed to the crime after entering the emergency room the night of the shooting. But one witness, Gary Waksul, wrote in his log after Mumia began to be operated on that &quot;the Negro male made no comments.&quot; The defense attempted to havbe the court locate Wakshul who was supposed to be available for the trial but he, for some reason, was &quot;on vacation&quot; and Judge Sabo dismissed the matter. Another officer, Faulkner's &quot;best friend&quot; Gary Bell, made no record of the alleged confession in his log or in subsequent interviews with investigators until two months later. A lady hospital security gaurd, a friend of Faulkner's also came forward three months later to say she heard a confession. She claimed she had reported this confession to her supervisors with a handwritten note, but forsome reason, despite often having contact with police, it was not reported to them until months later. A typewritten copy of the alleged original note was later produced but the security gaurd said she didn't recognize it. Despite its dubious authenticity, Judge Sabo admitted into evidence. All three of the supposed witnesses reported hearing the &quot;confession&quot; after Mumia had complained of being beaten by officers after his arrest.<br />In his closing remarks the prosecutor swayed the mainly white jury by quoting a newspaper column Mumia had written when he was sixteen years old where he had stated &quot;power belongs to the barrel of a gun.&quot; Mumia had no criminal record or history of violent activities despite being a prime target of the FBI's COINTELPRO and the Philadelphia police for his leadership in the Philadelphia Black Panthers and other anti-establishment activities. The prosecutor argued that that article from twelve years earlier proved Mumia capable of killing a police officer. See Weinglass's analysis and quotation from the trial transcript on pgs 115-117. The prosecutor also declared that Mumia's belligerent attitude towards judge Sabo because the latter was denying him his sixth amendment and other rights proved his &quot;arrogance, visciousness&quot; and so on. He urged the jury to convict Mumia because it would show their neighbors that they were really concerned about law and order.  <br />Plainly Mr. Abu Jamal deserves at the very least a new trial, one not presided over by someone in the pay of the Fraternal Order of Police like the old cad Sabo.	2001-02-26
US	52306476	R25O3B4LKXLSE3	0140211268	36217551	American Power and the New Mandarins (Pelican)	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Chomsky's first political book	This is a collection of essays from 1966 through 1968, Noam Chomsky's first political book, published in 1969 when he was fourty years old, after he had established himself as the Einstein of linguistics. Of course, it's a little bit dated but it's remarkable how little Chomsky's critique has changed, how cogent it was from its very beginning. Many of the thoughts in this book, certainly on resistance to the state, have great pertinancy today.<br />His target was the liberal intelligensia, the &quot;best and the brightest.&quot; These brethren (Douglas Pike, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Samuel Huntington, Walt Rostow, Dean Rusk, New York Times correspondent Neal Sheehan et. al), Chomsky shows quite compellingly, helped engineer and/or provided intellectual rationalization for one of the most barbaric wars in human history. These rationalizations were quite openly expressed in the newspapers, journals of opinion, congressional testimony, U.S. AID reports, and so on. They went something like this: We are fighting against the National Liberation Front, the so-called Viet Cong which enjoys great support amongst the South Vietnamese population and has received little aid from the North. The fact that it is to a large extent supported by the population is irrelevant. The NLF threaten our security. No indiginous force in South Vietnam, with the exception of the Buddhists, has any remotely comparable level of support. Therefore, since we can't compete in the political field, in 1954 we violated the Geneva agreements and set up a terror and torture regime in South Vietnam, with large numbers of American &quot;advisors&quot; helping, that used extreme violence to help compensate for its lack of political support. We made sure that the seventeenth parallel, intended in the Geneva accords as only a temporary demarcation line, was made permanent and sabotoged efforts to hold the elections in 1956 for national reunification called for in the accords. We're weak politically but we are unrivaled militarily and in the other resources of violence at our disposal.  In the late 50's our response began to elicit a violent reaction from the NLF, the main target of our repression. Our allies are almost always the most feudal, reactionary and brutal elements of South Vietnam, who can never elicit any support amongst the general population. So we have to destroy the NLF, which means to &quot;dislodge it from its constituency&quot; which means we have to destroy its supporters and all of their homes, villages, natural environment, and so on, which means we have to take actions that will perhaps exterminate those supporters, the rural population of South Vietnam. We, who believe in behaviorist psychology, don't see anything wrong with what we are doing and believe it is fundamentally just and in the best interests of the people of South Vietnam who are perhaps somewhat unfit for self-government. We held &quot;free and fair&quot; elections that excluded any &quot;neutralist,&quot; communist, socialist, NLF sympathizers and other such rascals from taking part.<br />The debate in the mainsteam on this issue was between people on the one hand like Joe Alsop on the right, who argued that if America just kept applying more and more military force i.e. tried to wipe Vietnam off the planet it could eventually prevail and on the other hand people on the &quot;left&quot; like Schlesinger Jr. who prayed that this policy would work yet thought it would be too costly in the long run. Chomsky expresses thoughts that would come to any remotely civilized human being upon viewing this spectacle.<br />Chomsky also devotes an iconoclastic, though at times somewhat ponderously written chapter to the Spanish civil war, a very good chapter on the background to Japan's role in World War Two and demolishes the establishment myths about the Cold War. He urges intellectuals to be iconoclasts, to serve truth and justice, not power and privillege.<br />Also of some interest is a paraphrase of a quote from Harry Truman by James Warburg that Chomsky quotes. In the first edition Chomsky attributed the quote exclusively to Truman; it was corrected and attributed to Warburg, very similar to Truman's original quote, in the second edition of the book published shortly after. If one reads any serious journal of the Social Sciences or other such fields one often finds a list of errors at the end of even favorable reviews. But the commissars jumped on it and it has been the subject of dozens of articles and hundreds of references over the years. Schlesinger in &quot;Cycles Of American History&quot; declared that Chomsky had fabricated the quote. It is a tribute to Chomsky that they were quite unable to address his main arguments and chose to endlessly quible over the trivial quote (one of the lesser canards about him, behind the one about his support for the Khmer Rouge and the one about his support for Robert Faurisson).raphrase of a quote from Harry Truman by James Warburg that Chomsky quotes. In the first edition Chomsky attributed the quote exclusively to Truman; it was corrected and attributed to Warburg, very similar to Truman's original quote, in the second edition of the book published shortly after. If one reads any serious journal of the Social Sciences or other such fields one often finds a list of errors at the end of even favorable reviews. But the commissars jumped on it and it has been the subject of dozens of articles and hundreds of references over the years. Schlesinger in &quot;Cycles Of American History&quot; declared that Chomsky had fabricated the quote. It is a tribute to Chomsky that they were quite unable to address his main arguments and chose to endlessly quible over the trivial quote (one of the lesser canards about him, behind the one about his support for the Khmer Rouge and the one about his support for Robert Faurisson).	2001-02-09
US	52306476	R2U9A6TVE0CP20	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	5	24	33	N	N	A first rate political biography of a cheap politican	I don't always agree with Molly Ivins but I believe that she is one of the few nationally syndicated columnists worth seriously reading. She was blessed to be a native and a resident of the state that George W. Bush was governor of from 1995 until recently. She and Mr. Dubose have here produced a fascinating, thought provoking history of the new president's political career and recent Texas political history. <br />We learn that Mr. Bush is always willing to &quot;balance the budget on the backs of the poor&quot; as he himself accused his party of doing in Washington D.C. early in the presidential campaign (see in particular the episode described on pages 94-96). But when it comes to that loosely defined rubric known as corporate welfare, he is a very compassionate conservative--indeed a substantial part of his own fortune is based in the taxpayer built stadium for the Texas Rangers. We learn about Bush's disasterous pilot school voucher program and the even worse &quot;faith based&quot; privitization of wellfare programs that Texas tried thirty years ago. We learn about the racist, unaccountable and reactionary Texas judicial system where constitutional rights violations are widespread and innocent and retarded people are executed (consider the case of Gary Graham; obviously innocent but the idea that he was was not even expressed in the mainstream media). We learn about the efforts in previous years to try to equalize funding between school districts in rich communities and those communities unable to generate tax dollars to pay for basic services and efforts to try to establish drug treatment programs which study after study, as the authors note, including a 1997 Rand corporation study, is far more cost-effective and successful in fighting repeat offenses and violent crime. They show that Bush was actually on the right side to some extent on the first issue but on the second issue he played the demagogue. <br />We learn some fascinating stuff about the horrible conditions in the Rio Grande valley and how grassroots organizations have helped get some concessions from the Texas state government, in spite of Dubya's best efforts. The authors discuss the furor about hate crimes and offer their support for the failed hate crimes legislation because it would &quot;reassure&quot; minorities even though they say they don't like it because it would expand the death penatly, among other measures. <br />In brief, George W's philosophy, though he probably dosen't see it that way, is that the rich and powerful should not be restrained in pursuing short term profit, regardless of the cost to the workingman, consumers or the environment. He is stupid, without intelligence or honor and, beyond a few basic platitudes, has no real grasp of the ideas which he espouses, though he no doubt sincerely believes in them in his own way. His &quot;compassionate conservatism&quot; is just like Gingrich &quot;conservatism&quot; or Reagan &quot;conservatism&quot; i.e. statist reactionary policies devoted to a massive welfare state for the rich and powerful, one that is violent, intrusive and unaccountable. But that is just the system. The democrats are pretty much the same, as the authors would agree.	2001-02-02
US	52306476	R1SB9JQIEUMCE1	0896086097	278111154	Panic Rules!: Everything You Need to Know about the Global Economy	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	Gives a pretty solid understanding of the global economy	Professor Robin Hahnel of the American University in Washington D.C. presents some interesting statistics. He notes that from the early 80's until the Asian economic crises hit in July 1997, much of the world economy was said to be in the midst of an economic &quot;boom&quot; caused by the implementation of neoliberal policies (deregulation, removal of tarrifs and restrictions on capital flows,etc.). Well, according to figures compiled by the Organization for Economic and Commercial Development (OECD), from 1950 to 1973, the year the Bretton Woods system was dismantled and the process of neoliberalization (globalization)began, the average annual gross domestic product per capita of Western European countries was 3.8 percent. From 1973 until 1992, their average annual per capita Gross Domestic product was 1.8 percent. From 1950 until 1973, the average annual per capita gross domestic product in the U.S.A., New Zealand, Australia and Canada was 2.4 percent. From 1973 until 1992 their average annual per capita GDP was 1.4 percent. In Latin America from 1950 to 1973, the average annual per capita GDP was 2.4 percent. From 1973 to 1992 it was .4 percent. The only countries that increased economic efficiency between 1973 and 1992 were the East Asian &quot;tigers&quot; who combined harsh repression of labor, with tax credits and subsidies to export-oriented industries and severe restrictions on inflow and outflow of capital and foreign ownership. <br />Another statistic. He shows that the annual flow of capital around the world has vastly increased by a large margin since the beginning of neoliberalization in the early 70's; he also shows that whereas before that time, capital was largely used for investment and other long term activities, international capital is now largely used for speculative purposes. <br />So he shows very clearly that the Bretton Woods period was far more productive for the world economy than the period since 1973. He notes that in the U.S. wages have been stagnant or declining and that while a relatively large number of Americans own stocks, most of it is concentrated in 401k and other retirement accounts, pretty small stuff and that the wealth from the stocks is overwhelmingly concentrated in the top ten percent of the population. <br />He analyzes what caused the East Asian crises. The East Asian &quot;tigers,&quot; under Western pressure, removed restrictions on capital flows, and cut back environmental and labor laws in the late 80's and early 90's and Western capital, mostly speculative, flowed in. Western banks made short term loans to the banks in these countries who made high interest long term loans to export-oriented local businesses. But as one &quot;tiger&quot; deregulated, cut environmental regulations,etc. to compete for Western capital, so did all the others and the boom that many businesses felt was relatively short lived as they faced increasing competition in other countries and were forced to lower prices. They began to have trouble repaying their loans to their local banks who in turn had trouble repaying international creditors. Then Thailand began to wobble and investors, following what Hahnel says is rule one of international finance &quot;,panic first,&quot; rapidly sold off its currency, then investors in Malaysia panicked and did the same and then Indonesia and then South Korea..... The economies plumetted and foreign companies were allowed, as a condition for IMF rescue packages, unrestricted access to rush in and buy up local businesess and bargain basement prices. Hahnel presents a particularly interesting article from the New York Times alleging that Robert Rubin and Larry Summers blocked Japanese efforts to create a sort of Asian monetary fund to try to avert the crises at its beginning on the ground that it would interfere with U.S. &quot;influence and interests&quot; and that Japan would not insist on the draconian IMF-style reforms. <br />He also makes some good points abouthow the true health of a nation can hardly be measured by the common economic efficiency numbers, noting for instance that a small farmer in the third world ussually lives very poorly and contributes almost no value to the overall economy but still manages to feed himself and his family and is protected by the social safety net of his village. But when his landlord kicks him off the land because the landlord wants to grow expensive export crops and he is pushed into a diseased infested slum in the big city, this will probably increase the GDP. <br />Unlike the other reviewer, to some extent I really didn't find this book &quot;easy-to-read&quot; and certainly didn't understand everything the learned professor wrote but I feel I have a much more solid grasp of the fundamentals of the economy.	2001-01-13
US	52306476	R13DZ5PCXKALXN	185984779X	464550694	5 Days That Shook the World: Seattle and Beyond	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Essays on free trade, dissident activism and state power	This is a relatively brief collection of essays not only by Alexander Cockburn and Jeffery St. Clair but by JoAnn Wypejewski (on A16) and Laura Flanders (three pages on on the creation of Indymedia). The essays discuss the state of activism not only relating to free trade but also of the type that occured at the Repulicrat conventions last Summer, the tensions within these movements and the increasing efforts of the state to harras and destroy them, within the context of the increasing power of the police and other government agencies to violate our constitutional rights, within the context of the fraudulent&quot;war on crime&quot; and the even more worthless &quot;war on drugs.&quot;<br />I very much liked St. Clair's day by day diary and analysis of the events in Seattle in late 99'. He paints a stark picture of how police handle civil disobedience, especially relating to matters so crucial to status quo as the WTO. That is, when protestors practicing civil disobedience block an intersection, instead of going the least expensive route of arresting them and dragging them away, attack them with tear gas and rubber bullets and then rush at them and beat them, and any innocent bystanders, up with batons and then when a few gang members get attracted to the ensuing mayhem and break a few windows, use that as an excuse to place the city under martial law and arrest and beat up everyone from protestors to people handing out leaflets to observors from the National Lawyers Guild to ordinary, patriotic Americans doing their Christmas shopping or coming home from their jobs and then drag 631 of them, 607 of them on misdemeanor charges, to jail and beat them up some more, while charges against 511 of them are dismissed and 14 of them go to trial, twelve of which were plea bargained or aquitted. <br />Cockburn and St. Clair analyze the tension within the anti-WTO movement between the liberal reformers--the major unions and environmental organizations, the Molly Ivins types--and between people like themselves who believe that the WTO, at least under the current corporate dominated power structure in the world, is unworkable in any form. Their prime example of this is the AFL-CIO march of 30,000 people during the Seattle protests which was diverted at the last moment away from the convention center by the union bosses, leaving the protestors by the convention center to face the police themselves.  They debunk the self-congradulation of the liberals and note that if the protests had been confined to the AFL-CIO march and their staid little symposiums and demands for &quot;a seat at the table&quot; with the corporate execs and bureaucrats, the ideas of the anti-WTO movement probably would not have reached the public at all.	2001-01-12
US	52306476	R3C5SRUTZIJ6HU	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Decent but full of flaws	There is some excellent writing throughout this book. It's biggest problem is the lack depth to the characters and the relationship between them, particularly Daisy, Gatsby and the relationship between Jordan Baker and Nick, the narrator. In the last thirty five pages or so, the writing seems to take a turn for the worse. The end is just too incredible. Fitzgerald becomes maudlin and sometimes unintelligible. This book is more than anything evidence of the truly great things that Fitzgerald might have ascended to had he not been overcome by his horrendous alcolhism.	2000-12-27
US	52306476	RSYTB358BDXLP	0896082679	19136164	Turning the Tide: U.S. Intervention in Central American and the Struggle for Peace	Books	5	16	20	N	N	It's Old But It's Still Chomsky and It's Pretty Interesting	Chomsky published this book in early 1986 on U.S. imperialism in Latin American and its institutional roots and history. It was published before such events as the June 1986 ruling of the World Court of Justice ordering the United States to cease its terrorist war against Nicaragua and pay substantial reparations to it, the 1987 Esquipulas accords and the 1990 elections in Nicaragua all or much of which Chomsky covers in books published in the years after this book (&quot;The Culture of Terrorism,&quot; &quot;Necessary Illusions,&quot; &quot;Deterring Democracy,&quot; etc.). But nonetheless he makes some excellent points in this book and I'm glad I read it. <br />There is alot of stuff in this book about the background to the U.S. intervention in Central America in the 1980's including the Kennedy administration's policies like the &quot;Alliance For Progress&quot; and the decision to switch the mission of the Latin American military from &quot;hemispheric defense&quot; to &quot;internal security&quot; in 1962, as well the secret documents from the 1940's from George Kennan and the other evidence where U.S. planners lay out their plan for the &quot;Grand Area,&quot; define just what they mean by &quot;communist&quot; and &quot;communist aggression,&quot; and so on. He has written on this in alot of other places. <br />But the immediate roots for the intervention and support for the death squads, Chomsky shows, started during the Carter &quot;human rights&quot; administration. During that time, he shows, the Reaganite programs of massive military spending and cutback of social programs began. Carter continued to support the Guatemalan Nazi-like military, despite a few token gestures that were apparently not enforced. Contrary to much illusion, he tried to keep Somoza in power to the very end of his barbaric rule, and probably sparked the final uprising against him by sending a letter in the summer of 1978 praising him for his devotion to human rights (he was making similar comments to the Shah of Iran at the same time). He vastly increased U.S. aid to El Salvador after an October 1979 military coup by reformist officers who were quickly pushed aside by fanatic rightist officers who began their mass murder in early 1980, as the archbishop of San Salvador Oscar Romero was writing to Carter to beg him to stop military aid to the murderous junta and the oligarchy saying that it would &quot;sharpen injustice against the people's organizations who are fighting for their most fundamental human rights.&quot; Archbishop Romero was assasinated shorly after by the forces of Ricardo Lau, a Nicaraguan Contra, in the employ of the notorious death squad leader Roberto D'aubuisson, according to the former chief of Salvadoran intelligence Roberto Santivanez. As Archbishop Romero's successor was condemning &quot;a war of extermination and genocide against a defenseless civillian populatoion&quot; Jose Napolean Duarte, a former dissident liberal, decided to completely sell out and become the figurehead civillian president of the junta to salve the conscience of the New York Times liberals. He joined forces with the killers whom he had been condemning shortly before, and though at one point admitting &quot;the masses are with the guerillas he spent alot of his time denouncing the Salvadoran Catholic church and other courageous people struggling to document the unimaginable horror the U.S. backed military was committing against defenseless peasants.<br />During the Carter years, congressional legislation prevented direct aid and training to the remnants of Somoza's national gaurd operating in Honduras, so Israel, the neo-Nazi dictatorship in Argentina, and other such friends of freedom stepped in to fill the void. The Reaganites, of course, felt no need for such caution and jumped in to aid and train them directly. Chomsky traces the evolution of the Reaganite campaign against Nicaragua: the February 1981 White Paper which was so ridiculous even many U.S. journalists saw its fraudulence, to the downright silly claim that Nicaragua was managing to send weapons to El Salvador through the Gulf of Fonseca, to the final policy settled upon which was that Nicaragua was a Stalinist dungeon taht was destablizing its neighbors (translation from Orwellian: trying to acquire weapons to defend itself from the terrorist war being waged against it by the U.S. and its proxy army). He notes that the 1984 elections in Sandanista Nicaragua was declared to be free and fair by a wide variety of observors who took note of the extraordinary fact that political forces calling for the overthrow of the government were allowed to take part in the election. The U.S. dismissed it as fraudulent while declaring to be a model of democracy the election that took place in El Salvador the same year which was declared by Lord Chitnis of the British parliamentary delegation to be conducted under conditions of &quot;intense terror, grizzly rumor and macabre reality.&quot; <br />He also analyzes the bipartisan attack on democracy and the welfare state (what we have of one) in the wake of the erosion of U.S. economic dominance of the world because of the Vietnam war, spearheaded at the time of his writing by the Reagan &quot;conservatives&quot; i.e. statist reactionaries devoted to a massive welfare state for the wealthy, one that is violent, intrusive and unaccountable in its actions at home and abroad. He devotes a section to analyzing &quot;Star Wars&quot; and U.S. nuclear policy. I'm not going to say I understood everything in it but it was immensely helpful nonetheless, especially considering the recent emergence of &quot;National Missle Defense&quot; and its bipartisan support and unfortunate support amongst the general population.	2000-12-11
US	52306476	RX9LT5DDL0GNZ	156584260X	345811220	The Way Things Aren't: Rush Limbaugh's Reign of Error : Over 100 Outrageously False and Foolish Statements from America's Most Powerful Radio and TV	Books	5	38	47	N	N	Devastates Limbaugh's Quackery	This book by Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), the outstanding media watchdog group, was published in 1995, after FAIR had published a report in June 1994 documenting Limbaugh's quackery to which Limbaugh responded with venom but with little substance. FAIR printed their rebuttal to Limbaugh's response to their original report at the end of this book. This book might seem rather dated; they have gathered a few more juicy things about Limbaugh since it was published, available on their web site, especially about his antics during the budget battles of 95-96' but I don't think they have kept track of him as much. <br />But on the whole, the documentation is excellent and the discussion of all aspects of Limbaugh--his power in the media and on capitol hill, messiah complex, racism, sexism, context of his rise to fame,etc.--as well as the prospects for developing alternatives to the center-right corporate and &quot;public&quot; television and radio is excellent. FAIR, though not in this book, has also been harshly critical of Bill Clinton and the Democrats. <br />Here are some examples that they present of the more than &quot;one hundred outrageously false and foolish statements from America's most powerful radio and TV commentator.&quot;<br />The quote Limbaugh as saying in &quot;The Way Things Ought to Be&quot; that construction of public housing &quot;actually increased during the Reagan years.&quot; The quote sthe Statistical Abstract of the U.S. which shows that there were almost twenty one thousand low income housing units under construction in 1980 but in 1988 there were only 9,700. They quote HUD figures which show that the money for construction of new housing was slashed from $3.7 billion in 1980 to $573 million in 1988. <br />They quote Limbaugh as saying in &quot;The Way Things Out To Be&quot; that there was no increase in the gap between the rich and the poor during the eighties and that &quot;Figures compiled by the Cogressional Budget Office dispel that myth.&quot; FAIR says that CBO numbers actually show that in 1980 the after tax income of the richest fifth was eight times that of the poorest fifth. &quot;By 1989, the ratio was more than twenty to one.&quot; <br />They quote him as saying on his now defunct TV show as claiming that the TV networks, including the &quot;Today&quot; show were attempting to suppress coverage of a pro-Clarence Thomas book by David Brock and that supporters of Anita Hill were refusing to come on TV to debate Brock. FAIR responded by noting that Brock had appeared a week before Limbaugh made this assertion on the &quot;Today&quot; show debating a Hill lawyer, Charles Ogletree.<br />The quote him as speaking of the superiority of American health care compared to other industrialized nations in &quot;See I Told You So&quot; and saying that &quot;the health of the American people has never been better,&quot; using the measurements of life expectancy and infant mortality.  FAIR responded by citing the 1993 CIA World Fact Book as ranking the United States 19th in life expectancy  and 20th in infant mortality. They also note that although the United States has the lowest health care satisfaction rate of the ten largest industrialized nations, it spends the most per capita. FAIR quotes Limbaugh as responding to this by saying that those two measures have nothing to do with the quality of health care, though he said exactly the opposite in his original point. He claimed that the high infant mortality was due to low weight teenage births and drug addicted babies and that the relatively low life expectancy was due to big city homicides. FAIR responded by saying that the amount of prenatal care is closely linked to infant mortality and that according the Center For Disease Control, homicides only lower the U.S. life expectancy by three months. <br />They quote Limbaugh as saying that there were &quot;no indictments&quot; in the Iran-Contra scandal. Limbaugh responded by saying that he &quot;misspoke&quot; and what he meant to say was that there were &quot;no convictions.&quot; FAIR responded by saying that he had actually devoted a large part of his TV show on January 19 1994 to arguing that no indictments had occured. There were not only fourteen indictments, but eleven convictions, two later reversed on technicalities, including that of Oliver North. <br />They quote him on his radio show as saying &quot;It's not happening. That kind of thing isn't happening&quot; with regard to Al Gore's claim in the 1992 debates that the Bush administration was giving tax breaks to U.S. companies to relocate to low-wage &quot;free economic zones&quot; in Central American and the Caribean, through the Private Sector Program of the U.S. Agency for International Development. They note that this was documented by &quot;60 minutes,&quot; &quot;Nightline&quot; and the National Labor Committee Education Fund. <br />They quote Limbaugh as saying that the &quot;democrats have never had any problem with liberal religous people being involved in politics,&quot; and thus that they had &quot;no trouble&quot; with Martin Luther King, the Berrigan brothers or Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman &quot;entering the political fray.&quot; FAIR notes that wiretapping of MLK was begun by John and Robert Kennedy and that harrassment of him was greatly increased during the Johnson administration. They note that the Berrigan brothers came into prominence by protesting Johnson's Vietnam policies and that Rubin and Hoffman were actually not religous leaders nor leaders of the SDS; they actually led the Yippies who sparked the protests at the 1968 Democratic convention.	2000-12-06
US	52306476	R2Q7TW3JCI9PB3	0375409300	867410378	The End of the Peace Process: Oslo and After	Books	5	54	59	N	N	The Master Hammers Home The Realities Of The Peace Process	Edward Said opposes the &quot;peace process&quot; because it has been deliberately designed to confine Palestinians to cantons which are isolated from one another, over which Israel controls overall sovereignty, water , exits and entrances, overall security and so on. The &quot;peace process&quot; has allowed Israel to extend its military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza strip, with arrangements lest costly than the old direct military rule, letting the Palestinian Authority have &quot;limited autonomy&quot; in Palestinian population centers, the cantons, while it retains all the best land and continues expropriating Palestinian land and building more settlements, most fervently under the &quot;moderate&quot; Labor governments, contrary to much illusion. Israel currently retains direct rule in about seventy two percent of the West Bank and about fourty percent of the Gaza Strip. Said makes very clear that he believes the &quot;peace process&quot; to be similar to the effort in apartheid South Africa to establish batustans,&quot;homelands&quot; for the blacks. Doubtless, he says, the Palestinian cantons will one day be declared a &quot;Palestinian state&quot; but it will actually be no more than a caricature of the bantustans of South Africa.  <br />He was on close terms with Arafat and many of the top PLO leaders before 1993. He offers an utterly scathing critique of Arafat and the PLO leadership. He portrays them as unbelievable morons and unbelievably corrupt and brutal. He says the main reason the PLO succumbed to Israel's offer in 1993 was that Arafat and his goons were facing an internal rebellion within the PLO because of their corruption, stupidity and lack of democracy. So they jumped at an agreement that made them Israel's collaborator and gave them protection. Their main duty is to round up, and often torture and sometimes murder all people whom Israel believes to be a threat to its always threatened &quot;security&quot; a very elastic concept which includes a great many non-violent persons<br />Since 1993, Arafat has spent all of the Palestinian Authority's money funding twelve or thirteen secret police agencies and buying off his enemies, real or potential, often with salaries for government jobs that entail absolutely nothing. He graphically portrays Arafat's incredible stupidity as he has endlessly begged the Israelis for more crumbs, and is always hoodwinked. Probably the best chapter in the book (and by far the longest) is &quot;On Visiting Wadie&quot; where he describes, among other incidents, an interview he was granted with the acid tongued PA minister Yasser Abd Rabbo, that was very cordial. Several months later Rabbo, on Arafat's orders, sent goons to all bookstores under Palestinian jurisdiction to seize Said's books and carry them away.    <br />A point that he constantly reiterates throughout this book is something that he says that he has been making to Arafat and other Palestinians for years. He says that Palestinians need to try to emulate the international educational efforts, lobbying and other forms of activism of the old anti-apartheid movement of South Africa. The Arab world, he notes, is currently run by dictatorships of varrying degrees of brutality, most of them propped up by the West, and is at an all time low. Arabs, he says, especially the various kept intellectuals of the pro-Western regimes, are immensely ignorant of Israel. They focus all their attention on the Labor party, but not on any genuine elements of peace in Israel like Israel Shahak or the late General Matti Peled or his daughter who expressed sympathy for the Palestinians after her daughter was blown up by a Hamas suicide bomb. Or the composer Daniel Barenboim, with whom Said has developed a friendship. Or Israel's revisionist historians like Benny Morris, Illan Pappe, Zeev Sternhell, Tom Segev, etc. who were interviewed about their findings on Israel's ethnic cleansing of Palestians in 1948 on Israel's fiftieth aniversary special on Israeli TV (of all places) in 1998. <br />In the rest of the book, among other subjects, he has some interesting things to say about the late Sir Isiah Berlin (especially Berlin's relationship with Noam Chomsky),the difference between Labor and Likud, comparing Shimon Peres and Bibi Netanyahu, with some rather amusing anecdotes about his encounters with Bibi in the late 80's and the great labor party fraud Yossi Beilin, from whom he takes two very pertinent quotes about the true nature of the peace process (page 170).	2000-11-19
US	52306476	R1BB4KOUSANHF7	0937694517	926821230	Israel's Global Role: Weapons for Repression	Books	5	34	40	N	Y	Analyzes Israel's support for oppression in the third world	Published in 1982, this very short little book, written by Israel's leading civil libertarian Israel Shahak, using massive quotation from the Israeli press, discusses Israel's massive weapons sales, military and police training and other forms of collaboration with such terroristic regimes as in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua under Somoza, Iran under the Shah, Malawi under Dr. Benda, a close friend of the apartheid regime in South Africa. Perhaps the prominent examples have to do with Israel's extensive military and economic alliance with apartheid South Africa and support for the Shah, especially among the Labor party doves, like Yigal Allon, who, made frequent visits to his friend, the head of Savak, the Shah's sadistic secret police. Another interesting example has to do with the 1976-83 &quot;dirty war&quot; regime in Argentina which butchered hundreds of Jews and engaged in such practices as forcing Jewish prisoners to kneel in front of pictures of Hitler, yet Israel was its primary supplier of military hardware and Israeli generals, like Motta Gur, often made friendly visits to the country. <br />Noam Chomsky, writing in August 1981, writes an outstanding introduction, and at the end of Shahak's essay, there are attached about five appendexis, containing good articles on this issue from the mainstream Israeli and American press and a few particularly good articles from Penny Lernoux of the National Catholic Reporter. Shahak's essay is not particularly easy to read, but the evidence he gives stands out above all else.	2000-10-26
US	52306476	R1ONLSOGG0EJDV	074531631X	103678459	Degraded Capability: The Media and the Kosovo Crisis	Books	5	68	72	N	Y	Destroys The Myths Of The Kosovo War	This is a collection of essays which attack the myths of the Kosovo war. Essayists include John Pilger, Philip Hammond, Diana Johnstone, Edward S. Herman and David Peterson, Nicos Raptis, Thomas Deichman, David Chandler and Mick Hume (a British right wing libertarian). <br />The subjects the authors analyze include, the Western intervention that was the primary cause of the Balkan wars in the first place; the extreme pro-Nato bias of the so-called International War Crimes Tribunal For The Former Yugoslavia; the efforts of the U.S. military to &quot;work with&quot; the mass media; the effort to &quot;nazify&quot; the Serbs in the Western media; and the evolving nature of warfare in the West. <br />Probably the best chapters are by Jim Naureckas and Seth Ackerman of Fairness And Accuracy In Reporting (FAIR) and Edward S. Herman and David Peterson on the American media's coverage of the war (Herman and Peterson concentrate on CNN's coverage) and John Pilger and Philip Hammond on the British media's coverage of the war. The subjects discussed in these chapters include, New York Times articles from the 1980's describing mass atrocities in Kosovo by Albanians against Serbs, stories that the Times, along with the rest of the media, forgot as they portrayed the Kosovo conflict as a black and white story that was nothing more than Milosevic, when he came to power in the late 80's, inflicting his barbaric racism against defenseless Albanians; the fact that atrocities and the misery of Kosovar Albanians vastly increased in Kosovo after the bombing began on March 24th; the hysterical anti-Serb racism of the British and American media along with their typically puerile self-righteousness as they urged Nato to attack Serb civillians and civillian infrastructure so that the Serbs's would get a taste of the unique atrocities that their leaders had inflicted upon other people's of the region; the unwillingness of the media to report details about these Nato war crimes; the fact thatthe Western media paid no attention to the fact that Nato inserted a clause in Appendix B of the Rambouillet accords which called for an exclusively Nato occupation force for Kosovo that would have unlimited access to the rest of Yugoslavia, terminating that nation's sovereignty (all this caused a brief stir in the German media before being quieted by foreign minister Joschka Fischer, as Thomas Deichman shows in his chapter on Germany's reaction to the war); the fact that George Kenney, former chair of the Yugoslav desk at the State Department during the Bush administration, ignored by the media, reported that a state department official had told him that Nato deliberately had deliberately sabotoged the Rambouillet accords; the fact that the Serb parliament had passed a resolution the day before the bombing began, that received scattered attention in the U.S. media, agreeing to an international security presence in Kosovo that would include neutral elements like the United Nations, as opposed to the exclusively Nato occupation force that the U.S. insisted upon; the fact that tens of thousands of Serbs, gypsies, Jews, and other non-Albanians have been ethnically cleansed by the Kosovo Liberation Army since the bombing ended; the fact that war crimes investigators have not been able to find more than between two thousand to three thousand bodies since the war ended, placing serious doubt on Nato's claims of &quot;genocide&quot; and its 10,000 dead figure (or 11,000, Bernard Kouchner's figure). <br />The rest of the book contains some good chapters on the reaction of the media the to the war in Germany, Russia, India, Norway and Greece, where the vast majority of the population opposed the war. Diana Johnstone analyzes the likely imperial motivations for the war and analyzes the media reaction to the war in France, where liberals, like Bernard Henri Levy, were obsessed by the alleged &quot;multiculturalism&quot; of Bosnian Moslems and their city, Sarajevo, in contrastto the barbaric racism of the Serbs, a centerpiece of their drive to distract attention from the harmful economic effects of further European integration and focus on an ideology of anti-racism, anti-chauvanism, anti-isolationism,etc. and smear any opponents of the European Union as automatically being in the same league with Jean Marie Le Pen, the fascist party leader. <br />On the whole, this is an excellent collection of essays. Not all of them are particularly well written. If you want a more succinct summary of the Kosovo War, try Noam Chomsky's &quot;The New Military Humanism.&quot;	2000-10-26
US	52306476	R329T6QMY3JBSF	1567510302	593814547	The Pen and the Sword	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Introduces Said's Thought	This little book is about 170 pages and made up of about five interviews from between 1987 to 1994 with Edward Said, the leading Palestinian intellectual, interviewed by David Barsamian, the producer and host of &quot;Alternative Radio,&quot; famous for his collection of interviews with Noam Chomsky. <br />Said discourses on, among other topics, the role of culture in shaping literature, the pro-imperialist inclinations of V.S. Naipaul, the simultaneous anti-imperialist and anti-liberation outlook of Joseph Conrad, why Albert Camus is portrayed as having been an anti-colonialist when he was, in fact, quite the opposite, Western stereotypes about Arabs, why it is possible to have an honest discussion of Israel's flaws in the Israeli media but not in the United States, and the decline of the American left. Occasionally, he gets, well, a bit recondite, but he is often very interesting and I like him very much.<br />But he is at his best when discussing the Palestinian movement and its leadership, Arafat and the PLO, with whom he was on close terms before the 1993 Oslo accords. The thoughts in this book are from when the &quot;peace process&quot; was in its infancy but not much has changed, in spite of all the new agreements and  changes of government in Israel. He discuses the PLO leadership's corruption, opportunism, utter ignorance of the U.S., Israel and anything else outside the Arab world, preference for acceptance into the high society of Washington, London and Paris instead of attending to the grassroots struggles of their people. He points to Arafat's resistance to pressures for internal PLO democracy as the reason for his acceptance of the Oslo accords, which gave the PLO control over a portion of the Gaza strip, which has become an ubelievable hellhole as a result of deliberate Israeli policies (Israel's responsibility for its condition is never noted in the U.S. media, as Said notes), so Israel seized at the chance to give some of it to Arafat; and acceptedthe Jewish settlements in the occupied territories as &quot;legal&quot;, allowed Israel to continue building in Jerusalem and expanding &quot;greater Jeruslem&quot; to include all of the central West Bank, expropriating and robbing Palestinians as they go about it, Israeli retaining complete control over the settlements, the Jordan valley, the water and all the other resources, the economic policies, and a veto over all decisions passed by the Palestinian parliament. Arafat's basic duties are to pick up garbage and arrest and punish all persons whom Israel thinks threaten its &quot;security,&quot; a very elastic concept, that includes a great many non-violent persons.<br />It is this &quot;limited autonomy&quot; that the PLO leadership has said, and the quite honest and decent persons who repeat everything that they say, will eventually evolve into a genuine Palestinian nation. Of course, as Said says, it will probably evolve into a state, but only in the same sense that the bantustans of apartheid South Africa were a state for its black inhabitants. This has not been, of course, the version of events of the PLO leadership, Yossi Sarrid, Ehud Barak, Amos Oz, Anthony Lewis, &quot;Peace Now,&quot; nor genuine supporters  of the Palestinians who have been supporting the &quot;peace process&quot; for whatever reason. These latter brethren, Said notes, seem to have completely put in the back of their minds that the Israeli prime minister who signed the Oslo accords, Yitzhak Rabin, was a man who had helped ethnically cleanse Palestinians back in 1948, who directed the reign of terror against the Palestinians during the intifadah, who was conducting mass atrocities and housing expropriations of Palestinians at the time of the signing of the accords and immediately escalated them afterwards, who, in July 1993, bombed hundreds of thousands of Lebanese, including many Palestinians, towards Beirut, in order, as he told the Knesset to put pressure on the Lebanese government tobend to Israel's demands. <br />As Said says, the Labor party has been and is every bit as racist and oppressive towards the Palestinians as Likud, which lacks the sophistication and appearance of moderation of Labor that endears it to the Anthony Lewis-Daniel Schorr type liberals. Said has been somewhat isolated in Palestinian circles because of his opposition to the &quot;peace process.&quot; Hopefully, for their own sake, in light of the current horrible events in the territories, they will start listening to them.	2000-10-13
US	52306476	R3N6DWKA86SVHB	1878825011	839698892	What Uncle Sam Really Wants (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	35	45	N	N	Introduces Chomsky's critique of foreign affairs	This little book, published in 1992, is one hundred and one pages and is of small dimensions, phamphlet like, and is of the type that can be read pretty quickly, and intends to introduce the critique of foreign affairs (and society in general) of the leading dissident left wing intellectual Noam Chomsky. Taken from excerpts from Chomsky's writings and speeches, Chomsky presents his analysis, more or less of the cold war, how U.S. planners during and after World War Two basically decided that the United States owned the world, and that the economic and political system of the world should cater to the needs of American capitalism. The Soviet Union gobbled up East Europe, the original third world, long exploited by the West, one of main reasons of the cold war, which had nothing to do with Stalinist totalitarianism. One of the original goals of the cold war was also to carry over the massive government involvement in the economy from World War two, that is massive government subsidy to private corporations, especially through the Pentagon system, and later NASA, the energy department,commerce department etc. a system which is mainly responsible today for the success of the computer industry and the internet(not Bill Gates), electronics, pharmaceuticals, and just about every other viable sector of the economy. The taxpayers fund the research and development, corporations reap the profit if there is any to be made.<br />Chomsky says that the primary concern of U.S. elites in their policy towards the third world was not really economic, such as securing cheap access to raw materials and labor, or at least it was not their primary concern. Their primary concern was that certain third world nations would take primary control of their own resources, and direct what wealth they had towards the benefit of their people and not transnational corporations and investors, and most importantly serve as an example for other poor nations to follow. Nicaragua, Chile, Vietnam, Grenada,etc. could all disapear off the face of the earth tommorow, and U.S. corporations and investors would probably not be too disturbed; it is the example that they set for other nations that provoked (and provokes) U.S. hostility. <br />U.S. leaders have at various times called this &quot;the domino theory,&quot; the targeted third world nations have been described as &quot;viruses&quot; or &quot;rotten apples&quot; that will &quot;infect&quot; their other countries. U.S. leaders ingrained in their own minds that any change of the status quo, no matter how mild, wheather it be secular or religous, right wing or left wing, for the direct benefit of the general population of a third world country is by definition a movement being sponsored by the Soviet Union to overthrow human civilization, and so on, no matter how lacking the evidence is for this thesis.<br />Chomsky gives several examples. One is the case of the Jacabo Arebenz government in Guatemala which the U.S. overthrew in 1954. Arbenz was no more a communist than Franklin Roosevelt was, but his fight against the power of the United Fruit corporation in his country, to go along with his succesful land redistribution program in this desperately poor country, made him a threatening &quot;good example&quot; to the other miserable countries of the region, and that made him an agent of Moscow in the eyes of the U.S. government. The morons in the CIA also had additional evidence that Arbenz government. His government had allegedly given three hundred thousand dollars to Costa Rican president Jose Figueres. Figueres, was a great friend of U.S. corporations and suppressed union activity and was much admired by the George Kennan-Arthur Schlesinger Jr. type liberals, but he had also instituted an extensive social welfare program for Costa Rica and had an independent streak, a real no-no for a third world leader, so that made him a communist, of course. And so if Arbenz, a communist was (allegedly) giving money to Figueres, a communist too, then that meant it was all part of a plot by Moscow to cooridinate subversion in the hemisphere, or something like that, quite standard reasoning for U.S. policy makers. So Arbenz was overthrown and at least 160,000 people have since been killed by the various tin-pot Hitlers, like Rios Montt and Lucas Garcia, that the United States has heavily supported to make sure that populist forces in Guatemala are beaten back sufficiently.<br />A similar situation existed in El Salvador, Chomsky says, in the late 1970's, when led by the Catholic church, pesant self-help organizations and unions began to work towards gaining a voice for the poor majority. The response was a decade of sadistic terror in which perhaps 60,000 people perished, begun in the Carter administration (which also supported Somoza to his bloody  end, contrary to much illusion) and extended by the Reaganites, on the excuse that the guerillas were being directed by the Soviets and Cubans, and so on. <br />Then there are other odd cases like Manuel Noriega. He was on the payroll of the CIA for years. He stole an election with great fraud and violence in 1984, but was praised extravegently by the Reagan administration for bringing about a triumph of Jeffersonian democracy, and George Schultz went down to attend the inaguration of Noriega's man, Nicos Barletta. As the years went by though, Noriega developed an independent streak, he became lukewarm about the U.S. war against Nicaragua. He started to fight with Panama's business elites, thus threatening the &quot;stability&quot; which the U.S. government cherishes. So he had to go. The U.S. government suddenly discovered that Noriega was a thug and a drug dealer. He was indicted in Miami in 1988. All but one of the charges against him were for actions before 1984, when he was a U.S. friend. So the U.S. invaded and killed perhaps thousands of civilians and installed a regime of even worse drug dealers who made sure that the Panama canal wouldbe in good hands once the U.S. had to give it up. <br />Or there is the case of East Timor. In 1965, the excessively nationalist president Sukarno of Indonesia was overthrown with U.S. support, initiating a bloodbath that killed hundreds of thousands of landless peasants and destroyed the party that most of them supported the communist PKI. General Suharto took over, to the great jubilation of the New York Times liberals, and proceeded to blunder the country in cooperation with multinational corporations. In December 1975, Indonesia invaded East Timor and began conducting the worst genocide relative to population since the holocaust using mostly U.S. arms and with such diplomatic support as provided by the great liberal Daniel Patrick Moynihan, in December 1975 the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, who related with great pride in his 1978 memoir how he had helped block effective international action to counter Indonesia's aggression...	2000-09-26
US	52306476	R1O2E2570NS95K	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The work of a genius but not quite of the first rank	This novel is, like most of Kerouac's writings, autobiographical. It is based on the adventures he had continually roaming about the United States in the late 1940's, when he was in his late 20's, by himself and with his friends, especially one Neal Cassady, who grew up in the midwest and southwest with a violently alcoholic hobo father, spending his time in skid row hotels, jails, reform school, riding trains, stealing cars and shoplifting and panhandling and hustling and boozing and  screwing females left and right, and generally just having a grand old time. Cassady somehow developed a correspondence while in reform school in New Mexico with one of Kerouac's friends in his intellectual hipster clique at Colombia University in New York and through that friend Kerouac eventually met Cassady. <br />Anyway, part one of the novel, which is roughly 110 pages, contains some of the best writing anyone has done anywhere at anytime. Kerouac is the narrator in the novel and gives himself the fantastic name of Sal Paradise. The charaters he encounters, the situations in which he is involved, the scenery he passes are all described with extraordinary simplicity, vividness and plausibility. Riding with farmhands, hitchiking with &quot;Eddie&quot;, partying in Cheyenne, Wyoming are some of the highlights that lead to Sal catching up in Denver and staying with his friends for a time. And what a wierd group of friends they are! Some are intellectuals, some are not, all enjoy partying, boozing, making love (a euphemism) and so on. Here we first get a full picture of Neal Cassidy, or as he is called in the book, Dean Moriarty. He spends alot of time engaged in conversations about spiritualism with Sal's friend Carlo Marx (in real life Allan Ginsberg)and rushing back and forth between the homes of his two girlfriends, Marylou, a slut, and Camille, decent and respectable, for bouts of fornication.  After leaving Denver, he goes to live with his friend Remi and his unpleasant, sexy girlfriend in a shantytown just outside San Francisco and works with Remi as a policeman watching over a barracks full of drunken naval shipyard workers and has a great many adventures. It keeps getting better and better. After his relationship becomes too strained with Remi, he leaves and eventually ends up meeting on a bus in Bakersfield (or was it in Hollywood) a beautiful four foot ten Mexican woman named Terry and they end up having an affair and Kerouac's (Sal's) description of their cotton picking and encounters with Terry's family and other adventures in rural California are extraordinarily plausible and vivid. This is brilliant stuff, baby. <br />But, of course, he is forced to move on and leave Terry and her seven year old son, Johnny and head back to New York, and the novel moves into part two. After this, until the journey into Mexico at the end of the book, the novel is something of a mixed bag. Sal (Kerouac) eventually hooks up with Dean (Neal Cassady)and Marylou and they begin another journey. Kerouac laboriously describes the scenery in the various states they pass through in Dean's automobile. He often does a beautiful job of it. He describes the places where they stopped to eat and get gas and a few incidents with the police and getting stuck in the mud, and so on. He describes the hitchikers they pick and they all seem quite plausible. But there is a very noticeable lack of action and it is quite a letdown from the great energy of part one. They end up in just outside of New Orleans. They visit Old Bull Lee (in real life William Burroughs) in his shack with his wife, Jane, and their two kids. Old Bull is described, among other things, as being formerly part of a drug smuggling ring in North Africa, a waiter (and bartender too)in Paris, Chicago and New York, a former student of medicine in Vienna, and now is living in this shack as described above, studying Shakespeare among many other subjects, gaining a small income from growing black peas in Texas, and receiving some allowance money from his family which he completely wastes on a violent drug habit. Kerouac handicaps himself, I think, by trying to deal with this figure who is just too bizarre to be real, even if it is a completely accurate portrayal of Burroughs, though he does manage to make Old Bull's implusiveness and drug-induced haze seem very real. <br />From then on, the story becomes too complicated to describe. The main characters of the story keep rushing back and forth between San Francisco, Denver, New York and then back again, among other places along the way. There is some very decent writing in these parts as during Sal's solitary walk in the black section of Denver and view of the softball game or the poignancy of Dean after getting kicked out by Camille in San Francisco. But there are many times when Kerouac, instead of giving plausible, vivid portrayals,  seem to be rushing through the scenes, as during the partying in Denver where Babe Rawlins's aunt is described, or the section where Dean and Sal stay with the coal truck driver woman Frankie, and her poet thirteen year old daughter. There are other times, such as in San Francisco and Chicago where Dean and Sal spend alot of time in bob jazz clubs but instead of describing vividly the estacy of his and Dean's(Neal's) love for jazz, Kerouac becomes rambling and maudlin. There are other times, when Kerouac indulges in spiritualist mumbo jumbo as when he is attempting to describe an out of body experience or some such thing that he had while going mad with hunder on the streets of San Francisco or during the conversation between Dean and Sal in the travel bureau car as it rode from San Francisco to Sacremento. At times Dean becomes a very plausible and sympathetic figure, as when he is telling stories about his boyhood, other times he is a very brutal version of the &quot;Fonz&quot; from &quot;Happy Days,&quot; other times he is so violently hyperactive and speaks so strangely that it is verydifficult to comprehend him. <br />But as we come to the last fourty or so pages of the book, Kerouac recovers the solid brilliance of part one. Dean, Sal and their friend Stan make a journey into Mexico, party and smoke marajuana and get drunk and dance with the ladies  of a rural brothel, spend the night in a bug-infested jungle, end up in Mexico city where Sal contacts dysentery. <br />As the book concludes, Dean suddenly becomes a completely vivid figure. I saw all the demons that drove him to such incredible impulsiveness, his incredible womanizing, his decent impulses. I felt like I had very much seen him before.	2000-09-24
US	52306476	R31N33JQ2U3H5Z	1890626287	979941263	The Art of Political War and Other Radical Pursuits	Books	1	26	125	N	Y	Full of gross errors of fact and logic	I don't have enough space to address all the claims made by Mr. Horowitz in this book but I'll address a couple of them.<br /> Besides taking issue  with most of his assertions of fact, I also have trouble with some of his  assumptions about the political scene. Thus, in his introduction he writes  &quot;During the 1980's and 1990's, Americans  rejected liberal Democratic  agendas and ratified Conservative Republican policies on balanced budgets,  welfare reform, crime and family values. But it was<br />the democrats, at the  national level, who reaped the electoral rewards.  In 1996, Bill Clinton  was elected for a second term by running on what was basically Newt  Gingrich's Republican 'Contract With America.' &quot;<br />I assume he is  referring to Republicans winning the White House in 80', 84',88' and the  House and Senate in 1994. In those presidential elections, however, as in  the elections of 92' and 96,' fewer than half of the persons eligible to  vote actually cast a ballot. Thus in 1980 and 1984, Ronald Reagan  respectively captured the White House with twenty seven percent and twenty  eight percent of the eligible electorate And in 1994, about thirty seven  percent of the eligible electorate cast a ballot and of that thirty seven  percent, about nineteen percent voted for the Republicans, not much  different from the number which elected the democratic congress in 1992.  Thus, I think it is rather misleading to infer from our elections any sort  of &quot;ratification&quot; of government policies. While the polls do show  support for &quot;welfare reform,&quot; &quot;three strikes your out,&quot;  and a balanced budget, mainly  because of a massive propaganda campaign in  support of them, they, including exit polls, also show substantial support  for elements of social democracy, including a belief that government should  take care of the poor, the elderly, the sick (in response to a question in  which the word &quot;welfare&quot; is not used), gaurantee health care for  everyone, and so on.<br />The first section of the book is called on  &quot;The Art of Political War,&quot; originally published by Mr. Horowitz  as a phamplet and according to him, endorsed by the chairman of the  Republican National Committee, Karl Rove, Bush campaign strategist and many  other such poohbahs. He argues basically that Republicans must state their  ideas much more clearly, show clearly that they are  interested in ideas  and helping the country while Democrats are only interested in demagoguery,  partisan politics, supporting their union boss friends, and so on. Here  again I think his assumptions and assertions of fact are highly dubious.<br />He writes that &quot;Democrats are responsible for everything that has  gone wrong with the public schools that can be caused or fixed by public  policies.&quot; His assertion  that &quot;Democrats, liberals and not a few  Marxists have controlled the big-city school systems in America...&quot; is  certainly not innacurate.  He is also correct when he says that  &quot;Education is not principally a federal issue. More than ninety  percent of education dollars are raised and spent at the local level.&quot;<br />Well, what exactly has gone wrong with the public school system, David?  You're goin to have to more specfic than asserting the usual right wing  cliches. A Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll of last year found that 49 percent  of the respondents gave the public schools an A or B, 31 percent gave them  C, and only five percent gave them an F. It showed<br />that persons who had  children in school gave the public schools an A or B at sixty six  percent.  As for education spending, if you take into account that the inflation  rate for such  labor-intensive services as education is much faster than  the inflation rate for goods and look at that, instead of the Consumer  Price Index, you see that it has rose about sixty one percent between 1967  and 1991--about two percent a year--much of it going to special education  and between 1991 and 1996, spending increased by only  0.7 percent. As for  SAT scores falling, they have actually remained pretty steady since the  mid-70's. Comparing SAT scores of today to SAT scores years ago is highly  dubious since back then SAT test scores were required by a small number of  colleges--the number of students taking the test was  much smaller back  then. As for education dollars being &quot;raised and spent at the local  level,&quot; that is indeed the problem. Relatively wealthy communities  have a much larger tax base to use to spend on schools. Poor communities,  especially those where minorities predominantly reside, have a great deal  of trouble raising the tax money for basic school spending.<br />He devotes  the rest of the book, to among other things, excoriating gun control,  anti-death penalty advocates, Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, his views on  &quot;South Park&quot; and censorship, the callumnies launched against him  by Jack White of Time magainze, the domination by the liberal-left of the  media and academia.<br />He also devotes a short chapter to Edward Said,  &quot;a postmodern dissembler intent on distorting the facts of his life  for political ends.&quot; Said is the leading Palestinian intellectual in  the United States. He has drawn great critical acclaim for the portrayal of  his people's suffering in the wake of their ethnic cleansing by Israel in  1948. But last summer Justin Weiner Reid,  an Israeli, as Horowitz,  published an article in Norman Podhoretz's journal &quot;Commentary&quot;  which &quot;proved&quot; that Said had lied about the facts of his  childhood. According to Horowitz the false story that Said had been  propagating over they years  was that &quot;he was born in Jerusalem in  1935...[and] lived there until the moment in 1948 when Jewish occupiers  dispossessed his family and Israel became a state. If Said did not state  this in so many words he constructed his references tohis early life in  ways that compelled readers to conclude as much.&quot;<br />Horowitz's only  source for his assertion is the following utterance by Said to prove his  point: &quot;I was born in Jerusalem and spent most of my formative years  there and, after 1948, when my entire family became refugees in  Egypt.&quot; Horowitz responds to this by simply asserting that Said didn't  spend &quot;most of his formative years&quot; in Jerusalem. How do you know  David? The footnote says that it is from an article written by Salman  Rushdie for the London Review of Books in May 1998 entitled &quot;Between  Worlds: Edward Said Makes Sense of His Life.&quot; I discovered the article  on the internet and found that quote though the article was actually  written by Said himself and not Rushdie. The article also contains this  quote&quot;...I found myself drawn to my early days as a boy in Jerusalem,  Cairo and Dhour El Shweir, the lebanese village which I loathed but where  for years and years my father took us to spend our summers.&quot; An even  better example of how Said had actually portrayed his childhood  long  before being courageously exposed by Weiner, was the first paragraph of his  1994 introduction to his collection of essays &quot;The Politics of  Dispossion.&quot;: &quot;I was born in Jerusalem in late 1935, and grew up  there and in Egypt and in Lebanon; most of my family--dispossesed and  displaced from Palestine in 1947 and 1948--had ended up mostly in Jordan  and Lebanon.&quot;<br />Like Weiner, Horowitz goes on to assert that Said,  once learning of Weiner's investigation,<br />&quot;responded with an  autobiography published a month later under the tile of 'Out of  Place'.&quot; Horowitz, like Weiner, has no evidence for this quite silly  claim. It is quite a feat to write and publish a large autobiography in a  month especially when you have a strenuous speaking schedule and suffer  from serious leukemia as does Said. The truth is that Said began hisautobiography sometime in 1994 (I forget what month)  and finished it in  August 1998. Horowitz further says that the devious Said &quot;constructed  his biography to to accord more closely with the facts Weiner was certain  to reveal. In the new text the Egyptian childhood is duly restored. But  'Out of Place' is no less a deception, since the text does not mention the  false impression that the author had promoted for thirty years.&quot; I  have outlined Horwitz's insights into this &quot;deception&quot; above.<br />Horowitz also says that Martin Buber, to whom he attaches the somewhat  misleading label of &quot;the most prominent Jewish critic of a  specifically 'Jewish state'&quot;, who had fled Nazi Germany in 1938, was  &quot;evicted&quot; from the Said family house, that his lease had been  &quot;terminated.&quot; It was terminated because it had expired, though  Horowitz  cynically moralizes about how &quot;that the Bubers would have  been killed had they not been able to find refuge in Jerusalem apparently  meant nothing to the Saids when it came to terminating their lease,&quot;  as if  Buber and his family were completely helpless and friendless, which  he certainly was not.<br />Horowitz responds to Said's assertion that his  &quot;family house was in fact a  family house in the Arab sense, which  meant our families were one in owners	2000-09-11
US	52306476	RMJHHX88RPRG8	0896081346	624909719	The Real Terror Network: Terrorism in Fact and Propaganda	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Iconoclastic and brilliant scholarship	Edward Herman, famous for his iconoclastic studies (e.g. Manufacturing  Consent)with Noam Chomsky, published this book in 1982, though its themes  very much apply today. Herman shows that the U.S. mass media almost always  accept the U.S. government version of events without question, especially  in foreign affairs and cater to its propaganda needs. Herman explains why  it is that fascist military regimes in the third world from Indonesia to  Brazil to Guatemala to Uraguay to the Philipines to Chile that have often  been installed and given heavy aid by the United States and murdered and  tortured hundreds of thousands of people, often in extremely gruesome  fashion, and yet very little coverage has been given to their abuses,  despite massive evidence presented by church groups and human rights  organizations, refugees and many others, in contrast to the massive daily  coverage of the injustices suffered by dissidents in the Soviet block, the  official enemy of the U.S. government and much of big business. He examines  why it is that, to give one of many examples, Brazillian labor leader Luis  De Silva can be referred to at one point by a New York Times editorial as  &quot;the Lech Walesa of Brazil&quot; and yet that same paper can devote  very little coverage to the gross injustices he suffered at the hands of a  U.S. client government and yet devoted massive daily coverage to the  injustices suffered by Walesa in Communist Poland.  He examines why it is  that while unions were being eliminated and union leaders and members being  executed by the thousands in Colombia, Guatemala, Chile and elsewhere, the  United States government and its allies and the U.S. media, can launch into  a hocus pocus of holy horror at the far less murderous repression of the  Solidarity union in Poland. He examines why it is that the media, when they  deign to look at the terror in the U.S. backed client states at all, almost  never attribute its source to U.S. training and supply of the military  officials who conduct it, instead asserting that the client state  government is unfortunately unable to control the death squads or rogue  segments of the military, despite massive evidence that these elements are  firmly under the control of the client government and being directed by it,  or perhaps implying that the U.S. is an innocent bystander looking  helplessly over a country that has no history of democracy, is prone to  violence, etc; he examines why it is that the media rarely focus on the  nature of the massive U.S. training of the Latin American militaries where  not much emphasis is placed on military training but much emphasis is  placed on ideological training, ingraining the idea in these already  reactionary forces that any sort of reform movement, however mild, that  seeks to help the oppressed peasantry, establish union rights, and so on,  is by definition part of a hellish conspiracy of the Soviet Union and Cuba  to overthrow Western Civilization, and so on. They are taught that  communism is completely evil and that the United States and those who ally  with it are the forces of virtue and civilization and that since the  popular movements (unions, peasant self-help organizations,etc.)  are by  definition, not indiginous movements seeking to fight oppression and misery  inflicted by very primitive oligarchies, but agents of world Communism, any  means necessary can be used to eliminate them. They also tend to be taught  advanced techniques of torture. <br />He examines why the extensive CIA-backed  and protected terror network of the Cuban exile community (e.g. Omega 7,  once described by the FBI as the &quot;most dangerous terrorist  organization in the U.S. today&quot; yet never prosecuted or investigated;  or Orlando Bosch who escaped from prison in Venezuela after blowing up a  Cuban airliner that killed 73 people in 1976, and committing many other  crimes) is never examined by the U.S. media. He examines why it is that  South Africa's mass murder in its U.S.-backed illegal occupation of Namibia  (such as its massacre of over 600 people at Kassinga in May 1978) and  murderous invasion of Angola were rarely condemned by the media, though  Cuba's perfectly legal responsive military operations on behalf of the  Angolan government, with an extremely reluctant Soviet Union in the  background, was violently condemned. He examines why it is that the media  never has looked into the famous &quot;Operation Condor&quot; began in the  mid-1970's on the initiative of Pinochet's Chile which allowed the various  intelligence services of the American backed terror and torture regimes  (Brazil, Chile, Uraguay, Argentina, Paraguay, etc.) to operate in each  other's countries to search for their own exiled dissidents to kidnap and  murder, whose victims seem to run into the hundreds at the very least.<br />He  examines, very extensively, why it is that almost all of the U.S. client  regimes have instituted economic policies that have resulted in vast  increases in malnutrition, unemployment, child mortality, and so on, and  great inceases in poverty, yet these regimes are often refered to in the  U.S. media as having produced an &quot;economic miracle.&quot; He examines  why it was that such bizarre terrorism &quot;experts&quot; were given such  grave attention in the U.S. media in the 80's, particularly the late Claire  Sterling with her methods of scholarship that would make an intelligent ten  year old die laughing and her amusing use of the intelligence services of  apartheid South Africa and Pinochet's Chile as &quot;sources.&quot;  Or  General Jan Sejna, who according to Sterling fled Czechoslovakia, as the  Soviet army invaded in 1968, but who actually left his country after being  implicated in a corruption scandal during Dubcek's brief &quot;Prague  Spring&quot; government that the Soviets overthrew , with his wild tales of  the Soviets training terrorists in his country for worldwide subversion  with methods of scholarship and evidence scarcely more compelling than  Sterling's. <br />There is much else in this book that I didn't mention above,  including a couple of pages devoted to Israel and what one of its former  prime ministers, Moshe Sharett, referred to as its &quot;scared  terrorism.&quot; Once or twice, as during his devastating critique of the  economic situation in the American client regimes, Herman gets a bit too  heavy, but those periods are brief and rare.	2000-09-05
US	52306476	R3GTNLY9SC9W8P	1567510523	835819431	Killing Hope: U. S. Military and CIA Interventions Since World War II	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Brilliant and well written scholarship	In this book, former CIA employee William Blum, more or less analyzes the efforts of the CIA and U.S. government to maintain the status quo in the  third world after World Two. He notes in his introductions, that the  Bolshevik takeover of Russia in 1917 was regard hysterically by Western  elites who immediatley invaded Russia, usuccessfully trying to overthrow  the Bolsheviks, while their organs of opinion, exposed in the 1921 Walter  Lipmann-Charles Merz study, such as the New York Times reported all sorts  of wild stories about Bolesheviks eating Children and making all women  property of the state, and reported every unsubstantiated rumor every day  that the Bolsheviks were about to be defeated. The Boleshevik revolution,  as anathema as it was to genuine populism to say the least, was the first  major example of an alternative to the capitalist/colonial world system and  was feared by Western elites for that reason.<br />After World War two, the  United States emerged as the supreme power of the world and its only rival  was the Soviet Union, which had gobbled up East Europe whose markets had  traditionally been dominated by the Western powers. In Italy, Greece,  Indochina and elsewhere Communists had gained great popular support,  independent of any aid from the Soviet Union, for their opposition to  fascism and the old colonial order or status quo. In Italy, the United  States almost single handedly engineered the defeat of the very popular  Communists in the 1948 election and in Greece they set up a terror and  torture regime composed of many Nazi collaborators, and set up a similar  regime in South Vietnam to destroy the 1954 Geneva accords. <br />Throughout  this book, there are dozens of instances of CIA and U.S. government  operations designed to subvert even the most mildly social democratic  governments or engaged in activities like funding innumerable newspapers  and labor unions to help subvert the target country. There is the overthrow  of the liberal democratic capitalist regime in Guatemala in 1954 after it  tried to decrease the power of the United Fruit corporation in their  country and permitted civil liberties to communists and finally after years  of being denied it from the U.S. or any other source imported a small  boatload of arms from the communist block at which point the maniac John  Foster Dulles declared that the communists were establishing a beachead in  Cetral America designed to overtake the helpless United States , since  which Guatemala has turned into a hell on earth, with a series of U.S.  backed tin-pot Hitlers. There is the story of the U.S. engaging in the  assasination of at least 20,000 South Vietnamese in &quot;Operation  Phoenix&quot; or using such instruments of &quot;interrogation&quot;  as  the Tiger cage and the water board, after which the many victims began to  make the trials and tribulation that our heroic B-52 flyers who were shot  down and taken captive by the wicked North Vietnamese who didn't think too  kindly of all the bombing and napalming of their people. <br />There is the  story of the U.S. overthrowing the right wing populist prime minister  Mohammed Mossadegh in Iran in 1953, after he nationalized his country's oil  supply, restoring the shah to power whose regime's human rights violations  were described by Amnesty International in 1976 as &quot;the worst in the  world.&quot; There is the story of Green Beret training and much other aid  being supplied to the military and their associated death squads in El  Salvador which were responsible for most of the deaths in El Salvador  during the 80's, as is now quietly conceded by the U.S. government and  media. There is the story of the U.S. training the thugs maintained by the  Duvaliers in their dictatorship in Haiti and their efforts to undermine the  populist priest Jean Bertrand Aristide. There is the story of the United  States overthrowing the mildly social democratic regime of Jao Goulart in  Brazil settingup a terror and torture regime military regime in 1964.  There is the story of the United States launching a campaign of terror and  sabotoge against Cuba when Castro took over which has lasted to this day,  using such individuals as Orlando Bosch and Luis Posada Carrilles,  inevitably driving Castro into the arms of the Soviet Union (the previous  dictator, U.S. supported Bautista, had included communists in his cabinet  and the Cuban communists were highly ambivalent about Castro). There is the  United States overthrowing Indonesian president Sukarno in 1965 on rather  dubious charges of communist plotting, completely eliminating the communist  party PKI which U.S. officials recognized was the only mass-based political  party in Indonesia and that it had gained its support through democratic  methods, butchering at least a half a million landless peasants (the PKI's  base of support) and installing the barbaric Suharto dictarship which  proceeded to plunder the country in cooperation with multinational  corporations and butcher 200,000 more in the U.S. backed invasion of East  Timor beginning in 1975. There is the story of of the United States pouring  tens of millions of dollars into Chile beginning in 1958 to the political  opponents of Salvadore Allende and when he was finally elected in 1970, the  U.S. proceeded to destroy the economy (&quot;make the economy scream&quot;  was Nixon's words in a memo after Allende was elected later documented by  the Church Senate committee) and carry out other acts of subversion, paving  the way for Pinochet to seize power.  <br />The common response to these  revelations is the rather cowardly &quot;Well, it was the Cold War and the  Soviets were infiltrating these countries and anyways it's in the past  so...&quot; Blum shows that in many instances the only evidence of  Communist subversion was U.S. government assertions, ussually accepted  gravely by the &quot;liberal&quot; media and the indoctrinated American  public, or at best grossly fabricated or distored satellite pictures or  &quot;discoveries&quot; of &quot;massive&quot; weapons caches (as in  Grenada in 1983). Or the case of Brazil, overthrowing the democrat Goulart  in 1964, on the evidence-free theory that communists were about to take  over the government and that Goulart was too close to the Soviet Union,  following which the military dictatorship greatly expanded Brazil's trade  and took great amounts of aid from the Soviet Union. Blum also briefly  notes that the 1976-83  &quot;dirty war&quot; dictatorship in Argentina   had extensive support from both the United States and the Soviet Union.  <br />What I have outlined above is highly insufficent to describe what is in  this book. There are more than fifty five chapters in this 383 page book.  Despite its small print and rather heavy documentaion, the book is pretty  easy to read. The author's prose is very clear and his ideas are clearly  stated and he often shows great learning and even wit.	2000-08-30
US	52306476	RZKC1WUF50HYS	0896082938	980123980	Agents of Repression: The FBI's Secret Wars Against the Black Panther Party and the American Indian Movement	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A First Rate Piece Of Scholarship On A Crucial Issue	In the introduction, Churchill and Vander Wall trace the founding of the FBI in the mid-20's by J. Edgar Hoover, as he emerged from helping carry  out the Justice department's anti-leftist terror campaigns during and in  the years following World War One, to its official authorization by  Franklin Roosevelt in the mid-30's as a full-fledged sophisticated  political police with virtual impunity. They note that the FBI was grossly  incompetent and unwilling at fighting serious criminals like the Mafia,  prefering to go after the petty criminals of the Dillinger variety, car  thieves, and so on to gain cheap publicity for the bureau and its director  and that their chief function was and is to protect the economic and  political status quo from threats by organized leftists and others. They  note the immense propaganda machine constructed by the bureau to portray  Hoover as a great crimefighting genius and hero, though he was nothing more  than a crazed, reactionary and very cunning bureaucrat, and the effective  techniques of making &quot;friends of the bureau&quot; in certain media  outlets who would tell the public what the bureau wanted them to know and  the techniques of intimidation against those media outlets or ex-bureau  agents who wanted to come out with the truth about the FBI. <br />They move on  to discuss Cointelpro, the greatly successful attempts at infiltration,  disruption and weakening of dissident groups, extended from the usual  Communist and Socialist party targets, to various leftist groups, people  like Martin Luther King, but especially the Black Panther Party in the late  60's. Making massive use of declassified FBI documents and other sources,  the authors note the FBI attempt to split the BPP, provoke violence between  members or factions or with other militant black groups, to spread media  disinformation about them and to drain their resources and mental stability  by subjecting its leading members to repeated arrests on spurious charges.These objectives were accomplished by fabricating anonymous letters to  particular prominent individuals within the party alleging that other party  members or factions were plotting against or even planning to murder them,  the use of infiltrators/provacateurs to further egg on the factional strife   (e.g. the split between Eldridge Cleaver and Huey Newton) and encourage  violence between members (e.g. the murder of Fred Bennet by member Jimmie  Carr who suspected Bennett of being a police informant, after being led to  this impression by police informant Thomas Mosher; Carr himself was later  murdered by two Panther members who suspected him of being a government  agent) or between the BPP and the Ron Karenga's organization(e.g. the  murder of BPP leaders Alprentice Carter and Jon Huggins), the use of  &quot;bad-jacketing&quot; through infiltrators to spread the false idea  that certain members of the party were government agents (e.g. which  resulted in the murders of Huggins, Carter and Carr and which led to  Stokely Carmichael's expulsion from the party by Huey Newton), the  spreading of media disinformation about alleged financial impropriety and  other crimes among certain party members to encourage mistrust and  suspiscion within the party, and so on. Two particular cases examined are  the murder by the Chicago police of Chicago Black Panther leaders Fred  Hampton and Mark Clark in December 1969, using a detailed floor plan of  Hampton's appartment that had been provided by FBI infiltrator and  Hampton's bodygaurd William O'neal (for which the survivors of the attack  and families of the victim were awared 1.8 million dollars by an arbitrator  in 1983). They move on to analyze the spurious (mostly through the use of  FBI informer Julius Butler and the efforts of infiltrator Melvin Cotton  Smith) robbery/murder conviction of Los Angelas leader Geronimo Pratt in  1971, who had been subjected to much harrassment and arrests on spurious  charges by the LA police before the 1969 murder of Caroline Olsen, and  according to police infiltrator Louis Tackwood (who helped the FBI murder  George Jackson) and &quot;Cotton&quot; smith, had specifically been  designated to be &quot;neutralized&quot; the LAPD.<br />The bulk of the book  is centered on the particularly severe Cointelpro operations (using many of  the same operations as against the BPP, using such infiltrators as Douglass  Durham and even possibly being involved in murder, as in the case of Ana  Marie Aquash) directed against the American Indian Movement (AIM),  particularly at the hub of its activity, on Pine Ridge reservation, Sioux  territory, South Dakota, the center of great natural resources eagerly eyed  by corporations, throughout the 1970's and beyond. The AIM had risen as a  particularly effective organization to fight government violations of  Indian treaty and civil rights (what little of those remained). The AIM  organized &quot;the trail of Broken Treaties&quot; in 1972, a caravan of  veichles that led thousands of Indians to Washington D.C. to hold protests.  The authors document a patern of government lies and duplicty with regard  to accomodating the protestors and other promises which led to the  provoking of the AIM (along with the Bureau of Indian Affairs head in  solidarity which got him fired afterward)  taking over the Bureau of Indian  Affairs building  in Washington. The government blithely broke promises of  non-prosecution of the BIA building incident, after the building had been  released. On Pine Ridge, the government had been pouring funds into Dick  Wilson's machine, who won the 1972 tribal presidency with considerable  fraud, and proceeded to set up with FBI and Bureau of Indian affairs funds  a paramilitary organization with the appropriate acronym of GOONS, who used  terror against the inhabitants of Pine Ridge where AIM had widespread  support. The next incident was the infamous &quot;Siege of Wounded  Knee,&quot; March-May 1973, thesite where the army had massacred hundreds  of Indian women and children in 1890, and where AIM leaders had gone to  stage a press conference, only to find the Wounded Knee territory  surrounded by  FBI and Bureau of Indian Police, which AIM decided not to  countenance, and they held down fort within Wounded Knee, gaining  widespread international support and aid, with the FBI escalating the  situation with its advanced weapons and other illegal Pentagon aid, with  Dick Wilson's GOONS setting up illegal roadblocks and engaging in great  violence with FBI support (but opposed by the U.S. Marshalls in this  instance). After Wounded Knee, Dick Wilson's terrorists escalated their  campaign, including murder, against AIM, with AIM members and traditional  Indians filing innumerable complaints with the Justice Department and the  FBI, which pleaded &quot;lack of manpower&quot; to deal with the situation,  though their numbers continued to increase on the Pine Ridge reservation  (in support of the Dick Wilson and theGOONS). Next came the &quot;Oglala  incident&quot; near Pine Ridge in June 1975, with highly provocative FBI  activity near the &quot;Jumping Bull&quot; compound in Oglala near Pine  Ridge to &quot;serve&quot; a federal warrant for two youths who allegedly  had gotten into a simple fist fight with a White boy shortly before. This  resulted in a several day firefight with the Indians (most of whom carried  weapons because of the climate of terror in the area) inside the  &quot;Jumping Bull&quot; compound which resulted in the deaths of two FBI  agents. The FBI proceeded to launch a reign of terror against Pine Ridge  after the incident, looking for the murderers of the two agents, conducting  innumerable warantless searches, ransacking houses, beating and threatening  people. The authors examine the spurious charges brought against such AIM  leaders as Richard Marshall (for murder and eventually released), Dennis  Banks and Russel Means(both of whom suffered innumerable charges, including  those for the incident at Wounded Knee, which judge Fred Nichol dismissed  in 1975 on the grounds of gross FBI misconduct and fabrication), Bob  Robideau and Dino Butler, and especially Leonard Peltier, who was alleged  to have conducted the &quot;execution&quot; of the two FBI agents at the  Oglala firefight. Peltier has become one of the international symbols of  the American injustice system, promting widespread calls for his release  and retrial, including from the Canadien government which originally  extradited him back to the United States. For instance, a three judge panel  in 1985,  took note of the &quot;improper conduct&quot; of &quot;some FBI  agents&quot; in Peltier's case, but ended their investigation there by  saying that &quot;we are reluctant to impute further improprieties to  them.&quot;  <br />The closing chapters deal with the FBI's increased  attention on Cointelpro activities in Puerto Rico in the 1980's, including  murder and burglary and harrassment. They continue with an account of  large-scale burglary and harrassment operations against groups oppossing  U.S. support for the Death squad regimes in Central America in the 1980's,  particularly against the Committee in Solidarity with the people of El  Salvador (CISPES). The FBI could never find any evidence that CISPES or	2000-08-17
US	52306476	R1YM3W115EZF4I	156584520X	862365331	Hidden Agendas	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A British Perspective on the New World Order	Though the perspective of this book is from Great Britain, the issues discussed in it certainly apply to and should interest the citizens of all  countries.<br />The world Pilger describes is one where the power of   multinational corporations is ever increasing at the expense of the rest of  us. In Australia and the United States, wages are stagnating or declining  for the majority of the population and full time, secure employment is  greatly diminishing in favor of part time, service oriented, insecure, low  wage type of work, a major factor why the American economy is  &quot;booming&quot; as we are constanly assured by its pundits. The  &quot;outsourcing&quot; of employment to cheap, repressed, sweatshop labor  in countries like Indonesia, Vietnam and Burma will only perpetuate this  system. It is a world where the major industrial powers can attempt to put  together an agreement called the Multilateral Agreement on Investment at  the Organization For Economic And Commercial Development (OECD) that would  abolish laws in its signatory countries protecting labor, consumers, the  environement, etc. and services for the general population against  transnational corporations and allow these corporations to sue governments  at an international tribunal but make corporations immune from lawsuits by  governments or citizens. It is a world where, at least in the United  States, this treaty goes almost completely uncovered by the mainstream  media. It is a world where the United States can back the murder by death  squads of tens of thousands of people in Central America in the 80's yet  its fulminations about the menace of terrorism against it are accepted  unquestioningly by the Western media.  <br />In Australia, beginning with the  Hawke labor government, and in the U.S. under the Reaganites, the standard  of living for the general population greatly declined, poverty rates shot  up, social services were cut, a very regressive tax system was instituted,  and so on. But Britain, beginning with Thatcher,and continuing with  &quot;New Labor&quot; tops them all. In Britain, childhood diseases which  had been virtually extinct since the Victorian era made a reappearance as  did widespread child malnutrition. Most of British industry was destroyed,  one exception being the arms industry, receiving much of its research and  development from British taxpayer money, as they receive taxpayer money  from the subsidies given to fascist and genocidal governments like Turkey  and Indonesia to purchase their murderous weapons. One particularly  interesting example is the case of Robin Cook, the current foreign  secretary, who while a Labor backbencher in the 70's and 80's vigorously  denounced Labor and Tory governments for selling weapons to fascist and  genocidal regimes such as Indonesia as it was committing the worst genocide  relative to population since the Holocaust in East Timor. But by the time  he became foreign secretary in 1997, he continued to support and even  extended arms sales to Indonesia and other murderous regimes, despite all  the hooplah about his new &quot;ethical foreign policy,&quot; even  repeating the same lies which he had earlier exposed, such as denying the  British Hawk aircraft were being used in East Timor. <br />Pilger also  investigates the &quot;arms to Iraq&quot; scandal of the 80's when Margaret  Thatcher, like Reagan and Bush were good buddies of Saddam Hussein. After  no longer able to openly sell arms to Iraq after an official ban in 1985,  the Thatcher government and especially the secret arm of its defense  ministry, the International Military Services, resorted to clandestine  methods, such as using the fireworks company Astra and its subsidiaries,  unknown to its chairman Gerald James whom Pilger interviews along with  former foreign office Iraq desk head Mark Higson, placing phony end-user  certificates (often marked for Jordan) on the weapons which would be passed  on to Jordan or Singapore or whomever and then be passed on to Saddam.  British military sales and other investment in Iraq greatly increased after  1985. Much of this was exposed in the Scott inquiry years later, but was  completely whitewashed by Lord Scott in his ridiculous final report as  Pilger shows. <br />Pilger devotes the mid-section of the book to discussing  Burma (now officially called Myanmar). This nation, very rich in natural  resources, descended into unbelievable poverty under the dictatorship of  the crazed New Win, 1962-88, and has since been taken over by a much worse  regime of military gangsters who have plundered the country with the  cooperation of transnational corporations. I was not aware of the depth of  the human rights violations in Burma, some of the worst in the world, until  reading these chapters where Pilger provides documentation from human  rights organizations and eyewitness accounts from his clandestine visit to  Burma to make a film about the country with David Munro. Perhaps the worst  instance in Burma is the railroad being built to accomodate the  international oil companies Total, Premiere and Unocal building of a  pipeline to transfer Burma's natural gas into Thailand. On this railroad,  as in all the other sites of the building of infrastructure to accomodate  foreign investment, the laborers are all forced from their villages by the  military wheather they are sick, elderly, pregnant, or children, so that  they may &quot;volunteer&quot; to labor on these projects where they labor  under horrendous conditions, often suffering torture and murder if they  refuse work because it would interfere with their very miniscule income  from farming or if they become too sick or weary during their work. In  addition, millions have been driven from their homes so that hotels or  tourist roadways or golf courses for rich foreigners may be built or as  part of the army's counterinsurgency campaign against the oppressed Shan  minority. The leading dissident in Burmais Aung San Su Kyi, whom Pilger  interviews in her home,  daugter of Burma's famous independence leader Aung  San. She won the nobel peace prize in 1991 while she was under house  arrest. She was under house arrest from 1989 to 1995, but her movement is  still greatly restricted. Her movement, the National League for Democracy,  has been greatly decimated by arrests, murder, torture and draconian prison  sentences against its members, but it is still in business and going strong  in the underground. <br />Pilger moves on to discuss the activities of Rupert  Murdoch as the politicians in Britain, the U.S. and Australia put aside the  meagerest anti-trust laws to allow him to gobble more and more of the media  in their countries (especially in Australia where he owns most of it),  further ingraining the peculiar practices of sleaze and sensationalism  which he pioneered, and accumulate billions and billions of dollars and  move his money from country to country, from tax haven to tax haven to  avoid paying the hundreds of millions of dollars of tax money he owes.  <br />He moves on to discuss the Murdochization and Americanization of the  media in Britain with concerns about adhering to &quot;market  competitiveness&quot;--i.e. shorter soundbytes and sensationalism--  replacing any pretense of serious journalism. His account of the British  media, examining their extreme pro-government and business bias in their  coverage of the events in Northern Ireland and their coverage of the  various strikes which broke out accross Britain in the 80's and the close  relationship and favors taken from the British government by its top  journalists--particularly in the BBC--is particularly interesting in its  similarity to the situation in my country. His relatively brief account of  his own work in the British media is particularly intersting.<br />Finally, he  closes with sections on Vietnam and South Africa, countries where he spent  considerable time in the past. In Vietnam,after years of barbaric American  bombing and embargo because of its opposition to their friends Pol Pot and  Deng Xiaoping in the 80's, the neoliberal program in place since 1986 has  risen the number of people in absolute poverty to seventy percent, along  with sharp rises in child malnutrion and the other usual maladies of  globalization. Pilger interviews Vietnamese who are still strong even as  conditions become worse in their country, such as doctors at hospitals who  are suffering severe shortages, as a result of the cutting off of  government funding and the astronomical expenses required to import the  equipment from foreign corporations, to treat the most basic diseases and  injuries. He also interviews a couple of foreign tycoons who have rushed in  to take advantage of the very cheap and repressed workforce who labor under  some of the worst conditions in the world. <br />Finally Pilger ends in South  Africa, where the end of political apartheid in fact has brought the  extension of economic apartheid with the black population sinking into even  greater poverty on their bantustans, denied most of the basic social  services the Mandela government had promised them in 94,' as the wealth of  the rich white minority and the Black elite skyrockets and foreign  corporations rush in to take advantage of the very cheap and oppressed  black	2000-08-05
US	52306476	R3LYAU42WMEEFW	1567511767	960551625	The New Military Humanism: Lessons From Kosovo	Books	5	17	20	N	N	The same old U.S.	Chomsky with his usual massive documentation shows that the same elite institutions and motivations which, in this country, butchered or helped butcher millions of Indians, hundreds of thousands of Fillipinos, millions,  of Vietnames, Laoations and Cambodians, tens of thousands of East Timorese,  tens of thousands of Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans, and so on,  were behind the &quot;humanitarian intervention&quot; in Kosovo. <br />Chomsky  shows that the claim that while the U.S. and its allies may have done some  very horrible things to third world in the past, that era is in past (part  of the Cold War,etc.)and a new epoch has dawned where states are free to  exercise their power to zealously promote human rights and fight dictators,  is not tenable with the slightest effort toward serious analyses (as  opposed to ,say, believing every pronouncment of our leaders and their  dupes in the media). After all, what are we to make of the fact that the  Clinton administration refused to contribute to efforts for a peacekeeping  force to mitigate horrendous atrocities in Sierra Leone and, shortly before  the Kosovo bombings began, refused to provide a paltry sum for a UN  peacekeeping force in the Republic of Congo for the same purpose. Why is it  that the Clinton administration was providing massive military and economic  assistance to a fascist regime in Turkey, which as documented for years by  the major human rights organizations, Turkish dissidents, and even the  Turkish government, has slaughtred tens of thousands of Kurds, created  millions of internal Kurdish refugees, burned thousands of Kurdish villages  using U.S. weapons. Why is it that the Clinton administration was (and is)  providing massive weapons and assistance to a death squad/military run  &quot;democracy&quot; in Colombia, which according to the State departments  own human rights report, conducted about the same murders, created around  the same number of refugees, burned around the same number of villages,  etc. as during the period of serious violence before the bombings in Kosovo  began (February 98' to March 99')? Why is it that the Clinton  adminstration, continuing U.S. policies since December 1975, continued to  have normal military, economic and diplomatic relations with the military  generals in Indonesia, even as they were stepping atrocities against the  people of East Timor in order to deter the people from voting to remove  themselves from Indonesia's fascist rule in the September 1999 U.N.  sponsored referendum, and then sat on its hands for a few weeks after the  referndum before making any remotely serious gestures, compelled mostly by  Australian public opinion, toward stopping the terror and murder that the  Indonesians were paying back the people for daring to exercise their right  of self-determination? <br />The answer is simply that the Clinton  administration is no different that past administrations. Alot of the  leftists who supported the war admit that this is the case but claim that  in the instance alot of good was done by the great powers in stopping  genocidal tactics perpetrated by a genocidal madman. Chomsky devotes  considerable space to documenting (what should quite obvious) that misery  and death vastly increased after verification monitors left Kosovo on March  19th and the Nato began bombing five days later. It was only natural for  the Serbs to react with such violence and murder. After all, as Chomsky  shows but which the mainstream media has obscured, Nato told them at the  Ramouillet talks that they must accept a Nato occupation of Kosovo and  grant them unhindered access to the rest of Yugoslavia or be bombed. A Serb  parliament proposal of March 23 accepting all Nato demands except for the  Nato occupation force and allowing for negotiations on an international  security presence in Kosovo was reported by the major wire services but  quickly died in the rest of the media and was ignored by the U.S.  government. Under these conditions, with Nato about to unleash its massive  war machine to destroy Serb and Kosovar infrastructure (hitting very few  military targets) and drive much of the Serb population out of Kosovo,  killing thousands of Serbs (and many Albanians too) and with that force  that was about to rein massive destruction upon it, not too discretely  heavily funding a terrorist group claiming to represent its most volatile  minority, it is horrible but strategically understandable that a nation  would undertake to cleanse itself of that minority. That atrocities would  vastly escalate once the bombing started and there would be an explosion of  refugees has been noted by many journalists, was &quot;absolutely  predictable&quot; in the words commanding general Wesely Clark a few days  after the bombings began. When the peace treaty was signed, Chomsky noted  that Nato agreed on paper to the proposals of the Serb parliament of March  23rd and subsequent proposals by Milosevic. But only on paper that is. Nato  proceeded to impose its version of the treaty, with media acceptance and  ignoring of the truth, commanding and dominating the security force that  occupied Kosovo whereas the treaty actually only called for an  &quot;international securtiy presence&quot; under &quot;UN auspicies&quot;  with &quot;substantial Nato participation&quot; and nothing more.  <br />Chomsky also deals with some other effects of the war. The democratic  opposition to Milosevic was severely damaged, especially in the fervently  anti-milosevic province of Vojvodina. Other nations in the third world as  well as the first expressed great dismay at the war, as a survey of their  media demonstrates, and will be further enriching world arms manufacturers  as they load up on lethal weapons in order to try to defend themselves  against the United States should they cross its path. <br />In the past, the  United States used Russian imperialism as a fraudulent pretext to destroy  third world nations or indiginous liberation movements who dared to attempt  to develop their economies and political structure outside of American  domination. With the cold war gone, policy has been modified but it is  essentially the same. For seeing the main reason for the Kosovo war,  Chomsky refers to the recently declassified 1995 document of our nuclear  arsenal command entitled &quot;Essentials of Post Cold War  Detterernce&quot; which argues that the United States should portray itself  as very irrational and vindictive toward the rest of the world so that they  will be scared into submission and ruthelessly crush any nation, no matter  how weak, if it should dare threaten its &quot;interests.&quot; i.e. resist  its economic and political hegemony.	2000-07-14
US	52306476	R1ZLOQJ0HMONBM	1878825224	455290319	East Timor: Genocide in Paradise (The Real Story Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent introduction to East Timor tragedy	The author gives a basic yet horrifying description of Indonesia's mass murder and terror against the people of East Timor, heavily supported from its inception by the United States and its allies. Its short length  inevitably gives it a certain superficiality; I don't think the author is  quite able to impart the full horror of the tragedy. But the basic facts  are cogent enough and should give American citizens pause for painful but  important reflections on how their government actually conducts foreign  policy and what they can do to stop it from supporting tyranny and  genocide.<br />This edition was published some months before the orgy of  murder and terror of last September and thus the author did not have the  opportunity to bring the story full circle.	2000-05-28
