US	52307532	R1LZ518COSXSD9	0806522100	242157614	Out Of The Shadows: Myths and Truths of Modern Wicca	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Overall an excellent book, with a bad chapter on the gods...	I thought this book was great--smart, funny, with savy advice.  But I had a really big problem with chapter 3, titled \\"Deities\\"  and subtitled \\"If you read only one chapter, read this one\\"--which i think is unfortunate--since the rest of the book is so good, and that particular chapter is full of misinformation.The problem starts when the author describes Kali as \\"dancing on the body of the half-dead Krishna\\" (p48).  Kali never dances on Krishna but on Shiva (whose name sounds like the word for corpse).  She warns against working with Kali because she is \\"terrifying\\" (p48).  McLelland doesn't really have an understanding of how Kali is worshipped in India and focuses on the Kali of the tantric path, as apposed to say the Kali that Ramprasad loved.McLelland also warns us against Lilith because she \\"destroyed her children in order to fight her battles\\" (p49).  I could be wrong, but I believe that in Jewish folklore, it was Yaweh who kills a hundred of Lilith's demon children a day as punishment. (Lilith kills other peoples babies)  She also says not invoke her if you want to keep your image as a \\"sexpot\\"--but in Jewish folklore that is exactly what Lilith is--she suduces men in their sleep.The author also has some mixed up ideas about the Celtic Deities.  She Calls Brigit a form of Dana (she's not, and its actually Danu).  She says the Morrigan is three goddesses \\"the mother goddess Ana, the mother Babd, and the crone Macha\\". How many crones do you know who can beat a horse in a race while she is nine months pregnant? Sources are inconsistent about what three goddess make up the Morrigu--but one thing is for sure--the Irish did not divide the goddess into maiden, mother, and crone (that was a falacy perpetrated by Robert Graves).  Their triple goddesses were made up of either three maidens, three mothers or three crones.  and crones could always turn into maidens.  Lugh is not a sun god (but everyone makes that mistake, can't fault McLelland here), the sun is a goddess in Ireland--Grian.  Also she says that Gwydion is the son of Dana and associated with the Tuatha de Dannan--he isn't he is Welsh, and a son of the goddess Don.  Then she goes on to say the Lleu LLaw Gyffes is another son of Dana--he's not nor is he  son of Don, he is Arianrhod's son.Well maybe you think i am nitpicking, but since McLelland warns us about getting all our information from Wiccan books--I thought I should mention that this is not the book to learn about pagan Deities.  I suggest you leave the new age section and head towards the mythology section.The beginning of the chapter on Deities is actually quite good, and the rest of the book is excellent--so I recommend it highly--just take the information on the gods with a grain of salt.	2005-07-15
US	52307532	R1EJHIMNCPJWZ8	1580911641	971337397	Cakes and Ale for the Pagan Soul: Spells, Recipes, and Reflections from Neopagan Elders and Teachers	Books	4	19	23	N	N	A Good Book with One Flaw	This book was mostly a pleasure to read.  The title is really an adorable twist on the \\"Chicken Soup for the Soul\\" books.  Many of the stories had me in tears, others were very inspiring.  I felt good reading this book except for one entry.\\"Elements: From a Christian Consecration Ritual\\" by Ambrose Hawk felt really out of place.  It's rituals were definitely magical but definitely not Pagan.  They invoked Jesus and YHVH and quite frankly made me uncomfortable.  The name of the book is \\"Cakes and Ale for the PAGAN Soul\\" and I feel the book should have stuck with the promise of its title.The other writings were wonderful.  I especially loved Jess Wolf Hardin's \\"Burden Basket\\"--about Kokopelli and responsiblity.  These writing will make you laugh and they will make you cry.  It's not a how too book, although it does include some oil, incense and food recipes and spells.  It is not a Wicca 101 book but is perfectly suituiable for newcomers to read--and it is good for old timers as well.  It is a new catogory of Pagan book, not beginner, intermediate or advanced.Its a book for everyone who wants a little soul-food.here is a list of the contributers and their contributions taken from the table of content:Patricia Telesco, \\"Crossing Paths: The Witch Within\\" and \\"And the Children Shall Lead Us\\"; Selena Fox, \\"Crossroads of Life\\"; Dorothy Morrison, \\"Fear's Ship\\" and \\"Love: Strawberry Mousse Romance Inducer\\";  Bonnie Jean Hamilton, \\"Facing Your Fear\\"; Loba, \\"Intimacy with Self and Others, Earth and Spirit\\" and \\"Dance from Your Belly\\"; Mama Doyi-Astarte, \\"Joy and Peace\\"; Alicia L Folberth, \\"The Goddess's Call to Service: She moves in Mysterious Ways\\";  Siryn Dolphinsong, \\"Family Riches\\"; Katelan V. Foisy' \\"Children's Perspectives\\"; Shae Moyers RIghtmire, \\"Goddess Gifts: ALigning with Moneta Energies\\"; Jesse Wolf Hardn, \\"Commitment\\" and \\"Burden Basket\\"; Lady Willow' \\"Mindfulness\\"; Gail Wood, \\"Sweet Dreams: A Journey to Restfu SLeep and the Wisdom of Dreaming\\"; Ann Moura, \\"Discovery Through Dreaming\\"; Bev Richardson, \\"Tears\\";  Phyllis Curott' \\"Encountering the Divine in Nature\\"; Earthwizard, \\"Earth Religion in the Modern World\\"; Kristin Madden, \\"Man's Best Friend\\" and \\"Sound\\"; Branwen, \\"Furry Friends: Teaching Online\\"; Marian Singer' \\"Nature's Sense of Humor\\"; Oberon Zell-Ravenheart, \\"The RIver\\"; Janina Renee, \\"Weather Magick\\" and \\"Luck: Golden Sunshine\\"; Jennie Dunham, \\"The Snakeskin\\"; Cinnamon Moon, \\"Community/Unity\\"; Precious Nielsen, \\"Decency: A True STory of Goodness and the Power of Love\\"; Ashleen O'Gaea, \\"Magick and Community, Incarnate and Incarcerated\\"; Carl McColman, \\"Nurturing the Nurturers\\"; Starhawk, \\"Pagan Cluster in Calgary: A Short Report on the G8 Protests\\"; Laura Perry, \\"Stone Soup Casserole\\"; Ardy, \\"Touching the Community, and the Community Touching Me\\"; Mike Short, \\"Yuletide\\" and \\"Homegrown Cough Syrup\\"; Ambrose Hawk, \\"Elements: From a Christian Consecration Ritual\\"; Christina Linka, \\"Fire Scrying: Sophia's Legacy\\"; Rowan Hall, \\"Goddess\\"; Margot Adler, \\"Using Pagan Ritual in the Real World\\"; Judith Lewis, \\"Blessings and Protection\\"; Terrilyn, \\"Christmas Story\\"; Tamarack Song, \\"The Gifting Way: How Abundance Came to Me\\"; Jamie Wood. \\"Healing with Magick\\"; Selene Silverwind, \\"Love, Pagan Style\\"; Christine Jette, \\"Tarot for Healing\\"  Overall, I recommend this book for some light and inspiring reading--just skip that one entry.	2005-05-14
US	52307532	R37NAL07GHVT40	0962675113	123696542	Moonrise: Welcome to Dianic Wicca	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very basic itroduction to Dianic Wicca	This booklet is a very basic introduction to Dianic Wicca.  If you know anything about Wicca it will probably be no use to you personally.  I think what it might be good for is to lend out to others who are curious or apprehensive about what you practice.  There is nothing wrong with this booklet--its just that it is very basic.	2005-03-14
US	52307532	R3G3A776XX8R61	0764153013	474801796	The Book of Goddesses: Invoke the Powers of the Goddesses to Improve Your Life	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Really bad!	This book is really bad.  The first part of the book  provides a one page summary of each of the 25 Goddesses and these summaries are filled with misinformation and even contradictions.  In the Bastet section she claims that Bastet is a moon goddesses associated with the \\"moon goddess\\" Hathor.  Both of these goddesses are sun goddesses--a fact that the author brings up in the Hathor section when she talks about Hathors headress--a sun disc between cow horns.  In the Diana section she says that Diana is shown with cats which she claims are associated with the moon. In mythology cats are associated with the sun and dogs with the moon. And in fact Diana is shown with hounds not cats.  I could provide more examples of the misinformation but I think you get the point.As for the rituals--they aren't really rituals but spells and pretty bad ones at that. Her \\"ritual\\" for sexual love involves bathing, scenting your skin and dancing with your partner in a candle lit room--that's it!  Not much of a ritual or a spell.  And all the spells are like this--short, overly simple, boring and unfocused.  Two of the sealed spells are unethical--a spell to attract a specific lover and another to get revenge on a lover who has hurt you.  A lot of the illustrations in the first section are nice. One of them was pretty inappropriate--In Lakshimi's summary there is a full page picture--not of Lakshmi--of Her husband Vishnu--strange.This book really is just awful--don't waste your money.  The subtitle reads \\"Invoke the Powers of the Goddesses to Improve your Life\\"--this book just doesn't deliver what it promises.  There is no power invoked by the \\"rituals\\" in this book.	2005-03-06
US	52307532	R3JRZB8CR2AF5V	0892540648	508918391	Moonlit Path: Reflections on the Dark Feminine	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Mostly about the Black Madonna	9 out of the 16 essays are about the Black Madonna.  There is one essay on Lilith, one on Kali, and one on the Morrigan. There is a poem by Clarissa Pinkola Estes about Guadalupe. There is an essay on Mary Magdalene. A further two are from the christian perspective.This book is a mix of the religious and the jungian.  It has essays by artists, pschoanalysts and priests.  It works.  The most valuble essay for me was \\"The Dark Irish Goddess Morrigan\\" by Sylvia Brinton Perera--it was worth the price of the book.Despite the fact that this book is skewed a bit toward the chirstian perspective--i still enjoyed reading it.The authors were most interesting when they spoke of their own spiritual and psychological journeys in relation to the Dark Feminine.	2005-01-05
US	52307532	R2EWRECITGIG6I	0863153585	626432740	The Celtic Goddess: Great Queen or Demon Witch?	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Mostly deals with the Mabinogion.	This was a very good book and I enjoyed reading it.  I would have given it five stars if it wasn't for the title.  The title led me to believe it would be about Goddesses from all the Celtic lands, the bulk of the book (from page 70 on) was about the women in the Mabinogion. The only other problem I have with this book is that it uses Robert Graves, whose work is deeply flawed,as a source.This leads to inacuracies in the book.  For instance, the Celtic triple Goddess was never Maiden, Mother and Crone, but rather three Mothers, or three Maidens or three Crones. Despite these two problems I do recommend the book.	2004-10-03
US	52307532	R1QTLHFXTFEEFP	0140443223	666949112	The Mabinogion (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	No Cerridwen	This translation leaves out the Story of Gwion Bach (Taliesin) which may be historically acurate--but no fun indeed.  Otherwise exellent.	2004-10-03
US	52307532	R3LOJ71RNCSK3X	1593600089	151580278	From Witch to Wicca	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A history of what people think witches are...	In the introduction to this book the author writes \\"this book is not a history of witches or of witchcraft;  there are plenty of those already.  Instead, it is a history of what people think witches are.  She also writes that she is \\"not a witch, Wiccan or Pagan\\" and that hers is \\"an outsider's view.  Two themes that run throughout the book are \\"my religion vs. your witchcraft\\" and \\"men's magick (good) vs. women's magic (evil).  the first professes the author's belief that people think of their own practices as religion while practices of \\"the other\\" are witchcraft. the second demonstrates the author's oppinion that the magic of men is seen as beneficial while women's magic is often demonized.The first chapter \\"In the Beginning there was Magic\\" discusses shamanism.  chapter two \\"Witches in Antiquity\\" talks about witches in ancient greek and roman literature. chapter three the daemonic realms\\" discusses how deamons where split by chirstians into good angels and bad demons. with chapter four \\"Mabinogion, Merlin and Morgan\\" the title of the chapter is self-explanitory. \\"Burn Her\\"--chapter 5, is about the witchcraze (or the Burning Times) chapter six \\"Weird Sisters and Noble Wizards\\" discusses witchcraft in Shakspear's plays.  \\"Who Needs Magic?\\"--chapter 7, is about the end of the witch hysteria and the rise of rationalism. chapter 8 \\"Witches Are So Last Century\\" covers gothic novels, Goethe's Faust, and Frank L. Baum's Oz books. \\"From Myth to Relgion\\", chapter nine, covers Wicca.  Chapter ten \\"From Salem to Sunnydale\\" is an overview of witches in movies and on tv (including early horror films, bewitched, sabrina the teen age witch, \\"the wiccer man\\" and buffy the vampire slayer). The conclusion talks about Harry Potter and fundalmentalist christians.   All in all its an enjoyable but light read.	2004-10-03
US	52307532	R3VEXJG6CZ374V	0789203413	900824984	The Moon	Books	3	3	3	N	N	5 stars for the pictures; 1 star for the text.	The photographs and paintings in this book are stunning and the book is packed with them.  But i felt the writing was not very good.For one thing the book seems randomly arranged--with a lot of information put in the wrong place.  For instance the chapter \\"The sex of the moon\\" mostly contained folklore about the moon's gender--but then it had a whole section on eclipses which didn't relate to gender at all.another thing i didn't like was that the author had some strange oppinions for a woman writing a book of moon lore. her ideas could really alienate people who would be attracted to this book--feminists and those interested in astrology.  here are two quotes from the book:\\"During the Golden Age of Feminism, the coordination of menstruation and the lunar cycle inspired a mass of embarrasssingly lyrical and somtimes humorless literature vaunting the privileged status of women so  closely in tune with the Moon-as well as the existence of a mysterious \\"sistership\\", from which men were naturally excluded\\" (p82)and:\\"However, today we can still consult astrologers, who will still draw conclusios from the sign in which the Moon was situated at the moment of one's birth.  This lets us willingly submit to our impulses, no longer looking upon ourselves as reasonable, self-determined individuals, but as beings governed by instincts and inclinations\\" (p 189)despite the fact that she considers belief in astrology unreasonable she goes on to list the qualities of each moon sign.you get the feeling from sachs' writing that she finds moon lore curious but she holds no reverence for the moon herself.	2004-07-02
US	52307532	R1BQCXXMLXRRT	0917479033	133546787	Changing Woman and Her Sisters: Feminine Aspects of Selves and Deities	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Table of Contents	I.  IntroductionII. From the First    ---First Woman    ---Salt WomanIII. Incompleteness     ---Changing Bear Maiden     ---Snapping V*gina  IV.  Towards Wholeness     ---Spider Woman     ---Changing Woman     ---Snake WomanPostludeReferences and Bibliography	2004-05-24
US	52307532	R2X3MJWNW15Q0W	157027035X	474583976	The Rotting Goddess: The Origin of the Witch in Classical Antiquity	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A nice addition to your Hekate library.	Although this book was written in a &quot;scholarly&quot; style, it is still an easy read and an enjoyable one. The premise of the book is that greco-roman witchcraft originated in literature and Hekate witchcraft came later and as a result of the literature. The author shows how Hekate's cthonic traits were originally benign but were artificially empahsised to eventually turn her into &quot;Queen of the Witches&quot;. He also shows us how the literary witch is actually a debased form of the Goddess.Some of the presumptions the author makes are a bit of a leap but as a whole this is a really good book.  enjoy!	2003-11-23
US	52307532	RFP2IZFG4PAOV	0195124316	814184931	Medusa: Solving the Mystery of the Gorgon	Books	4	13	23	N	N	A flawed book--but important for Medusa Devotees	I will start of saying that I am writing this review from the perspective of a feminist witch.  I address this review mainly to other witches.Why is this book flawed? Wilk explains every aspect of Medusa's myth using &quot;cultural materialism&quot; as his strategy. this theory states that &quot;people's actions and belief systems are determinded by the physical realities of their existence rather than the other way around&quot; sure this sounds logical--but it leaves out the possiblity of spiritual mystery.Wilk explains away every aspect of the Gorgon Medusa with out any regard for spirituality or religion.  So why do I think this is an important book? Because as hard as he tries, the author does not take away the Mystery of Medusa for me.I a word were there are precious few books on Medusa and the Gorgons, this book provides many things to think about.  He aquates the Perseus myth with varibal stars and their positions in the constilations.  He shares information on Medusa in the movies and in Feminist writings. There is just a lot of wonderful stuff in here despite the attitude of the author that dismisses a spiritual reason for the Gorgons.Wilks chapter on the real origin of the Gorgoneon is a big shocker, and I won't ruin the surprise for you hear.  But I just want to say one thing &quot;Oh yeah? what about the fangs?&quot;So while this is not a book taylored for the feminst witch, I still think it is important to read.  Get a used copy if you can because i don't think I would have liked it as much if i paid full price.	2003-11-22
US	52307532	RUOLV0GO7UR20	0877287678	293852642	Turning of the Wheel: A Wiccan Book of Shadows for Moons and Festivals	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not my cup of tea.	i gave this book three stars, even though i didn't like it, because there really isn't anything wrong with the book.  it just didn't appeal to me, and i thought others might be turned off by the same things.the ritual in this book are supposed to come from the point of view of gender polarity.  there is a strong bias toward the heterosexual point of view.  the moon rituals give a good balance of the Goddess and the God, but the festivals seem to over emphasize the God.almost all the sabbat rituals revolve around the Sun King.  if this aspect of the god doesn't particularly apeal to you than this book will be useless--as it is for me.  this is my main problem with the book.  the book stresses light, and doesn't give much attention to darkness. the rituals for winter show it as a time of despair instead of appreciating the good things about the season.  i guess this path of wicca seems very unbalanced to me--all light, and god and summer.there are two sections for moon rituals.  the new moon and the full moon are covered, but not the dark or waning moon.  a lot of the rituals are repetitive. they also don't seem very wiccan and perhaps the book should have been subtitled a &quot;pagan&quot; book of shadows... in order to be more accurate.its not a bad book, and i bet a lot of people would like it. in fact the ritual following Inanna's journey to the underworld in the Samhain section was intriguing.  And maybe we can afford to have a few books out the stress the masculine to balance those that stress the feminine.  but the &quot;flavor&quot; of the rituals didn't appeal to me.  if you are more earthy, and less cermonial, more goddessy, more gender-fluid, than this book probably isn't for you.	2003-10-29
US	52307532	R1JJW6USC6OQDZ	1885349084	237842628	The Moon in Hand : A Mystical Passage	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Table of Contents	IntroductionCall from the Old OnesTHE WEST--Invocation--From the Old Ones--Crossroads: Movement into Change--West Exercises I. Born of Water                II. Tears of Water--West Visualization: The Sea Journey--The Silver Thread I: The Story of Sea--The West Ritual: Hecate--West Invocation ChantTHE NORTH--Invocation--From the Old Ones--Crossroads: Movement into Power--North Exercises: I. Into the Silence                 II. Holding a Mountain                III. Into the Dark--North Visualization: The Heart of the Mountain--THe Silver Thead II. The Story of Night--the NOrth Ritual: The Ancients--North Invocation and ChantsTHE EAST--Invocation--From the OLd Ones--Crossroads: Movement into Vision--East Exercises: I. Beginnings                 II. Faces of the Altar--East Visualization--The Silver THread III: The Story of Little Bird--East Ritual: Taking Flight--East Invocation and ChantsTHE SOUTH--Invocation--From the Old Ones--Crossroads: Movement into Voice--South Exercises: I. Mirrors                  II. Rage                 III. Palms Upward                  IV. Cirle Energy--South Visualization: Between the Flames--Siraling OUtward into Power: From the Old Ones--THe Silver Thread IV. The Story of Rabbit--South RItual: Boices in the Fire--South Invocation and ChantsAPPENDIX--Ritual--Suggested RItual Structure--CLearing--Grounding and Centering--Smudging--Casting a Circle with Stones--Casting a Circle without Stones--Invocation--THe Story--Chants--Dramatization--Empowerment--Returning Stones--Grounding at the End of a Ritual--Opening the Circle--CelebrationTHE OFFERINGNOTES	2003-08-27
US	52307532	R276VG5QOVX6PZ	1885349084	237842628	The Moon in Hand : A Mystical Passage	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Powrful Journey through the Sacred Directions	Eclipse had written a wonderful book here. She takes us on a &quot;Mystical Passage&quot; around the sacred circle.There are four sections, one for each cardinal direction and an index explaining the basics of ritual.each sections starts with a beautiful poetic invocation to the direction. it follows with a page on the tradional wisdom of that direction. a short section describing the authors personal journey in that direction follows in &quot;crossroads&quot;  then the author gives some really wonderful excercises to attune with the direction and its corresponding element. (tradional western european magical correspondances are used).  then there is a visualization (guided meditation) on the direction/element.Each section also contains a marvelous portion of a &quot;children's story&quot; called &quot;The Silver THread&quot; although this story is good for children it will also speak to your own inner child.Then comes a full ritual, to be performed alone or with others, that incorporates the knowledge gained earlier in the section.  the chapter is ended with An Invocation to an appropriate Goddess and chants for that direction. The Goddesses used are west-Hekate, North-Persepone, East-Athena, and South-Brighid.I think this is a wonderful book for alighning with the directions and is full of wisdom that you won't find in any other book.  i highly reccomend it!!ps. the book has four beautiful color illustrations by the author that are worth the price of the book.  black and white illustrations by the author are throughout	2003-08-27
US	52307532	RQWAW4IS81AEK	0951885960	575285736	The Norse Goddess	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Table of Contents	-Introduction-The People of the Sun and Wind-The Ahkkas, Saami Goddesses and the Sajvaa Spirit Folk-Archaeology in the Northlands/Norrland -Petroglyphs/Hallristningar by Great Rivers-Great Mother Hel's People-The Icelanding Eddas: Dreams of Hel-Sacred Land: Ancient Earth Mother-Creation according to the Volupsa-Finnish Kalvela and some mythology of Arctic peoples-The NOrns and the Runes-Freya: the great Vanadis and Sejd Goddess-Articles and Journals-Notes-Bibliograhy-Index	2003-08-27
US	52307532	RAKG5PFHW4SO0	090636213X	73895797	Eclipse of the Sun	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sun Goddesses and Moon Gods	This book is a wonderful reference for those wanting to learn about sun goddeses.  the book is well researched and very entertaining.  the author provides myth and evidence of sun goddesses from many different cultures all over the world.  she also spends time debunking the belief that all goddesses are moon or earth goddesses and that the sun is alway male.  she does a very good job at this, showing how and why these misconceptions arose.the author calls herself a &quot;spiritual feminist&quot; but she seems to be hostile towards  neo-paganism. she seems to be fancinated with sun goddesses but she doesn't believe in them. a disturbing quote from the book about the sun and the moon is &quot;they are as inane as two house bricks: they are not persons, they are less than persons. They only have divine...qualities insofar as humans choose to give such qualities to them&quot;. for pagans, who believe the univesre is indeed divine, comments like these can offend. another problem i had with the book was the way the author seems to want to redefine many goddesses as sun goddesses without real evidence.  such as when the moon is a god she says that his wife is probably a sun goddess.  this seems like a huge leap to take for someone who prides herself on the rational.despite the draw backs this book is really indespensible to those who want to understand the Goddess in her totality.  for those who want to learn more about moon gods, the book is not as complete on that subject. the author really devotes the vast majority of the book to sun goddesses. in the end i am more than convinced that goddesses are the sun at least as much as they are the moon.i highly recommend this book to all pagans, goddess wimmin, and lovers of mythology. it really is a very good book and extremely valuble for its scholarship.	2003-08-19
US	52307532	R33EHZM52DY8FG	0734403666	646699581	Moon Rites: Ritual, Myth And Magic For The Modern Moon Goddess	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wise advice for Maidens, Mothers and Crones.	I took a chance on this book.  There is very little information on it here ... But I am glad that I took that chance, because once I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down until it was finished.The book is a trade paperback, 341 pages long (thirty of which are decorated blank journal pages.  The author, Spiraldancer, is an Australian woman and this book is published in Australia, ... .The book focuses on Goddess Spirituality as it manifests in the triple moon goddess and women's menstrual rites.  This book is written for women only.The first part of the book teaches about ritual, the triple moon goddess, and the stages of a womans life. The second part gives rituals for menarche, belly blessing, and menapause.  The third part is divided into months of the year and is meant to be studied monthly.At first I was worried about this because Australia's seasons are opposite the ones I experience. But i found that the months were used just as an organizing tool so it did not provide a problem for me.Each month introduces a Goddess, focuses on a particular issue, and gives advice to \\"new moon, full moon, and dark goddesses (meaning woman of those three age groups).  These sections are packed full of woman wisdom and goddess lore.January's Goddess is Kore and focuses on pms and honoing menstruation. February's is Isis and focuses on dreams. March, Anat and reflexology. April, Flora and Bach Flower Remedies. May- Luna and moon magic. June-Juno and nutrition. July-Hina and essential oils. August-Changing Woman and menstral rituals. September-Sarasvati and storytelling. October-Julunggul and archetypes. November-Nokomis and herbs. December-Hecate and exercise. And there is a thirteenth month with Yemaya and personal power.I highly recommend this book.  Its the best of its kind--full of good advice and wonderful rituals.	2003-04-18
US	52307532	R13VVFEV767KPQ	0007110227	198707557	Wicca (Thorsons Way of)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Different then her others but still a gem.	This book is a basic introduction to wicca.  I really did not need to read another introduction but i bought this book anyway because i love vivianne crowley's work.Most of her books are more advanced and go deep into theory, psychology and the like. I recommed all of her books.  This book is different because it is a wicca 101 book--but it is still a worthwhile read.For true beginners this book has a lot of value.  Crowley describes everything you need to start practicing wicca, but unlike others she goes one step further.  she describes everything you should be feeling and visualizing as you are performing the ritual actions.Crowley provides mediations and practices that will also be helpful for the more advanced practicioner. and like all her books this one has a smattering of her poems and invocations which i feel are the true gems in all her work.  one of the things that puts Crowley a few steps above other authors is that she is not only a talented witch but she is a talented writer. she has a background in psychology and is a college professor.This book is the antedote to all the poorly thought out introductary books on wicca that seem to be flooding the market. Thorsons way of wicca presents the religion in a thoughtful, serious, beautiful, touching, and easily understood way.  highly recommended.	2003-04-14
US	52307532	R2W68CIVVZH9UX	0807081035	510791412	Grandmothers of The Light: A Medicine Woman's Sourcebook	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A beautiful book!!	i read this book awhile ago and can't really write a review that gives it justice.  i will reread it and post another review.... no where in the book does allen talk about facts.it is a book of mythology. myths and tales are not meant to be taken as fact in the scientific sense--they are true on a spiritual level.  the book does not claim to be portraying an acurate picture of native american life.  it is a picture of the mythic or spiritual life of native american women.  this is not a book of anthropology and never claims to be.we are lucky to have p.g. allen. the work she does is important both in remembering the past and remytholgizing the present.  the author does not make up stories as she goes along.  she is a storyteller and every storyteller tells a story in her own way. but these are legitimate myths, not something that allen made up.i pray that this book finds its way to readers who need to hear its healing message.  i pray that more people will take the time to review this book.  and i will get to rereading it so i can give it a decent review.you can't go wrong with this book if you are intersted in women's spirituality or native spirituality or if you have a spirit ...	2003-03-25
US	52307532	R2RKEGVARCMBMA	0936663103	335945820	The Divine Mosaic: Women's Images of the Sacred Other	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Real Eye Opner/A Real Mind Opener	I am a Goddess-loving Witch and didn't think that i could relate to women of other religions.  But this book really changed my mind. There is stuff in here written by catholic nuns that i could really relate to.I guess what opened my mind and connected the whole book, was that each woman wrote from a feminist perspective.  It is incredible the way these women can bring the Divine Feminine into their religious life.  To read a nun use the word \\"goddess\\" was really healing for me.I bought this book because it had an essay on Kali, and another essay by a favorite writer--Linda Johnsen.  I thought I would find the rest of the book boring--but it wasn't.  I feel richer having read it.The book contains essays by catholic nuns, jewish rabbis, american zen practicioners, a japanese shinto priest(ess), a dianic witch, a lakota woman, a young muslim, an american hindu, an indian hindu, a chinese taoist doctor, a devotee of the Virgin of Gudalupe, african american feminist, an african american woman raise by a spiritualist/vudoun preistess and then by a babtist mother, a new ager, a quaker and more.It tries to by multi-culural but most of the essays are by white women--which is a little disappointing but you can't have everything.  Also christianity and buddhism are over-represented while islam is very under-represented.  But the effort at providing a balanced representation is still apreciated.Each writer can be placed in one of two categories, women who did not like the religion the were brought up in and found one that suited them, and those that remained with the religion of their childhood and learned to find meaning in it that spoke to their female perspective.I highly reccomend this book to feminist women of all faiths, and to anyone who wants to understand what women's spirtual lives are like. Table of Contents:'Editors Preface' by Therese King'Feminine Aspects of Divinity' by Erminie Huntress Lantero Ph.D.'The Divne Disturber' by Sr. Kay O'Neil ad Sr. Michelle Meyers'From Nothing to Everything Just As It Is' by Nancy Ann James'The Hem of His Garment' by Marilyn Fullen Collins'God is a Verb' by Rev. Alla Renee Bozarth'God Dances' by Rev. Akiko Kobayashi'Porousness in the Web of Indra' by Judith Ragir'Images of God: Closeness and Power' by Rabbi Sheila Weinberg'This God Is' by Wabun Wind'God is Always Pregnant' by Jeanette Rodriguez Ph.D.'The Dark Devi: An Interview with Shuma Chakravarty' by Kathleen Alexander'Where is God for the Lutheran Girl Who Turned to Zen?' by Rev. Karen Sunna'The Voice of God, The Mother of Life' by Dr. Lily Siou'God is Fie' by Sister Patricia McGowan'A Glimpse of Allah' by Nargis Naqiv'The Goddess in Me' by Antiga'Bubble God the Great vs. God of Earth and Flesh' by Renae Lenore Hanson\\"God-Awakening' by Rabbi Vicki Hollander'Our Grandfather, The Great Spirit' by Wawokiya Win'The Shadow of the Goddess' by Linda Johnsen'Be Still and Know' by Rev. Teijo Munnich'Goddess Love' by Oyo Fumilayo'Poems about the Divine Feminine' by Cassia Berman'God Has Many Faces' by Theresa King'Notes''Bibliography'	2003-03-11
US	52307532	R3NQQFJDO6R6O0	0062516698	51498716	The Twelve Wild Swans: A Journey to the Realm of Magic, Healing, and Action	Books	5	12	14	N	N	men should not be afraid to read this book!!!	there a some wonderful descriptive reviews here and i don't really need to restate them.  i usually do not like to write reviews in response to other reviewers.  but i am making an exception here.  one reviewer calls the starhawk a \\"rabid feminst\\".  while i don't find that term to be the insult its meant to be, i just want to assure potential male and men loving female readers that this book is not at all \\"rabid\\".  its nothing like mary dalys works. it does not come close to z. budapests works, and is not even as \\"rabid\\" as diane stein and shekhinah mountainwater. (i am a fan of the latter two, but would not reccomend them to men--and well, z has her place)  this book does not say anything bad about men at all.  it contains exercises created by male members of the reclaiming community.  and its feminism is mild and blame-free.  there is nothing in here that would offend any man unless he was extremely paranoid and filled with unexpressed guilt. that said i think this book is for every witch no matter what gender.	2003-02-10
US	52307532	R9DLGFE5NUUHE	0722532717	979117750	Wicca: The Old Religion In the New Millennium	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A very thoughtful book!	This book is not a how too book.  You won't be able to practice wicca just by reading this book.  what it is though is an incredible book on wiccan theory.There are many things about this book that could of turned me off. For instance it is extremely traditional, and is heavy on gender polarity.  But in the context of the book, i was not in the least offended (and i am easily offended)The book starts off with a brief discription of the variety of wiccas that are practiced today.  this is included mainly to give the reader knowledge that crowley's view is of a particular kind of wicca. it seems to me that she practices a alexandrian form.  that said, this book is valuable to any practicioner regardless of tradition.it next gives a very realistic view of the origins of modern wicca.  no fantasy here--the real deal.the rest of the book goes through all aspects of coven witchcraft viewed through the lenses of jungian psychology, spirituality, magick and personal experience. the author goes into detail describing exactly what goes on when for instance you are casting a circle or drawing down the moon. she includes what you should be thinking, feeling, and visualizing. this is stuff that is almost never included in wicca 101 how to books.  starting out on my own as a solitary 13 years ago, i could have used this information.  back than i pretty much went through the motions ignorant--and had to figure all this stuff out along the way.  the book does assume prior knowledge of the subject and if you are a beginner i suggest you read a good lewellyn wicca 101 book along with this to learn the &quot;what&quot; along with the how and why that this book provides.i think this book is a good read for anyone regardless of how experienced you are, what your tradition is, or whether you are solitary or in a coven.  it really makes you think, and think deeply, about every aspect of the craft.  it is based on coven work--but the insights really don't rely on you being in a traditionalbritish coven.if you are used to reading llewellyn books, this book takes a bit more effort, and might be difficult for teenagers.  don't get me wrong, i love llewellyn books but they are usually a simple read--a good thing for a how to book. i fouund this easy but i am 29 and an avid reader. i'm not saying this is james joyce or anything but i am  trying to write a review that can help everyone--and want to let young people, and people who don't lik to read know what they are in for.for me the jewell of this book was the invocations and charges written by the author.  the are very poetic and beautiful. you can tell the writing comes from deep within her soul. i am really glad i read this book and wish i had read it sooner.  i wouldn't think i would have liked it so much, its traditional, coven based, and i am very ecclectic and very feminist, so the craft the author practices is not my cup of cocoa.  so if i could love it, i think everyone will love it.	2002-11-27
US	52307532	RZ7EUXTCBXYEF	0028644050	246849112	Releasing the Goddess Within	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Not what I expected	i found this book in the \\"new age\\" section under \\"magical arts\\" in the book store.  and it is co-authored by the co-author of \\"the complete idiot's guide to wicca and witchcraft--so i was expecting this book to be more pagan and spiritual.what it is actually is a self-help book.  it is not addressed to pagans--it seems more written for a housewife that is starting to be interested in \\"new age\\" stuff.  it contains things like connecting with your goddess self by listening to oprea or reading shakespear plays.not all the goddesses they would have us connect with are goddesses (like the mona lisa, st teresa of avila, or sheherazade of arabian knights)the advice it gives is about eating right, sleeping right, exercizing, meditating, sex, and creativity.  none of it is really appropriate for a pagan woman ... all the advice is really basic, like, get enough sleep, eat organic, and the metaphysical stuff, like meditation is very basic and does not go into detail. i didn't do any of the exercises and don't plan to.  none of them will seem to exciting to someone who has practiced ritual or performed magic.it was an easy read that you can polish off in an afternoon.so why did i give it two stars? well, i didn't pay for so i am not angry about wasting my money (no i didn't steal it my sig-ot paid).  i enjoyed the little boxes that had goddess stories and also the drawings of the goddesses (although they are miniscule).i really can't reccomend this book to anyone--except to maybe people who have no knowledge of the goddess and enjoy easy magazine-type reading (although if you like magazines for the pictures this isn't for you either) its sort of the readers digest of new age stuff for women.	2002-11-27
US	52307532	R2KQCXJ95TMJTI	0807067512	84675631	Ancient Mirrors of Womanhood: A Treasury of Goddess and Heroine Lore from Around the World	Books	5	36	39	N	N	As important to us as the bible is to christians!!!	this is a beautufil gift that ms. stone has given the Goddess community and i for one will be forever grateful.this is not a history book. it is a holy book.  the myth and poetry that ms. stone has birthed touches the soul.the subtitle of this book is \\"a treasury of goddess and heroine lore from around the world\\" and it truly is a treasury.  the scope of the book is incredible. it brings is the stories of the well known goddesses and the stories of goddesses who we may never had heard of before.another reviewer says that ms. stone is not a good scholar.  i am not sure why that person would have read this book.  it is clear from the writing that the author is providing histories that are not found in your average history book.  she is presenting an alternative.  she offers the history that acomapanies each region section as possiblities.  history is an art and not a science.  if you are satisfied with the so-called \\"original sources\\" that were gathered by, translated by, edited by white christian men and believe that they are totally unbiased--then why buy this book.  ... but if you are a person who understands that you don't know everything, this book is easy to love. it is not terribly outrageous, and the historical background it provides is just as valid as any other. ms. stone never presents them as the ultimate truth but rather offers us information that has been kept from us, because others found it unimportant.but this is ultimatly not a history book.  it is a book of myth.  it is beautifully written.  if is full of reverence.  it takes the goddesses seriously.  it is powerful.  and i can't recommend it more highly.	2002-09-26
US	52307532	R1NV4ZXEHKN2IY	0877287627	659596469	Of Witches: Celebrating the Goddess As a Solitary Pagan	Books	2	24	26	N	N	I REALLY wanted to like this book...	I should start out by saying that I knew before hand that this is another wicca 101 book.  Even though I have been practising for 12 years, I love reading basic books on the craft.  Being a solitary ecclectic--I find my religious practice is deeply enriched by reading many people's takes on wicca.  I find bits of jewells inside these books for beginners, that I incorporate into my own work.My main problem with this book is that it does not deliver what the  sub-title promises.  &quot;Celebrating the Goddess as a Solitary Pagan&quot; implies this book is written as an instruction to solitaries.  It is not.  It talks about coven work and group work at least as much as it talkes about solitary work.I am not sure who this book was actually targeted towards. I would not reccomend it to those already on the path because some of the explanition of things like tools are so basic as to be boring. But neither can I reccomend it for begginers because most of the book assumes prior knowledge; when giving a ritual or spell the author writes that you should use your normal way of casting a circle.  but no where in this book does she tell you how to do so.  Most of the book talks about different topics in the way you would to some one who has no prior knowledge of the topic but doesn't want to learn to practice as a witch either.  She glosses over the surface of many topics without going into detail. The book suffers from not having a  clear thesis, it is scattered and leaves you feeling as if the book was just thrown together.Another thing I do not like about this book is a personal pet peeve of mine--an annoying way of writing that is very much like the writings of laurie cabot.  What i am talking about here is the inncessant use of &quot;Witches believe..&quot;  &quot;Witches feel.&quot; etc. As if the author is talking for all witches, as if we all have the same beliefs and feelings, and as if she is in this private club of &quot;witches&quot; that the reader doesn't belong to.  Don't tell me what &quot;witches believe&quot; I am a witch and i will decide for myself what i believe.The author also gives eronious information that could be dangerous.  She tells us that the power raised in magic comes from inside us and that we will be exaughsted afterwards. Nothing could be further from the truth. The energy is raised from the universe around us and that most witches feel more energetic after a ritual than the did before.  There is also some false information about specific deities.The one saving grace of this book is something i find unique to this author. This is her enlightened view of ecological concerns.  How many books by supposed nature worshippers have i read that you should dump left over stuff from spells in a stream or the ocean? the author goes farther than just speaking against littering.  She also gives us a way that we can use spell bags over again, and even how to recycle water that was used for purifying tools.I really can't reccomend this book, even though i did find some important information hidden with in.  The rest of the book will just confuse people.Bb.	2002-03-12
US	52307532	R3T661LDG64UMD	0936663235	915256935	The Living Goddess: Reclaiming the Tradition of the Mother of the Universe	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Linda Johnsen is a wise wise woman!	This book is absolutly stunningly beautiful.  Reading it is a spiritual experience in it self.The author has in mind not only the western student of Hinduism but also women of the Goddess Spirituality movement.6 goddesses get entire chapters devoted to them:  Sarasvati, Lakshmi, Durga, Lalita, and Kundalini.  But through out the book many many Hindu goddesses are covered in depth--including the goddess most misunderstood by westerners: the great goddess Kali.Johnsen points out the mistake made be western pagans of ivoking Kali as the embodiment of rightous anger.  We have inherited from the classicists a tendency to assign goddesses a small sphere of influence (ex: &quot;Aphrodite&quot; is always followed by the description, &quot;goddess of love&quot;) instead of understanding them as full and complete deities.Kali is first and foremost a Mother.  She has many many aspects--one of which is a &quot;slayer of demons&quot;--but she is not an &quot;angry&quot; goddess.This book is enlightening.  It is written in language that anyone can understand. It backs up every idea with examples and metaphors to help us understand.  The author is incredibly knowledgable in many subjects.Although i did not agree with every word the author wrote--all of her words have enriched my spiritual life.  I have come away from this book with a deeper understanding of Goddess.  I know that i will read this book over and over again.  It is scholarly, reverent, and all around mind blowing.This book contains four color plates of the goddesses Lalita, Durga, Sarasvati, and Lakshmi.  It should not only be read by women but is totally accessable to men--and they don't have to worry about being put down or blamed for patriarchal abuses.  It is feminist in perspective but in the highest sense of the word. You will also find information in here about the goddesses' consorts.Read this Book!!!	2002-01-08
US	52307532	RT7E2QQY5EH14	0738700924	884241863	Magick & Rituals of the Moon	Books	5	32	33	N	N	One of McCoy's Best!	This is the same book as &quot;Lady of the Night&quot; it was renamed when it was rereleased.  The renaming is appropriate because it fits more precisly with one of the major strenghts of the book--inclusion of the Moon God!The author not only includes the names and descriptions of Moon Gods along with the Moon Goddesses in her apendix on moon deities, She also discusses gender issues involved with moon rituals.She encourages men to draw down the moon god during their esbats.  but she goes further to say that women should draw down the moon god and men should draw down the moon goddess.  This is a totally revolutionary concept for Wicca and one i whole heartedly support.McCoy is a feminist, and a female (as am i) and feminist equality goes both ways!If you have always seen the moon as feminine and the sun as masculine--get ready to break some beliefs wide open.  McCoy describes the Moon God and shows how the moon as masculine is as just a valid spiritual concept as the moon as feminine.Now don't get the impression that this is all the book is about.  This book is very wide in scope.  It is full of moon rituals--two for the full moon esbat--one solitary and one group.  plus solitary rituals for the waxing moon, waning moon, moon rise, and moon set.The aspects of all these phases are described in full. There is also a dicussion on moon calendars and hints for creating your own.  Part 5 of the book is full or spells and magical associations for all the phases of the moon.  The author shows ways we can adapt any spell to any phase. There is also a very good chapter on advanced natural magic.As McCoy is always a supporter of creating your own rituals and traditions--she includes a chapter on constructing your own rituals. And even more helpful are the hints through out the book on activities for moon phases, and ways to celebrate the moon with others--outside a ritual settings.  It has exerises on understanding the maiden mother and crone, which are really excellent.Another great resource this book provides is the apendix on moon holidays-which is from a multi cultural perspective.  This is a wonderful book and i highly reccomend it.her great resource this book provides is the apendix on moon holidays-which is from a multi cultural perspective.  This is a wonderful book and i highly reccomend it.	2002-01-08
US	52307532	RPAVOM4O619VL	0195104625	939819749	Goddess: Myths of the Female Divine (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This is a beautiful little book!	The men who wrote this book are very feminist.  It is touching the way they refer to Her as Goddess; not once do they slip up and call her &quot;the&quot; Goddess.  This shows that She is  as important to Her followers as God is to his.The strength of this book is its beautiful writing.  Most of the myths are short enough, pretty enough, and reverent enough to read out loud durning rituals.Another thing that i loved about this book is its multi-cultural scope.  Despite being an avid reader of books on Goddess for 12 years-this book has some myths and some goddesses that i have not heard of before.i highly reccomend this book.  The language is delicous and each goddess is portrayed not as a figure from myth but as a diety worthy of worship.	2002-01-08
US	52307532	R4GXGMUJY0YDT	0806520396	848023092	Summoning Forth Wiccan Gods And Goddesses: The Magick of Invocation and Evocation	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A Very Important Book	There are a lot of books on Wicca. Most of them contain an overview of everything involved with this faith. This book is different. It devote the whole book to two topics that usually get only a chapter or perhaps less.I found this book to be both a validation of my experience with invocation and a guide to deepen my experience of it. I think that anyone could benefit from this book, from the novice to seasoned veterans. Admittedly I have 12 years of pagan ritual experience behind me, but i don't think i am underestimating serious new comers. Witches and Pagans at every level should read this book. If you are inexperienced it should be reread everytime you make a step ahead on your path because you will find new understanding each time. I am not a newcomer and still i plan on rereading this book.Usually I am turned off by those who use the title &quot;lady&quot; and high priestess. They seem to be full of themselves and plain full of &quot;it&quot;. But Maeve Rhea is a no-nonsence kind of lady. Her techniques are very practical and don't rely on hard to find tools and complicated correspondence charts. The exercises for invocation seem tailor made for solitaries. the section on evocation is the smaller one and the one i found less useful for myself as it relied more on group work. But the visualizations in the section for understanding the elements are absolutly incredible and absent of romanticiation.I found the authors voice to be very likable--she is a practical gal. she has a very good grasp of human psychology--and a terrific grasp on reality.i do disagree a lot with some other reviewers--even some of the positive ones. For instance i don't see the author as political correct. yes she has oppinions and makes no appoligies for them. but at the same time she doesn't try to make you give up yours. She makes comment after comment on how you should question everything you read--even her work. she writes with authority which is something a good writer should do. whowants to read a book by a wishy-washy personality.i understand that people may be sensitve when her oppinions don't match their own. but why do people feel the need to have their beliefs spit right back out at them. for instnce--rhea makes a lot of anti-vegetarian comments. i am a hard-core vegan for 14 years and i don't feel threatened by that. i can see that her oppinion on this is part of her feelings that anything that is self-punishing is not spirtually uplifting. and i know that she doesn't have my experience of tasting a preparing the most mouth watering delicious satisfying ecastacy producing vegan food---her loss. but that doesn't make her invocation techniques less valid.i don't feel that maeve rhea is a religious bigot. but she expresses her oppinions on other religions. the comments that she makes are part of her philosophy and are there to make a point on the subject she is writing about. this is not a book on magic and does not portend to be. it is a book on the spiritual experience of invocation and evocation in the wiccan tradition. the author is not saying that ceremonial magic doesn't work just because she doesn't like it. her reason is that it does not do what it claims to do. in her oppinion what it claims to do is use magic to get other beings to do your bidding. she makes the point that if it worked then all magicians would have perfect lives.her reason for using c. magic as an illustration is two fold. it shows us that we cannot expect deities to bow at our demend and solve all our problems. the deities will appear to us in a form of their own choosing. they will not fix our petty everyday human problems that we should be fixing ourselves. and they will do anything that is harmful so don't expect them to smite your enemies.the second part of her using c. magic as an illustration is to explain her theories on demons. her feeling is that the universe is good, that deities (or as she calls them god-forms) are always beneficient and that so-calleddemons are not of divine origin. she admits that magicians can conjure demons--but explains how demons our created out of our own wounded human psyches.to say that the author doesn't differenciate between enochian magic and the more general ceremonial magic is absurd. just because she says they are both unsucessful doesn't mean she is saying they are both the same. she posits both as examples to prove her points. when she writes about enochian magic it is basically just to inform people that it is based on a hoax---which is true. the author gives warning about a lot of things because she is trying to help people. she has seen a lot in this world and is giving advice. it is not out of predjudice but out of personal experience. she always makes it clear that she is expressing her own oppinions and doesn't expect you to accept it as the bible truth. even when she does condemn things it is with an open, level-headed and fair mind.The author seems a to be a sincere, caring, intellegent person. don't be put off by other reviews. she really isn't abrasive at all. it is easy to just take comments out of context and use it to make yourself get offended. for instance in the beginning the author states that she uses the term &quot;god-forms&quot; because deity is ultimatly ungendered--so she feels no need to use the &quot;goddess-forms&quot;--so immediatly the feminist in me starts thinking &quot;oh--here we go. a self hating woman--if deity is ungendered why not just use the term &quot;goddess-form&quot; to describe both gods and goddesses--doesn't she know that by choosing the masculine term she is furthing the goals of the patriarchy&quot;---but i read on and i realize that for her truely gender is not an issue. so i didn't let that one comment ruin the whole book for me--sure it isn't what i would have choosen--but who cares.---did i mention i love this book?	2001-08-29
US	52307532	R1TZVAHK2NZIEN	0806520310	27081264	The Wiccan Book Of Ceremonies And Rituals	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A Invaluble Book for Solataries	The first chapter of this book worried me. It was full of the most basic information that any Pagan would already know. But the rest of the book did not follow suite with its opening.I don't know how many books that i have read that contain sabbat rituals that are written for groups but &quot;could easilly be adapted for solitaries&quot;--and none of them have lived up to that claim. the rituals lose all meaning and cohesion when not performed by a group. so i am happy to report that this book contains solatary rituals for every sabbat--a rare find (the exception being edain mccoys wonderful &quot;sabbats&quot; which contain full rituals for both solataries and groups)--the book also contains group rituals for imbolg and samhain in addition to the solatary ones (but i guess all the rituals could be adapted for groups--hee hee)the rest of the book contains both solatary rituals and group rituals. but the group rituals are not nessaryilly for covens or even circles. they seem to be partner, family, and friends oriented.i really loved this book and will use it often. the authors voice is practical and free of self importance--she is very likable.following is the table of contents:AcknowledgmentsIntroductionPart I: Ritual in Review1. What is Ritual?Part II: The Wiccan Wheel2. Candlemas: February 23. Imbolc Ritual4. Spring Equinox: March 215. Beltane: May 16: Summer Solstice: June 217. Lammas: August 18. Autumn Equinox: September 229. Hallows: October 3110: Samhain Ritual11. Winter Solstice: December 22Part III: Magic in the Moon12. Full Moon Ritual13. Dark Moon Ritual14. New Moon (First Quarter) RitualPart IV: Personal Observence15. Initiation16. Adulthood17. Marriage Ritual18. Handfasting Ritual19. The Blessingway20. Parenting Ritual21. Birth or Adoption (Wiccaning)22. Birthdays23. Separation24. Forgiveness25. Career Changes26. New Homes27. Eldership28. DeathAfterwardIndex	2001-08-29
US	52307532	RXJK8MA7BH8XG	0919345913	784524614	The Witches' Goddess	Books	4	15	19	N	N	It was better than i thought it would be.	For a long time i avoided this book because i thought it would be useless for someone who was not a traditional wiccan (ie. you don't slap the word &quot;Lady&quot; before your name&quot;.but i am a witch and i love the Goddess so i finaly broke down and read it.  it was so bad--really.  yes it was a little dated and the language is far from feminist and worst of all there are no endnotes to direct you to further study (but this is hardly unordinary for a wiccan book--unfortunatly) but there were parts of this book that redeemed it.Part one contained 12 chapters: the goddess in history, the earth mother, the bright and dark mother, the menstruating goddess, the triple goddess, the moon goddess, blessed among women, psyche and goddess, woman as goddess, some goddess recipes, the goddess today, and the grail.the most interesting part for me was the menstruating goddess--it was different than what you normal get from these kinds of books.  what i didn't like was the stressing of polarity between goddess and god, male and female--it was just too sterotypical for our time.part two--invoking the goddess contained 13 chapters- demeter and persephone, brighid, ishtar aphrodite, hecate, lilith and eve, epona, ma'at, arianrhod, aradia, isis.the discusions of the goddesses in the beginning of each chapter where great--but the rituals were so cheesy--i couldn't help but laugh at them while i was reading.  the chapter on lilith and eve contained a play whose jewish charecter was disturbing with its sterotypical jew that seemed an antisemtic parody. i am sure it wasn't meant to be--but i have serious doubt as to wheter the farrars ever met a jewish person.part 3-goddesses of the world was great--i read it straight through.  some of it was a little odd--like major hindu dieties not being defined more than to say &quot;an aspect of laxsmi (or parvati etc)  also there were so many sun goddesses that it contridicted the farrars earlier statement in the book that the moon was usuallyfemale and the sun male.overal i think it is a useful book to goddess lovers.  but read it with a grain of salt as you would graves &quot;the white goddess&quot; or neumann's the great mother--useful but certainly not perfect. its a bit outdated--the language not feminist or politically correct by any means--heavily biased towards traditional (british) wicca--with its high ceremony and costumes.  but overall an interesting book.	2001-07-09
US	52307532	R8OD0YM8KGO1B	0969606680	189020386	Hekate in Ancient Greek Religion	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Starts out boring but the second half is wonderful	Chapters one and two are very tedious and difficult to get through.  the first chapter &quot;archaic literary evidence&quot; puts forth a lot of theories then proceeds to argue against each one. the author's inability to prevent solid evidence quickly becomes annoying.chapter two &quot;major sites of Hekate worship&quot; is nothing more than a list of places in greece where there is possible evidence for Her worship.  it too is pretty boring. but with chapter three &quot;relationships between Hekate and other dieties&quot; turns it all around. the most interesting of these is the relationship with Artemis, which is partially based on young women who die before there time .  it is a really interesting reading.the fourth and final chapter &quot;the roles of Hekate in early greek religion&quot; was really amazing.  while reading it i wished that the book would never end.  it discuses posibles aspects of Hekate such as a goddess of the crossroads, a protector of doorways, a guide to the dead, a goddess of transitions, a goddess of birth life and death, and goddess of magic.   this chapter makes a brilliant connection between Hekate, Artemis and Medusa. Also it makes the case for Hekate being worshiped by woman in household rituals--which should be interesting to solitary pagans.also interesting to neo-pagans is a dispelling of the myth of Artemis, Selene, and Hekate being triple goddess of the moon--at least they weren't in ancient greece. there is no evidence of Artemis or Hekate being associated with the moon before roman times.  and Hekate is no crone rather she is the earliest of maiden goddesses.another reviewer complains that the book makes no mentionof neo-paganism.  but the author states early on in the book that it focuses on Hekate in greek times and it does not even venture into roman times. so modern paganism would be way out of the scope of this book.i found this book really interesting once i got passed the first half. in fact the authors constant presentation of all possiblities and the downfalls of each becomes a refeshing  oppurtunity to decide for myself--a big difference from a lot of psuedo history on goddesses that is out there--i think it is a must read for those interested in Hekate.	2001-07-03
US	52307532	R1C623BQ4VAGZ5	0826409172	599199739	Goddess: Mythological Images of the Feminine	Books	4	27	30	N	N	I have mixed feelings about this book.	The book covers 7 Greek Goddesses: Persephone, Ariadne, Hera, Athene, Gaia, Artemis and Aphrodite.  The writing is beautiful but I am not sure I can relate to the author.  It is like her voice is from a different age--being 28 years old, her view of &quot;the Feminine&quot; is foreign to me.The book assumes the reader is familiar with Greek mythology--I would say that I have a moderate amount of exposure to the Greek myths, and to Homer and not much knowledge at all of the tragedies and I understood the book pretty well.  But if you know nothing of Greek myth--you might be a little lost.There were two things about this book that disturbed me.  The first was that in the chapter on Persephone, the author states that the rape needed to happen.  This may be true on a psychological/mythological level--but the author did nothing to say that actual physical rape is a horribly scaring violation.  Perhaps she imagined her readers to be her peers and does not think a young rape victem would have exposure to this book--but I find it hurtful to not take into account the feelings of real women.The other thing that disturbed me was the autobiographical portions of the book.  To read about the author's affair while married, and it's devasting effect on her lover's wife--clouded the whole book for me.  She speaks of affairs as if they are something natural.  I found myself not liking the author and doubting everything she wrote and questioning whether it had any meaning for me.  Because the author's morals are so different from my own, her credibility as a guide to the Greek Goddesses was lost to me.I do think this is a very good book--but my feelings are mixed. Read it and decide for yourself.	2001-06-15
US	52307532	RRR1QTHHEJ7VX	0895946297	194433385	Lady of the Northern Light: A Feminist Guide to the Runes	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Smorgasbord of Goddess Lore disguised as a guide to Runes.	This book is beautiful and inspiring.  It is written from the perspective of Feminist Witchcraft not from Heathenism which is why I think some of the reviewers did not like it.The author uses the meanings of the Elder Futhark as an outline for sharing the nature of Norse Goddesses.  I admit that i have no intention of ever using the Runes for divination and read this book because i am devoted to the Goddess in all her aspects and wanted to learn more about her Norse identity.  I can't really comment on how this book works as a guide to the Runes but as a guide to the &quot;lady of the northern light&quot; it is brilliant.Ms. Giltlin-Emmer weaves together a tapestry of the Northern Goddess using many sources including the Eddas, Saxo Grammaticus, Tacitus, compartive mythology, folk-lore, ancient and modern folk practice, and feminist witchraft.  The book stems from the premise that there was once a Great Goddess of Europe but even if you don't believe that is true the rest of the book provides a wealth of information.The author admits the runes as we know them come from patriarchal times but supposes they caught on because the ideas behind them were familiar to the Goddess loving people--&quot;Yet, suppose they are older. Not the runes themselves, but the concepts behind them&quot;.  She then spends the rest of the book linking the ideas behind each rune to Northern Goddess lore.In my oppinion the ideas in this book are as valid as any others on the runes.  Modern Pagans, and Heathens have to admit that the information we have on ancients who had and oral tradition of spirituality is very scarce--and that the information we have is highly suspect because it was written down by christians.  Modern practice is 1% fact and 99% conjecture and intuition.  And this is how it should be if it is to be a living tradition.  I do not know if i would reccomend this book to beginners.  It assumes the reader has a fair amount of knowledge of myths and the meanings behind pagan concepts.  But perhaps a beginner could read the book, then do some more research and read it again.This really is a wonderful book.  Susan Gitlin-Emmer should be honored along side women like Barbara Walker and Patricia Monaghan.  I hope it becomes a classic of the Goddess path.	2001-06-01
US	52307532	RM0S0BZUPVZIJ	0446670456	148896758	Awakening Minerva: The Power of Creativity in Women's Lives	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Don't judge a book by it's title.	Contents: Preface: Voices Remembered; Introduction: What is Creativity; Generating Life: A Context for Creativity: The Visual Realm: Creative Personalities and Women Artists;  Fertile Lives: Heeding the Call of YOur Essential Creative Nature;  In HEr Image: Creativity and Gender:  She Who Brings Order and LIght From The Darkness: Trauma and Creativity; Time of Emergence: Your Creative Process;  The Realm of the Hearth: Influences on the Essential Creative Nature; The Power Within: Awakening the Goddess.Despite the title of this book the Goddess Minerva was only mentioned in passing--the author said her name was good for a title.  This book is not about working with Goddesses to increase creativity at all. The Goddesses that are mentioned are  Astarte, Gaia, Demeter, Ishtar, Aphrodite, and Hestia.  Some of the chapters open with a short description of a Goddess lasting anywhere a half a page to a page and a half.But no attempt is made to link these Goddesses with the stories of the women in the chapter.  It seems like the author knows nothing about Goddesses.  She links the Goddesses with creativity just by stating that they are without giving anything to back it up.The book consists mainly of interviews with women about creativity in their lives.  The stories are interesting to read but i didn't really get anything out of them.  The exercises at the end of the chapter are uninspiring.The book is about creativity not only in the arts but in life in general.  The authors argument that creativity is influenced by gender is not really convicing--she gives little to back this up.  The ideas on creativity in this book seem as though the could by applied to any gender.It was an ok book but not what it pretends to be.	2001-05-18
US	52307532	RV6HJACPIOH59	0761506462	648329552	The Best 125 Meatless Main Dishes	Books	3	2	9	N	N	This book is NOT vegan!	don't make the same mistake i did--since the authors also wrote &quot;The Vegan Gourmet&quot; (which is my favorite cookbook)--i thought there other books would be vegan.  this one isn't. there are vegan recipes in this book and they are labeled so.  also i do not like how the ingredients are listed--it is akward.  there are two columns--the first with the ingredients then next to it the amounts--it makes it hard to read.	2001-05-08
US	52307532	R35D03ZDPJ7NK1	1567182836	808037524	Beltane: Springtime Rituals, Lore, & Celebration	Books	1	10	16	N	N	A very disapointin book.	Contents:1. THe Celeration of May (Old May Customs, May Garlands, The Mayple, The Maypole Dance, May Dolls, The Beltane Fire)2.  The Spirits of May (The May Queen and King, The Green Man, Jack-in-the-Green, Dusio the Trickster, John Barleycorn,  The Hobbyhorse, Mummery, an Ancient Tradition)3. Fairy Lore (Historical and Mythical Background, The Fairy Realm, THe Fairy Godmother, Fairy Tales)4. Flower Lore (Flower Meanings, The Language of FLowers, Trees Associated with Faires, Sacred Plants Associated with Goddesses, Magical Correspondences of Trees)5. Spells and Recipes (Spells, Divination, Recipes for Celebrating May)6. A May Ritual (THe ALtar, Solitary May Celebration Ritual, Group May Celebration Ritual)7. Arts and Crafts (May Wreath, May Garland, Maypole Centerpiece, May Day Cone Basket, Pentacle Hair Braids)Apendix: May Celebrations Around the WorldI felt cheated by this book. Much of the content has nothing to do with Beltane or May Day.  The book should have kept focus and left out the filler, making it smaller and cheaper.The chapter on Fairy lore starts out saying that &quot;the month of May, perhaps second only to midsummer's eve, has long been associated with...fairy folk&quot;. The author made no further attempt to link fairies to Beltane and proceeded to write (sometimes eroneously) about fairies.  The fairy tales given are taken verbatim from other sources and also are not in any way connected to Beltane.  The author makes no attempt to modify the tales for a Pagan audience and christian elements (like the bible being a protection against fairies) are off-putting.The chapter on flower lore also is not connected to Beltane in any way further than that there are flowers in May.The spells given have absolutly nothing to do with Beltane and are so basic as to be useless.  The could be found in any book--spells for money drawing, success, attracting love and serenity are not really apropriate for a book on Beltane.  The section on divination is a short overview of scrying also without any link to Mayday.  The section on rituals is uninspired.  The rituals are so basic, and it is hard to imagine any one actually performing them.The chapter on crafts was ok.  the wreath and garland projects could be found anywhere but the mayple centerpiece and the may day cone basket seem interesting. The pentacle hair braid would be fun for people with little girls in the family.The sections that were good were very good Chapters one and 2 were full of information on the history of May Day celebrations.  The recipes seem good.  and the  appendix on may day celebrations in europe and the u.s. was very interesting but way to short--i wanted much more. There are good things about this book but the filler made me feel like i was robbed.  I wish it stuck to the topic, went more into depth and perhaps included information on how modern pagans are celebrating this Sabbat.	2001-04-25
US	52307532	R30CZHOH67GO0E	1573226580	202727782	Soul Kiss: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Delicous Book!	The language of this novel is so beautiful that I found myself rereading  sentence after sentnce to savor the words.  I finished this book in two  days not because I read it quickly but because I could not put it down.   Youngblood's words are the kind you should enjoy slowly and read some  outloud to feel them on your tongue.There are parts of this story that are  disturbing.  Mariah gets raped as a young teenager--devasting--but written  in a way that does not sensationalize it or provide fodder for perverts.   The sexual attraction between Mariah and her father disturbs but rings true  and is thankfully not acted upon.The part of this book that i related to  most is a story most lesbian and bisexual women will find very familiar.   It describes the pain felt by adolescent Mariah as she  loses the love of  her &quot;girly girl&quot; friend to heterosexual puberty.  I think we have  all been there.Unlike other reviewers i don't think that this book contains  any sexually explicit scenes.  I don't think that the plot is unfocused  or  the story depressing.  This is one of the best books i have ever read--and  i have read a lot of books.  It is as near perfect as humanly possible.  It   has a spiritual beauty to it that will resonate in your soul long after  reading it.  It does indeed kiss your soul.	2000-09-05
US	52307532	R27VMLSK51GKGZ	0609603299	333878777	To Seek Out New Life: The Biology of Star Trek	Books	1	15	21	N	N	Buy LIFE SIGNS instead	The book is mean spirited and wrong headed.  There were some glaring errors in this book that could have been avoided if it was proofread by a trekker or two.For instance the author continually describes Betazoids as  merely empathic and not telepathic, when everyone knows they are indeed  telepathic.  Deanna Troi is merely empathic because she is only half  betazoid and is infact telepathic with other betazoids.Also she complains  about how the holodoc should not be able to leave the sick bay but is seen  all around the ship and on away missions.  Does she even watch the show?   They talk about the mobile emmitter all the time.  I can't see whether it  is a pheasable piece of tech or not--but don't just leave it out because it  doesn't serve your complaining.  It is filled with stuff like this.This  book should probably offend people with autism, mental illness,  developmental disabilites, anyone with spiritaul beliefs and  homosexuals.The author is accused of being a feminist by other reviews (is  this a bad thing?) but i would argue that she is nothing of the sort.  She  provides a very strong heterosexist view when she states that Trill  symbiots could not possibly be attracted to humunoids because they can't  reproduce with them.  This is just ugly heterosexist propaganda.The  beginning of this book is playful in its view of Star Trek science but it  quickly degenerates into an attack.The author uses sloopy logic to try to  prove that many Star Trek concepts are impossible.  For instance her  reasons for why most tech is imposible (transporters, dna scans) is that it  would take too much time for it to work.  This seems ridiculous, like  someone from the 50's refuting the possibility of the internet based on the  time it took their computers to compute.  When computers get faster and  faster every few months--how are we to know what will be possible a few  hundred years from now.Another thing that is incredible annoying and fills  up much of the book is that when Star Trek doesn't specificly explain a  concept the author says &quot;I can only conclude...&quot;  and then  proceeds to use her assumption as the basis of her argument against it  being possible.  Far from being the only conclusion possible--she picks the  one of many conclusions a person can make that is most handy in her  argument that Star Trek science is wrong.I cannot refute the author's  science as she is much more knowledgable in that area then I am.  But much  of this book is oppinion and not science at all.  She ignors the premise of  Star Trek, ignores that it is a work of science fiction and bases her  arguments on what is true on Earth now.  This makes the book very limiting.   Instead of explaining scientific knowledge to try to imagine what maybe  possible in the future, on planets different from ours, in other timelines,   this book uses science and oppinion to weave an ugly web in which  everything Star Trek is wrong.This is not for Trekkers who enjoy the show.   For us I would reccomend the book LIFE SIGNS: THE BIOLOGY OF STAR TREK,   which is not just a book that glorifies Star Trek. It is a thoughtful  account on what is possible, and gently points out what is most likely not  possible as far as we know.  Buy this book if you are one of those people  who like to watch Star Trek in order to make fun of it,  but if you are a  fan of the shows and movies (an books) do yourself a favor and skip this  tedious book.Most disturbing to me is the author's lack of respect for  anything spiritual,  if anything has the hint of religion, any thing  psychic or spiritual, anything that cannot be explained away by current  scientific knowledge, it is ridiculed by the author, and completly  dismissed.	1999-12-01
US	52307532	R2J5YO04OTSNJ	0671537539	903225853	Star Trek Generations (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fair	This was a pretty enjoyable book.  Judged against other Star Trek novels it is not the best but is far from the worst. It won't really give you more than the movie does.  I enjoyed it about as much as the movie but in  different ways. Instead of being impressed by visual effects i was  intrigued by the thoughts of the crew. Two blunders: on page 97 Data is  described as &quot;near breathless&quot;--well Data doesn't breathe.  And  on page 157 describing B'Etor's attraction to Soran the author writes  &quot;...despite the fact that he was a puny human...&quot;  but he isn't  he is El Aurian.  But I can live with those mistakes.	1999-11-03
US	52307532	R3BM9VYE4TRZH7	0671009265	407058358	Vulcan's Forge (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Insulting to People with Schizophrenia	This was actually an exellent book except of one thing.  At the begining of chapter fourteen is written &quot;...and that traitor of a Vulcan--a paranoid schizophrenic, assuming McCoy could even apply that diagnosis to  Vulcans..&quot; (165)It is the height of misinformation to charecterize  this villian as &quot;a paranoid scizophrenic&quot;.  This charecter has a  particular madness reserved for totalitarian dictators and cult leaders and  is nothing at all like paranoid schizophrenia.Sered is cruel and in league  with the Romulans.  Paranoid schizophrenics are mostly gentle, and don't  even trust their families--never mind Romulans.  Contrary to the authors  belief p.sz. do not seek out glory and leadership--they hide from the  world.The authors' blunder is insensitive, untrue and such ignorance would  never be thought by Bones.	1999-11-03
US	52307532	RNG2Y87GA7DV0	0380725401	930103499	Beyond the Light	Books	1	21	36	N	N	Prejudiced against the mentally ill	pg 152 &quot;It is known, for instance, that Kundalini is rare among patients who are mentally ill, and that it is distinctly different in charecter from a psychotic episode.  (Kundalini leads to order, not  disorder, incereased intelligence, not derangement, moral advancement and  joy, not despair and despondency...&quot;first of all to say Kundalini is  rare among the mentally ill is wrong as Kundalini is in everyone.  If she  means the awakening of Kundalini energy is rare then she is being biased as  we are not a diffeernt species--we are just as likely to experience a  Kundalini awakening as anyone else--especially if we practice Kundalini  Yoga. The two are totally unrelated and there is no need to link them.  Mental or Physical ill health is not an indicator of Spirtual ill health.To  call the mentally ill &quot;derange(d)&quot;  is bigoted and hurtful.I  don't recommend this book as someone so unenlightened about the disabled  cannot bring much to this subject.	1999-11-03
US	52307532	R3GLHGWDOGKX2H	0425094537	577200811	The Murder at the Vicarage (Agatha Christie Mysteries Collection)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	A bit of a disapointment	This is the first Agatha Christe novel I have read and also the first mystery I have read since reading the Nancy Drew books as a little girl.  Frankly, I was disappointed.Miss Marple is not the protagonist of this  novel--although she is the one who solves the murder.  The story is told in  first person by the Vicar.The feminine comes through only partially.  There  are a lot of stupid generalizations about women made by charecters in the  book.  &quot;women cause a lot of trouble&quot;  &quot;i thought it one of  those silly remarks women will make&quot;  &quot;she is a woman and women  will act in that silly way&quot;  etc.  Mostly these are made by charecters  that are obvious dolts, but sometimes comments are made by women about  other women and the protaganist,  who is meant to be likable says of a  women &quot;she is such a prize idiot&quot;.I had hoped that Christie's  work would be more sympathetic to women.	1999-11-03
US	52307532	R3QS7NIVB7A20M	0688131271	335979327	Hilda and Pearl	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Read this book!	If your relationship with your best friend has survived rocky times, read this book; your experience of the love and friendship between women will be affirmed.  If you want to remember the innoncence you had as a girl, read  this book; Frances will let you visit with her childhood.  This story is  honestly told by the the unique voices of young Frances, who in her niavete  fills in the holes of her family's story with her own childish fantasy, of  her Aunt Pearl, who misplaces the intense love inside her, and of Hilda,  Frances's mother, who teaches us that  when love is stong enough, there is  nothing that can't be forgiven.  This is the story of a Jewish family, set  in a New York City stuggling through the depression, grappling with  Europe's facism, and touched by McCarthy's witch hunt for communists.  Read  this book; it is beautiful.	1999-08-19
US	52307532	R33YY3PCQJDZKZ	0809127164	739257460	The Mother's Songs: Images of God the Mother	Books	5	23	23	N	N	This is a book of beautiful and moving paintings and text	This book reproduces 41 paintings in full color, full page with white borders.  It also includes a black and white photo of the artist on the back cover.  The text is by the artist and provides insight in into the  paintings' meanings, both personal and on a universal level.  In the form  of prose-poems, the ideas expressed are full of touching memories  especially those of the artist's grandmother.  The paintings are full of  female imagery, multi-cultural Goddess symbols, and also Roman Catholic  imagery.  It is a wonderful book for lovers of the Goddess (or God the  Mother) but it is not for the Christian weary.  The paper cover is a little  flimsy for a book of this size, but the wealth of color reproductions make  this book a good value.	1999-05-21
