US	52315870	R1OTEJLDGA9ZCP	015603252X	147049504	A Tale of Love and Darkness	Books	4	49	53	N	N	Total recall	Others have written what this book is about, so I will not try to describe the content of this book.  Like the way he presented his mother, Amos Oz is a born story teller and a great painter with words.  There is not a place, a person or an activity but that he presents it in such detail that you can actually SEE them.  But I must say that often I found the detail excessive.  He seems to have total recall, which is often rewarding but can at other times be a bit of a bore. He tells you the number of steps leading up into a house; he describes the smallest objects in a room without asking himself whether they are truly necessary to establish the room's atmosphere; he is inordinately fond of lists.  Here, for instance, is a sentence describing his mother working silently and efficiently in the house:  &#34;She cooked, baked, did the washing, put the shopping away, ironed, cleaned, tidied, washed the dishes, sliced vegetables, kneaded dough.&#34; His aunts, who tell him about the family's life in Poland, also seem to have had total recall: that life is richly reconstructed, but again for my taste the pudding is often over-egged. Then he describes in minute detail and several times exactly which streets he or his mother would take from one location in Jerusalem to another.  That might possibly be evocative for Jerusalemites who know the city; but if they know the city, do they need such a guide?  These tiresome excesses are most in evidence when he describes his earliest years, until he is about eight years old; but those chapters take up  about 2/3rds of this massive book (though his tale is never entirely chronological).  Then, when he is eight, the War of Independence happens (excellent description of Jerusalem under siege), to be followed by the establishment of the State of Israel, and now the narrative becomes rather more concentrated and  with fewer of the mannerisms of the earlier part.  There is a magnificent description how, at the age of 15,  this pale, immensely precocious cerebral but romantic youth escapes from the stifling intellectual world  represented by his father and his father's friends, to live among the bronzed young gods on a kibbutz.  He will stay on that kibbutz for the next 31 years, but his story ends with his adolescent admiration of the goddess who will become his wife five or six years later.  And that is where, chronologically, his story ends (though throughout the book there are brief references to events in his later life).<br /><br />This is a totally inadequate account of the book, and does not even  touch on the thread that runs throughout: his relationship with his parents and their relationship with each other.  Despite the irritations I sometimes felt, I was never tempted to put the book aside: it is far too interesting and well-written for that.sely precocious cerebral but romantic youth escapes from the stifling intellectual world  represented by his father and his father's friends, to live among the bronzed young gods on a kibbutz.  He will stay on that kibbutz for the next 31 years, but his story ends with his adolescent admiration of the goddess who will become his wife five or six years later.  And that is where, chronologically, his story ends (though throughout the book there are brief references to events in his later life).  This is a totally inadequate account of the book, and does not even  touch on the thread that runs throughout: his relationship with his parents and their relationship with each other.  Despite the irritations I sometimes felt, I was never tempted to put the book aside: it is far too interesting and well-written for that.	2005-10-11
US	52315870	R2PXHKIZLG80DG	186207755X	479708722	Desperately Seeking Paradise: Journeys of a Sceptical Muslim	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Desperation indeed!	Sardar is a deeply religious, indeed a passionate Muslim. He repeatedly excoriates secularism, of which he gives a highly subjective and partisan definition, and his account of its history (pp.249 to 251) is deeply flawed. He accepts the Qur'an as a revealed text (p.341), albeit one that has to be understood metaphorically rather than literally. He reveres Muhammad, and describes how emotionally shattered he was by Salman Rushdie's treatment of the Prophet in The Satanic Verses: \\"I felt that every word, every jibe, every obscenity [in it] was directed at me - personally\\" (p.281). Yet, as a liberal, he was equally horrified by the Ayatollah's fatwa calling for Rushdie's death.<br /><br />Our media do not often tell us that there are religious Muslims who also espouse modern knowledge, pluralism, and the principles of western democracies;  so it is good to see in the book of this prominent Muslim journalist that such Muslims do exist, and we need to hear a lot more from and about them than we do.  But it must be said that the picture which Sardar paints of most of the contemporary Muslim organizations, whether they are sects or the states he has visited, will provide ample evidence of how widespread is the rejection of modernity, pluralism and democracy in the Muslim world.  Sardar sees all these as a perversion of Islam, as cases of rigidity and of arrested development and as a betrayal of the spirit of its golden age under the early Abbasids (roughly from the 9th to the 12th century) and from which the West learnt so much.<br /><br />In the course of his Search for Paradise Sardar engaged with one Muslim sect after another and visited one Islamic country after another.  He paints a devastating picture of almost all of them.  Even modern Sufism, to which he felt most attracted, has strayed from its original nature and tends to go in for the unquestioning cult of the local Sufi sheikh. Here, as elsewhere, he found a disturbing authoritarianism at work.  Besides, he was troubled by the mystics' belief that a state of grace could be found only by withdrawing from the modern world, whereas for him the challenge was to bring a state of grace into the modern world.<br /><br />The Iranian Revolution obviously failed to provide the paradise Sardar was looking for; and the atmosphere in Ba'athist Iraq and Syria was equally oppressive, though in a different way.<br /><br />Sardar's devotion to Islam can be deduced from the fact that he had five times made the hajj pilgrimage to Mecca.  Each time he was more distressed at what was happening to Mecca:  sacred old buildings were being torn down to make way for six- or eight-lane roads and new concrete buildings, out of the construction of which the Bin Laden family made huge amounts of money.  These physical changes and the mass-tourism technology which was applied to these sacred areas, Sardar thought, increasingly destroyed the centuries-old rhythm of the hajj.  \\"The Saudis,\\" he writes, \\"approached technology as though it was theology. And in both, complexity and plurality was shunned\\", for of course the Wahhabi brand of Islam that dominates Saudi Arabia is as narrow, intolerant and antiquated as the fanatical brand of Shi'ism which dominated Iran.<br /><br />Disillusioned with all these experiences, Sardar was involved in setting up an institution and a journal devoted to working out an approach to a more liberal but still essentially Islamic approach to the intellectual disciplines of the modern world.  They could make no headway against \\"Islamization\\", the name given to the attempt to force these intellectual disciplines into an Islamic straitjacket, and which Sardar describes as \\"an uncontrollable forest fire that consumed everything in its path.\\" (p.213)<br /><br />What depresses Sardar is the realization that in so many parts of the world the rigidities and cruelties of the Sharia cannot be said to be imposed on the unwilling masses by the mullahs.  Even in countries like China, which do not have Islamic governments, it appears that the desire of most Muslims is to be governed by the Sharia:  they see it as defining their identities as Muslims.<br /><br />Only in post-Kemalist Turley and in Malaysia does Sardar find Islamic governments that accept pluralism, though he implies that in Malaysia it is under threat after its leading exponent, Anwar Ibrahim was forced out of office on trumped-up charges, imprisoned and tortured.<br /><br />Sardar is frequently depressed by the current state of the umma of which he cannot help but feel a member, and his book must be equally depressing for those readers who would like the efforts of the like of him to succeed.  His book unfortunately confirms the impression of today's Islam which is presented to us by the media and which many of us would so much like to dismiss as illegitimate stereotyping.  He presents himself and the little group of intellectuals around him as a gallant minority struggling against overwhelming odds (p.331) to shape a gentler, more tolerant, more pluralistic and above all a more intelligent Islam.  If he is right, the outlook for convivencia, for a peaceful coexistence between Islam and the West, is bleak indeed.  But perhaps he over-dramatizes:  perhaps there are millions of devout but tolerant Muslims like himself.  Perhaps especially in the West, many devout Muslims, just like devout Jews and devout Christians, have absorbed its respect for pluralism and a democratic society.  But they would need to speak out, to assert themselves vigorously and openly against those who preach narrowness and intolerance.  And if and when they do so, our media must report it, if only to give the lie to the vicious idea floated on p.311, that the West has a vested interest in demonizing Islam.al disciplines of the modern world.  They could make no headway against \\"Islamization\\", the name given to the attempt to force these intellectual disciplines into an Islamic straitjacket, and which Sardar describes as \\"an uncontrollable forest fire that consumed everything in its path.\\" (p.213) <br /> <br />What depresses Sardar is the realization that in so many parts of the world the rigidities and cruelties of the Sharia cannot be said to be imposed on the unwilling masses by the mullahs.  Even in countries like China, which do not have Islamic governments, it appears that the desire of most Muslims is to be governed by the Sharia:  they see it as defining their identities as Muslims.   <br /> <br />Only in post-Kemalist Turley and in Malaysia does Sardar find Islamic governments that accept pluralism, though he implies that in Malaysia it is under threat after its leading exponent, Anwar Ibrahim was forced out of office on trumped-up charges, imprisoned and tortured. <br /> <br />Sardar is frequently depressed by the current state of the umma of which he cannot help but feel a member, and his book must be equally depressing for those readers who would like the efforts of the like of him to succeed.  His book unfortunately confirms the impression of today's Islam which is presented to us by the media and which many of us would so much like to dismiss as illegitimate stereotyping.  He presents himself and the little group of intellectuals around him as a gallant minority struggling against overwhelming odds (p.331) to shape a gentler, more tolerant, more pluralistic and above all a more intelligent Islam.  If he is right, the outlook for convivencia, for a peaceful coexistence between Islam and the West, is bleak indeed.  But perhaps he over-dramatizes:  perhaps there are millions of devout but tolerant Muslims like himself.  Perhaps especially in the West, many devout Muslims, just like devout Jews and devout Christians, have absorbed its respect for pluralism and a democratic society.  But they would need to speak out, to assert themselves vigorously and openly against those who preach narrowness and intolerance.  And if and when they do so, our media must report it, if only to give the lie to the vicious idea floated on p.311, that the West has a vested interest in demonizing Islam.         <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-10-09
US	52315870	R2OIDLYSKUEMHC	B0007E4KKK	977112562	The history of the Jews of Italy,	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Indispensable, but a little stodgy	This is, as far as I can discover, the only one-volume History of the Jews of Italy in English, and that makes its nearly 600 pages an indispensable mine of information for the non-specialist.  Considering that until 1859 Italy was, in Metternich's phrase, only a geographical expression, Roth had a formidable  task, since the history of each Italian state, and often the history of each municipality, is different, sometimes radically so as far as the treatment of the Jews is concerned.  All the same, I think the book could have been better organized.  There is little attempt to keep the chronology as clear as possible;  dates of rulers and popes are often missing;  a knowledge of non-Jewish history, especially during the medieval period, is often taken for granted;  the names of more or less distinguished Italian Jews is often little more than a catalogue;  and there seem to be some contradictions, as when Roth within a few pages both describes atrocious mob behaviour against the Jews and also talks about the Italians of the time being a basically friendly people.<br /><br />However, what does emerge is the extreme uncertainty of Jewish life in Italy for many centuries:  so often they were expelled from a city or principality, recalled a few years later, and then expelled again;  harsh legislation against them was passed  but was often not enforced or even abandoned, only to be reintroduced and implemented in full at a later stage.  The vileness of prejudice, malice, cruelty and greed defaces even the glory days of what we think of as Italian culture and civilization - the Renaissance and the Baroque.	2005-09-23
US	52315870	R2IT7JELQBDJPF	0755210115	853390551	History of Islamic Philosophy - With view of Greek philosophy and early history of Islam	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Disappointing	History of Islamic Philosophy<br /><br />by I.M.N. Al-Jubouri<br /><br />This is a disappointing book.  The slightly ungrammatical subtitle - `With view of Greek philosophy and early history of Islam' - does not really prepare one for the fact that only a little over half of the book (255 out of 437 pages of text) actually deals with Islamic philosophy.  The 42 page long view of Greek philosophy begins with ten pages on the pre-Socratics, who had no influence on Islamic philosophy whatever.  The remainder of the section is crudely written, and hard to understand for anyone not already familiar with Greek philosophy.<br /><br />The following 74 page section on the early history of Islam is irrelevant to the history of Islamic philosophy.  It begins with a legend of how an Abyssinian army besieged the Ka'aba and tried to bulldoze it by using elephants; how the elephants refused to go beyond the boundaries of the sacred city;  and how the Abyssinian army  was then devastated by a flock of birds which killed many of them by dropping small sharp stones on them.  True, the incident is referred to four decades later in a (here mis-spelt) passage in the Qu'ran, but what bearing has such a legend (and there are others to come) on philosophy?  We then embark on a history of Islam which is based almost entirely on contemporary or near-contemporary chronicles, which are sometimes reproduced verbatim but without any explanation of their significance.  This plodding narrative mercifully but strangely stops with the death of Husain in 680 - strangely because the history that could be relevant to understanding Islamic philosophy only begins about a 150 years later, during the Abbasid dynasty.<br /><br />About half way through the next chapter, 19 pages long, on Islamic Movements and Schools, we at last reach the Mutazilites, the movement with which Islamic philosophy began.  There follow nine pages on the translation movement, which made texts in Greek, Syriac, and other languages accessible to Muslim thinkers.<br /><br />We now come to the meat of the book:  substantial chapters devoted to each of seven major Islamic philosophers, and these do convey the kind of information, though often clumsily and stodgily written, for which people will have bought the book.  I must take issue with the blurb which says that the book `provides a perfect bridge between amateurs and professionals': medieval philosophy, whether Jewish, Christian or Muslim, is not for the amateur.  Much of it finds little resonance with the modern mind: its zeal for classification, for example, or its scientific theories (important though scientific advances were during that period).  The main philosophical problem which still preoccupies religious-minded people today, is the relationship between religious study and secular investigations.  Islamic thinkers like Avicenna (980 to 1037) and Averroes (1126 to 1198) grappled with this issue during the four centuries or so when early medieval Christian thinkers were still extremely suspicious of secular studies.  It was only with Aquinas (1225 to 1274) that a synthesis between faith and reason was made.  In both the Christian and the Islamic world, the suspicions remained; but Aquinas was canonized whereas, under the influence of Al-Ghazali (1058 to 1111), the works of Avicenna were burnt and Averroes was declared a heretic.  After Averroes there would be only one other major Islamic philosopher, Ibn Khaldun (1332 to 1406), who wisely confined himself to the philosophy of history, and significantly, Al-Jubouri's book on Islamic philosophy ends there.  Muslims are rightly proud of the great philosophers in their history; but after the triumph of Al-Ghazali, Islamic philosophy, which had been so gloriously open to the influences of Greek, Persian and Indian thought, would now be controlled by the religious establishment and become closed to outside influences.  In due course some western philosophy separated itself from religion, often against the unavailing resistance from its own religious establishment; religious thought itself was often modified in response; and as a result western philosophy, both secular and religious, has remained vibrant, investigative and innovative.rom religion, often against the unavailing resistance from its own religious establishment; religious thought itself was often modified in response; and as a result western philosophy, both secular and religious, has remained vibrant, investigative and innovative. <br />	2005-09-02
US	52315870	RK4IMR3MHXNW	0670915343	984443386	Conversations in Bolzano	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Conversations?  Monologues more likely.	Readers of Marai's masterpiece Embers (see my review) may expect lengthy, unrealistic, but totally gripping dialogues in this work also; but whereas that artifice worked very well in the other book, here it is for the most part tedious and repetitive.  The central monologue, 60 pages long, is an almost uninterrupted one, with paragraphs of eight or eleven pages, and only the last monologue, which runs for some 37 pages, builds up a powerful momentum and develops a psychologically profound analysis of Casanova's personality - and perhaps of the personalities of other people who are afraid of committing themselves to truly loving relationships.  I was several times tempted to abandon the book before I had reached this penultimate chapter.  In the end I was glad I did not.	2005-08-31
US	52315870	RO278J0NMQFZU	0349115664	389106035	Bloody Foreigners	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A brilliant history of immigration into Britain.	A most impressive book, and beautifully written. Winder traces the story of immigrants into Britain - he deals mainly with England - from pre-Celtic times to the present. As the sources become more plentiful, so the book gathers momentum, and by the time he reaches the time of the Huguenot immigrants in the 17th century, it really begins to sparkle. As he moves from one wave of immigrants to the next, the story - until very recent times - is always the same: initially there is some popular resentment, but, often sooner rather than later, they have been accepted, do well and contribute enormously to the economy and quality of life in these islands. Many people will be aware of the variety of immigrants who have come to Britain; but this is a thorough and systematic account, based on a formidable amount of reading. It could have been a dry catalogue, but the story is captivatingly told: each time Winder explains the circumstances which caused a particular group to arrive, and innumerable stories of individuals are given with great verve and vividness: Huguenots from France; Dutchmen who came with William III; Germans who came with the Hanoverians and who continued to come in the 19th century; black people who originally came as servants and slaves; Italians who left a repressive and over-populated homeland; Irishmen who escaped the famine to work in the factories and on the canals and railways during the Industrial Revolution; Jews who fled from anti-Semitism in Russia and Germany; the Lascars from Asia who manned so many British ships; Greek and Turkish Cypriots who came in large numbers from their war-torn island; men from all over the Empire who had fought for Britain in the First World War; Poles during the Second World War; the Chinese from Hong Kong before the gates were shut to them by the Act of 1997 just before the territory was given up to China; Kenya and Uganda Asians whom Kenyatta and Idi Amin were throwing out. And there were of course the West Indians who came in large numbers during the time when all imperial subjects were given the right of free entry into Britain by the 1948 Nationality Act. That is where the trouble started: the numbers were now such that governments became alarmed, and much of the last third of the book catalogues the desperate but unavailing attempts of governments to stem the flow: from the Commonwealth Immigration Act of 1962 through to the chicaneries, incompetence and bureaucratic insensitivities of what Winder calls \\"the Asylum madness\\" from 1996 onwards. Winder leaves it an open question whether the government led or followed public opinion, though he leaves no doubt about the way a hostile public opinion was fanned by the press. It is in any case a disgraceful story, mitigated only by the fact that it was occasionally restrained by impulses of decency, which were also to be found in sections of public opinion. The huge increase in the number of people wanting to come to Britain undoubtedly created genuine problems, but, to give just a few of many examples, few people were aware that the immigrant population was contributing more in tax than it was receiving in benefits; that certain groups like the Indians were producing in proportion more professionals and successful businessmen than did the white population; and that a largely young group of immigrants for whose education Britain had not had to pay would contribute towards supporting the increasing number of pensioners. Winder's indignation about the sour attitudes towards the immigrants - not to mention the many race riots and racially motivated murders - is in no doubt; but he recognizes countervailing sentiments both inside and outside government. The fact remains that Britain remained a magnet for immigration even though the migrants knew what difficulties they would have to face. There are great many shrewd psychological and sociological comments throughout the book, and it ends with a superb and thoughtful chapter of reflections on what a multi-ethnic Britain could and should be like and what indeed in many ways is taking shape already: a Britain in which the question of \\"ethnic identity\\" dissolves and the people of Britain can \\"cohere around a lucid set of individual rights, so that the group to which any man, woman or child belongs is incidental rather than decisive.\\"ns on what a multi-ethnic Britain could and should be like and what indeed in many ways is taking shape already: a Britain in which the question of \\"ethnic identity\\" dissolves and the people of Britain can \\"cohere around a lucid set of individual rights, so that the group to which any man, woman or child belongs is incidental rather than decisive.\\" <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-21
US	52315870	RDQVY7GYTE102	075381854X	14800050	Gem in the Lotus: The Seeding of Indian Civilisation	Books	3	18	19	N	N	A useful introduction	This is, on the whole, a very readable introduction to the earliest history of India, though in a few places it is a little dense, while in other places the quotations from Indian texts are perhaps rather too long.<br /><br />The book begins with an account of the geological formation of the subcontinent, itself a fascinating story, well told.  Equally interesting is what we can deduce from archaeology  about its earliest, the Indus or Harappan, civilization, from ca.2250 to ca. 1550 BC: its pictographic texts have not yet been deciphered, and little of them survived anyway.  The Aryan invasions submerged, without totally drowning, that civilization, and produced that astonishing corpus of the Vedic hymns to their deities, whose transmission, on the insistence of the Brahmins or priestly caste, was entirely oral for nearly a thousand years.  During that time the Brahmins were challenged by Jainism and by Buddhism.  For Eraly Buddhism is the \\"gem\\" in the Hindu lotus, and he gives a good and sympathetic account of what the Buddha taught.  Buddhism received an enormous boost when the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka (3rd c. BC) espoused and propagated that faith throughout an empire that covered almost the whole of the subcontinent.  By that time there were already schisms in Buddhism.  Although Ashoka insisted on tolerance towards all the Indian religions, he himself played a significant role in making Theravada Buddhism the orthodox version.  At that point Eraly's story ends, and so we do not learn from it anything about the rise of Mahayana Buddhism from the 1st c. BC onwards, or about what caused Buddhism largely to collapse in India and to find new foci in Sri Lanka, Tibet, Burma, China, Indochina, Thailand, Japan and Korea.<br /><br />Eraly gives quite a detailed account of Alexander the Great's invasion of North-Western India in the 4th c BC. The Hellenic influence on India is not generally well known, and there is also a section in the book devoted to Greek accounts of Indian civilization.  The precise narrative about Alexander's campaign in India makes quite a contrast with the vagueness which surrounds dates and details of other important aspects of India's early history.  Indeed it was not until 1913 that historians discovered that \\"the Beloved of the Gods\\" who had caused so many Buddhist texts to be inscribed on rocks or pillars throughout India was the Emperor Ashoka:  until that time he had been merely a name about whom hardly anything was known.s of Indian civilization.   The precise narrative about Alexander's campaign in India makes quite a contrast with the vagueness which surrounds dates and details of other important aspects of India's early history.  Indeed it was not until 1913 that historians discovered that \\"the Beloved of the Gods\\" who had caused so many Buddhist texts to be inscribed on rocks or pillars throughout India was the Emperor Ashoka:  until that time he had been merely a name about whom hardly anything was known.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-12
US	52315870	R23SNSDS42E7B3	0820472565	896556409	Wittgenstein and Judaism: A Triumph of Concealment (Studies in Judaism)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Original and thought-provoking.	Wittgenstein was baptized and died as a Catholic, but three of his four grandparents were Jewish, and anti-Semitism in his native Austria and then in Hitler's Europe did not allow him to forget it.  In this beautifully written and stimulating book Dr Chatterjee finds all kinds of hitherto unexplored connections between Wittgenstein's philosophy and Judaism.  He finds his clues mainly in Wittgenstein's correspondence, in remarks collected in the posthumous (1980) Culture and Value and in a volume of diaries published only in 1997.  In these sources Wittgenstein unequivocally defines himself as a Jew and identifies himself with a Jewish intellectual tradition.  That this is not obvious in either the Tractatus or in Philosophical Investigations Chatterjee attributes to the Concealment which forms part of the subtitle of this book.  In part, Chatterjee suggests, the concealment was due to the fact that Wittgenstein thought his message was universal and could only suffer if it were burdened with a sectarian interpretation;  but, more importantly, because the cryptic way in which Wittgenstein wrote is \\"reminiscent of ancient rabbinic scholarship\\" (p.58):  the Written Law which stood in need of oral interpretation.  Wittgenstein had written to Bertrand Russell that he could not write a commentary on his lapidary sentences, but could explicate only orally what he had written (p.116)  In conversation with a friend, Wittgenstein, rejecting Greek philosophy, described his thoughts as \\"100% Hebraic\\" (p.103).<br /><br />It is not possible in this brief review to adduce the very many thought-provoking parallels which Chatterjee sees between what he sees as the Jewish intellectual tradition and Wittgenstein's major works, the Tractatus and the Philosophical Investigation.  Some readers might think that many of these may be coincidental rather than the result of the conscious or even unconscious influences on Wittgenstein of the Jewish intellectual tradition (which in itself would, if deliberate, be narrowly defined both by Wittgenstein and Chatterjee as the rabbinic tradition).  The connections, suggestive though they are, may be speculative - and in fact for the most part Chatterjee flags them up with appropriately cautious formulations. In any case, what can be more exciting than the juxtaposition of similarities which, whether intentional or coincidental, have previously been overlooked.ld, if deliberate, be narrowly defined both by Wittgenstein and Chatterjee as the rabbinic tradition).  The connections, suggestive though they are, may be speculative - and in fact for the most part Chatterjee flags them up with appropriately cautious formulations. In any case, what can be more exciting than the juxtaposition of similarities which, whether intentional or coincidental, have previously been overlooked.   <br />	2005-08-02
US	52315870	R2J438XB742BKQ	0140297731	713348380	Chance Witness: An Outsider's Life in Politics	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An interesting life and interesting views	He writes very well, sometimes poetically. His views are original and his range of enthusiasms and the challenges he embraces are stirring. There is a lot of honesty in this biography, but I think he deludes himself when he says on page 452 that he regrets hurting anybody: he thinks his sketches of people are merely witty, but they are often cruel and must hurt, especially people whom he knew as friends. And I was surprised to discover, for all his self-denigration, so much vanity in him.	2005-07-28
US	52315870	R17T7STC9RYK1J	1842832999	690449112	Image in the Water	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In praise of decent conservatives	A polished political novel about the British Conservative Party (set in the future) from a politician who knows all about it. Two sound and decent conservative leaders (self-portraits of the author?) up against a Machiavellian and ambitious one. Ingenious use of the Scottish factor. Improbable family relationships, but a very good read, and should make for good listening, too.	2005-07-28
US	52315870	R1NC4EG5PWAP88	0826471323	86620956	Philosophy in the New Century (Continuum Compact)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Let the New Century do better than the last!	O'Hear believes we are ill-served by the two philosophies which have dominated the second half of the 20th century and are a threat at the beginning of the 21st: the Anglo-Saxon one descending from Bertrand Russell with its attempt to put philosophy on a scientific basis, and the continental one, culminating with Derrida, which deconstructs everything to the point that we are left, philosophically speaking, totally adrift.  Both, moreover, use technical language which nobody except a specialist can understand, so that philosophy has ceased to be any kind of guide to our lives; and even if it is understood, it is counter-intuitive, since our intuition tells us that there is more to life than science and that there are values which are deeply embedded in human nature.  Philosophy, O'Hear believes, should not ignore these values, but should make us think more clearly about them.<br /><br />The philosopher who seems to be most congenial to O'Hear is Edmund Burke, who was so suspicious of so-called rational arrangements of society, such as were proposed by the French philosophes and later by the Utilitarians, and who so eloquently defended the wisdom embedded in tradition.  O'Hear believes that many developments in our society, based on rational arguments to promote happiness, endanger these wisdoms.  Medical advances  like genetic engineering make possible interventions in nature that, though meant to increase human happiness, in fact undermine respect for life.  The same, he thinks,  is true of the sexual liberation which, so far from releasing us from \\"unnatural\\" repression by separating sex from procreation, is dissolving the bond of the natural family, with very damaging results for the whole society.<br /><br />\\"Scientism\\" is another target of the book - the idea that human behaviour is basically mechanical and can be explained in terms of physics and chemistry or is determined by economic forces (Marx) or by unconscious impulses (Freud).  Such explanations leave out of account what we all know in our deepest selves: that, though some of our behaviour has ascertainable causes in physics and chemistry, other aspects of it are determined by choices which cannot be reduced to such causes.<br /><br />When O'Hear considers Aesthetics, he takes Kant as his guide.  He comments how little attention modern philosophers pay to it and how little concern many modern artists have with Beauty rather than with some \\"quasi-philosophical\\" doctrine or other.  The result is that any interest that the works of such artists have (he names Damien Hirst, Rachel Whitehead, Gilbert and George, Jeff Koons, Tracy Emin) usually disappear after one experience of them, and do not lead to any enhancement of life.<br /><br />Closely related to the aesthetic sense for O'Hear is the religious sense.  This has little to do with various proofs for the existence of God, in all of which O'Hear sees problems.  We seem to be endowed with an aesthetic instinct, a thirst for knowledge and a sense of moral obligation, all of which, O'Hear argues, go far beyond the explanations of evolutionary theory.  Recognition of these feelings does not in itself require adherence to what we normally call a religious faith, although a mature faith will sustain it and make it less likely that its adherents will succumb to the aridities of scientism and materialism.<br /><br />The suggestion of the whole book is that Philosophy in the New Century should abandon much of the philosophy of the previous century, dominated as it is by scientism and materialism, and go back to Kant and Burke. The book (or is it a tract?) is not particularly original; it will irritate many professional philosophers, some scientists, and people who think of themselves as progressive, let alone as avant-garde; and it will please conservatives and those who think that philosophy has strayed too far from common sense and, above all, from common experience.<br /><br />Whether you agree with O'Hear or not, his arguments are easy to follow, and the book is eminently readable.ar or not, his arguments are easy to follow, and the book is eminently readable. <br />	2005-07-27
US	52315870	RGBJQCW5WFNLJ	0394744209	359221301	The Assault	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Haunted and haunting	In a Haarlem street the Dutch Resistance kills an active collaborator. In retaliation the Germans have destroyed a house in that street in which live ten-year-oldAnton Steenwijk with his parents and elder brother. Anton survives, but his parents and brother are killed. As Anton grows up, he wants to suppress all memories of that time, and it is not a coincidence that he chooses to become an anaesthetist.  But of course the trauma is buried within him, and affects his mental life in many ways, some that are inexplicable to him.  But the members of the resistance who had carried out the assassination are haunted also, by their knowledge that their deed had led to uninvolved people being shot.  All these states of mind are explored in this story, as much that lay concealed emerges over the 36 years after the event. The reader is engaged as taut knots are loosened and unwound.<br /><br />During all this time the world moves on and new political issues arise - Vietnam; the anti-nuclear movement. Do they leave the old issues behind or are they connected with them?<br /><br />This short book's limpid prose is very precise, profound and rich in unobtrusive symbolism.  It is all very compelling	2005-07-23
US	52315870	RS1S6M7H2NA7E	1870015878	702407070	A Middle Eastern Affair	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A delightful stroll down Memory Lane	Ellis Douek is a true cosmopolitan who has lived in many different countries - Egypt where he was born, Colombia, England, France and Scotland. He has felt at home everywhere, and, although his Jewish family had to leave Egypt after Suez in 1956, he has never felt himself to be an exile, and in fact has rather relished his position as something of an outsider. He maintains, for example, that, in the 1950s and 1960s at least, Englishmen felt more threatened by other Englishmen from different class backgrounds than by someone with a foreign background like his. But I am sure there was in any case nothing threatening in his urbanely witty company.<br /><br />He marvellously evokes the atmosphere not only of all of these places in which he has lived (how agreeable, for example, life was for prosperous Cairene families in the period before the war and then again for a few years after the war), but also of different eras. For example, his description of England in the 1950s has not only the freshness of observation which he brought to the country as a foreigner, but he also reminds us that the England of that time would seem, even to Englishmen living today, like an almost foreign country. He is an excellent and amusing anecdotist. His stories include memories of his life as a medical student (he later became a distinguished surgeon) in France and in England. There is a hilarious account of the time when he was stationed in Scotland as a medical officer in the British Army. There is a loving description of his nanny, whose somewhat primitive but essentially accepting philosophy of life he has refined into his own more sophisticated one. He has in fact reflected much about life, often incorporating stray comments that have been made to him here and there into his own outlook on the world. His remarkably sunny disposition shines from every page.<br /><br />If there is a second edition, I hope he will include a family tree and an outline chronology, the latter necessary because the book does meander rather; but it is a delightful and entertaining readbecause the book does meander rather; but it is a delightful and entertaining read <br />  <br />	2005-07-18
US	52315870	R384NUF08OZEJ0	0297829416	996059050	Yiddish Civilisation: The Rise and Fall of a Forgotten Nation	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A lively and readable account.	Paul Kriwaczek turned to history after having been for many years a television program producer, and there is a strong journalistic and pictorial flavour about this book. This makes it very readable and enjoyable. There are many personal touches in it; quite a lot of interesting information about matters that are not strictly germane to his subject; and a number of intriguing and illuminating comparisons between the distant past and more recent periods.<br /><br />The first third of the book is not really about Yiddish Civilization at all, dealing as it does with the history of the Jews from the time of the Diaspora to the medieval period when something like a Yiddish identity emerged among the Ashkenazi Jews. In his Bibliography he comments that general books on the history of the Jews are \\"disappointing in their lack of attention to eastern Europe during the earlier medieval period\\", and it is this first third of the book that I found most original and that advances a number of theories which challenge commonly received ideas about Jewish history.<br /><br />The first is that Kriwaczek has the first Jews arriving in Eastern Europe from the East and not from the West. Many Jews of the Byzantine Empire lived on the Northern coast of the Black Sea, and during the persecution of the Jews from the 7th century onwards, many more of them moved to these outlying parts of the Empire, where the writ of Constantinople could not be so easily enforced. But across that area there swept wave after wave of nomads from the East who surged across the steppes and often deep into Eastern and sometimes even into western Europe. The Jews mingled with them, many of them were swept along with the waves and many remained in those areas when the nomadic tides receded. These nomads are often generically referred to as \\"Scythians\\", although the Scythians proper were replaced by Sarmatians, Alans and other tribes. Though many theories have been advanced for the origin of the word Ashkenazi, Kriwaczek says that the word Ashkenazi is actually derived from the Semitic name for the Scythians, a-Shkuz. (The problem seems to me that these nomadic waves belong to a period that had ended before the 7th century.) So there were already many Slavic Jews living in Poland, Bohemia and Austria before the arrival of Jews there from Germany.<br /><br />The second of Kriwaczek's challenging ideas is that there is no evidence in Jewish or Gentile sources for the generally believed idea that the Jews of Germany fled to Poland from persecution during the crusading period - only that they often fled from insecure places in Germany to more secure ones in the same country. The Jews who did arrive in Poland, Kriwaczek says, were not refugees but part of a general German penetration into Slavic lands during that period, sometimes as conquerors, but sometimes invited by the rulers of these lands, who valued the skills that Germans - Christians as well as Jews - could bring to their backward countries. The Jews from Germany, better educated and with better connections to commerce and politics, became a kind of aristocracy, which explains why their language came to dominate over the Slavic languages spoken by Jewish communities in the East.<br /><br />The rest of the book is more conventional in the story it tells; but it is lively and very readable; and even there most knowledgeable readers will probably find something new to them - perhaps the delightful portrait, drawn over nine pages, of Glikl von Hameln; or perhaps that the Yiddish stories of Sholem Aleichem or of Mendel the Bookseller were less loving and nostalgic in their satire and had more of a reform agenda than is commonly thought.zi, Kriwaczek says that the word Ashkenazi is actually derived from the Semitic name for the Scythians, a-Shkuz. (The problem seems to me that these nomadic waves belong to a period that had ended before the 7th century.) So there were already many Slavic Jews living in Poland, Bohemia and Austria before the arrival of Jews there from Germany.  <br /> <br />The second of Kriwaczek's challenging ideas is that there is no evidence in Jewish or Gentile sources for the generally believed idea that the Jews of Germany fled to Poland from persecution during the crusading period - only that they often fled from insecure places in Germany to more secure ones in the same country. The Jews who did arrive in Poland, Kriwaczek says, were not refugees but part of a general German penetration into Slavic lands during that period, sometimes as conquerors, but sometimes invited by the rulers of these lands, who valued the skills that Germans - Christians as well as Jews - could bring to their backward countries. The Jews from Germany, better educated and with better connections to commerce and politics, became a kind of aristocracy, which explains why their language came to dominate over the Slavic languages spoken by Jewish communities in the East. <br /> <br />The rest of the book is more conventional in the story it tells; but it is lively and very readable; and even there most knowledgeable readers will probably find something new to them - perhaps the delightful portrait, drawn over nine pages, of Glikl von Hameln; or perhaps that the Yiddish stories of Sholem Aleichem or of Mendel the Bookseller were less loving and nostalgic in their satire and had more of a reform agenda than is commonly thought. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-17
US	52315870	R3QQZ2SCGMV95L	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	3	9	20	N	N	Sordidness with a jewelled surface	Yes, he writes beautifully.  Yes, his portrayals are vivid and often satirical, his mockery of upper-crust individuals is enjoyable.  Yes, he is learned, with clever references to Henry James, to music, to antique furniture and to other aspects of culture.  Yes, Nick, the central character, ever anxious to fit in and to please and never quite certain whether he is saying the right thing, is especially well drawn.  Yes, there are many deft touches in symbolism and in plot.  But I found too much in this book that repelled me.  I am not homophobic, but I do find it distasteful when an author, however well he writes, revels in describing randy promiscuity, whether homosexual or heterosexual.  Yes, Nick comes to have genuine affection for three other men (of whom one is unobtainable), but at the same time he is sordidly promiscuous elsewhere, in lavatories, with a waiter at a country house party, and involved in threesomes.  And he is endlessly fantasising, roused by the outlines of other men's genitals and buttocks. It may be argued that Hollinghurst is simply giving a realistic description of this kind of behaviour in a cautionary tale:  after all, Nick's two lovers, as promiscuous as he is, die of AIDS and the book ends with Nick himself due for an AIDS test. But I don't buy that:  it seems to me that the behaviour, described in gross detail (in one place, for example, Nick caresses his friend's genitals through his trouser pocket), is narrated with the relish of a pornographer.  I cannot admire a book like that, however cleverly it is written.	2005-05-23
US	52315870	R2AUSF7DZFNTHA	1593760280	519903931	My Nine Lives: Chapters of a Possible Past	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Evocative	The nine chapters in this book represent nine different imagined lives that the author might have had.  You have to be told this in the preface, since you would not guess it.  In each chapter the narrator and her parents have different names and are different people. Each story is plot-wise completely self-contained and could be read separately; but as we have been told that they are one person's fantasies of a life she could have led, we are more aware than we otherwise might have been that there is a similarity of tone and of feeling in all these stories, and that the themes that recur - a continental refugee background, experiences in India and in the United States, triangular relationships, artists of tempestuous personalities, and a kind of dependency by the central character on other people in the story - draw on genuine autobiographical material.  It is all most beautifully done, and the author writes so well.  The different personalities in the stories come magnificently alive - indeed some of them, especially the artists, are almost bigger than life. Melancholia is offset with humorous observation.  The settings are evocative: the ones in India may be familiar from other novels about that country;  but I have never yet read a better descriptions of life in the London boarding houses where so many German or Austrian refugees started their lives in Britain.	2005-05-04
US	52315870	R4K1XRHGQ1V59	1561310654	505740661	Broken April	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A split personality	Other reviewers have described very well what this book is about and the spell it casts on the reader.  I would add only this:  it seems to me that the travellers, Bessian and Diana, represent two sides of the author himself.  Bessian is fascinated by the majestic primitivity of the mountain people;  he finds a rationale in the blood-feud enjoined by the Kanun, and, because so many people are involved with it, he sees fatalist acceptance of an early and sudden death giving a kind of intensity to life. In some of his other powerful novels (The File on H, The Three-Arched Bridge, The General of the Dead Army), Kadare shows a similar Romantic fascination with a society of Noble Savages - savage, it need hardly be said, in a violent sense that is a million miles away from their peaceful Rousseauesque prototypes! Only the laws of hospitality redeem this society somewhat, though even here the Kanun seems positively to glory in its extremism and irrationality. Then, in Diana, Kadare shows, I suspect,  the other side of his personality: perhaps some sense of guilt about this very fascination.  In his treatment of Diana, Kadare is still a Romantic:  she cannot or will not find the words with which to confront her husband's obsession.  But her muteness conveys better (and more artistically) her sense of horror than any more articulate and rational exposition of it could do.	2005-04-24
US	52315870	R30G6J3RL9DP9Z	0099461846	174168640	These Foolish Things	Books	4	110	115	N	N	An affectionate view of the elderly	There have been other novels set in old age homes - Muriel Spark's Memento Mori, Alan Isler's The Hamlet of Fifth Avenue - and there is a certain formula about them. But Deborah Moggach's is the most kindly of these novels and, unusually, envisages the possibility that the elderly might actually get a new lease of life under such circumstances. Not possible, it is suggested, in cash-strapped Britain; but why not outsource the care for the elderly to Bangalore in India, where a little money goes a long way, where the climate is better, and where, above all, a former British hotel converted into a somewhat run-down retirement home (called Dunroamin) can create a little island of Old England in the midst of a throbbing Indian city. One has to suspend one's disbelief that elderly folk would really be happy in such a setting, but, it is suggested, there is something about the atmosphere of India which makes possible some kind of renewal of the spirit which gives new insights and meaning to what had been lonely lives in England. For much of the book the stories of each of these elderly folk seems episodic and disconnected, and there seems to be no particular plot; but in due course a plot does emerge in which coincidences - somewhat forced in my view - connect many of these lives together in unexpected ways. It is a kindly book, both about the elderly and about India and Indians, and that makes it an attractive book.	2005-04-19
US	52315870	R3N21P2ZTVS7YS	0415324696	998243676	History of Jewish Philosophy (Routledge History of World Philosophies)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Takes a lot of knowledge for granted	This massive book, consisting of contributions from 35 scholars, is obviously a valuable and learned resource for anyone interested in Jewish philosophy, and it contains much illuminating material.  However, that it is \\"accessible to general readers as well as to scholars\\", as one of the blurbs on the back cover of the book reads, is true of only a few of its 39 chapters.  The bulk of the book is certainly not suitable for anyone who is not already familiar with philosophy in general, with technical philosophical vocabulary in particular, or has a good knowledge of Judaism.  In no way is this book comparable in approach and style with books written for the general public, such as Bertrand Russell's History of Western Philosophy (or, for that matter, my own Philosophy and Living).  Indeed, the style of writing can sometimes only be described as constipated.<br /><br />True, it is difficult (though not impossible) to write lucidly for the general public about medieval philosophy.  The medieval chapters acount for some 400 of the 900-odd pages of the book;  and very tedious they are, as philosophers debate over and over again such questions as whether the world was created ex nihilo or not, whether God has attributes or not (some thinkers considering attributes a derogation to God's unity), and how Free Will can be reconciled with God's foreknowledge.<br /><br />The trouble lies in the relationship between Philosophy and Theology.  Aquinas differentiated between, on the one hand, \\"Revealed Theology\\", which starts with Revelation about God as an indisputable given and as the basis of Faith from which Reason then makes certain deductions, and, on the other, \\"Natural Theology\\", which starts with the experience of nature or created things and uses Reason to argue from that experience - a process which, for Aquinas, aims at - and, rightly used, must lead to -  an intellectual knowledge of God.  Many medieval Islamic and Jewish philosophers took the same line.  Philosophy and Theology will part company when philosophers not only do not accept (as most medieval philosophers did) that the knowledge of God is the aim of philosophy, but actually use Reason to challenge the truth of revealed knowledge, including in extreme cases, the truth of the existence of God.  Until that happens, however, it is not always easy to tell whether a certain argument is theological or philosophical.<br /><br />The book under review raises this difficulty on occasions, but is then prepared to discuss as philosophy some positions which, to me at least, cannot be called philosophical at all.  The most outstanding of these is the mysticism of the Kabbalah, the subject of a particularly obscure chapter (chapter 19) in the book.  It is a legitimate philosophical position to show that certain parts of the Torah lend themselves to metaphorical interpretation so that they can correspond with Reason;  likewise there is a legitimate philosophical case to be made that we need to allow for mystical experiences which are not subject to Reason.  But to go beyond that and to describe as philosophical an exegesis of Biblical texts which depends on numbers or on letters to which numerical values are given is, to say the least, a distortion of the rational procedures which philosophy requires.<br /><br />And what does it mean to describe any philosophy as specifically Jewish?  It is most obviously Jewish when it concerns itself with matters that are peculiar to Judaism, such as the nature of God's Covenant with Israel.  It is less uniquely Jewish when it applies the same philosophical concepts to Jewish sources (the Jewish Bible, the Talmud etc.) as Islamic philosophers apply to the Koran, the hadiths and the sharia.  And what if the author is known to have been a Jew, irrespective of any specifically Jewish content in his philosophy?  What about Spinoza, excommunicated by the Jewish authorities, consequently (as the chapter on him shows) evincing bitterness and hostility to Judaism, and developing a philosophy which has nothing to do with Judaism?<br /><br />Spinoza arguably draws less on the thinkers of other traditions than any of the other philosophers mentioned in the book.  I would argue that he is one of the four Jewish-born thinkers whose originality has massively influenced European civilization.  (The other three, Marx, Freud, and Einstein, are not included in this book, the first two presumably because they are not considered philosophers.)  What the book brings out very strongly is how all the other major post-biblical Jewish thinkers were influenced by the non-Jewish environment in which they lived and so by the thought of non-Jewish philosophers.  It traces the influence of Hellenism on such as Philo of Alexandria;  of the Islamic Aristotelianism of Al-Farabi, Avicenna and Averros on Maimonides and the Maimonideans;  of the Enlightenment on Moses Mendelssohn;  of Hegelianism on the Wissenschaft des Judentums;  of Kant on Samuel Rafael Hirsch and Hermann Cohen;  of Herder and nationalism on Zionism.  Only Maimonides, though himself influenced by Arabic philosophy, in turn exercised an appreciable influence over Thomist Christianity;  and Spinoza, as I have already said, was central in shaping the Radical Enlightenment.<br /><br />Spinoza could do this because in Holland the Jews were emancipated.  Likewise there was briefly some relaxation of persecution in Renaissance Italy, in which context the Jewish Kabbalah was taken up by Pico della Mirandola and led to the development of a Christian Cabbalah.  But these were exception between the time of Maimonides and that of Mendelssohn.  During that period hardly any intellectual interaction between Jews and non-Jews took place.  It was during that period that the Jews in most European countries were ghettoized and to some extent also ghettoized themselves intellectually, in that the rabbis at the time welcomed and reinforced this isolation.  Although the ghettoes still existed in the time of Mendelssohn, he was himself accepted by the philosophers of the German Enlightenment;  and once the ghettoes were abolished by the French Revolution, the fruitful interplay between Jewish and non-Jewish thought could again resume.hilosophy which has nothing to do with Judaism?      Spinoza arguably draws less on the thinkers of other traditions than any of the other philosophers mentioned in the book.  I would argue that he is one of the four Jewish-born thinkers whose originality has massively influenced European civilization.  (The other three, Marx, Freud, and Einstein, are not included in this book, the first two presumably because they are not considered philosophers.)  What the book brings out very strongly is how all the other major post-biblical Jewish thinkers were influenced by the non-Jewish environment in which they lived and so by the thought of non-Jewish philosophers.  It traces the influence of Hellenism on such as Philo of Alexandria;  of the Islamic Aristotelianism of Al-Farabi, Avicenna and Averros on Maimonides and the Maimonideans;  of the Enlightenment on Moses Mendelssohn;  of Hegelianism on the Wissenschaft des Judentums;  of Kant on Samuel Rafael Hirsch and Hermann Cohen;  of Herder and nationalism on Zionism.  Only Maimonides, though himself influenced by Arabic philosophy, in turn exercised an appreciable influence over Thomist Christianity;  and Spinoza, as I have already said, was central in shaping the Radical Enlightenment.    Spinoza could do this because in Holland the Jews were emancipated.  Likewise there was briefly some relaxation of persecution in Renaissance Italy, in which context the Jewish Kabbalah was taken up by Pico della Mirandola and led to the development of a Christian Cabbalah.  But these were exception between the time of Maimonides and that of Mendelssohn.  During that period hardly any intellectual interaction between Jews and non-Jews took place.  It was during that period that the Jews in most European countries were ghettoized and to some extent also ghettoized themselves intellectually, in that the rabbis at the time welcomed and reinforced this isolation.  Although the ghettoes still existed in the time of Mendelssohn, he was himselfaccepted by the philosophers of the German Enlightenment;  and once the ghettoes were abolished by the French Revolution, the fruitful interplay between Jewish and non-Jewish thought could again resume.	2005-03-26
US	52315870	R1ZGD10WAWOSIL	0099466090	958755338	Snowleg	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Could not appreciate this book.	Despite the praise that has been heaped on this book, I can't say that I liked it much.  The author seems well acquainted with East Germany both before and after reunification, and sometimes he gives fine descriptions of atmospheric settings;  but to my mind these were often over-written,  forced or pretentious.  The same goes for the description of often rather seedy and grotesque characters, even given that the Stasi went in for (to put it mildly) seedy and grotesque operations;  and there is one incident which is just too gratuitously disgusting for words.  Nor did I take very much to Peter, the central character.  True, he is supposed to be a flawed human being, riddled for years with guilt for not having taken the risk to smuggle out to the West a girl with whom, as a young visitor to the GDR,  he had had a short affaire; but I find little that is attractive about his personality or about his relationships with all except one old woman.  The book is slow - once Peter is on a trail of interviews to find the girl, his interlocutors are all deliberately and tantalizingly slow to pass on any information they have:  that in itself becomes monotonous.  There are too many rather improbable coincidences.  There are references near the end of the book to certain incidents earlier on which you are likely to have missed unless you have read the book very closely and have a good memory. It's the sort of book which one really ought to read twice, which I sometimes like to do under similar circumstances, but had no desire to do in this case.	2005-03-17
US	52315870	R2MRNYUXXF6D8B	0199265615	776403640	The Culture of Power and the Power of Culture: Old Regime Europe 1660-1789	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very illuminating	I am fairly knowledgeable about the 18th century, but this book brought me some brilliant new insights and new viewpoints - especially on 18th century Prussia, on the popularity of George III and (oddly) of Joseph II.  Superb illustration through the history of culture of how the 18th century monarchy in France, unlike that of Prussia and England, failed to connect with the \\"public sphere\\".  I found the omission of the Dutch Republic regrettable and a few passages a little tedious;  but for me the book ranks with Orlando Figes' Natasha's Dance (see my review) as one of the few books about periods with which I am pretty familiar that has given me so many new angles to think about.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R19CNPH97NWRMJ	0060958324	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A philosophical ride	The style is flat and uninteresting; but this is a fascinating quest, in fiction form, about what philosophers have said about Quality.  The search is interwoven with the central character's journey on a motor cycle across the United States, with the landscape symbolizing the quest (e.g. ruminations about the most difficult philosophy while he is in the rarefied air on very high mountains).	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R20BMZLRXXOFY3	096795200X	488485101	The German Money	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A damaged family	The mother of three adult disturbed siblings dies.  She has profitably invested the money she got from Holocaust compensation, and leaves this to one of her sons in her Will.  The damaged family relationships are brilliantly described;  descriptive passages are often strikingly original and successful (the setting is New York and Michigan); and if in places it is a little repetitive, that could be excused on the grounds that the principal characters themselves are obsessional.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R1KELUF8872FWV	1400031699	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Richly descriptive	Harriet, a twelve-year old girl, is in vengeful pursuit of Danny Ratcliffe, a delinquent and drug-addicted young man who, she is convinced, murdered her brother ten years earlier.  The first half of the 555 page long novel is very slow and inconsequential, but contains some terrific and sharp descriptions of people:  Harriet herself, her mother, her grandmother and the grandmother's sisters;  also of Danny and his scary brothers.  The atmosphere in buildings and of landscapes is also marvellously conveyed.  The second half is a real page-turner and a rather terrifying thriller.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R2ESLDD6TD6VO	0679781609	538287709	Christ: A Crisis in the Life of God	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An ingenious way to read the Bible	Treating Christ as God Incarnate, this book is a sequel to the author's God: a Biography, which showed how God developed in the course of the Old Testament.  In this book He finds that He needs to change still further.  As brilliant as its predecessor.  The way the author alerts the reader to the tiniest nuances of language in the New Testament is masterly.  The two books make you forget that the books of the Bible were actually all written by different people and over a huge span of time.  Miles' approach makes the entire Bible appear as if it had been conceived as one seamless work of literature.  Historically that is nonsense, of course; but even so it is a rewarding and stimulating way to read the Bible.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	RAYNU5NUID6QH	0140159959	628844704	Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Brilliant biography and exposition	Wittgenstein's philosophical writings are very difficult, not only in content but also in presentation.  He was always unhappy about committing his ideas to paper, and when he did so, he would set them down in a highly compressed form as numbered notes, sometimes in the form of aphorisms.  When he sent the manuscript of the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus to Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell, neither of these considerable intellects could understand it (which didn't stop Russell from writing a foreword when it was eventually published.)<br /><br />The 650 pages of Monk's magnificent biography are of course anything but compressed,  and  allow us to understand how Wittgenstein arrived at his conclusions.  Monk writes beautifully, and he sets out the intellectual processes with the utmost clarity;  but an additional and very special merit of this book is the skilful interweaving of Wittgenstein's thought and his personality.<br /><br />Wittgenstein was a tortured and difficult man:  intense, introspective, uncompromising, ruthlessly honest with himself and with others.  He was torn between his need for solitude and his need for philosophical discussion.  There was within him an immense tension between logic and mysticism.  He feared madness and was frequently uncertain about the value of philosophy:  he gave it up altogether for a few years after the First World War and taught for six years at elementary schools in backward rural areas of Austria.  In later life he was a practising but ashamed homosexual, and for this and other reasons often felt \\"indecent\\" and suicidal.  He found friendship and even elementary courtesies difficult unless there was a total identity of philosophical ideals.  But his charisma was such that a number of people were devoted to him, forgave his often savage moods and harsh outbursts, and helped him:  transcribing his ideas;  securing him a Fellowship at Trinity College, Cambridge in 1930 and a Professorship in 1939;  giving him a home in his last illness.<br /><br />Monk handles with particular skill the transition between Wittgenstein's two philosophies.  The Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus laid down the foundations of what would become Logical Positivism, though Wittgenstein felt, from his first contact with the Vienna Logical Positivists, that his concerns were different from theirs.  They were primarily concerned with the verification of propositions;  but in the Tractatus Wittgenstein held that the only task for which philosophy was equipped was that of clarifying what we say by analyzing the language we use.  This means examining the logical structure of language; but at the end of the process we have not said anything about the validity of the propositions that have been clarified.  Whether a proposition is true or false is not ascertained by logical deductions but by whether it pictures the world as it actually is.  Religious, ethical or aesthetic propositions cannot, said Wittgenstein, picture the world as it is, and it is therefore not possible for such topics to be meaningfully discussed. Therefore, in the famous last sentence of the Tractatus:  \\"What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence.\\"<br /><br />The Vienna School and the Logical Positivists were perfectly happy to have the realm of philosophy thus circumscribed;  they felt no regret about the exclusion of religion and ethics from meaningful philosophical discourse.  But Wittgenstein did suffer from this loss, and felt that the Vienna School had misunderstood him.  He had already told his publishers that what the Tractatus did not contain was more important than what it did contain.  He had to say more about those areas which he had felt forced to pass over in silence.  Religious utterance could contain a truth and a meaning which did not depend on words having a very precise meaning, but on an understanding of how religious language is used;  and this understanding is gained from the experience of living a religious life.<br /><br />Indeed, in the posthumously published Philosophical Investigations Wittgenstein shifted his attention from the relationship between meaning and truth to that between meaning and use.  Language, in other words, is not a picture, but a tool;  and it is the way we use it that shows the meaning we ascribe to it.  \\"Don't ask for the meaning;  ask for the use\\", Wittgenstein now proclaimed;  that, he thought, would at last \\"showing the fly a way out of the fly-bottle.\\"  Though it is still descriptive rather than deductive, the task of philosophy is now to clarify the way words are used in different situations rather than to pin down the absolute meaning of a word to some unchanging fact in reality.  To my mind it is a much richer and less arid philosophy than his earlier one;  and Wittgenstein worked out all kinds of fascinating implications of his new insight:  it enabled him to see how, for example, music or humour or body language can be meaningful discourse which can be understood once you know how those particular languages are being used.  The second philosophy is also much easier to understand than his first - so much so, in fact, that Russell accused him of having \\"grown tired of serious thinking\\".  It certainly resulted in building a bridge between the perceptions of the philosopher and the \\"common sense\\" perceptions of the ordinary man;  and if in his earlier years it was the sheer abstruseness of his philosophy which made him doubt the value of what he was doing, he now worried about what at the end of the day might be the difference between philosophy and common sense.  But in the end he did find a humble use for philosophy.  He writes, \\"'What we find out in philosophy is trivial;  it does not teach us new facts, only science does that.  But the proper synopsis of these trivialities is enormously difficult, and has immense importance.  Philosophy is in fact the synopsis of trivialities.'  In philosophy we are not, like the scientist, building a house.  Nor are we even laying the foundations of a house.  We are merely 'tidying up a room'\\".  (Monk, pp.298/299.)gious life. <br /> <br />Indeed, in the posthumously published Philosophical Investigations Wittgenstein shifted his attention from the relationship between meaning and truth to that between meaning and use.  Language, in other words, is not a picture, but a tool;  and it is the way we use it that shows the meaning we ascribe to it.  \\"Don't ask for the meaning;  ask for the use\\", Wittgenstein now proclaimed;  that, he thought, would at last \\"showing the fly a way out of the fly-bottle.\\"  Though it is still descriptive rather than deductive, the task of philosophy is now to clarify the way words are used in different situations rather than to pin down the absolute meaning of a word to some unchanging fact in reality.  To my mind it is a much richer and less arid philosophy than his earlier one;  and Wittgenstein worked out all kinds of fascinating implications of his new insight:  it enabled him to see how, for example, music or humour or body language can be meaningful discourse which can be understood once you know how those particular languages are being used.  The second philosophy is also much easier to understand than his first - so much so, in fact, that Russell accused him of having \\"grown tired of serious thinking\\".  It certainly resulted in building a bridge between the perceptions of the philosopher and the \\"common sense\\" perceptions of the ordinary man;  and if in his earlier years it was the sheer abstruseness of his philosophy which made him doubt the value of what he was doing, he now worried about what at the end of the day might be the difference between philosophy and common sense.  But in the end he did find a humble use for philosophy.  He writes, \\"'What we find out in philosophy is trivial;  it does not teach us new facts, only science does that.  But the proper synopsis of these trivialities is enormously difficult, and has immense importance.  Philosophy is in fact the synopsis of trivialities.'  In philosophy we are not, like the scientist, building a house.  Nor are we even laying the foundations of a house.  We are merely 'tidying up a room'\\".  (Monk, pp.298/299.) <br />	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R2VTXFAZWN6S6D	0345470613	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A well-observed slice of life	The two central characters - stolid Michael and quicksilver Pauline - are beautifully drawn, and this is the story of their unhappy marriage, their daughter Lindy who vanishes for 22 years and whose son they bring up ... All this against the background of very ordinary daily events, minutely but arrestingly described.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R3L7MZL7Y8Y26D	0192838458	674232604	An Autobiography of Anthony Trollope Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Victorian life	Redolent of the Victorian Age, and beautifully written.  Some of the amusement comes precisely from his occasional pedantic preaching of Victorian virtues.  He is capable of being self-critical.  If elsewhere he is self-satisfied, he has much to be self-satisfied about.  A man who from the most unpromising beginning came to live life to the full.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	RMO52W9QBC2E6	0312421958	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Slavophiles and Westernizers	A superb account of the cultural history of Russia since the end of the 18th century, bringing most vividly alive the tension between slavophiles and westernizers.  The last chapter, on the Russian &eacute;migr&eacute;s during the Stalinist period, is the finest of the lot, and his account of how some of them returned to Russia from Khrushchev's time onwards is very moving.  I learnt something new on almost every page of this 586 pages long book.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R2PBUIJSKEUAER	0679743685	927498097	God: A Biography	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The development of God in the Old Testament	A fascinating and illuminating account of how the personality of God as evolved in the course of the Old Testament.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R1L32LEBYBW4V7	0060645741	413291647	The Jew in the Lotus: A Poet's Re-Discovery of Jewish Identity in Buddhist India	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A creative encounter	In 1990 the Dalai Lama invited a cross-section of American rabbis to Dharamsala to discover what Buddhism and Judaism have in common and what they can learn from one another.  The author, a more or less secular Jew until that experience, was a member of the group.  His book is a little long, but I found it absorbing, although I neither want to nor could myself share this longing for spirituality, let alone for mysticism.  But it was moving to read of the Dalai Lama's openness, and of one or two rabbis in the group.  It must have been a great experience for them all.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R2WIK8JJZD65EW	0753805197	223878080	Over Here	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wise and witty	A charming and witty account by a former American ambassador to England.  Particularly interesting when he explains the reasons for differences between English and American ways of thinking.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R1K75XLOGKNQYM	0374115389	164860597	The Book Against God: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intelligent and entertaining	An atheistic and rather seedy son and his relationship with (principally) his attractive clergyman father.  Superb, inventively and wittily phrased descriptions of a large cast of characters and of places; intelligent conversations about belief and non-belief; a moving coda (not quite at the end of the book).  Because the chronology is all mixed up, it really needs to be read twice.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R3G3FFBZXTO31O	0312421133	515402721	Defying Hitler: A Memoir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good young German in the Third Reich	Haffner's autobiography from his birth until December 1933, written in 1939 after his emigration in the previous year.  The political analysis is acute;  and it is fascinating - and unusual - to read of the disgust of a young and very German non-Jew with the Nazi regime, revealed in telling episodes.<br /><br />Haffner later had a distinguished career both in England and, after the war, back in Germany.  There is an excellent account of his whole life in Uwe Soukop's 'Ich bin nun mal ein Deutscher'. That book is in German, but I have written a review of it in English on Amazon.	2005-03-11
US	52315870	R1SXDHXWPFF6IK	0330488554	809642649	The English Harem	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A multicultural adventure	A young London working class girl becomes one of three wives of a middle aged Persian.  Superb characterizations; funny; touching; a novel about goodness (in a totally unmawkish way) in the midst of lack of understanding and (for a few pages) of unbearable wickedness;  full of unexpected developments until the very last page.	2005-03-10
US	52315870	R94LVRP0CQXW	037570342X	564250926	Family Matters	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A clever title	Painted on a much smaller canvas than his earlier novels (Such a Long Journey; A Fine Balance; Tales from the Firozshah Baag), it is as wonderful a novel as the others.  It focuses on one family and revolves round the care of the 79 year old patriarch who is crippled and afflicted with progressive Parkinsonism.  Though there are some mean-spirited characters in the book, the affection of others is very touching.  The love of the nine year old boy for his grandfather is especially heart-warming.  Mistry has the gift of bringing sheer unforced goodness to life like no other writer.	2005-03-10
US	52315870	RNV3A2FN69LEY	0553299611	138629087	Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals	Books	4	142	148	N	N	Phaedrus probes some more.	This book is a sequel to Pirsig's famous Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, first published in 1974.  Both books are technically novels;  but in fact the thin story-line - the account of a journey - is the thread on which is strung a strenuous metaphysical investigation of ultimate reality.  This investigation is couched in a ruminative, discursive and colloquial style which, given the difficulty of the subject matter, is easier to follow than would be a dry and austere academic presentation of the conclusions which Pirsig has reached.  In Zen Pirsig managed to make this search by his central character, Phaedrus, read like a tense and rather desperate detective story, with no less than the sanity of the investigator being at stake - and Phaedrus does succumb for a while and has to spend a period in a mental hospital.<br /><br />Lila again has Phaedrus as the central character,  though this time he speaks in the third and not the first person singular,  and he is presented as the author of the earlier book.  This time he is travelling on a sailing boat instead of on a motor-cycle - and although at one point the sailing boat is used to underline the fact that he is a loner, it is not otherwise used as a trigger for an investigation into the nature of things as the motor-cycle had been used in the previous book.  The tension and suspense of the first book is missing, and from that point of view Lila is less gripping than Zen was.  The reason for this is not that Pirsig's narrative skills have deserted him, but that, whereas Zen had ended with Phaedrus' solution to the problem of what was the ultimate nature of reality, Lila merely works out some implications of this solution.  In order to make the later book a self-contained work, the conclusions which Phaedrus had reached in the first book need to be restated.  Pirsig is too much of a craftsman to do this by mere repetition of what he had said in Zen;  even so, those who have read the earlier book will perhaps feel a certain sense of d&eacute;ja vu.<br /><br />What, then, had Phaedrus discovered as the ultimate nature of reality?  He had felt that the two modes of western thinking, the classical and the romantic, were both unsatisfactory.  The romantic, which will not come to grips with the underlying meaning of phenomena, is basically superficial.  The classical mode, with its analytical procedures, often destroys what it investigates.  The romantic mode stresses the subjective impact on the observer;  the classical stresses the objective nature of the things observed.  Both are part of what, in Lila, Phaedrus calls the subject-object metaphysic;  and the concept that the world can be understood in terms simply of subject and object has been deeply embedded in western thought ever since classical Greek philosophy.  However, the pre-classical Greeks, through their concept of arete, held out the possibility of a richer understanding.  Phaedrus translates arete as \\"Quality\\" (and sometimes as \\"Value\\"), and it is by Quality that the conclusions reached by the classical or the romantic processes need to be judged.<br /><br />What had, in the first book, driven Phaedrus into temporary insanity was the difficulty of defining what exactly this Quality was.  If you are capable of responding to Quality, you know what it is.  It is what you perceive in a work of art (in the romantic mode) or in the elegance of a rational construct (in the classical mode);  and where it is absent, the art or the rational construct convey a defective understanding of the world.  But because (as Phaedrus believed)  this Quality is pre-intellectual, it vanishes the moment you try to pin it down by definitions;  and if you cannot define it, you are at the mercy of the scoffing of such as Rigel (another character in Lila).<br /><br />Besides, Quality is perceived in different ways by different cultures.  Is it therefore a purely relative concept?  Phaedrus thinks not.  In Lila he conceives it in evolutionary terms.  The relativism, therefore, is not absolute:  in all societies Quality is that which leads to improvement.  It is therefore Dynamic (always spelt with a capital D) and not static.<br /><br />Phaedrus describes evolution as going through four phases:  the inorganic;  the biological; the social; and the intellectual.  Mankind originates at the biological level.  The biological level then \\"invents\\" the social level, and it does this for the benefit of the biological level;  therefore every development that leads from the lower to the higher level has Dynamic Quality, and, in that context, has Moral Quality, too.  Nothing that threatens to sacrifice a higher to a lower level is moral.<br /><br />At the social level new patterns or codes are developed which eventually become static.  The social codes regulate the society and so protect it from slipping back to a lower level;  but at the same time their rigidity is often intolerant of intellectual criticism.  That intolerance is immoral when intellectual criticism is Dynamic, i.e. when it is trying to move mankind along to a higher level than the social one.  Intellectual criticism is, however, degenerative and lacking in Moral Quality if, as it were, it allies with the biological level against the social level and would thereby produce a slipping back rather than a moving forward.  In this connection Phaedrus has a trenchant analysis of the hippy culture of the 'seventies.<br /><br />In fact, the applications of Phaedrus' rather abstract scheme constantly enliven the book.  The Metaphysics of Quality is applied to such varied subjects as the work of anthropologists;  sexual behaviour;  the megalopolis;  the free market;  the cult of celebrity; the making of movies based on books;  Victorian \\"hypocrisy\\";  the significance of the New Deal and of fascism;  Islamic fundamentalism;  cultural discrimination;  the nature of mental illness and the attitudes of psychiatrists.evolutionary terms.  The relativism, therefore, is not absolute:  in all societies Quality is that which leads to improvement.  It is therefore Dynamic (always spelt with a capital D) and not static.   <br /> <br />Phaedrus describes evolution as going through four phases:  the inorganic;  the biological; the social; and the intellectual.  Mankind originates at the biological level.  The biological level then \\"invents\\" the social level, and it does this for the benefit of the biological level;  therefore every development that leads from the lower to the higher level has Dynamic Quality, and, in that context, has Moral Quality, too.  Nothing that threatens to sacrifice a higher to a lower level is moral. <br /> <br />At the social level new patterns or codes are developed which eventually become static.  The social codes regulate the society and so protect it from slipping back to a lower level;  but at the same time their rigidity is often intolerant of intellectual criticism.  That intolerance is immoral when intellectual criticism is Dynamic, i.e. when it is trying to move mankind along to a higher level than the social one.  Intellectual criticism is, however, degenerative and lacking in Moral Quality if, as it were, it allies with the biological level against the social level and would thereby produce a slipping back rather than a moving forward.  In this connection Phaedrus has a trenchant analysis of the hippy culture of the 'seventies.   <br /> <br />In fact, the applications of Phaedrus' rather abstract scheme constantly enliven the book.  The Metaphysics of Quality is applied to such varied subjects as the work of anthropologists;  sexual behaviour;  the megalopolis;  the free market;  the cult of celebrity; the making of movies based on books;  Victorian \\"hypocrisy\\";  the significance of the New Deal and of fascism;  Islamic fundamentalism;  cultural discrimination;  the nature of mental illness and the attitudes of psychiatrists.   <br />	2005-03-10
US	52315870	R3A1BDKLIQC0K5	0142000868	631117873	Thinks . . .	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clash of disciplines	A novel about cognitive science, and there are a lot of quite long conversations between the two principal characters about mind-body philosophy which, though central to the fullest understanding of the plot, some readers may find a little daunting.  Both characters keep a private journal.  The man is a sexually predatory cognitive scientist at a university. His private thoughts are coarse and randy.  The woman is a visiting teacher of creative writing and a much more sensitive and sympathetic character.  The book is brilliantly written and paced, a real page-turner with a satisfying ending.	2005-03-10
US	52315870	R1KKTFV4084O1L	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Heart-rending	The most heart-wrenching book I have ever read.  Superbly but unobtrusively crafted, it a story of love, betrayal, guilt and redemption in the context of modern Afghanistan - from the time before that unhappy country was plunged into chaos until the time of Karzai.  The personalities above all; the portrayal of Afghan society at its best and at its worst, both at home and in the diaspora;  the picture of the war-torn country - all these are quite unforgettable.  The author is an Afghan refugee living in America, and one suspects a strong autobiographical element.	2005-03-10
US	52315870	R36GO7DU3I34OA	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An apt title.	Two old men, formerly officers in the Austro-Hungarian army, meet again 41 years after a traumatic day which ruined both their lives and the life of a woman.  The book is beautifully written (and translated), evoking the ethos of the Austro-Hungarian officer corps, the stifling air of the tropics into which one of the two men has fled, and much else besides.  The dialogue - or rather monologues in which the one calls the other to account - is unrealistic but totally gripping.  And one is left with a lesson of how in old age one may be able to focus on what is truly essential and to see the relative insignificance of what was once of such tremendous importance.	2005-03-10
US	52315870	R261NWQEM5CC4C	0060512822	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Immensely evocative	A fanatical Baptist minister tales his long-suffering wife and four daughters to the Congolese jungle.  The chapters are mainly the narratives, over many years, of the daughters, each of whom speaks with a very different voice as they grow up.  Brilliant evocation of life, customs and suffering in the Congo.  How does Kingsolver know it all?	2005-03-10
US	52315870	RUIR1Y6G6I82P	0802138691	189214091	A.J. Ayer: A Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Portrait of a Logical Positivist	A.J.Ayer stood in the tradition of David Hume, Bertrand Russell and the early Wittgenstein. For all of these, metaphysical statements, because they could never be verified by sense observation, were, in a philosophical sense \\"meaningless\\".  Meaningful statements had to be precisely phrased and then verified by sense observation.<br /><br />When Ayer was still a classical scholar at Eton, his interest in philosophy was aroused by Bertrand Russell;  and his tutor at Christ Church, Gilbert Ryle, introduced him to Wittgenstein's work.  Ryle was the only Oxford academic to have taken an interest in Wittgenstein;  nor for that matter did Russell figure in the Oxford philosophy syllabus.  Oxonian philosophers almost all came to the subject through the classics, whereas the Cambridge men had a mathematical or scientific background, which was so much more congenial to a branch of philosophy which aimed to pursue the subject with scientific rigour.  Ayer's background was classical, too;  but he responded enthusiastically to  Wittgenstein (whom he still thought to be the Wittgenstein of the Tractatus:  when the Philosophical Investigations were published, Ayer, like Russell, would think that Wittgenstein had gone soft.)  He wanted to use the interval between his Finals and taking up a lectureship at Christ Church, to study under Wittgenstein.  But Ryle thought the Wittgenstein cult was bad for both of them, and persuaded him instead to go to Vienna and study under Moritz Schlick, one of the leaders of the Vienna Circle.  The Circle's philosophy, itself originally inspired by the Wittgenstein of the Tractatus, was becoming known under the name of Logical Positivism.<br /><br />It could be said that Ayer was already a Logical Positivist before he went to Vienna;  but certainly by the time he returned to Oxford, there was noone in England better informed about Logical Positivism than he.  Ayer was the first to lecture in Oxford on Russell, Wittgenstein and Rudolf Carnap (a member of the Vienna Circle).<br /><br />Isaiah Berlin persuaded Ayer to write a book on his theories, and the result was Language, Truth and Logic, published in 1936, when Ayer was only 26.  The book itself would become a standard text of 20th century British philosophy.  Ben Rogers writes:  \\"The position he defended had become canonical, which was strange considering that it was hard to find anyone who agreed with it. Logical Positivism, as represented by Language, Truth and Logic was probably the school that under-graduate philosophers knew best, but it was a school that, from the beginning, most were taught to refute.\\"  But the refutations, such as they were, eventually came not from metaphysicians who had attacked the book so much from the beginning, but from philosophers who, like Ayer himself, were concerned with the meaning of propositions;  and they included Ayer himself, who over the remainder of his life fine-tuned or modified several theories he had put forward as an impetuous and (Rogers maintains) as an angry young man - angry with the establishment at Oxford which, he felt, had at that time denied him the prizes and promotions that were his due, for reasons that had to do both with philosophical vested interests and with antisemitism.<br /><br />One shortcoming of Rogers' book is that the arguments of scarcely any of Ayer's critics, with the exception of his main rival, J.L.Austin, are given a proper airing;  and the criticisms that are stated of Language, Truth and Logic in the biography are largely those of Ayer himself in later life as he modified his original thesis.<br /><br />The part of Language, Truth and Logic that drew the severest criticism from outside was the position known as \\"emotivism\\", which declared that moral judgments (as well as aesthetic ones) are no more than the expression of a speaker's approval or disapproval.  Moral statements have to do with values, and values are not a proper subject of philosophy as such.  This position made some opponents agree with a Westminster housemaster who described Ayer as \\"the most wicked man in Oxford\\".  (Doubtlessly Ayer's reputation as a libertine was also seen as consequence of what he had written about morals.)<br /><br />And yet Ayer, like Bertrand Russell, did have strong moral feelings and felt that he had to live up to them.  Certainly these did not include conventional moral feelings about sexual behaviour;  but he actively supported a number of progressive social and political causes.  He even agreed in his retirement to become founder President of the Society for Applied Philosophy -an odd position for someone who had argued that philosophy had no role in advising people how to live.  He now described that earlier idea as \\"rather insular\\":  although philosophy cannot lay down moral codes, it can at least help people to clarify their moral choices.  And, as a human being, we ought to make choices - as long as we don't think that they are grounded in philosophy as such.  In this respect he spoke of commitment in much the same way as did the existentialists, for whose general philosophy, with its strong element of metaphysics, he of course had no sympathy.  Ayer knew well that there were things outside of philosophy which were wonderful but about which philosophy as such has nothing to say.<br /><br />The philosophical parts of Rogers' book are not always easy:  he takes quite a lot of philosophical knowledge for granted.  But even readers who do not have such knowledge will be fascinated by the image he gives us of this zestful man and of the society in which he moved.  With all the many reservations one can make of Ayer's character (and about which even his wives were fully aware and articulate), he was hugely admired and loved as a person by a great many people: women, colleagues, students, and others.  The author, who met him only once and for the most fleeting of moments, admits to liking and respecting him.  One can deduce this also from the fact that the people who detested him (and there were some) make only a marginal appearance in the book.This position made some opponents agree with a Westminster housemaster who described Ayer as \\"the most wicked man in Oxford\\".  (Doubtlessly Ayer's reputation as a libertine was also seen as consequence of what he had written about morals.)   <br /> <br />And yet Ayer, like Bertrand Russell, did have strong moral feelings and felt that he had to live up to them.  Certainly these did not include conventional moral feelings about sexual behaviour;  but he actively supported a number of progressive social and political causes.  He even agreed in his retirement to become founder President of the Society for Applied Philosophy -an odd position for someone who had argued that philosophy had no role in advising people how to live.  He now described that earlier idea as \\"rather insular\\":  although philosophy cannot lay down moral codes, it can at least help people to clarify their moral choices.  And, as a human being, we ought to make choices - as long as we don't think that they are grounded in philosophy as such.  In this respect he spoke of commitment in much the same way as did the existentialists, for whose general philosophy, with its strong element of metaphysics, he of course had no sympathy.  Ayer knew well that there were things outside of philosophy which were wonderful but about which philosophy as such has nothing to say.   <br /> <br />The philosophical parts of Rogers' book are not always easy:  he takes quite a lot of philosophical knowledge for granted.  But even readers who do not have such knowledge will be fascinated by the image he gives us of this zestful man and of the society in which he moved.  With all the many reservations one can make of Ayer's character (and about which even his wives were fully aware and articulate), he was hugely admired and loved as a person by a great many people: women, colleagues, students, and others.  The author, who met him only once and for the most fleeting of moments, admits to liking and respecting him.  One can deduce this also from the fact that the people who detested him (and there were some) make only a marginal appearance in the book. <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-03-09
US	52315870	RRE9ZQ06UNE5R	0521003873	350209058	Hegel: A Biography	Books	3	16	28	N	N	A man of contradictions	This monumental work has 665 pages of text, followed by 115 pages of notes, sources, and index.  Ten of its fifteen chapters deal primarily with Hegel's life and with the social, cultural and political climate within which he worked.  These chapters are very accessible, though marred by a style which is sprinkled with colloquialisms and even slang - I have lost count of the number of times Pinkard uses the phrase \\"a bit\\", as in \\"a bit worried\\" or \\"a bit of scepticism\\".  The editorial staff ought to have eliminated these;  not only that, but the proof-reading of the book is quite the worst I have ever come across and is a disgrace to an academic publisher.<br /><br />The technical discussion of Hegel's philosophy is mercifully put into five separate chapters, which I have found almost impenetrable.  A reader who would like the read an outline of Hegel's philosophy would do much better to read Peter Singer's little book in the Oxford University Press (1983).  But Pinkard is scornful of much that has been written about the philosopher previously.  In his Preface he leads the reader to expect a demolition of some of the ideas generally held about Hegel's teaching.  The notion of thesis - antithesis - synthesis which was attributed to Hegel in a popular book (not listed in Pinkard's bibliography) by one Heinrich Moritz Chalyb&auml;us in the middle of the 19th century and was then perpetuated by Marx was never held by Hegel;  and it is true that he used these terms only \\"seldom\\" (Coplestone. Pinkard says \\"never\\".)  But even Pinkard shows how often Hegel explained the development of a new idea arising out of the clash between contradictions.<br /><br />Extraordinarily, Pinkard never mentions the notorious phrases which Hegel applied to the State:  \\"The State is the Divine Idea as it exists on earth\\"; \\"we must therefore worship the State as the manifestation of the Divine on Earth\\";  \\"the State exists for its own sake\\" etc.  All these are quoted and sourced by Karl Popper in his famous attack on Hegel, The Open Society and its Enemies (Vol.II, pp. 31 and 305);  but Popper does not figure in Pinkard's bibliography either.  So these quotations are not confronted:  instead Pinkard (p.494) simply uses a sentence from Hegel's Philosophy of World History to convey the opposite impression:  \\"The universal spirit or world spirit is not the same thing as God\\".<br /><br />Pinkard does bring out the development of Hegel's thought:  like every great philosopher, he changed some of his ideas in the course of his life.  Moreover, he was capable of perplexing his contemporaries by what appeared to them to be contradictions in his behaviour.  The strength of this biography is to show how Hegel could combine sympathy for the early phases of the French Revolution and then for Napoleon with acting, at the very end of his life, as a government commissar to supervise the University of Berlin and therefore responsible for seeing that the University did not fall foul of the repressive Carlsbad decrees to which the Prussian government subscribed.  He approved of the dismissal of a colleague, de Wette, for radicalism, but then urged that he should continue to receive his salary and, when the university refused, contributed to a secret annual fund to support him.  He had great sympathy for those of his students who got into trouble for liberalism, and was yet very hostile to liberalism himself.  No wonder that even in his life-time, the Reformers, with whom Hegel identified himself in many respects, thought he had sold out to the conservatives.  Pinkard generally defends him against this charge.  As Hegel himself pointed out to Heine, his famous sentence that \\"the Real is the Rational and the Rational is the Real\\" consisted of two statements;  and whilst the first of them has a conservative bend, the second has a radical one: if a situation is not or is no longer rational, it loses the claim to be real.  After Hegel's death, the Young Hegelians (also called Left Hegelians) would use the second part of the sentence as their lodestar, and would restore to the Dialectic the dynamism which is built into it and with which conservatism was really very ill-matched.<br /><br />Certainly Hegel was constantly opposed by the reactionaries in the Prussian government and always felt in danger of being denounced as a \\"demagogue\\" (i.e. subversive) or an atheist, either of which would have been a cause for his dismissal.  He survived because of the patronage of the Education Minister, von Altenstein.<br /><br />One of the most interesting themes of the book is the immense importance the reformers attached to the universities as the motor of enlightenment, reform and modernization;  and within the universities, the principal task of promoting Bildung (culture based on independent thought) should fall upon the departments of philosophy.  Hegel had his first academic appointment at Jena (1801 to 1808).  His identification with the ideas of the reformers secured him appointments to professorships, first in Heidelberg (1816 to 1818) and then in Berlin (1818 to his death in 1831).  Unfortunately, as Pinkard points out, whenever Hegel took up a university position, the cause for which he stood happened to be in retreat:  at Jena the reforming philosophers were leaving just as he arrived and the university was subsequently devastated by the French bombardment during the Battle of Jena (1806);  at Heidelberg the traditionalists (who there included most of the students) were fighting back;  and at Berlin the Carslbad Decrees of 1819 also put the reformers on the defensive.<br /><br />Pinkard is also interesting on Hegel's personality.  Extremely sociable and convivial in private life, he was dry, ponderous and  nervous as a lecturer;  and yet he gradually attracted very large and loyal student audiences, who took his pauses, hesitations and repetitions as signs that he was arguing with himself while speaking, appearing, as it were, to put the dialectic into operation even while he was thinking.  The contradictions which infuse his theories are also present in his life.d Left Hegelians) would use the second part of the sentence as their lodestar, and would restore to the Dialectic the dynamism which is built into it and with which conservatism was really very ill-matched.   <br /> <br />Certainly Hegel was constantly opposed by the reactionaries in the Prussian government and always felt in danger of being denounced as a \\"demagogue\\" (i.e. subversive) or an atheist, either of which would have been a cause for his dismissal.  He survived because of the patronage of the Education Minister, von Altenstein. <br /> <br />One of the most interesting themes of the book is the immense importance the reformers attached to the universities as the motor of enlightenment, reform and modernization;  and within the universities, the principal task of promoting Bildung (culture based on independent thought) should fall upon the departments of philosophy.  Hegel had his first academic appointment at Jena (1801 to 1808).  His identification with the ideas of the reformers secured him appointments to professorships, first in Heidelberg (1816 to 1818) and then in Berlin (1818 to his death in 1831).  Unfortunately, as Pinkard points out, whenever Hegel took up a university position, the cause for which he stood happened to be in retreat:  at Jena the reforming philosophers were leaving just as he arrived and the university was subsequently devastated by the French bombardment during the Battle of Jena (1806);  at Heidelberg the traditionalists (who there included most of the students) were fighting back;  and at Berlin the Carslbad Decrees of 1819 also put the reformers on the defensive. <br /> <br />Pinkard is also interesting on Hegel's personality.  Extremely sociable and convivial in private life, he was dry, ponderous and  nervous as a lecturer;  and yet he gradually attracted very large and loyal student audiences, who took his pauses, hesitations and repetitions as signs that he was arguing with himself while speaking, appearing, as it were, toput the dialectic into operation even while he was thinking.  The contradictions which infuse his theories are also present in his life. <br />	2005-03-09
US	52315870	RUUACGWBURQU1	0375758771	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Absorbing	Not a completely flawless book: some episodes seem unattached to the main story, and the very last few pages require a knowledge of post-war Burmese history which is not easy to deduce from the text.  But this is a book which wonderfully creates a world - especially Burma and Malaya - of which most readers will know very little.  It is a story of three families across three generations of interesting personalities;  complex, sometimes strange, often moving.  Politics throughout the 20th century impinges on them, and especially interesting is the position of men who had joined the Indian regiments of the British Army and who came to see themselves as mercenaries who held down the Burmese and were used to fight for a British cause against the Japanese.  The horrors of the Japanese invasions of Malaya and Burma are also hauntingly described.	2005-03-09
US	52315870	R1EJXEA9S6JV1H	0805063005	638112257	Isaiah Berlin: A Life	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The fox who aims to be a hedgehog	Twentieth Century philosophers in England fall into two groups.  The bigger is the one whose members engage in analyzing the meanings of words and the ways that we use them.  While this is undoubtedly an important enterprise, it is often rather arid and does not touch on what is really significant to most people.  These philosophers tend to teach us cleverness.<br /><br />The other, rather smaller group, to which Isaiah Berlin belonged (after having started as a member of the first group), addresses itself chiefly to human concerns, to how we ought to live.  I maintain that men like him teach us wisdom.<br /><br />Isaiah Berlin certainly did not live in an ivory tower;  and in Michael Ignatieff's immensely attractive biography we can follow his engagement in the great world.  Like many other academics, he worked in government during the Second World War: at the Ministry of Information in New York and then at the British Embassy in Washington and (very briefly just after the war) at the Moscow Embassy.  As a committed Zionist, he played a minor but not unimportant role, acting as an intermediary between his friend Chaim Weizmann and American politicians during the period when American attitudes towards the aspiration for an independent Israel were being shaped. Weizmann and Ben Gurion both asked him to move to Israel and play a part in shaping the nascent state;  but Berlin declined.  One reason for this was that he felt himself temperamentally unfitted for the intrigues, infighting and abrasiveness that such a role would involve.<br /><br />Ignatieff shows repeatedly how, although Berlin had political commitments - particularly to Zionism and to anti-Communism - he shied away from being put into a confrontational position.  He did not like making enemies;  he liked to please;  he was uncomfortably aware of his dual allegiance when working for a British government which was unsympathetic to Zionist aspirations.  There seems to me no doubt that the philosophy which would develop in due course was a sublimation of his psychology.  It should go without saying that this is not said in denigration of his philosophy:  some of the greatest achievements in creativity have been driven by personal needs of this kind.  One must judge the value of a philosophy by the quality of the end product, not by its psychological origins.<br /><br />One of Berlin's essays is entitled The Hedgehog and the Fox.  The fox, so an ancient Greek once said, knows many things;  the hedgehog knows one big thing. Ignatieff argues that Berlin indeed knew many things but that he had been in search of the one big thing that would make sense not only of the tensions he felt within himself, but also of those which any open-minded person must feel when seeing that in so many important conflicts, whether in personal life, in the history of ideas, in politics, or in philosophical situations, there is so much to be said for each side.  He found this one big thing in the notion of Pluralism.<br /><br />Pluralism means that every individual and every society must accept that there is never one absolute value to which other values must be subordinated.  There are many values in life which all command respect;  but the most important of these - freedom, justice, equality, tolerance, compassion, loyalty - often must collide.  Take, for example, Liberty and Equality.  Both are rightly sought after;  but equality can only be achieved by curtailing the liberty of action which, if granted, will result in some people pulling ahead of others.  And even a single value, like equality, has tension built into it:  do we look for equality of opportunity or equality of outcome?  Again, if we want equality of opportunity, the result may be inequality of outcome;  if we want to ensure equality of outcome, we cannot also have equality of opportunity.  There are occasions when unavoidable collisions of values - of allegiance or of moral duty, for example - are the very stuff of tragedy.<br/><br />Berlin was a liberal and believed in rational discussion;  but he thought that no amount of rational discussion can resolve these conflicts of values;  and for him it was certainly not a solution to give to any one value absolute priority over others which have as good a claim to be universal.<br /><br />Berlin was as fascinated by those ideologies which he regarded as inhuman as he was by those he shared.  He once said that he would never describe Nazism as mad.  It did indeed rest on totally perverted axioms, but upon these axioms its theorists did erect an intellectual structure:  how else could one explain that fascism was espoused not just by thugs,  but by many academics at universities and by  thinkers in other walks of life?  Even more so was this the case with Marxism:  he detested it, but he truly understood it from within.  Ignatieff comments that \\"Berlin was the only liberal thinker of real consequence to take the trouble to enter the mental worlds of liberalism's sworn enemies.\\"  And although liberalism and nationalism, usually allies in the first half of the 19th century, parted company thereafter, Berlin was also one of those rare modern liberals who had respect for nationalism.  The freedom to give expression to national identity was an important freedom,  but of course it must not itself become oppressive of other people's national identity.<br /><br />As the book's title suggests, this is a biography that focusses most strongly on the philosopher's life.  An exposition of his ideas is skilfully woven into the narrative; but it is not until we are two-thirds of the way through the book, when Berlin had reached the age of 40, that we come upon the chapter headed \\"Late Awakening\\" - awakening, that is, to the ideas for which he became famous.  But I cannot praise highly enough the loving and vivid portrait of Isaiah Berlin that Ignatieff has given us and the fascinating account of his private and public life.of tragedy. <br /> <br />Berlin was a liberal and believed in rational discussion;  but he thought that no amount of rational discussion can resolve these conflicts of values;  and for him it was certainly not a solution to give to any one value absolute priority over others which have as good a claim to be universal.   <br /> <br />Berlin was as fascinated by those ideologies which he regarded as inhuman as he was by those he shared.  He once said that he would never describe Nazism as mad.  It did indeed rest on totally perverted axioms, but upon these axioms its theorists did erect an intellectual structure:  how else could one explain that fascism was espoused not just by thugs,  but by many academics at universities and by  thinkers in other walks of life?  Even more so was this the case with Marxism:  he detested it, but he truly understood it from within.  Ignatieff comments that \\"Berlin was the only liberal thinker of real consequence to take the trouble to enter the mental worlds of liberalism's sworn enemies.\\"  And although liberalism and nationalism, usually allies in the first half of the 19th century, parted company thereafter, Berlin was also one of those rare modern liberals who had respect for nationalism.  The freedom to give expression to national identity was an important freedom,  but of course it must not itself become oppressive of other people's national identity. <br /> <br />As the book's title suggests, this is a biography that focusses most strongly on the philosopher's life.  An exposition of his ideas is skilfully woven into the narrative; but it is not until we are two-thirds of the way through the book, when Berlin had reached the age of 40, that we come upon the chapter headed \\"Late Awakening\\" - awakening, that is, to the ideas for which he became famous.  But I cannot praise highly enough the loving and vivid portrait of Isaiah Berlin that Ignatieff has given us and the fascinating account of his private and public life.  <br />	2005-03-09
US	52315870	RR6LIWJ5YW6OI	1573229334	378825763	Losing Gemma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A tense read	Two young women, friends from childhood, go back-packing to India - exotic at first, then increasingly sinister.  Marvellously vivid descriptions and tense situations, though the emotions tend to be a little over-written and repetitive.  But it is a real page-turner: one really wants to know what happens next.	2005-03-09
US	52315870	R3IGQHZ23XG3UM	080507189X	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A master craftsman	The bulk of this splendid book deals with the relationship between Wagner and Schopenhauer; but that is preceded by a discussion of the influence of Feuerbach's philosophy on the composer;  and it concludes with a fascinating chapter on Wagner's influence on Nietzsche.<br /><br />In his youth Richard Wagner was a left wing radical and, at the age of 35, had played an active part in the Dresden uprising in 1849.  The brand of left wing philosophy he espoused was Anarchism:  the theory of Bakunin and of Proudhon was that all government, being based on force, is corrupt.  For his part in the revolution, he had to flee to Switzerland, and while there, he read another left wing philosopher, Ludwig Feuerbach.  Feuerbach also condemned  relationships based on power:  they should instead be based on Love.  One of Wagner's earliest operas, Das Liebesverbot (The Ban on Love, 1836) had already extolled love which burst through the bounds of the conventional institutions that tried to trammel it:  in his later operas, Wagner proclaims that love should recognize no barriers, not of adultery nor even of incest.<br /><br />In Switzerland Wagner began work on The Ring cycle.  Das Rheingold, the first of the four operas, had an almost overtly political message:  the lust for power has destroyed the natural order of things and is destructive of love.  This was the view of many anarchists whose objective was to liberate society by political means from all kinds of external control.<br /><br />But by the time he had finished Rheingold, he had undergone a momentous conversion.  To begin with, he had become disillusioned with politics.  The 1848 revolutions had failed, and Louis Napoleon's authoritarian coup in 1851 made Wagner despair that the world could be improved by political action.  It was while he was in the deepest depression that, in 1854, he discovered the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer.<br /><br />Schopenhauer had a bleak and pessimistic view of the world.  We are dominated by an impersonal Will which relentlessly drives us to struggle against the sufferings of the world and which fills us with restless and unattainable longings.  For Schopenhauer the Will was a terrible affliction.  He thought that there were a few remedies:  one of these was to lose oneself in art (and in music as the highest of the arts) and so escape from the sufferings in the phenomenal world (the world of appearances) into the ethereal realm of the noumenal world.<br /><br />Wagner had already expressed this longing for nothingness in The Flying Dutchman (1841);  and he had already preached the redemptive power of music.  He had then come to the conclusion that society was actually irredeemable, and this had plunged him into his profound depression.  Now Schopenhauer showed him that  redemption was possible for individuals even if it was not possible for society.  Wagner had intuitively used the motif of renunciation in The Flying Dutchman, in Tannh&auml;user (1845) and in Lohengrin (1848).  He now found his intuition articulated in the philosophy of Schopenhauer.  He even found that the shape of the entire libretto for the Ring (which had been conceived as early as 1850 although the music for the end of the cycle had yet to be composed) had intuitively moved from the quasi-political nature of Rheingold to the metaphysical message of the G&ouml;tterd&auml;mmerung.  From 1854 until his death Wagner steeped himself in Schopenhauer;  and Magee traces the way in which the composer quite specifically and deliberately introduced one Schopenhauerian idea after another into his libretti and into the music which was conceived with more intensely philosophical meaning than any music had ever been before - a process culminating in Tristan and Isolde (1860).<br /><br />Schopenhauer had seen Compassion as another way of escaping the fetters of the ruthless Will that operates in the noumenal world.  It is this idea which is one theme in Wagner's last opera, Parsifal (1881).Because of the Christian symbols that figure in this work, it has often been taken to be a Christian work.  Magee argues powerfully against this:  Wagner was no more a committed Christian when he composed Parsifal than he had been a committed pagan when he put the Germanic gods on the stage in the Ring.<br /><br />Nietzsche claimed that Wagner had \\"sold out\\" to Christianity in the libretto of Parsifal;  and Magee's last chapter before the appendix deals with the influence that Wagner had on Nietzsche.  Nietzsche had begun as a devotee of both Wagner and Schopenhauer. Later, pace Magee, he had an obsessive need to become independent and to escape from Wagner's influence.  He broke violently with Wagner (and with Schopenhauer also), and launched a series of tirades against Wagner's outlook, each of which Magee parries with vigorous refutation.  Magee accounts for the breach almost entirely in terms of Nietzsche's psychology, though he readily admits that Nietzsche's philosophy was itself of towering importance and influence.  I think Magee's refutations of Nietzsche's charges are valid, although one is struck throughout the book by the superlatives which Magee constantly showers on Wagner's thought and work.  And one of Nietzsche's specific charges against Wagner - that Wagner's antisemitism was vulgar and despicable - is not mentioned in this chapter at all.<br /><br />However, that topic is dealt with in an Appendix, partly because Magee does not regard antisemitism as a philosophy and therefore not part of the subject of the book.  Like any right-thinking person, he finds Wagner's antisemitism totally repellent.  But even if it were a philosophy, however, Magee argues that there is no justification for seeing antisemitism playing any role in the operas, although many productions of the operas, during the Nazi period especially, portrayed them as such, and many post-war writers have insisted that Wagner as an antisemite did mean to endow figures like Mime and Beckmesser with the stereotyped hateful Jewish characteristics.  In any case, Magee concludes, Wagner's genius as an artist is no more compromised by his antisemitism than is the genius of Dostoevsky by his.  And to the genius of Wagner this book is splendid tribute.881).  Because of the Christian symbols that figure in this work, it has often been taken to be a Christian work.  Magee argues powerfully against this:  Wagner was no more a committed Christian when he composed Parsifal than he had been a committed pagan when he put the Germanic gods on the stage in the Ring.   <br /> <br />Nietzsche claimed that Wagner had \\"sold out\\" to Christianity in the libretto of Parsifal;  and Magee's last chapter before the appendix deals with the influence that Wagner had on Nietzsche.  Nietzsche had begun as a devotee of both Wagner and Schopenhauer. Later, pace Magee, he had an obsessive need to become independent and to escape from Wagner's influence.  He broke violently with Wagner (and with Schopenhauer also), and launched a series of tirades against Wagner's outlook, each of which Magee parries with vigorous refutation.  Magee accounts for the breach almost entirely in terms of Nietzsche's psychology, though he readily admits that Nietzsche's philosophy was itself of towering importance and influence.  I think Magee's refutations of Nietzsche's charges are valid, although one is struck throughout the book by the superlatives which Magee constantly showers on Wagner's thought and work.  And one of Nietzsche's specific charges against Wagner - that Wagner's antisemitism was vulgar and despicable - is not mentioned in this chapter at all. <br /> <br />However, that topic is dealt with in an Appendix, partly because Magee does not regard antisemitism as a philosophy and therefore not part of the subject of the book.  Like any right-thinking person, he finds Wagner's antisemitism totally repellent.  But even if it were a philosophy, however, Magee argues that there is no justification for seeing antisemitism playing any role in the operas, although many productions of the operas, during the Nazi period especially, portrayed them as such, and many post-war writers have insisted that Wagner as an antisemite did mean to endow figures like Mime and Beckmesser with the stereotyped hateful Jewish characteristics.  In any case, Magee concludes, Wagner's genius as an artist is no more compromised by his antisemitism than is the genius of Dostoevsky by his.  And to the genius of Wagner this book is splendid tribute.  <br />	2005-03-09
US	52315870	RKS6VG0WYWUX6	0375750363	813192898	Confessions of a Philosopher: A Personal Journey Through Western Philosophy from Plato to Popper (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	58	58	N	N	A search for meaning	Confessions can be of two kinds: confessions of faith and confessions of failure.  Bryan Magee's vividly written intellectual autobiography has the character of both.  His convictions make for exhilarating reading;  but his failure to find in philosophy a reliable answer to his deepest concerns casts a shadow over the book, which darkens in the last chapter to a tormented despondency.<br /><br />Magee's basic conviction is that philosophy is hugely important, in that it deals - or should deal - with all our ultimate questions about what the world, and therefore our existence in this world, is really like.  His most trenchant attacks are on the Logical Positivists who dominated the Oxford scene at the time when he was an undergraduate there, and for many years afterwards.  They ruled out as \\"non-philosophical\\" any discussion which was carried on in language that did not meet their narrow criteria of meaningfulness.  The Linguistic Philosophers, who gradually took over from the Logical Positivists, were even less concerned with the truth or verifiability of a proposition.  Instead, they thought that the principal task of philosophy was to elucidate the way words were used in practice, by examining, for example, the way in which the same word might mean different things to different people.  They believed that it was not the business of philosophers to go beyond that and to produce any theories:  as Gilbert Ryle defined it, philosophy was merely \\"talk about talk\\".<br /><br />Magee describes these Oxford philosophers as having all the characteristics of a narrow and intolerant sect.  They considered that Kant and Schopenhauer, who showed up the limits of empiricism, had so little to say that seemed to them \\"meaningful\\" that no acquaintance with them was required of undergraduates.  Neither Kant nor Schopenhauer were part of the philosophy courses at Oxford, which jumped straight from Hume to Wittgenstein.<br /><br />Magee had the strong conviction that the empirical world cannot be all there is:  empirical and linguistic theories had nothing to say about those experiences we have, and have very intensely, which are therefore profoundly meaningful, but whose source we can hardly explain adequately:  these include the arts (and especially Magee's great love of music) and intimate personal relationships.<br /><br />After Oxford, Magee took a post-graduate course at Yale.  He draws a vivid contrast between the cliquish atmosphere among Oxford philosophers and the broad and generous interest in the whole field of philosophy at Yale.  There Magee discovered Kant, and at last he had found a thinker who spoke to his intuition that there was more to philosophy than the dry, narrow and limited fare that was dished out at Oxford.  For it was Kant who explained that there must be a reality (the noumenal world) beyond the phenomenal world of which we have experience;  that the noumenal world is something we cannot ever know because we are forced to perceive the world in terms of the concepts and categories which we have as human beings and which may not correspond at all with what Reality is actually like.<br /><br />For Magee, however, the existence of a truth hidden from us has always been for him \\"almost intolerably frustrating\\" (a phrase he uses several times in the book);  and so it was not until he discovered Schopenhauer that his thirst for a philosophical glimpse of what that Reality might be was somewhat assuaged.<br /><br />In many ways, Schopenhauer says,  we see ourselves phenomenally, as material objects mediated by space and time;  but as material objects we are unique in knowing ourselves also from the inside.  Because we are part of the noumenal reality, we therefore also experience something of the noumenon, as it were, from the inside, feeling the noumenon at work within us (even though we don't know what it is.)  That experience is direct and intuitive; it is not the result of reasoning or of perceptions mediated by our concepts.  It is not sensory at all and cannot be adequately described in sensory terms.  For example, when we hear music or see a work of art, we can give a sensory description in terms of sound or sight signals we receive;  but more significant is the non-sensory experience which transports us into a non-sensory realm, gives us a feeling of at-One-ness with something beyond ourselves, i.e. with the noumenal.<br /><br />That discovery was for Magee an enormous enrichment of the way he understood himself and could establish in some way a connection between himself and the noumenon.  But even Schopenhauer does not fully deal with Magee's \\"almost intolerable frustrations\\";  and we now have to turn to the second meaning of \\"Confessions\\":  the confession of a kind of failure, the cloud that casts a shadow over his entire philosophical enterprise.<br /><br />Almost throughout his life Magee has been haunted by an existentialist Angst, and he records times when this has plunged him into real terror.  In his last chapter he defines the ultimate questions of philosophy as \\"questions that are of the greatest possible urgency for us, concerning as they do our annihilation or survival.\\"  He courageously admits, more than once, that the prospect of extinction terrifies him.  He is not religious;  he thinks that religious beliefs in any kind of immortality are based on wishful thinking;  but he hopes desperately that there might be philosophical grounds for believing in some kind of the survival of the Self.  If there is no kind of immortality at all, then life is absurd in the sense in which some of the continental Existentialists used that word.  But Magee is not prepared to conclude that life is absurd;  he is still hoping that philosophy may break through to produce a convincing argument for some kind of immortality.<br /><br />Most of the book can be understood and enjoyed by readers who come to it with no previous knowledge of philosophy;  the style is crystal clear, expansive and vigorous, except perhaps in the last chapter whose content is also rather harder going.s mediated by our concepts.  It is not sensory at all and cannot be adequately described in sensory terms.  For example, when we hear music or see a work of art, we can give a sensory description in terms of sound or sight signals we receive;  but more significant is the non-sensory experience which transports us into a non-sensory realm, gives us a feeling of at-One-ness with something beyond ourselves, i.e. with the noumenal.   <br /> <br />That discovery was for Magee an enormous enrichment of the way he understood himself and could establish in some way a connection between himself and the noumenon.  But even Schopenhauer does not fully deal with Magee's \\"almost intolerable frustrations\\";  and we now have to turn to the second meaning of \\"Confessions\\":  the confession of a kind of failure, the cloud that casts a shadow over his entire philosophical enterprise.   <br /> <br />Almost throughout his life Magee has been haunted by an existentialist Angst, and he records times when this has plunged him into real terror.  In his last chapter he defines the ultimate questions of philosophy as \\"questions that are of the greatest possible urgency for us, concerning as they do our annihilation or survival.\\"  He courageously admits, more than once, that the prospect of extinction terrifies him.  He is not religious;  he thinks that religious beliefs in any kind of immortality are based on wishful thinking;  but he hopes desperately that there might be philosophical grounds for believing in some kind of the survival of the Self.  If there is no kind of immortality at all, then life is absurd in the sense in which some of the continental Existentialists used that word.  But Magee is not prepared to conclude that life is absurd;  he is still hoping that philosophy may break through to produce a convincing argument for some kind of immortality.   <br /> <br />Most of the book can be understood and enjoyed by readers who come to it with no previous knowledge of philosophy;  thestyle is crystal clear, expansive and vigorous, except perhaps in the last chapter whose content is also rather harder going.   <br />	2005-03-09
US	52315870	RVUKCXYM7PCY9	0415095301	800649485	The Ethical Primate: Humans, Freedom and Morality	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ethics and Evolution	The purpose of this book is to suggest how the ethical sense of humans is likely to have developed in the course of evolution.  Many so-called Darwinians have seen this development as \\"merely\\" another mechanism in the struggle for survival.  They have argued that morality, properly understood, is nothing other than a more or less enlightened codification of self-interest, a view that had already been put forward by Hobbes and by Bentham.  For Herbert Spencer moral feelings that weaken the human species in the struggle for survival were aberrations to be corrected:  on these grounds he thought that the desire to help the unfit poor should not find a place in a proper system of ethics. Man was part of Nature;  Nature was \\"red in tooth and claw\\";  and this fierce competition was supposed to make for evolutionary progress. (Social Darwinists never really bothered to study animals, or they would have seen that in the natural world cooperation and interdependence are at least as important as competition).  Another Darwinian, like T.H.Huxley, was so appalled by this approach to ethics that he removed ethics from the evolutionary process altogether:  Man's moral ends, he said, were not those of the ruthless cosmic process.<br /><br />Mary Midgley rejects both these reactions to Darwin's work:  the Hobbes-Bentham-Spencer view because it is reductionist and Huxley's because it is untenable.  The thrust of her book is to show that genuine altruism is as much a product of evolution as are other developments;  it is partly rooted in our physical instinctual inheritance, but it is also the result of the special way in which humans are conscious of themselves and can enter imaginatively into the feelings of others.<br /><br />She develops these ideas in the last third of her book, after having devoted the first two thirds to a comprehensive attack on all reductionist theories of behaviour - that is, theories which purport to explain complex human behaviour in terms of something simpler and fundamental, such a purely physical processes.  I have not the space to comment on this part of her powerful arguments here.<br /><br />In the last third of the book, then, Midgley considers how in evolutionary terms our moral sense might have developed. Her starting point is a hitherto little noticed comment of Darwin's:  indeed, most people did not seem to know that he had written anything at all about ethics.  Darwin had observed that parent swallows follow one of their instincts in joining migrating flocks while being apparently untroubled by the rival instinct not to desert nestlings who are left behind to die.  In this case an instinct which is temporarily very powerful quite blots out one which Midgley describes as \\"a habitual feeling which is much weaker at any one time, but is stronger in that it is far more persistent and lies deeper in the character.\\"  The reason why the swallows evince no hesitation or feeling of conflict between the two courses is that their intellectual power is not highly enough developed.  It is, Darwin wrote, \\"exceedingly likely that any animal whatever, endowed with well-marked social instincts, would inevitably acquire a moral sense or conscience as soon as its intellectual powers had become as well-developed, or anything like as well-developed, as in man.\\"  Morality develops when creatures become conscious of the inevitable conflict in their feelings;  and in the more highly developed animals the signs of the struggle between opposing impulses are quite clearly observable.<br /><br />Human thought brings with it a number of characteristics which, if they exist at all in animals, do so to a much weaker degree: humans have a well developed possibility of imaginative empathy with the feelings of other creatures:  they become not merely self-conscious but also conscious of others.  They care about what others are thinking and feeling, not least about themselves.  They understand the consequences of actions.  When they haveviolated what the weaker but deeper feelings tell them, they feel guilt;  when they observe others violating them, they become judgmental.  They understand the consequences of actions.  They want to have some control over their conflicting emotions - not just for mechanically \\"evolutionary\\" reasons, but because they value the freedom which may prevent them from being passively swept hither and thither by their instincts like a piece of flotsam on a powerful wave.  Having become conscious of their instincts clashing, they want to establish for themselves a system of priorities;  and the purpose of a moral code is to establish that system of priorities.  The priorities they establish bear some signs of \\"selfish\\" evolutionary programming:  to put the interests of one's children before those of the needier stranger, for example;  but it is the capacity of thought and of feeling (Midgley constantly stresses that theories which set these two in a hierarchical scheme are badly reductionist) which gradually widens the range of creatures towards whom we accept increasing degrees of responsibility.<br /><br />I am not in a position to pronounce on the validity of the origins of morality as Mary Midgley presents them.  I would suspect that reductionist arguments cannot be quite as crass as she suggests, were it not for the devastating quotations she adduces from some of their academic exponents.  As usual, she writes extremely well and lucidly.  She is totally devoid of philosophical jargon; and almost every page has a memorable phrase or striking image, as well as a fine sweep of reference to which a short review like this cannot do justice.  It is a deeply humane and attractive book.hen they have violated what the weaker but deeper feelings tell them, they feel guilt;  when they observe others violating them, they become judgmental.  They understand the consequences of actions.   They want to have some control over their conflicting emotions - not just for mechanically \\"evolutionary\\" reasons, but because they value the freedom which may prevent them from being passively swept hither and thither by their instincts like a piece of flotsam on a powerful wave.  Having become conscious of their instincts clashing, they want to establish for themselves a system of priorities;  and the purpose of a moral code is to establish that system of priorities.  The priorities they establish bear some signs of \\"selfish\\" evolutionary programming:  to put the interests of one's children before those of the needier stranger, for example;  but it is the capacity of thought and of feeling (Midgley constantly stresses that theories which set these two in a hierarchical scheme are badly reductionist) which gradually widens the range of creatures towards whom we accept increasing degrees of responsibility. <br /> <br />I am not in a position to pronounce on the validity of the origins of morality as Mary Midgley presents them.  I would suspect that reductionist arguments cannot be quite as crass as she suggests, were it not for the devastating quotations she adduces from some of their academic exponents.  As usual, she writes extremely well and lucidly.  She is totally devoid of philosophical jargon; and almost every page has a memorable phrase or striking image, as well as a fine sweep of reference to which a short review like this cannot do justice.  It is a deeply humane and attractive book. <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-03-08
US	52315870	R2BF8K2PA9LZ9J	0820320412	297384950	Animals and Why They Matter	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Philosophising about animals	Mary Midgley examines the general principles that ought to guide our attitude to animals. Midgley quotes a large number of philosophers who in the past have philosophized about animals. Some of them have considered the question of what obligations, if any, we have towards animals. Their answers have depended both on what they take an animal to be and on what they consider to be the cause, the nature and the range of obligations. Descartes, for example, considered that, because animals lacked souls and, more importantly, reasoning faculties, they are mere machines. Even in Descartes' day, such a conclusion must have seemed very odd to anyone who had much to do with animals: for even if one agreed that they did lack souls and reasoning faculties, any farmer or hunter could have told Descartes that relationships with animals are radically different from relationships with machines. But even writers of our own time, while not thinking of animals as machines, still deny them the capacity of thought: R.G.Frey because thought requires language and animals cannot speak; Stuart Hampshire because in the absence of language they cannot have concepts. Yet the simplest observations of how animals communicate with each other and even with humans would seem to suggest that thought, concepts and reasoning do not depend totally on a human language.<br /><br />Behaviourists go even further: we cannot even be sure that animals have feelings. The denial of thought and feelings to animals serve to erect such a strong barrier between the human and the animal species that we can exclude the animal species from the obligations we feel towards our fellow human beings. One of the most striking part of Midgley's book is her demonstration how easily past generations were able to overlook even other humans as belonging to a group towards which they had obligations. Thus the Athenians, who prided themselves on civic equality, and the Americans who proclaimed that all men were created equal, simply assumed that slaves did not count as humans: indeed Aristotle described slaves as being merely \\"living instruments\\". The Chartists demanded universal suffrage for men, but either did not even think of extending that demand to women or, if they did, found some rationalization for excluding them. The excluded groups were, in Midgley's words, consigned to the outer darkness, beyond the outer periphery of a group towards the members of which certain obligations were recognized. In the 20th century, denials of full membership of the group and the discrimination which this entails have been condemned under the name of various kinds of \\"-isms\\": racism for denying membership to other races, sexism for denying it to women, ageism for denying it to the old - and now speciesism for denying it to animals. Midgley's book is a sign that the time has come to widen the periphery of our obligations to include animals.<br /><br />Midgley admits that it is natural to be more concerned with those who are closest to us, and she has a diagram of concentric circles to illustrate that we are concerned most immediately with our family, then with our tribe, then with our nation, then with our species, and only then with non-human species. We often treat appallingly badly and cast into the \\"outer darkness\\" human groups that are outside the smaller circles; but any ethically sensitive person has to condemn such behaviour: charity, as the proverb has it, begins at home, but it ought not to stop there. This is the principle that should also apply when we consider the outer circle of the non-human species.<br /><br />Midgley's tone is always moderate and she never takes up the position of radical or extreme zoophiles who would want us to give to all animals exactly the same rights as we give to humans. She accepts that there must be some priority of considerations and that there can be situations where it is reasonable for us to put the interests of humans before those of animals, though she says that such cases are much fewer than is often supposed. They would include, for example, dealing with locusts and other pests. She does not go into specific details about killing animals for food; but one can deduce from her text that she would accept that Eskimoes cannot be vegetarians and are therefore justified to kill for food, and that she does not condemn pastoral societies who treat their animals well prior to slaughtering them. On the other hand she clearly abhors stuffing geese to produce pat&eacute; de foie gras. She states the general principle that great suffering inflicted on animals on the outer periphery ought to weigh against the minor advantage that this might bring to those within the inner circles.<br /><br />One would like to think that at the end of her examination, Midgley had arrived at positions which most sensitive people would have reached without all that philosophizing, guided merely by their humanity and common sense. Most of them would understand instinctively why animals matter; but unfortunately many people give this understanding such a low priority that as citizens they do not do enough to take on the vested interests and those who are too apathetic to care very much. Perhaps this well-written and wise little book would stir them into action.gh she says that such cases are much fewer than is often supposed. They would include, for example, dealing with locusts and other pests. She does not go into specific details about killing animals for food; but one can deduce from her text that she would accept that Eskimoes cannot be vegetarians and are therefore justified to kill for food, and that she does not condemn pastoral societies who treat their animals well prior to slaughtering them. On the other hand she clearly abhors stuffing geese to produce pat de foie gras. She states the general principle that great suffering inflicted on animals on the outer periphery ought to weigh against the minor advantage that this might bring to those within the inner circles.  <br /> <br />One would like to think that at the end of her examination, Midgley had arrived at positions which most sensitive people would have reached without all that philosophizing, guided merely by their humanity and common sense. Most of them would understand instinctively why animals matter; but unfortunately many people give this understanding such a low priority that as citizens they do not do enough to take on the vested interests and those who are too apathetic to care very much. Perhaps this well-written and wise little book would stir them into action. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-26
US	52315870	R3955LTQY2BJ84	3906764877	94998078	Musik hinter Stacheldraht: Tagebuchbltter aus dem Sommer 1940 (Exil-Dokumente) (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Music behind barbed wire	In May 1940, when Hitler launched the invasion of Holland, Belgium and France,  the British government interned, as a precaution,  many thousands of \\"enemy aliens\\" living in Britain.  A very high proportion of these were in fact Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany.  Among them was the composer Hans G&aacute;l.  His group were first interned in a camp at Huyton, outside Liverpool, and were then moved to the Isle of Man.  This book is the diary he kept during that time, and it makes absorbing reading.  (So far this work, written in German, has not yet appeared in English.)<br /><br />G&aacute;l was not only a musical but also a literary artist, and this diary is so vividly written that one feels one is sharing all his experiences.  There is of course the indignation that these refugees should have been interned at all.  The early days were particularly hard, with internees having to sleep on the floor,and with insufficient food and inadequate sanitary arrangements;  but even later G&aacute;l expresses sardonic and angry contempt at the insensitivity and incompetence of the military authorities, though he usually (with one exception) acquits them of malevolence:  unlike the Nazis, they were after all not out deliberately to maltreat the internees.  In fact they organized themselves much more efficiently than the authorities were able to do - the latter grateful, for example, at the card-index the internees provided:  such an idea seemed never to have occurred to them, and as a result thousands of letters for the internees had piled up simply because the authorities were not sure in which of the houses a particular internee was accommodated.  But self-organization went far beyond  such administrative matters.  Many of the internees were distinguished musicians and academics, and the camp very soon became a lively cultural centre, with lectures and concerts.  In the latter G&aacute;l played a major part.  While in Huyton, he composed a suite for two violins and flute (the only instruments at that time available in the camp), and later he wrote the music for a revue which was performed twice, the second time the day before his release.  (The suite and the music for the review are recorded on a CD which comes with the book.)  In the music we find the same wit that we find in the book:  he records with amusement the comedies of a life which in general was not at all comic, especially for a man of his highly-strung and sensitive nature.  He always finds the precise word:  the physical conditions and the characters of his friends and of so many of the internees are brought brilliantly to life.  Attractive also is his generous recognition  and estimation of the qualities of others.  The most moving pages are the last ones, which he penned on board the ship on which he returned to England and normal life:  he reflects on the positive aspects of the experience, a sense of friendship, community and unselfishness which had developed in the camps, an awareness that our life here had acquired a new and nobler meaning ... and that we all  felt enriched as a result and enjoyed the warmth of an atmosphere of friendship and comradeship such as we had never known before.ble in the camp), and later he wrote the music for a revue which was performed twice, the second time the day before his release.  (The suite and the music for the review are recorded on a CD which comes with the book.)  In the music we find the same wit that we find in the book:  he records with amusement the comedies of a life which in general was not at all comic, especially for a man of his highly-strung and sensitive nature.  He always finds the precise word:  the physical conditions and the characters of his friends and of so many of the internees are brought brilliantly to life.  Attractive also is his generous recognition  and estimation of the qualities of others.  The most moving pages are the last ones, which he penned on board the ship on which he returned to England and normal life:  he reflects on the positive aspects of the experience, a sense of friendship, community and unselfishness which had developed in the camps, an awareness that our life here had acquired a new and nobler meaning ... and that we all  felt enriched as a result and enjoyed the warmth of an atmosphere of friendship and comradeship such as we had never known before.	2005-02-21
US	52315870	R2A8LZKSCKWHKT	0691119953	583818567	The Jewish Century	Books	4	57	63	N	N	Interesting perspectives	Of the daughters of Tevye the Milkman (the Fiddler on the Roof), Hodl married a revolutionary who would come into his own when the Bolsheviks came to power; Beilke and her husband emigrated to America; and, for symmetry's sake, Slezkine imagines that Chava emigrated to Israel. As Slezkine admits, Sholem Aleichem's book says no such thing about Chava; but then Slezkine loves this conceit, since he wants to deal in his book with their \\"descendants\\", the three strands of Jewish emigration from the Pale into the three areas whose histories they subsequently play such a disproportionate role to shape.<br /><br />To this conceit he adds another one, as irritating, repetitive, and forced. It is to divide the world into Mercurians and Apollonians. Mercurians are \\"service nomads\\" like the Jews: outsiders, originally mostly traders and then professionals, who service the needs of the resident Apollonians, mostly landed folk. The Mercurians are important enough when they are serving a landed society, but they become even more important when, in the course of modernity, Apollonian societies are forced to transform themselves into Mercurian ones: experience, talents and education then give the Jews a headstart in such societies.<br /><br />To these \\"clever\\" conceits, Slezkine adds a brilliant capacity to coin striking phrases of a kind of which the following, on page 366, is just one example:<br /><br />\\"From being the Jewish God's Chosen People, the Jews had become the Nazis' chosen people, and by becoming the Nazis' chosen people, they became the Chosen People of the postwar Western world.\\"<br /><br />Leaving these characteristics of the book aside, it is full of illuminating and sometimes controversial reflections. Some of these are devoted to the descendants of Beilke and Chava, but the bulk of the book refers to Hodl's descendants, the Jews in the Soviet Union; and I want to confine my comments to the new perspectives on Soviet Jews which this book has opened up to me.<br /><br />First there is the emphasis on the emigration from the Pale into the interior of Russia and in particular into the great cities: by 1939 1.3 million Jews were living in areas that had been closed to them in Tsarist times. I had not realized that even after the Tsarist pogroms and the vicious discrimination of the May Laws, the Jews were still hugely over-represented in the professions. In 1910, for example, in Odessa the Jews still administered 70% of its banks, provided 70% of its doctors, and 56% of its lawyers. With such educational advantages they would have done extremely well anyway once the Soviets had given them civil equality, and their natural advantage was further boosted by the Soviets getting rid as fast as they could of \\"bourgeois experts\\" in the administration, by the exclusion of their children from universities, and by filling the resulting vacuum with the only people capable of filling it: the educated Jews. So the enthusiasm of secular Jews for the Soviet Union in the 1920s and 1930s is very comprehensible.<br /><br />Slezkine argues that the large number of Jews who suffered in the Great Terror suffered not because they were Jews, but because Stalin was purging the upper echelons for his own political and paranoid reasons, and since so many of the upper echelons were Jews, they naturally made up a high proportion of his victims. In fact, Slezkine shows that when you move away from the &eacute;lites, Jews were under-represented among those arrested for political crimes: 1% of Jews, compared with 16% of Poles and 30% of Latvians; and in the Gulags the proportion of Jews was 15.7% below the proportion of Jews in the Soviet Union. Slezkine therefore takes seriously Stalin's condemnation of antisemitism in his speech to the 15th Party Congress in 1927, and shows that between 1927 and 1932 articles against antisemitism \\"appeared in the Moscow and Leningrad newspapers almost daily.\\" Slezkine therefore differs from Arkady Vaksberg's thesis in Stalin Against the Jews (1994) that Stalin cunningly disguised his antisemitism by occasionally bringing antisemites to trial and by promoting or favouring individual Jews.<br /><br />Of course Slezkine does not disguise the overt antisemitism which Stalin did display after the war. He explains it by Stalin's realization that even the most ardent Jewish communists, who used in the early days to separate themselves from all things Jewish, had had their \\"Jewish blood\\" stirred first by the antisemitism of the Nazis and then by identification with Israel. He now suspected especially the \\"passport Jews\\" - that is those Jews who, when compulsory passports were introduced for the whole population in 1930, had chosen to describe their nationality as Evrei rather than as Russian, Ukrainian etc.<br /><br />After Stalin's death, the most vicious antisemitism eased off; but the government continued to exclude Jews from the government and from the upper echelons of the Party. It also imposed quotas on Jews at the universities, though Slezkine argued that these were also applied to Georgians and Armenians who, like the Jews, were disproportionately represented at universities. The quotas were at least in part due to \\"positive discrimination\\" being applied to Uzbeks, Tatars and Azerbajanis. Besides, by then the Soviet educational system had produced 2.4 million college students against whom Jews now had to compete, compared with only 177,000 in 1928.<br /><br />Even now, however, Jews continued to be over-represented in the professions and remained \\"light years ahead\\" of Uzbeks, Tatars etc.; but discrimination against them, for whatever reason, had now thoroughly disenchanted them with the Soviet system which they had helped so much to create. As in the time of the Tsars, many of them now figured among the most prominent dissidents, and many others wanted to emigrate. So when Gorbachev at last opened the gates, the exodus was massive. Yet those who remained continued to be over-represented in the market economy in Russia that was introduced when the Soviet Union collapsed: of the seven wealthiest 'oligarchs', six were Jews. And when the bar excluding them from government positions was raised, they swiftly produced two of Yeltsin's prime ministers: Sergei Kiriyenko and Yevgeni Primakov.<br /><br />Soviet Jews had for long backed and actively participated in a regime which, though progressive in some respects, had committed terrible crimes against real or supposed opponents. Historians like Vaksberg focus on the Jews as victims of Stalin's antisemitism; but Solzhenistyn raises the question: should not the notion of collective guilt be as applicable to those Soviet Jews as it is to the Germans? Slezkine writes that both these approaches are \\"quite marginal\\" - an odd evasion, it seems to me, in an otherwise brave book.s in Stalin Against the Jews (1994) that Stalin cunningly disguised his antisemitism by occasionally bringing antisemites to trial and by promoting or favouring individual Jews. <br /> <br />Of course Slezkine does not disguise the overt antisemitism which Stalin did display after the war. He explains it by Stalin's realization that even the most ardent Jewish communists, who used in the early days to separate themselves from all things Jewish, had had their \\"Jewish blood\\" stirred first by the antisemitism of the Nazis and then by identification with Israel. He now suspected especially the \\"passport Jews\\" - that is those Jews who, when compulsory passports were introduced for the whole population in 1930, had chosen to describe their nationality as Evrei rather than as Russian, Ukrainian etc. <br /> <br />After Stalin's death, the most vicious antisemitism eased off; but the government continued to exclude Jews from the government and from the upper echelons of the Party. It also imposed quotas on Jews at the universities, though Slezkine argued that these were also applied to Georgians and Armenians who, like the Jews, were disproportionately represented at universities. The quotas were at least in part due to \\"positive discrimination\\" being applied to Uzbeks, Tatars and Azerbajanis. Besides, by then the Soviet educational system had produced 2.4 million college students against whom Jews now had to compete, compared with only 177,000 in 1928. <br /> <br />Even now, however, Jews continued to be over-represented in the professions and remained \\"light years ahead\\" of Uzbeks, Tatars etc.; but discrimination against them, for whatever reason, had now thoroughly disenchanted them with the Soviet system which they had helped so much to create. As in the time of the Tsars, many of them now figured among the most prominent dissidents, and many others wanted to emigrate. So when Gorbachev at last opened the gates, the exodus was massive. Yet those who remained continued tobe over-represented in the market economy in Russia that was introduced when the Soviet Union collapsed: of the seven wealthiest 'oligarchs', six were Jews. And when the bar excluding them from government positions was raised, they swiftly produced two of Yeltsin's prime ministers: Sergei Kiriyenko and Yevgeni Primakov. <br /> <br />Soviet Jews had for long backed and actively participated in a regime which, though progressive in some respects, had committed terrible crimes against real or supposed opponents. Historians like Vaksberg focus on the Jews as victims of Stalin's antisemitism; but Solzhenistyn raises the question: should not the notion of collective guilt be as applicable to those Soviet Jews as it is to the Germans? Slezkine writes that both these approaches are \\"quite marginal\\" - an odd evasion, it seems to me, in an otherwise brave book. <br />	2005-02-20
US	52315870	R1XQ1MSC5Q1UH8	0345391683	434666715	Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A history and a meditation	While this is a superb, fair-minded and empathetic history of the city which will be enlightening to all except very knowledgeable specialists, it is at the same time Karen Armstrong's meditation on the \\"sacred geography\\" conceived by the three faiths in its spiritual and its material form.  She is very sympathetic to and receptive of the spiritual ideals of all three faiths, and is dismayed by how so often they have all been debased by bitter rivalries (between as well as within religions), by demands for exclusivity and domination, as well as by the \\"idolatry to see a shrine or a city as the ultimate goal of religion\\".  This is something the wisest theologians - few, alas, in number - have taught.  At the same time, however, a material shrine is one expression of one's spiritual identity, so that the perceived threat or the destruction of a shrine - let alone expulsions and exile - are experienced as violations of one's spiritual identity.  She shows that the potency of religious symbolism is such that even secular nationalism (to which she perhaps does not pay quite enough attention) has recourse to it.  She shows how the best periods in the history of the city have been those few when the rulers of one faith or ethnicity have respected the faith, ethnicity and buildings of another.  She is not optimistic that such wisdom is available in Jerusalem in the near future.	2005-01-16
US	52315870	R3T7MENGBZGWKY	0743238532	635162915	Clara: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Devotion	Unlike some other reviewers, I found the idiosyncratic style of this book rather tiresome, and it is possibly a little on the long side. But there is no doubt that at the end one is left by the unforgettable image of a terrible situation. Bullied by her monstrous father in childhood and young womanhood into becoming a great musician in her own right, Clara Wieck does at last escapes him into marriage with Robert Schumann. He adores her and she is devoted to him. As Robert's mental condition deteriorates to the point where he has to go into an asylum, Clara's devotion never falters. If he says the most terrible things about her, she is convinced that he does not mean them (and in a way that is true, since Robert is in desperate need of her love and support), while at the same time she refuses to accept the severity of his mental illness. Though others can visit Robert in the asylum, doctors refuse Clara access to her husband until he is at the point of death. There is of course much more to the story, including a brilliant career as a pianist and seven children. But the painful story of her childhood and marriage holds centre stage	2005-01-05
US	52315870	R3270TXCOE5V1K	0375706852	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	2	9	17	N	N	I sometimes saw red	Unfortunately I am one of those people who can't discard a book before I have finished reading it - otherwise I would have abandoned this one half way through. The main subject is interesting enough: the clash between the Venetian and Islamic attitude to art in the 16th century - the former individual, the latter stylized, the former aiming at realism, the latter at representing the perfect form as it is supposed to be in the mind of God. In the course of the book one learns a lot about the techniques and history of Islamic miniature painting and of the \\"guilds\\" of miniaturists - but all this is hugely repetitive. Most of the chapters are recounted by one or another of the members of one such guild which is working on an illuminated book for the Sultan, but the characters are almost indistinguishable one from another. You are supposed to be on tenterhooks to discover which one of them murdered a colleague and then a master miniaturist and why - I really couldn't care less. There is a certain amount of atmosphere in the descriptions of the power of the Sultan and his ministers, the arbitrary and cruel way in which it is exercised and the readiness to resort to torture. There are some other glimpses of the life of Istanbul, and there is a love story. But I cannot understand why this book is said to have been so acclaimed.	2005-01-05
US	52315870	R1XM6DFBL15AE1	0838639437	552648484	Islam and Dhimmitude: Where Civilizations Collide	Books	4	35	43	N	N	Apparently not much protection for protected people	That most of Islam is today drastically hostile to Jews is obvious and is often explained as being the result of Zionism. But Bat Ye'or sets out to demolish the widely held idea that in CLASSICAL Islam the dhimmis (Protected People - Jews and Christians) had lived reasonably comfortably under Muslim rule in those centuries. She cites countless examples of humiliations that were deliberately inflicted on dhimmis, the uncertainty of their lives and of their possessions. I am sure that what she says about the maltreatment of Jews is correct and that is a valuable corrective to some received ideas. But because she concentrates entirely on this, and because her 528-page book finds no place for a discussion of the so-called \\"Golden Age\\" in Spain or of Jews and Jewish culture flourishing in ancient Iraq,in Egypt and in the early Ottoman centuries, it leaves an unfortunate impression of having been written with a partisan agenda.	2005-01-05
US	52315870	R3MPPM1FJBRCHE	1583670866	802793339	Ralph Miliband And The Politics Of The New Left	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Portrait of a left wing intellectual	An excellent account of debates within the Left and of Ralph Miliband's role within them. It is also a good portrait of his personality. If in a few places it is hard going, that is not the fault of Newman, but of the complexity of the issues (e.g. in Miliband's controversy with Nicos Poulantzas.)<br /><br />Miliband was insistent that genuine Marxist socialism must be combined with genuine democracy, and he relentlessly tested both capitalism and Soviet-style dictatorship against this criterion. This often left him isolated on the Left, at times even among his closest friends and collaborators, and the book brings out his occasional depressions and self-questioning. Newman, though obviously an admirer of Miliband, also here and there expresses reservations about aspects of Miliband's intellectual positions and practical strategy. But if, from time to time, there are suggestions of Miliband's limitations, the final chapter is a magnificent exposition of his strengths.	2005-01-05
US	52315870	RQ1RDNMIG6SUK	1874166218	164814940	Introducing Postmodernism	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Introducing, my foot!	I have the 1995 British edition of this book - same cover, same authors, presumably the same text inside, but with the title \\"Postmodernism for Beginners\\". I think that title falls foul of the U.K's Trade Description Act, but so, I think, does the present one. I know a little about Postmodernism from a much better short book (Christopher Butler's \\"Postmodernism: A Very Short Introduction\\", Oxford 2002), and I found particularly the first half of the Appignanesi book absolutely impenetrable. That first half, unlike Butler's, includes Structuralism in Postmodernism; but on Structuralism you would do much better to read John Sturrock's short \\"Structuralism\\" (Paladin), which is much more lucid and accessible, even if it doesn't have pictures in it! The second half of the Appignanesi book does at least have some suggestive ideas about the contemporary world.	2005-01-05
US	52315870	R3MP5WL0MOC254	0316763721	200245519	The Children of the Arbat	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The Soviet Union on the Eve of the Great Terror	It is not always easy to keep track of the many threads in this sprawling 685 page novel about the Soviet Union in 1933 and 1934, on the eve of the murder of Kirov and the Reign of Terror. But it gives a superb picture of the period: a vivid portrait of Stalin and his thought processes, of the lives of young people in Moscow, of how it was already possible for devoted and loyal communists to be sent into political exile. (Most people know about the slave labour in the Gulags, but fewer know of what life was like for political exiles, who lived more freely among the villagers of Southern Siberia). Among the people we meet are idealistic and decent communists as well as ambitious and scheming ones. It stands up remarkably well in the light of all the new knowledge that has become available since the collapse of the Soviet Union and the opening of the archives. In particular, Rybakov's picture of Stalin is confirmed by Simon Sebag-Montefiore's chilling \\"Stalin: the Court of the Red Tsar\\" (2003)	2005-01-05
US	52315870	R12S0VKD2RR0T	0199254567	36136688	Radical Enlightenment: Philosophy and the Making of Modernity 1650-1750	Books	4	73	74	N	N	A slightly flawed masterpiece	Most people, when they think of the Enlightenment, think first of 18th France, of Voltaire and of Diderot.  The late Roy Porter, in his spirited Enlightenment (Penguin paperback) claimed that the roots of the Enlightenment were actually in England.  Then we have recently had James Buchan's Capital of the Mind, which claims in its subtitle that the philosophers of Edinburgh \\"changed the world\\".  Jonathan Israel says that these are all parochial approaches, and that the Enlightenment was a movement whose international character he intends to illustrate.  He has indeed read prodigiously in international literature:  his bibliography gives 26 pages of published primary sources and 31 of secondary literature, and these include titles in Latin, English, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Swedish and Danish.<br /><br />Nevertheless, what emerges quite clearly from this book is that he places the origins of the Radical Enlightenment very firmly in 17th century Holland in general and in Spinoza in particular;  and although one might perhaps expect this from a historian whose previous book was an equally massive work on the Dutch Republic (OUP), he makes a totally convincing case for this.  In the course of it we learn much about many Dutch thinkers.  Many of them are scarcely known in this country;  and there are some, like Anthonie van Dale and Frederik van Leenhof, who according to Professor Israel are  almost unknown even in Holland today.<br /><br />True, it is a Frenchman, Ren&eacute; Descartes, who could be said to have planted the seeds of what would become the Enlightenment, and there is a good deal about him in the book;  but the principal theatre for the debate about Descartes is again shown to be Holland, where he had moved for safety in 1628, where the Discours de la M&eacute;thode was first published in 1637, and from where it later spread to other countries.  Indeed,  Spinoza's first published work was The Principles of Cartesian Philosophy (1663).  I think myself that the title of the book is somewhat misleading.  It ought really to have been called Spinoza and the Enlightenment, since it is almost wholly devoted to his influence:  all later Enlightenment thinkers of whatever nation are discussed almost exclusively in terms of the extent to which they were in agreement or disagreement with him.<br /><br />That debate is described in exhaustive - I would say - exhausting - detail, since in fact the various arguments are repeated over and over again.  There are principally three parties to this argument:  thinkers of the Radical Enlightenment who follow Spinoza more or less all the way;  those of the Moderate Enlightenment, who accept a broadly rational approach but stop short of denying a providential deity and the principal mysteries of the Christian faith;  and the Conservatives or fideists who demand total acceptance of the traditional doctrines of the churches about such matters as miracles, the existence of Hell and of the Devil.  Jonathan Israel patiently gives the arguments of this last group more space than most  histories of the Enlightenment would do. Interestingly, many members of even the first group often denied that they were \\"Spinozists\\". That label was used by anti-rationalists, right up to eve of the French Revolution in a positively McCarthyist way to discredit even members of the second group, who themselves went out of their way to condemn Spinoza in the strongest terms.  The true Spinozists often protected themselves by giving a full statement of the Spinozan positions and then following them with perfunctory or even deliberately feeble objections.<br /><br />Despite its enormous length and the width of Israel's research, the book does remain rather narrowly focussed.  The debates described in the book are largely about religion and about the challenges to deductive rationalism both from the churches and from the pragmatic schools.  Such discussion as there is of Enlightenment political thought is again entirely related to the influence of or reaction against Spinoza's unfinished Tractatus Politicus.  So, for instance, the debate in France between the th&egrave;se royale, the th&egrave;se nobiliaire, and democracy does not feature on its own terms.  At the end there is an interesting short section on Diderot and his relationship to Spinozism;  but there is nothing much of interest on Montesquieu, Voltaire, Helv&eacute;tius or Holbach, all of whom are considerable figures in the history of the French Enlightenment.  And there are just two references to Hume.<br /><br />There are two other major criticisms:  the book takes much previous knowledge for granted (for example, what exactly had been both the psychological and political teaching of Thomas Hobbes).  Although there are several references to Malebranche and Malebranchisme, there is nowhere a concise account of what that philosopher taught:  the \\"Occasionalism\\" for which he is famous has just two references in the index, only one of which links that doctrine with him.<br /><br />However, Professor Israel has undoubteldy written a most important book which significantly shifts the focus of Enlightenment studies.  For that and for his immense scholarship he deserves the praise that reviewers have heaped upon his book.ed to the influence of or reaction against Spinoza's unfinished Tractatus Politicus.  So, for instance, the debate in France between the thse royale, the thse nobiliaire, and democracy does not feature on its own terms.  At the end there is an interesting short section on Diderot and his relationship to Spinozism;  but there is nothing much of interest on Montesquieu, Voltaire, Helvtius or Holbach, all of whom are considerable figures in the history of the French Enlightenment.  And there are just two references to Hume.    There are two other major criticisms:  the book takes much previous knowledge for granted (for example, what exactly had been both the psychological and political teaching of Thomas Hobbes).  Although there are several references to Malebranche and Malebranchisme, there is nowhere a concise account of what that philosopher taught:  the \\"Occasionalism\\" for which he is famous has just two references in the index, only one of which links that doctrine with him.     However, Professor Israel has undoubteldy written a most important book which significantly shifts the focus of Enlightenment studies.  For that and for his immense scholarship he deserves the praise that reviewers have heaped upon his book.	2005-01-04
US	52315870	R1HJ2O0A48H6EA	1854596985	857459057	Playing Lear	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great interpretation of the play.	This marvellous book should be on the reading list of every student of this play.  The first two chapters especially are studded with question marks because, in preparing himself to play the role of King Lear at London's Almeida Theatre in 2002, Oliver Ford Davies explored a large range of alternative interpretations of the lines and characters in Shakespeare's play: which seemed most convincing to him?  At each question the reader might pause to think out an answer for him or herself before reading on to discover how Davies resolved it for himself.  Individual words and phrases, some of which might easily be overlooked, are carefully examined for what light they shed on the play;  so our own understanding of it is greatly enriched.  In the course of presenting these questions, we also get a history of what other great commentators have written (just as, in the third chapter, we learn how other great actors have played the part.) There are then four chapters about this particular production, three of them a rehearsal diary, in which further questions arise and are hammered out, and it is thrilling to see the production take shape.<br /><br />Davies writes very well.  He is modest about himself and generous about all with whom he worked, from the Director (Jonathan Kent) to whose own view of the play he devotes a separate chapter, to his fellow actors, to the Stage and Lighting Directors and to the tailor who made the costumes.  Before Lear, Davies usually played rather benign roles, and that this benignity is part of his own character can be seen in the fact there there is none of the tension or bitchiness that one sometimes finds in accounts of other productions.	2004-10-02
US	52315870	R1MGX5NN2CA1QF	0199267650	267001281	The Mind of Gladstone: Religion, Homer, and Politics	Books	5	9	10	N	N	What a mind!	And what a mind it was!  Gladstone was undoubtedly the most deep-thinking and intellectual prime minister Great Britain has ever had.  He took as much trouble corresponding with the leading minds of his time (both in England and abroad) as he took with his weekly sermons to his surely often uncomprehending household.  He wrestled, often successfully, to bring apparently opposed ideas into a kind of Hegelian synthesis (though Hegel was not one of the authors in his vast library). He was a voracious reader and engaged deeply with everything he read, as the annotations in his books and the memoranda he wrote for himself bear witness.  David Bebbington must have read nearly as much, and with as much attention to detail, as Gladstone had done by the time he was Bebbingtopn's relatively young age.  He has read deeply not only in Gladstone's own voluminous writings but in practically everything of note that has ever been written about the statesman.<br /><br />Readers who are acquainted only with Gladstone's political activities will know how much these were affected by his religious beliefs, and they will alos have formed an idea of Gladstone's Liberalism.  In this book we can, firstly, trace in detail the progress of Gladstone's religious thought, culminating in due course in the remarkable combination of an intense commitment to High Anglicanism and an equally intense commitment to secure equal political rights to those outside the Church of England.<br /><br />In his magisterial last chapter, Bebbington shows the architecture of Gladstone's Liberalism: a seamless progression from his moral commitment to the individual to an equally morally-based commitment to the family, the local community, the nation, the international community and to humanity itself.<br /><br />What is perhaps least familiar to those who know only of Gladstone's religion and politics is how these were integrated not only with each other, but with his study of the Greek classics and of Aristotle and Homer in particular.  That he should have let Aristotle shape so much of his political outlook is, once one comes to think about it, not unexpected.  However, his debt to Homer - or rather to what he read into Homer - is rather more surprising, distinctly peculiar and even, at least to this reader, positively dotty.  Not only did he see in Homer a prototype of his own social and political vision, but this devout Christian was convinced that his God had shown Himself to Homer and his contemporaries in a \\"primitive revelation\\".<br /><br />But in general, notwithstanding this quirky aspect of Gladstone, my long-standing admiration for him has been further enhanced by Bebbington's splendid book.  It is not an easy read - partly because Gladstone's style was even more complicated than his thought, and partly because Bebbington occasionally assumes a knowledge which many readers will not have.  But then you can always look up what exactly the filioque clause was.le and Homer in particular.  That he should have let Aristotle shape so much of his political outlook is, once one comes to think about it, not unexpected.  However, his debt to Homer - or rather to what he read into Homer - is rather more surprising, distinctly peculiar and even, at least to this reader, positively dotty.  Not only did he see in Homer a prototype of his own social and political vision, but this devout Christian was convinced that his God had shown Himself to Homer and his contemporaries in a \\"primitive revelation\\". <br /> <br />But in general, notwithstanding this quirky aspect of Gladstone, my long-standing admiration for him has been further enhanced by Bebbington's splendid book.  It is not an easy read - partly because Gladstone's style was even more complicated than his thought, and partly because Bebbington occasionally assumes a knowledge which many readers will not have.  But then you can always look up what exactly the filioque clause was.	2004-08-20
US	52315870	R2DE6V9GA4FC94	0521498929	126121369	Handbook for Academic Authors	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Beth Luey - Handbook for Academic Authors	Very comprehensive, especially, of course for the American market.  I bought it because I wanted to have ideas about how to find a publisher after I had all but finished my book;  but I wish I had seen it before I started writing, because it makes many technical points about how to prepare a typescript.  It will take a fair amount of time to adjust my script to satisfy the technical requirements publishers apparently make.	2001-08-05
US	52315870	RPHDLAFU42UDF	0881257249	860713333	Children of Abraham : An Introduction to Islam for Jews	Books	3	21	26	N	Y	Khalid Duran's An Introduction to Islam for Jews	It is not surprising that Duran has got into trouble with the so-called Muslim fundamentalists, who are here generally called Islamicists.  Although he sets out their views without distortions, as well as those of their opponents, he not only is intensely critical of them, but makes it clear that the great majority of Muslims do not agree with them,which I think is such an important thing for the West to take on board.  His account of all the varieties and issues within Islam in a relatively short space is clear and exemplary.  Curiously enough, the weakest section of a book with this particular title is, in my opinion, that which deal with the history of the relationship between Islam and Judaism, which I found a trifle perfunctory and no more than adequate, with some important material omitted.	2001-08-05
