US	52317033	R10CQILE5B9JEM	0764538837	486409654	Office?2003 All-in-One Desk Reference For Dummies	Books	5	227	229	N	N	The best in a line of 'greats'	The last book review I wrote on this site was close on one year ago... for no other reason than leading a busy life doing other things. But I just felt I had to come out of `exile' for this book because it's classic Peter Weverka at his stunning best.<br />Clear, precise, a touch of gentle humor, Peter cuts through the jargon like a hot knife through butter. There is simply NOTHING that doesn't get properly explained and simplified.<br />&quot;Office 2003 All-In-One&quot; is the Dummies Guide to not just one program but to no less than NINE. (Word 2003, Outlook 2003, PowerPoint 2003, Excel 2003, FrontPage 2003, Access 2003, Publisher 2003, Office 2003 - one step beyond and Windows XP). It's a true compendium of reference books - a genuine all-in-one library.<br />Just so you understand why I feel so qualified to comment on this publication, I should tell you that I am an 'expert user' at Excel and Access. I'm very much a middle-of-the-road user at Word, Outlook, PowerPoint and Windows XP, and I have never before even looked at FrontPage or Publisher. I reckon that gives me a unique insight into how effective Mr Weverka's writing for all types of users and all levels of expertise.<br />I can assure you it hits the mark at EVERY level. Never condescending, never too clever for his own good, always explained in clear simple language, this book is an absolute pleasure to own, and a real treasure house of information and reference.<br />Screen captures are clean and easy to understand, cross-referencing is more than adequate, and there's hardly a word of unintelligible jargon or computerese anywhere. (Oh, and the author throws in a few smiles from time, to time, just to stop you nodding off.)<br />Peter Weverka has really excelled himself, and has again produced a masterly tome that will stand the test of time. If you want to know more about the inside workings of Office 2003, THIS is the only reference book you will ever need... and that's a promise.	2003-11-05
US	52317033	R1F1P6J3SEH1OE	0553103741	135474617	The Illustrated Brief History of Time, Updated and Expanded Edition	Books	5	95	97	N	N	Better than the original	I read the original version of 'A Brief History of Time' back in 1988. At the time, Hawking was into ground-breaking territory. The fact that his theories have gained such universal acceptance and that many of them have since been proved is evidence of the brilliance of the mind that thought through the logic.<br />In this updated version, Hawking moves from time travel to black holes to general relativity, quantum mechanics and even string theory, he never fails to captivate and entrance, even though some of the theories are difficult to grasp.<br />The sections devoted to black holes and time travel are, in my view, the most interesting... putting a human slant of a highly theorical subject. With the addition of hundreds of amazing illustrations and photos, Hawking has made his revised book extremely readable and colorful, both comprehensive and comprehendable, as one reviewer put it.<br />An excellent introduction to relativity, big bang, and anything else you might have scratched your head about!	2002-05-13
US	52317033	R3NYE54HHBLQUK	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	29	34	N	N	Sorry, but...	I HATE doing this, but I have now closed Fall on Your Knees and will not bother opening it again. I struggled to about the halfway point, but can go no further.<br />It's not that it's badly written... in fact the prose in places is beautiful. It's not that there's no story... there's bucket-loads of story and the reader is dragged through it at a rate of knots that is sometimes breathtaking. And maybe that's the problem. So far, we've not stopped long enough in one place to care for any of the characters.<br />I really don't care what happens to any of them!<br />Honest, I struggled and struggled to keep going, but boredom finally broke me and I've given up. As one astute reviewer puts it ... &quot;The traumas and tribulations were just never ending, with all the subtlety of a John Phillips Sousa march&quot; ... Well here's a de Sousa fan who prefers the marches!<br />Sorry, but...	2002-05-13
US	52317033	R3MA2XGIGU1B8A	0879305150	792642465	The Domain Name Handbook; High Stakes and Strategies in Cyberspace	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Out of touch and out of date	I have to agree with one of my fellow reviewers - this book is way too technical and dry. With heavy, heavy chapters devoted to the development of the domain name system, trademark challenges, dispute case studies  etc., The Domain Name Handbook reads more like a govenment manual than an istructive and entertaining piece of writing. Ten out of ten for so much research but not many out of ten for entertainment value, (and, yes, even an instruction manual can be enetertaining).... Theirwell-linked pages will take you some interesting routes to wherever the real knowledge lies.<br />If you're a sucker for tables, lists, facts, data and specifics, this book with inform. If, like me, you prefer that learning should be fun, you'll find yourself in the wrong hands here. In any case, the book was published in mid 1998 and, with so much having happened on the Web, is in dire need of a revised update.	2002-04-19
US	52317033	R3SVMUTOLKMURD	0743216458	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An excellent collection of soldiers' memories.	Stephen Ambrose does an excellent, craftsmanlike job of piecing together the memories of the men of Easy Company, 101st Airborne. In 'Band of Brothers' he recounts the 18 months or so from the formation of Easy Company under the disciplinarian Herbert Sobel, to their disbandment at war's end. To many, the fact that men can accept death in such an uncomplicated way is puzzling, yet many books that have been written from the soldiers' perspectives indicate that this attitude was prevelant to all fighting men.<br />One of the telling moments for me was, I believe, when Lt. Col. (later Gen.) Harry W.O.Kinnard said of the Battle of the Bulge, \\"We never felt we would be overrun. We were beating back everything they threw at us. We had the houses and were warm. They were outside the town, in the snow and cold.\\" Every surviving member of E company kept copies of that newspaper story with comments which could best be translated as \\"What battle was he in?\\"<br />To me, this shows that Ambrose really did get the soldiers' take on the war. The trenches, the deaths, the cold, the hunger. If I may make one small criticism it is that, in places, he relied TOO much on the soldiers' memories... he talks of E Company's 'triumphant capture' of Berchtesgaden (Hitler's Eagle's Nest). History says he is wrong. In fact the French, under orders from General Leclerc, but against the orders of deGaulle beat the Americans into Berchtesgaden by almost a full day. The differences in recollection may well come from the fact that the Americans were first into the sections of Eagle's Nest they considered important - the French, led by an engineer called Bernard de Nonancourt had gone straight to the wine cellars to reclaim their half-million bottles of captured wine! Difference of priority - difference of perspective!<br />Band of Brothers is an excellent account of man's inhumanity to man; of men's love for their fellow men, and of mens' sacrifices for mankind. It is also an interesting perspective on the actions undertaken by Easy Company during the last 12 months of the war in Europe.	2002-04-01
US	52317033	R190R4S9SPKIZL	1880090163	840094564	Our Haunted Planet	Books	4	20	29	N	N	Logical, precise and undemanding	I'll not boire you with the content - that's simple enough to deduce. John A. Keel has penned a worthy addition to his other works. He says at the outset that he draws no conclusions - he simply throws up his ideas for discussion.<br />In fact that's a neat start but, by the end of the book, it's very obvious that he's blasted apart a load of myths, sunk the Lovers of Atlantis, and mystified the Men from Mars. And it was all done so neatly!<br />Keel is logical (I like that). He offers evidence of his observations (I like that). He shows the flaws in other theories (I like that). He's written a great book (I like that!).<br />Get it. Read it. You'll like it too.	2002-03-30
US	52317033	R1G1S9ZLRDCP3S	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Persevere - it's worth it.	One of the few King novels I've ever had trouble getting into was The Gunslinger. But persevere, because so much depends upon this first book when reading the following volumes of the series. The Oracle's prophecy, the dark man's vision, the sacrificial child who becomes increasingly important as the series grows. Perhaps it was the sparse writing that put me off to begin with - so different from the rich, textured feel of most of King's novels. It's also difficult to empathise with the lone gunslinger. But again, as the series goes on, it's intriguing to watch this obsessed man change and develop further. One needs a starting point, and the cold, single-minded man that Roland is at the outset is a noble one. Still, I was glad when I watched him gradually change and begin to love more than just his Dark Tower	2002-03-30
US	52317033	R3DNEBFVD6NDGJ	0451163524	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Exceptional	In The Drawing of the Three, Roland is attacked by marvelous, poisonous \\"lobstrosities\\" and enters our world for help. He takes heroin addict Eddie Dean from 1987 New York and Odetta Holmes from 1964 New York as his team. In a powerful time-tripping scene, Roland confronts Jack Mort and actually changes Jake's Earth history, which has heady implications for Roland's world.<br />The Drawing of the Three is different again from The Gunslinger. What really got to me was the fact that Jack and Odetta were so intimately joined without ever knowing it, and that Roland, in Mort's body, bought bullets from someone who worked with Balazar, Eddie's drug czar. All the coincidences that weren't coincidences, the terror of the lobstrosities (not to mention Detta Walker), the disturbing mind of Jack Mort, and the action-packed shootout at Balazar's. These combine effortlessly to join a remarkable novel that is one of King's best. The joy when Eddie finally overcame his physical addiction, or when Detta/Odetta joined finally, or the dark happiness when Jack Mort finally kicked the bucket... Just read it!	2002-03-30
US	52317033	R3IP68LL4G02X5	0937986178	511631376	The Waste Lands (The Dark Tower, Book 3)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Third in the series... but not the last.	In The Waste Lands, Roland and company get ensnared in a civil war in the urban waste of Lud, acquire a delightful talking pet named Oy the Bumbler, and find themselves captives of a psychotic train called Blaine the Mono.<br />The plot is complex, yet weirdly logical. But take warning: this series is addictive, and you may need to also buy book 4, Wizard and Glass. Otherwise, you won't know what happened when Blaine went insane with Roland's gang onboard.<br />The Wastelands begins a few months after the end of The Drawing of the Three. Both Eddie and the newly merged Suzannah are learning gunslinging abilities, and both are learning not only to escape their pasts but use them to their advantage. Eddie has taken up an old childhood hobby, whittling, and they are about to resume their quest for the Tower. However, one thing greatly impairs their progress - the fact that Roland the gunslinger is losing his mind...<br />No plot-spoilers here ... just buy the book and read it! You'll not regret it.	2002-03-30
US	52317033	R3TRIJMUN6TP7G	0966724674	91748047	Mothman: The Facts Behind the Legend	Books	2	44	58	N	N	A list of so-called 'facts'	The authors state clearly in the book that 'Mothman: The Facts Behind the Legend' does not try to draw conclusions about what might or might not have happened at Point Pleasant, West Virginia on November 15 1966. That's a good thing because, based on the miniscule amount of &quot;evidence&quot; in the book, it would be difficult to conclude anything except that some kids were scared by something they saw.<br />Please don't misunderstand. I'm NOT trying to say these kids were mistaken. Let's accept that they saw what they saw. What I'm saying is that the book, 'Mothman', is shallow and repetitive. In large print with page after page after page of photocopied newspaper clippings that all say the same thing, 'Mothman' has 95% filler and 5% content. There are too many questions the authors SHOULD have asked...<br />What relationship was there between MIB and the collapse of the bridge? What did other eyewitnesses see of the many UFO reported sightings? Who were the MIB? How could 'Mothman' be linked to MIB?<br />Even simple curiosity questions were missed... Did Mothman wear clothes? Why do the witnesses say HE was a man - wht not SHE was a woman?<br />Sorry but I read the content of this book in a couple of hours and it left me empty and disinterested in thinking further about the subject.	2002-03-17
US	52317033	R340YG6RW3ZALL	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Huge fun	Mixing Pratchett's sense of outrageous parody with Gaiman's morbid humor, Good Omens comes up trumps as a laugh-a-minute novel staring the good guys, the bad guys, a gang of kids and a devil dog.<br />For me, a long time Pratchett fan, it was easy to spot the joins between the two authors ideas, but that did not lessen my enjoyment of Good Omens, as it romped from the sublime to the truly ridiculous (always with a sense of gentle mockery about the state of human nature as a whole). And, as with a high percentage of Terry Pratchett's works, the underlying religious question always presnts itself... a sort of Small Gods parody.<br />Good Omens should carry a public health warning... laughing out loud can seriously improve your health.	2002-03-12
US	52317033	R16U9PS6BKQ7QZ	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	65	69	N	N	What we knew all along	For decades the \\"Reverend\\" Jesse Jackson has been an icon for the liberal media. Seldom a word of media criticism about him has hit the papers. CNN even gave him his own TV program and paid him a fortune for it. But Jackson's days of being 'untouchable' may soon be over thanks to \\"Shakedown\\"<br />Published by the same publishing house that came out with the best-selling books, \\"Bias\\" and \\"Final Days.\\", Shakedown has even more bombshells than those two together. In 'Shakedown', the reader is invited to discover the REAL Jesse Jackson - the one the media will never report on, including how Jackson personally profited from \\"non-profit\\" groups whose funds were intended to help poor minorities and civil rights...<br />...how Jackson used his \\"public service\\" image to live the lifestyle of Donald Trump: jets, top class hotels, million dollar homes - the best of everything - you name it!...<br />...how Jackson earned the name \\"Action Jackson\\" because of his voracious appetite for women...<br />...how Jackson used his complaints of racism against major corporations as a method of out-and-out extortion and blackmail in order to reap millions for himself and his organizations...<br />...the special relationship Jackson formed with Bill Clinton during the Monica affair and how Jackson got millions in taxpayer funds for being a Democratic Party mouthpiece.<br />\\"Shakedown\\" will knock your socks off and there are many more shocking revelations about Jackson which, in the interests of good taste, are not printable here. In fact, if you believe what the author claims, you'll find that almost everything you heard about Jackson is a lie...<br />Jackson was NOT anointed by Martin Luther King to be his heir.<br />Jackson was NEVER even an ordained a minister.<br />Jackson was NEVER poor or victimized by racism, as he has alleged.<br />But it gets worse. Kenneth R. Timmerman reveals that Jackson acts more like a mobster than a civil rights leader. \\"Shakedown\\" reports on Jackson's tiesto the Chicago mob and his ruthless methods: beatings, death threats, career destruction and verbal assaults that border on incitement to murder are all staples of the Jackson Treatment.<br />If, like many, many people the world over, you are tired of Jesse Jackson and fed up with the media cover-up of his outrageous behavior, you need to get \\"Shakedown.\\" Unlike some other political publications, it has a genuine ring of truth to it. If only 10% of it is factual, this book should lead to a full Justice Dept. investigation of Jackson, his cronies and his shakedown business activities. He should be held accountable before the American system of justice.	2002-03-09
US	52317033	R23HX12FPZXJ3X	0091865158	990529261	The Science of Discworld (Discworld)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Under-rated	Science of Discworld is one of the lesser-known, but nonethless highly entertaining of Terry Pratchett's books. Mixing Discworld madness with educational necessity, Pratchett dispenses large doses of what should be compulsory reading for school kids.<br />The book is both intelligent and humorous (which accolade, I believe can be applied to most Pratchett works) and demands an intellectual engagement on the part of the reader. Hard science mixes with Pratchett-style fiction but ultimately tells the history of the world as it is (or at least as most people believe it is). The author is not afraid to go where few satirists have gone before, exploring everything from astrophysics through relativity to quantum mechanics and evolution... and always with one eye on the outrageous.<br />Pratchett has the skill to mock his fellow creatures, but oh so gently, and always with a warm heart. As a fellow reviewer said &quot;To me at 50, it is an epiphany; I can only imagine the personal impact if I had read this at 15&quot;. Likewise, I would have appreciated knowing a little more earlier on in my life, particularly if helped through the morass by the guiding hand of Terry Pratchett.	2002-03-09
US	52317033	R2D5ZLQFPUTQCC	0061040967	373959935	The Last Hero: A Discworld Fable (Discworld Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	2 stars for the story, five for the illustrations	It's not Pratchett at his best, or even at his averagest... In places, it's almost not Pratchett at all. The story limps along like a wounded dinosaur, sometimes struggling to remind the reader what's going on. I admit to dozing off several times -  unlike other Terry Pratchett stuff, which usually has me howling on the floor.<br />In recompense, Paul Kidby's illustrations are superb and they alone make this book worth buying. As one reviewer pointed out, there's a rapport between Discworld readers and the characters and, even allowing for a less-well-told story, that rapport is guarded by the visual descriptions.<br />Grat pictures... pity about the plot.	2002-03-04
US	52317033	R14ABQC7QC4KS	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Close, but not quite	While Tom Clancy's fascination for military technology led to his creation of the \\"techno-thriller\\", with each new book he also expanded the personalities and politics in his make-believe reality. Unfortunately, The Bear and the Dragon seems to lose its way by comparison to his earlier novels, like Red October or Patriot Games. Though the story runs along at a good pace, it suffers from repeated scene changes between Washington, Moscow, and Beijing, with a dateline that can disorientate. It is rendered even more difficult by the inclusion of enough characters-with-long-names-that-you-can't-pronounce to fill Carnegie Hall, an overload of acronyms, and minimal character development.<br />Having said all that, Clancy's hallmarks are his ability to blend realism and authenticity with intricate plotting and razor-sharp suspense. The Bear and The Dragon achieves what it sets out to do. As usual, the plot is way over the top, with subplots erupting like weeping carbuncles all over the place, and strange characters being unpleasant to each other every few pages. Even so, Clancy finds time to insert his usual non-too-subtle lessons on the vileness of Communism, the (unfair) intrusions of the press on presidential power, the sexual perversions of Mao (and anybody else who's not 110% American), the poor quality of Russian pistol silencers (and anything else that wasn's built in hometown America), the folly of cutting a man's throat with a knife (apparently they \\"flop around and make noise\\" when you do that), and other similar Clancy-like topics. It goes without saying that The Bear and The Dragon positively bristles with intriguing state-of-the-art military hardware. We're never quite sure how much of it really exists, or how much is in Clancy's imagination. In honesty, we don't really care, just as long as Tom Clancy goes on amusing us. <br />Though The Bear and The Dragon is not Clancy at his best, it's still sufficiently Clancyesque, and in this genre there are few better authors. Maybe next time he will make a better job of hiding his right-wing xenophobia. We've always known it was there, but it's better when it doesn't jump out and smack you in the face... ouch!	2002-02-24
US	52317033	R259P9D86R4V2F	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not his worst - not his best	Oh boy, some reviewers do get up tight when Grisham doesn't quite perform for them! Personally, though The Summons was certainly not Grisham's best book, I would rather shell out some hard earned cash for this one than for A Painted House Skips Christmas in a Chamber! Those three were garbage compared to Grisham's other stuff.<br />This one was just average... an average story written in an average way. Okay, admittedly, from about halfway through, it was fairly obvious whodunit. The only questions that remained were how Pop got the money in the first place, and why hewhodunit was doin' it. But even so, it was a fairly even-paced read that didn't use up too much brain power.<br />Maybe Grisham isn't quite performing as he might, but even minor gods can have bad book days. If you've got enough money in your pocket to buy The Summons and a couple of other books - go for it! If you're a bit short and the rent's not paid, I'd suggest you look for something more certain.	2002-02-24
US	52317033	R12U6FP5OH0HKW	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Too many words !	When Mozart presented his latest symphony to the king, the king asked the palace musician for his opinion. The palace musician replied,\\"There are too many notes, Your Majesty.\\"  And so I feel like the palace musician... who am I to tell 'the master' that he's used too many words. I am but a humble reader.<br />Yet too many words there are... the first 200 pages just don't achieve lift-off. It's like King and Straub carried on writing while they waited for inspiration. After page 200, we're lifted to the same glorious heights as we were in Talisman, though more gently and, seemingly, with less danger to our heroes. Maybe there should have been more gooey deaths, but the threat never seemed as deep and dark as in Talisman.<br />In Black House's favor, the Territories are now less of a magical mystery tour and more of a cynical mirror image of this world. More so than in Talisman. At least us readers have been treated like adults. The up-to-date Jack Sawyer has lost his childhood innocence, and King and Straub have brought him wisely to maturity. You can't help feeling that this is exactly how Jack Sawyer would have grown up. Certainly it has helped the writers avoid the bad sequel trap. (And, talking of sequels, we were well set up for the next one, eh?)<br />King and Straub have matured their initial concept alarmingly well. Though the surface story is a little weak in places it is easy to forgive because of the strength of the character portrayals and the expressions of thought. On the other hand, I still say there were too many words!	2002-02-20
US	52317033	R30FGOAEKOL540	0898156270	306442888	How to Shit in the Woods, Second Edition: An Environmentally Sound Approach to a Lost Art	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Read the sample pages	This is one of those books that will either amuse you or offend you, so I suggest you take advantage of Amazon's sample page views before buying.<br />For myself, I was gently amused but, after twenty pages or so, found my eyelids closing and sleep looming threateningly over my head. Why?... well, frankly, it's just not very interesting!<br />If you've nothing important on your agenda, by all means take a trip through Kathleen Meyer's world of bodily functions. Otherwise, go for a brisk walk - you'll learn more.	2002-02-19
US	52317033	R2AFGNIP9IPJN0	0385501536	271797931	Aiding and Abetting: A Novel	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Thumbs down	Here's one British reader who is feeling generous this morning so has given 'Aiding and Abetting' two stars instead of one...<br />The seventh Earl of Lucan disappeared on November 7, 1974, having bludgeoned the child-minder to death and failed to dispose of his wife in the same manner. By all accounts, he was a fairly useless individual, so it should come as no surprise that he mistook his intended target. If he is to be remembered (which seems fairly unlikely in the long term) it will be for the fact that, despite having no obvious talents or abilities (other than the consistent ability to lose at gambling), he has managed to evade the law for so long. Suspicion lies with the so-called nobility for having sheltered and financed him for so many years \\"...to protect his good name...\\" can you believe!<br />If Muriel Spark is to be remembered, it will most likely be for 'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'. It will most certainly not be for 'Aiding and Abetting' which reads like an unfinished second draft. The sentence structure is impoverished, the characters lack either characterization or motivation, and the story is, frankly, stupid.<br />Save your money... you'd do better buying a Superman comic.	2002-02-19
US	52317033	R1SGHSKFL3VFNA	0764532634	302503832	Microsoft Excel 2000 Power Programming with VBA	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Simple explanations for a complex subject	In the same way that PC World columnist, John Walkenbach, simplified our lives with 'Excel 2000 Formulas', he has now enriched them with 'Power Programming with VBA'. If you've already mastered Excel and need to develop customized applications, this book will soon have you deep into the inner workings of VBA to get you up and  writing code without delay.<br />As with his other books, his style is clear and precise, and the text is arranged in a simple-to-reference way. The page layout is excellent, giving easy-on-the-eye icon notes, references and tips. Even so, as with 'Excel 2000 Formulas' I quickly found myself in charge of a colored highlighter picking out the bits that were important to me. The author also has a flowing style of writing so you don't feel you're working through a manual, It's more like a fun day out, with new discoveries on every page.<br />VBA had always remained something of a mystery to me until I got stuck into 'Power Programming'. Now (still with a bit of prompting) I'm really getting the hang of it, and finding, again, that I can streamline my workbooks and impress my colleagues.	2002-02-19
US	52317033	R3ICR22OOZ655R	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good one if you can only read a bit at a time	First I read the book, then I read what the other reviewers had to say. Then I went back and checked the title and the author in case there were two Dean Koontz or two books entitled &quot;From the Corner of His Eye&quot;. And then I realized what the problem was... all the reviewers who had downgraded this one were Koontz fans who expected a horror story (which this is not). Since I'm not a regular Koontz reader, I was not so easily disappointed.<br />But it's okay to cry, guys, I know the feeling well. I've suffered pangs of severe angst when reading Grisham's 'Painted House' to find there wasn't a lawyer in sight; or struggling all the way through 'Skipping Christmas' just waiting for the courtroom scene. Out of genre; out of sync it would seem.<br />Yet for me, From the Corner of His Eye was a charming, thought-provoking, here-a-smile-there-a-frown book whose only real negative was that it was a bit too easy to put down between chapters... oh yeah, and the twins did get just a bit tedious by the end... oh and I guess I'd have to agree that Barty and Mummy and the whole smiling happy-clan became just a bit too gooey by the end... oh and Cain was wopped too easily when he made his curtain call. Anything else? Not really; it was a good, steady, entertaining read, and I'll be quite happy to buy another Dean Koontz based on that one. So what was the problem, guys... other than Barty and Angel climbing a tree on their eighteenth birthdays when they should have been tucked up in bed?	2002-02-14
US	52317033	R10PU3QIKF5TE1	0440506115	228451913	Even Eagles Need a Push: Learning to Soar in a Changing World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	From motivation to inspiration	First off, don't be put off by the fact that this book was published in 1994 (copyrighted in 1990). The fact is, it's a timeless book that doesn't draw from current 'techniques' or 'ways of thinking'. It's as relevant today as it was when it was first published.<br />David McNally begins with the question: &quot;Why does the thrill of soaring begin with the fear of falling?&quot; he goes on to ask how you can overcome that fear and dare to live, and he takes you from motivation through inspiration to action. In fact, if you're prepared to work at this book (sounds strange, doesn't it), it will be you who writes the ending.<br />This is not so much a table-thumping &quot;You can do it&quot; book, as a quiet journey at your own speed that allows you to discover your own potential and teaches you how to choose your attitude and transform your life... success with dignity would sum it quite nicely.	2002-02-01
US	52317033	R21TSRC7UDX7A5	0714530689	757873554	Corpsing	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Short on characters, long on description.	The narrator of this story, Conrad Redman, is an aptly-named protagonist, since, after only a few pages, he's covered by a large quantity of blood - his own and his girlfriend's, when they're gunned down in a flashy London restaurant. Initially, this made me suspect a \\"Soho-genre\\" novel (the type written by some English novelists who see themselves as aspiring screenwriters.) Be that as it may (and probably Toby Litt does indeed have aspirations to become such a screenwriter since it appears that the screen rights to this novel have already been optioned) the book is worthy of more than just a writer's screen credit at the end of a movie. <br />Though reasonably well written, Corpsing seems to be sometimes too world weary and cynical. Conrad Redman's work involves creating trailers for satellite/digital companies, and he's in a rut where he's almost given up his dream of becoming a filmmaker. We first meet him when he's putting together a promotion for yet another Shark Week, making his trailers by splicing bits of film together, disregarding linearity in order to collage the best shots.  And this is how Corpsing is narrated... sort of bitty and full of jump cuts, flashbacks, slow mo, stops and starts. Above all, the flash-backs-forwards of the bullet entries. Litt spares no bruising detail as he describes how Conrad and his girlfriend, Lily, are literally blown apart. But he also cleverly places his narrator into a situation  that most of his readers will have fantasized about in one way or another. So, although Conrad may not always be very likeable, the reader cannot help but identify with him.<br />There's a certain amount of wit in Conrad's narration (Litt's writing), like Conrad admitting his shame at being shot by a bicycle courier in shockingly bright Lycra. However, there are faults too. Too many of the characters are lifeless - the notable exception being Lily, Conrad's dead actress girlfriend, who seems to get a far better role than many of the living. Unfortunately, good characterization is what this book needed, and in that respect Litt failed to fulfil. Otherwise, not a bad read.	2002-02-01
US	52317033	R29Y1DWXZE51A1	0590129988	577929965	Clockwork : Or All Wound Up	Books	4	12	12	N	N	For children and us older kids alike	As you would expect from Philip Pullman, 'Clockwork' is a skillfully written book with more depth than might be apparent to the younger reader. The events and characters fit together as neatly as the teeth of the clockwork Pullman describes, and the illustrations and textual 'asides' are delightful, offering complementary and contrasting views of the action as it progresses. It is a book which has an enormous amount to offer readers of all ages and is gripping enough to keep you turning those pages. <br />A post-modern version of Grimms Fairy Tales, 'Clockwork' has a certain gothic horror element to it, whilst retaining an underlying 'adult amusement' value. Pullman effectively combines the two, eliciting fear one moment and laughter the next. All the characters are well crafted but Dr Kalmenius is clearly the best, scoring 10 out of 10 on the villainy scale. <br />CLOCKWORK: OR ALL WOUND UP is an example of 'children's' fiction at its very best.	2002-01-27
US	52317033	R1VNI893C7ZZ9M	0304349410	622254893	Cassell Guide to Common Errors in English	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Well presented facts	This is the enthusiasts book that exposes common errors in current English usage, and shows how to avoid them. Containing a host of grammatical blunders (some obvious, some less so) and examples that highlight the problems.<br />My favorite (being my own pet hate, and the one that even top writers fail to understand) is the use of which, or that...  The grasscutter which is in the garage is the better one... OR The grasscutter that is in the garage is the better one.<br />In fact the two sentences have two different menings... The grasscutter, which is in the garage, is the better one:: simply tells you where the grasscutter is. <br />The grasscutter that is in the garage is the better one:: differentiates between this particular grasscutter and another one (which may, for example, be in the back yard).<br />Okay, so that was just one of many, but Cassell Guide to Common Errors in English is a great guide to all manner of pitfalls, and Harry Blamires (who also wrote &quot;The Queen's English&quot;) makes an excellent guide.	2002-01-26
US	52317033	R1CD1S7METHTAC	0679876154	312522121	The Tin Princess	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Slightly disappointing, but still a good read	Much though I am the first to admit to being a Pullman fan, this was the one that didn't quite make the grade for me. First of all, Pullman's passion for detail got in the way of his story; there were too many names and places and unnecessary plot twists for readers to keep track of properly. I guess, too, that having Sally Lockhart make a couple of cameo appearances led me to expect a Sally Lockhart book (trilogy plus one?) and so I kept waiting for her to play an active part that never happened. When she was mentioned, she was sitting at home smoking a pipe, knitting a jumper and growing radishes... not your Sally Lockhart of trilogy fame. Better to have left her out of this story altogether.<br />And what was Jim thinking of, falling for Adelaide? Who would have expected the brave little Adelaide from The Ruby In The Smoke to turn into the lazy spoilt brat she is depicted as at the begining of The Tin Princess? (though she improves during the course of the story and redeems herself by the end). And then there's Becky; the heroine who doesn't get half the recognition she deserves.<br />But when Pullman zeros in on his main characters, the story takes off, and it's their complex relationships that hold the readers' attention. Fans of Pullman's writing may have to stretch a bit in trading Victorian ambience for Germanic saber rattling, but there's enough here to enjoy even if it's not Pullman at his sparkling best.	2002-01-26
US	52317033	R29MINXN3DIEJR	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Six stars, actually !	Start with a score of ten out of ten, then keep adding. In The Golden Compass (originally entitled Northern Lights when published in UK  in 1995), Philip Pullman sets us on the first of three adventures that involve an all-heroine character called Lyra Belacqua. Lyra lives the life of a tomboy with her friend, Roger, but all that changes when Roger is abducted and an attempt is made on her uncle's life. From that point on, we cheer with Lyra, we hurt with Lyra, we laugh with Lyra. So strong is the bond that Pullman weaves between reader and protagonist that Lyra's emotions and our emotions become as one.<br />The fundamental religious bigots have had a field day with His Dark Materials Trilogy (of which The Golden Compass is just the first part). And then the swing-`em-low feminists got at it too! Unbelievable, that! And yet Pullman does no more that Milton in Paradise Lost as he explores the themes of good and evil, love and hate. To tear apart this book, based on the fact that you want a hero not a heroine, or on the Christianity premise, is to miss the beauty and genius of this writing - just because Pullman is clever enough to blur the edges of black and white in places (maybe this confuses the fundamentalists). But the witches, the armored bears, Mrs. Coulter and Lord Asriel all represent the opposing forces that can be used either for good or for bad. Pullman's theme is as old as time, and his characters are as believable as you and me.<br />In The Golden Compass, Philip Pullman has written a masterpiece that transcends genre. It is a children's book that will appeal to adults - or maybe an adult book that children will find fascinating -  a fantasy that will melt the most hardened heart. There is genuine terror in this book; genuine heartbreak. There is betrayal and there is loss. But there is also love, loyalty, and an abiding morality that infuses the story without overwhelming it.<br />This is a `keeper'.	2002-01-23
US	52317033	RTTHXF1VRIY3D	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Another winner in the series	This, the second of Pullman's Dark Materials Trilogy, brings the story to a whole new level. It introduces moral and philosophical questions that some might imagine to be too weighty for young readers, and it introduces a second hero, a boy named Will. (well at least that should keep the feminists quiet! - they had a ball with the first book of the series, The Golden Compass). Though introducing Will takes a deal of the focus off Lyra, she did, after all, have the first book more or less to herself, and it is clear now that the trilogy is meant to involve them both. Fortunately, Will Parry is every bit as likeable as Lyra Silvertongue. <br />The Subtle Knife is one of the most amazing, mind grasping fantasies ever to be written. It takes you into places so real you feel like you are part of them. Throughout, Pullman is in absolute control of his created worlds, his plot and pace equal to his inspiration. Any number of astonishing scenes send readers into spontaneous reality checks, and many are cause for eye-dabbing moments - even from the men. \\"You think things have to be possible,\\" Will demands. \\"Things have to be true!\\" It is Philip Pullman's gift to turn what more mundane minds would term 'the impossible' into reality - one that is both heartbreaking and beautiful. <br />Pullman's exquisite touch at building his characters, takes on special significance as he creates both human and spectral forms from many different worlds. His real strength, though, is in his light-fingered touch on subjects as 'adult' as mental illness, man's inhumanity to man, and the possibility of other universes. His writing may be viewed as pure entertainment, yet the concepts he delves into are as profound as any. But here's the REAL intellect of Pullman... he's not afraid to (over)extend many of the commonly-held views about foreshadowing by revealing some of the more astounding theories early in the book. When he permits Dust to escape into our world, you realize just how well you've been set-up, and the true genius of this series starts to show.	2002-01-23
US	52317033	RMJTJRO3PJAB8	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The final countdown	In The Amber Spyglass, Philip Pullman brings His Dark Materials trilogy to a close with a big, sprawling, apocalyptic piece of work that ties up all those loose ends in a satisfactory manner... Satisfactory, that is, to anyone who is open-minded enough to accept new, imaginative thoughts. <br />In essence, there are two kinds of great innovative stories - those that fit new situations seamlessly into an existing body of thought and make you wonder why no one did it before, and those that do exactly the opposite and massage existing situations into a new line of thought. Then there are the third kind... the kind that only rise to the surface once every century or so... the kind that can take new situations and place them into a new stream of thought. Such is the trilogy of The Golden Compass, The Subtle Knife, and The Amber Spyglass. Imaginative, compelling, thought-provoking and innovative... no other way to describe them. Pullman is known for other fine works as well as His Dark Materials, but I'm willing to bet that these three books will be the ones he'll be remembered for. <br />The most amazing thing about The Amber Spyglass is that Pullman could, at any time, have taken the easy way out and written a happy ending... an ending that the church would have blessed and sanctified... an ending that the feminists would have been comfortable with... happy endings all around, in fact. The world is saved - God saved the world. But no! Pullman stood firm and allowed his characters to think for themselves. In doing so, he has taken the heat from all manner of religious fanatics. But this is REAL LIFE people, so you either accept that all three books were just a little fairytale with a difficult ending, or you accept that they were an analogy of life itself. Heads you win; tails you can't lose! Unless, of course, you're too closed-minded to see it.	2002-01-23
US	52317033	R2NWK8NF7W3TAM	155868056X	341184130	Culture Shock! France (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	4	55	59	N	N	Confusing in places	Full disclosure: Though British myself, I live on the outskirts of Paris. I speak French. My wife is French and I have close French friends. I think this gives me an almost unique perspective on the French and their way of life. I am close enough to be able to get an insider's look at them, yet different enough to be super-critical when I feel like it!<br />Now here's the other interesting thing about my situation: I work for an American Company and I have a lot of American friends. Like many Brits, I feel a certain closeness to USA, even if we find you exasperating at times (just like you probably find us)!<br />Let's be positive first and give you the good news about 'Culture Shock: France'. I agree with my fellow reviewer (Seattle 29 June 2000) that it cuts to the heart of some of the areas where Americans and the French often don't communicate well. Sally Adamson Taylor explains why some people find the French to be rude and why the French often find Americans to be rude (Don't look so shocked! Or maybe you've not tried to communicate with a New York cabbie recently!) - and remember that in any place some people will be rude no matter what you do. <br />However, as my fellow reviewer observes, this book offers sound behavioural tips to overcome any cultural differences... like if you're invited to a French person's home, &quot;Don't go sticking your nose into your host's refrigerator&quot; ... hey do you guys REALLY do that?   <BR>&quot;Don't open the conversation by telling your host how much you earn.&quot;... do you REALLY do that too?<BR>&quot;Try using a knife and fork - it's not as difficult as it looks.&quot; ... so what do you normally use - chopsticks?<BR>You see what I mean about cultural differences.<br />But this brings me to the negative side of the book... Sally Adamson Taylor has, quite simply got some things wrong. Whilst she offers a whole host of useful tips and observations, she describes some of them badly. The section, for example, about thehandshake as picked up by my fellow reviewer. I can assure you that nearly all the handshakes offered me are firm with plenty of eye contact. Not the limp-wrist specimens that the author suggests. Maybe she mixes with the wrong crowd.<br />The one observation that the author has correctly picked up (from Luigi Barzini in his book \\"The Europeans\\") is that `Foreigners have to remind themselves that they are not dealing with a country that really exists... but with a country that most Frenchmen dream still exists. The gap between the two is a large one, but the French indefatigably try to ignore it or forget it.'<br />That tells you more about France than anything I or Sally Adamson Taylor can say!	2002-01-19
US	52317033	R1G1938Q3IPPSF	0743406265	949583629	Firewall	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another huge McNab success	What makes Andy McNab a terrific suspense thriller writer (easily on a par with Alistair Maclean) is not just his spare, hungry sentences that fire the action like bullets from a gun; not just his understanding of 'how things work' in the covert world of government spying, and not just his ability to draw in empathetic readers within just a few paragraphs. What sets McNab aside is the fact that he writes from PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.<br />No matter how much chill factor Alistair Maclean could write into Ice Station Zebra, there was no way he could ever match Andy McNab's descriptions of one night in the sub-zero temperatures of Estonia. Why? Because McNab has clearly been there - done that -got the T shirt! You just KNOW from his descriptions that he's describing the depravation and emotions that he, himself, has suffered during his years in Britain's SAS.<br />Following Andy McNab's hugely successful `Crisis Four', Nick Stone, now a `K' working for British Intelligence on deniable operations is desperately in need of cash. Offered the lucrative freelance job of kidnapping a mafia warlord and delivering him to St. Petersburgh, it seems to Stone that his problems are over. In fact, they are only just beginning.<br />Stone enters the bleak and brutal underworld of the former Soviet republic of Estonia, where unknown aggressors stalk the bitter landscape, and he soon finds himself caught between implacable enemies. And who is the secretive Liv?<br />Another runaway McNab success. Wake up Hollywood !	2002-01-18
US	52317033	R3Q822W6Q1GUD5	0304349267	692385697	Cassell Dictionary of Insulting Quotations	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great fun and a superb reference	The famous bad-mouthing the infamous - or something like that!<br />This book is hugely interesting, uproariously funny, outrageously vulgar in places, but true to the spirit of `tell it as it is'. After all, these ARE insulting quotations, so what do you expect?<br />Above all, you'll find quotations that are notable for their intelligent wit - like the book's cover, Churchill and Lady Astor...<BR>Lady Astor: &quot;If I were your wife, I would put poison in your coffee.&quot;<BR>Churchill: &quot;If I were your husband, I would drink it.&quot;<br />And many others - often in less direct form:-   &quot;Prince Charles is an insensitive, hypocritical oaf and Princess Diana is a selfish, empty-headed bimbo. They should never have got married in the first place. I blame the parents.&quot; (Richard Littlejohn, British journalist).<br />My favourite is what one British politician said of another... \\"He's a shiver looking for a spine to run up.\\"<br />The indexing is a little lax but otherwise, `Insulting Quotations' is a must for any cynic's bookshelf.	2002-01-18
US	52317033	R24TCI94A3VUBH	0316848670	225585375	One Fine Day In the Middle of the Night	Books	5	7	9	N	N	So very Brookmyre - and it succeeds	`One Fine Day in the Middle of The Night' is an all-action satire from Scotland's leading satirist - Christopher Brookmyre, a resolute left-winger with a great command of the English language and a publishing deal he's not afraid to use! Liberally sprinkled with popcorn culture references, Brookmyres writing is a strange mixture of the slightly more intelligent Hollywood escapism (?) and liberal left-wing conscience that guarantees a thick veneer of `smart' social commentary. Nevertheless, Brookmyre's unashamed homage to his action hero heritage ensures an attention-grabbing plot where, in true Die-Hard tradition, trigger-happy but fallible mercenaries take hostages at the gala preview of a ludicrous hotel built on a disused oil drilling rig. Not only does Brookmyre make some intelligent social commentaries about the police, the oil industry, the travel industry, and a few other sacred cows (like religion and politics), he does it in a way that entertains and amuses.<br />What sets Brookmyre apart from the pack is that he is obviously a skilled author (his sentence structures are not the short, declarative ones you would expect from an action writer) and yet he can drop in references to popular music, television and cinema without looking out of date. Unlike authors like Ben Elton, he has enough intelligence to control his social commentary, keeping it in equal proportion to the absurd plot of the book. It's not high literature, but it doesn't want to be. This makes the whole thing easier to stomach and while you may think, being an action novel, it will be an easy read, this is not always the case. Nonetheless, it's a very worthwhile read.<br />If you have difficulties getting hold of any Brookmyre titles, they're ALL available on amazon.co.uk (Including Brookmyre's latest offering `A Big Boy Did It And Ran Away')	2002-01-18
US	52317033	R1DGT2WU53KBG0	0316641766	781835340	Country of the Blind	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Brookmyre delight	True to the left-of-center credentials of its author, Christopher Brookmyre, `Country of the Blind' takes multiple swipes at right wing businessmen and government ministers who, according to the story, arrange a violent murder and cover-up, eventually raising the wrath of improbable superhero, crusading journalist Jack Parlabane.<br />Though far from supporting left-wing politics myself (or any `wing' for that matter), I still found myself cheering the good guys and booing the baddies. As with other Brookmyre novels, `Country of the Blind' had me hooked from the first pages where his description of a young lawyer's first clients (Mrs McGrotty) had me in hysterics. Having kicked off to such a great start the story kept up the pace and was as memorable as this author's other novels. The style of writing is very 90s Scotland and includes many pointed comments on the right wing government of 1980s England. Most of these comments aren't entirely original but will reassure the likely leftish, middle-class audience that they have a liberal-minded fellow-traveller who is also quite cross about what went on. Sadly, as comedian Alexei Sayle memorably pointed out, you can't change the world with the lyrics of a pop song - you have to do the dance as well !<br />	2002-01-18
US	52317033	R2HUIVYJP4OZKW	0072193816	593641401	Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets & Solutions, Third Edition (Hacking Exposed)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Heavy but effective	I wasn't quite sure what I was letting myself into with 'Hacking Exposed'. In fact, I'm not even sure why I bought it - curiosity, I suppose. Being reasonably computer literate, I expected to find stuff that I might quickly understand. Sadly for me, I guess I'm not as computer savvy as I thought since about 70% of the content went way over my head. That's not the book's fault, since it is well laid out, well thought out and well presented.<br />Maybe what got me in the end was the SUID shell... [tsuiami}$ echo &quot;/bin/cp /bin/sh /tmp/.sh ; /bin/chmod 4755 / tmp/ .sh&quot; /etc/rc.d/rc3.d/s99local (page 369)<br />Any/clues/anyone? I'm;well;lost!<br />Certainly, for anyone who's in touch with 'real' programming, at least 'Hacking' talks about security from an offensive angle. A full catalog of the weaponry that black-hat hackers use is laid out in its full gore.	2002-01-16
US	52317033	R3HZWEZ748ALCE	002542730X	731224517	Politically Correct Bedtime Stories: Modern Tales for Our Life & Times	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fairy tales with a difference	Anyone who is in tune with the times knows that Snow White took refuge with seven vertically challenged men, that Little Red Riding Hood, her grandma and the cross-dressing wolf set up an alternative household based on mutual respect and cooperation, that Goldilocks was a rogue biologist who specialised in the study of anthropomorphic bears, that the Frog Prince was not a prince at all, but a middle-aged, balding real estate developer with plans to drain the pond, and that the Emperor was not naked, but merely endorsing a clothing-optional lifestyle.<br />You didn't know that? You mean that you or your children were lulled to sleep by classic bedtime stories that are discriminatory, prejudiced and demeaning to witches, animals, giants, dwarfs, goblins and fairies everywhere? Now, at last, you can remedy this cultural defect by reading 'Politically Correct Bedtime Stories' by James Finn Garner, and find out what really happened when Jack climbed the beanstalk, when Cinderella went to the ball and when the wolf tried to blow down the houses of the Three Little Pigs.<br />After all, if you were brought up on all that racist, sizeist, ethnocentrist reading matter, then you most certainly need to be made aware of the dangers, in these sensitive modern times, of expressing any kind of opinion at all.<br />'Politically Correct Bedtime Stories' is a great read, particularly if, like me, you're totally bowel-drained at having to address a human-being who's in charge of a meeting as a 'chair'. Personally, I'm all for The Big Bad Wolf gobbling Little Red Riding Hood, and blow the consequences.	2002-01-16
US	52317033	R10AG1NJT868TI	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A well-deserved five stars	'The Green Mile' is perhaps one of the finest novels yet by one of the world's greatest storytellers; by turns warmly human and shatteringly horrific, and totally unputdownable from first page to last. <br />In 1996, Stephen King decided to reach into the past both with the presentation of the material and with the content of The Green Mile itself. Like Charles Dickens before him, he serialized the work, publishing one episode a month, without having finished it beforehand. This 'entertainment in installments' method created a sensation and, between March and August 1996, it seemed as if everyone was 'walking The Green Mile'. Bear in mind, however, that this concept would probably have failed if the tale itself was substandard. King went to great lengths to ensure that it was not. <br />The Green Mile (here complete in one volume) taps into what Stephen King does best: character-driven storytelling. The story begins slowly, but it's deliberate, not sluggish, as King sets the grim scene in a depressing version of Shawshank Prison. As with all King novels, his characters are well drawn and their lives are neatly sketched. Then: &quot;Lights. Camera. Action.&quot; From what was part 3 of the serialization (&quot;Coffey's Hands&quot;) King charges through with an unstoppable story brimming with insight and surprise. It is not until the very end of the original part 6 (&quot;Coffey on The Mile&quot;) that the story once again slows to allow readers to breathe a little. <br />The ending of The Green Mile is perhaps King's saddest (with the possible exception of Insomnia) though it is still one of King's best recent novels, rich in detail and character. Nothing is ever what it should be, and there are little surprises (and some pretty big ones!) at every turn. A highly recommended read, even if you do lose the fun of the serialization as it happened.	2002-01-11
US	52317033	R3U4ZOGP733GDJ	0375758089	314249634	Fanny Hill: or, Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	31	45	N	N	From porn to classic in one easy step	Question:  What does John Cleland have in common with D. H. Lawrence, James Joyce and Aristophanes?<br />Answer: The Comstock Law<br />All four writers (and a host of others) have had their novels banned in USA for years under the Comstock Law of 1873. Officially known as the Federal Anti-Obscenity Act, this law banned the mailing of &quot;lewd&quot;, &quot;indecent&quot;, &quot;filthy&quot;, or &quot;obscene&quot; materials. The Comstock laws, while now to some extent unenforced, remain for the most part on the statute books today. The Telecommunications Reform Bill of 1996 even specifically applies some of these outdated and outmoded laws to computer networks (without much success, it is noted).<br /><br />So what's my message here? Simple - if we continue to allow censors to dictate what we can and cannot read, we stand the chance of being robbed of some of the world's finest written works - and we're not talking exceptions here. Consider, for example Candide, Voltaire's critically hailed satire - Jean-Jacques Rousseau's autobiography Confessions - Chaucer's Canterbury Tales - Boccaccio's Decameron - Defoe's Moll Flanders, and various editions of The Arabian Nights. All were banned at various times in the US. That noble book 'Ulysses' by James Joyce was recently selected by the Modern Library as the best novel of the 20th century yet, like Aristophanes' Lysistrata, Cleland's 'Fanny Hill' and Lawrence's 'Lady Chatterley', it was banned for decades from the U.S.<br />Fanny Hill is no longer distinguished for the once-shocking treatment of the sexual activity of one 'loose' woman. Now that we're used to hearing and reading about sex, it's apparent that the novel is memorable for better reasons: namely, that Cleland was a masterful writer whose intelligent descriptions take us bodily into the world of his characters. The book's moderate language on an immoderate subject make it a unique, original work - a triumph of passion and eroticism over sterility.<br />The next time you hear that something has been censored, question whether it is really to protect public morals (where the pornography of senseless war, and starvation appear to be more acceptable than freedom of sexuality), or whether it is to protect the censors' own frustrated identities! Fanny Hill is yet another powerful reminder that all the censors have ever succeeded in doing is to ban outstanding literature in the name of public morality.me you hear that something has been censored, question whether it is really to protect public morals (where the pornography of senseless war, and starvation appear to be more acceptable than freedom of sexuality), or whether it is to protect the censors' own frustrated identities! Fanny Hill is yet another powerful reminder that all the censors have ever succeeded in doing is to ban outstanding literature in the name of public morality.	2002-01-11
US	52317033	R31LOZUTCIMFII	073571102X	845467308	Homepage Usability: 50 Websites Deconstructed	Books	3	132	158	N	N	Take a closer look	I was impressed by the first 65 pages of 'Jakob Nielsen's 50 Web Sites'. For the first time, it seemed, someone had stopped to analyse the genetic code that made for a successful homepage.<br />What happened on page 66? .......... What happened was that I came to the deconstruction (criticism) of THIS site (amazon.com) and discovered that things were not as they seemed. Having purchased regularly from three of the amazon sites over the last five years, and having written over 200 reviews on this site alone, I think I know the site as well as any other customer. Thus I was surprised when I saw some of the criticisms levelled by Jakob Nielsen and Marie Tahir. I'm not saying that everything is perfect - and fair criticism is wholly constructive - however, the authors have left themselves open to the charge of superficiality.<br />Take as an example their criticism of the page tabs (they say that users can make use of the other navigation tools on the page). Personally, I ALWAYS use the tabs at the top of the page. It seems that Nielsen and Tahir haven't considered user preferences.<br />They say that 'Friends and Favorites' is a meaningless category name. Not to me, it's not. Nor to hundreds of thousands of other site users.<br />They say that 'Free e-cards' should be in the 'Gifts' category. WRONG - Gift Certificates are in the gift category. e-Cards are e-Cards. Gift Certificates are Gift Certificates.<br />They say that 'Hello' is an unnecessary level of friendliness. Is it? I LIKE being welcomed to the site (even though I know it's only an electronic gizmo). What Nielsen and Tahir failed to understand was that, after signing-in, the message says 'Hello, Graham Hamer' (or Hello, Father Christmas if that's who you are). As I say, the authors have been too superficial in drawing their conclusions.<br />They say that Photo albums and Photo frames is an odd and seemingly random combination of items. Eh? Doesn't the word 'photo' conjure up a link?<br />They say that 'Kitchen' should be grouped with 'Lawn and Patio'. Why? I don't grow flowers in my oven.<br />In Nielsen and Tahir's specific examples, they criticise 'A Painted House' as being a poor description of John Grisham's 'A Painted House'. ... What planet are these people from?<br />They criticize the fact that there is more than one place on the page to sign in. I LIKE that feature since both my wife and I have accounts with Amazon, I often find that I am 'signed in' on her account. Having a convenient location to click is a useful addition.<br />Nielsen and Tahir have completely misunderstood the meaning of the heading 'New Releases'. If they had bothered to click on any of the categories below, they would have understood its function. (Superficiality again.)<br />I could rant on and on for pages, but I think you're probably getting the gist of things. Having discovered that the authors had made such a poor job of deconstructing a site I know well, I now don't trust their judgement on the remaining 49 sites. That's a shame, because the idea behind the book is good - just poorly executed.	2002-01-08
US	52317033	R47460W7Z32OH	1931402191	650971910	Riverwatch	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Flawed but well worth reading	As a good story, 'Riverwatch' delivers. The plot is not wholly original, but is intelligent enough to surpass any thoughts of having been there before. There are, though, three (small) problems... First off, there are some clumsy grammatical errors, which are particular noticeable in the early chapters of the book. This is a shame, since a little elementary editing would have removed most of these. Secondly, Nassise seeks to 'tell' his reader too much, instead of using his descriptions and dialogue to 'show'. Again this is a shame since his ability to coin a keen phrase is evident when, as a page one 'prologue', he describes something as simple as silence and succeeds in immediately drawing his reader into his imaginary world. And thirdly, he has fallen into the first-time author's trap of overusing adjectives and adverbs. He would do well to listen to Stephen King's advice on seeking these out and destroying them (On Writing : A Memoir of the Craft). Any single one of these problems would have passed unnoticed. Any two would have been a slight irritation. But all three caused a series of reoccurring distractions that took the edge off my enjoyment of Riverwatch. <br />And yet the novel is still well-balanced, and has all the ingredients of a darn good read. Riverwatch is fast paced and, despite the story's Gothic feel, Nassise's protagonists are generally likeable characters with whom one can easily identify and empathize. Like most great horror writers, Jospeh Nassie draws the evil in his book from the dark regions of the human mind, though he fully hones the tangible reality of the evil in the nightmare shape of Moloch - The Beast. Nassie's descriptions of this, the last of the 'Nightshades' are superb, and genuinely scary. He taps into our darkest fears and conjures up enough bloodcurdling horror to unsettle us and have us peering nervously round dark corners. The deaths (of which there are several) are bloodthirsty but not excessively so... enough to put you off your bedtime cocoa, but not enough to make you want to close the book. As I say, Riverwatch is well-balanced and should be praised for achieving this difficult feat.<br />Take note... despite my criticisms, if Joseph M. Nassie can curb his predilection to adjectives and adverbs, allow his story to do the talking, and have his manuscript proof-read, his next book will be a true masterpiece. This is a young author on the way up and, in Riverwatch, should be congratulated for having laid the most solid foundation stones.	2002-01-07
US	52317033	R1KRLU08RU67CG	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Mixed response	As I look through the reviews of 'Skipping Christmas' I understand why the response is so mixed. My feeling is that many readers have expected a typical Grisham-style book and have ended up with less than they had hoped for. Skipping Christmas is NOT typical Grisham. John Grisham has taken a light-hearted look at the reactions when a couple decide to give Christmas a miss and go on a cruise instead.<br />Where the story falls down is in the detail. We are told that Luther Krank is only skipping Christmas to avoid the cost (not because Christmas is humbug). Why, then, would he avoid placing a Frosty on his roof? Why would he not go to the (no cost) firm's office party? There are lots of other details, too, that don't fit into Luther's original 'plan'.<br />Though Skipping Christmas is just a short, light-hearted read that lasts a few hours, I didn't find it particularly satisfying nor, despite the potential, did I find much humor in John Grisham's execution of the plot. It's marginally amusing but not much else.	2002-01-05
US	52317033	RVCMS63YO06R2	0451525043	502025919	Kidnapped (Signet Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dated but still effective	I totally agree with the reviewer who says that Kidnapped has become his/her favorite book of all time and that (s)he still re-reads it several times a year. Not that I re-read it, but I agree when (s)he says that (s)he envies anyone who is about to read 'Kidnapped' for the first time. I am about the same age, and I well remember my first reading - how I smiled when Uncle Ebeneezer served his gruel (porridge) - how I held my breath when David nearly stepped into space on the broken stairs - how I cringed with the injustice of Ebeneezer tried to cheat David out of his inheritance by selling him into slavery in the American colonies.<br />Stevenson's 'Treasure Island' is reckoned to be his best book but, for sheer descriptive weight, superb characterization and sharp, sharp dialog, 'Kidnapped' is the one for me. In brief, 16-year-old orphan, David Balfour visits his uncle in order to claim the inheritance, left by his father. The uncle, having failed to kill him, arranges for David to be kidnapped by a ship of thugs and villains and taken to the Carolinas to be sold into slavery. While navigating the Scottish coast, the ship collides with another boat and the crew capture the lone survivor, a swashbuckling Highlander called Alan Breck Stewart. David and Alan become friends and escape their captors. On land again, Stewart is accused of murdering a rival clan member and he and David must now cross the Scottish mountains to reach safe haven and for David to reclaim his inheritance.<br />The descriptions of the Scottish countryside are truly marvelous and the sense of pace and adventure keeps the reader hooked right to the end. I notice that one reviewer likened this section to 'a tiresome episode of The Odd Couple'. Perhaps it's worth bearing in mind that The Odd Couple was written a few years AFTER Kidnapped ! (In any case, I doubt that a written version of the television series would stir anyone's emotions like Kidnapped can). To most readers the historic aspects, along with the fact that the couple are being hunted by British redcoats is enough to maintain interest, suspense and pace.<br />Read and enjoy !	2002-01-03
US	52317033	R1OGVWTTGJW99P	0425184129	857420607	Big Trouble Movie Tie-In	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outrageously Funny	Dave Barry has a screw loose somewhere and it makes him one of the funniest writers on the scene today. The storyline of 'Big Trouble' features a bearded drifter who lives up a tree, a couple of Russian arms dealers, a pair of losers who hustle tourists for dimes but are headed for the big time, a sexy illegal immigrant, a vodka-soaked embezzler, a poisonous toad, two very fed up New Jersey hit men and a dog who looks like Elizabeth Dole... oh, not to mention a giant python called Daphne and a nuclear bomb!<br />Want to know more? ... Read the book!<br />I chuckled my way through the first half of Big Trouble, and laughed my way through the second half. What else could I do with a story that fell somewhere between Tom Sharpe and Tom Wolfe but was better than the sum of both? Dave Barry is more like Elmore Leonard than Elmore Leonard and has created that rare literary beast, the genuinely funny mystery/thriller novel.<br />If I could give six stars, I'd want to give this book seven. It's a real killer. Can't wait to see the movie.	2001-12-28
US	52317033	R2IRO7Q4T5RM5F	0028637895	712198819	Frommer's Irreverent Guide to Paris (Irreverent Guides)	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Not so irreverent, and not so complete	If being irreverent is stating that Parisian waiters can be rude, then I've missed the point of this book somewhere. Everbody KNOWS that Parisian waiters can be rude. Just be rude back!<br />I can't help feeling that Alexander F. Lobrano (Heidi Ellison in the first edition) have just dug around to exaggerate the things they don't like, and played down (or even omitted) the good things. For example, in a section marked 'Secret Gardens', how can Parc Andre Citroen be considered secret and Jardins Albert Kahn completely missed? It makes a mockery of claiming to be a true guide. Much better (if you're French-speaking) to get yourself a copy of 'Paris inattendu' by Michel Dansel. You get the truth AND a lot of fresh information.	2001-12-23
US	52317033	R3NMILMWT862Z8	068971310X	712926184	The Wind in the Willows	Books	5	278	283	N	N	Continues to stand the test of time	When I was very young (about six thousand years ago), our school master used to read to us from Wind in the Willows. The stories had a magical quality and a few weeks ago, as a somewhat older person, I got to wondering whether they would still have that sense of enchantment that held us so captivated all those years ago.<br />I was NOT disappointed. Toad was just as cantankerous and difficult as ever. Badger, Rat and Mole were just as supportive - just as memorable. Badger is unpredictable but protective (and sometimes mean). Mole is timid and shy. Rat is courageous and romantic. And who could ever forget those dreadful gun-toting weasels, ferrets and stoats glorying in their take-over of Toad Hall? Wind in the Willows is a true masterpiece of allegory with endless moral lessons disguised as a children's story. It is also a lesson in things long-forgotten... the glory of floating noiselessly down a river at dawn, past loosestrife, willowherb, bulrushes and meadowsweet. How many of us have even heard of these meadow plants, never mind seen them. But it doesn't matter, because it evokes nostalgia either for things long-forgotten or for things never-known.<br />At a child's level, Wind in the Willows is about friendship and about life in an imagined world centered around the river. At a less innocent level, Wind in the Willows draws many parallels with life, though Kenneth Grahame managed to avoid preaching his lessons. Not the least of Graham's parables is that 'the bigger they are, the harder they fall' because Toad is as egotistical and as self-important as they come until being thrown in jail for 'borrowing' a car.  After that, it's all downhill for Toad, and it is only thanks to the loyalty of his friends that he regains some of his position in society - though not before learning a little humility first.<br />Though, at an older age, we pretend to be more sophisticated, at heart we always hold out the hope of a return to innocence and simple adventures. We are still (most of us) perfectly capable of identifying with the animals and the idea, as one reviewer put it, of  two school-aged hedgehogs frying ham for a mole and a water rat, in a badger's kitchen does my imagination no harm whatsoever! As for Grahame's choice of phrase (...the &quot;remotest dungeon of the best-guarded keep of the stoutest castle in all the length and breadth of Merry England&quot;...) it's almost as poetically attention-grabbing as Rowan Atkinson's Blackadder series.<br />If you're looking for laser guns and hi-tech wars, W-i-t-W is NOT the book to buy. If you're after something a little more gentle (and a little more intelligent) Wind in the Willows is an outstanding example of  a Classic that continues to withstand the test of time.	2001-12-10
US	52317033	R2UNPCOOB53EW0	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	5	22	27	N	N	The tip of the iceberg	I wonder why it is that, whenever somebody points out the truth about outdated and failed American foreign policy, that person is condemned with phrases such as...  'outdated arguments', 'Liberal Idealist', 'confusing'? Chalmers Johnson may indeed focus on the Pacific Rim region, but his observations accurately reflect the views of much of the rest of the world too. It is true that, at the moment, the extremists tend to be concentrated in the regions of the world that are fundamentally Islamic, but that does not mean that the rest of the world agrees with America's attitude. Where America stumbles is in its belief that it doesn't need to EARN respect .... that respect will be granted thanks to the purchasing power of the mighty dollar.<br />Even America's friends in Europe are exasperated at the navet displayed by USA politicians and many of its citizens. Why, for example, should Britain now run to America's aid in the battle against terrorism - after all, American citizens have been openly sponsoring Irish terrorism for decades. Fortunately, Britain is a good ally. Britain also understands the attitude of empire-builders - attitudes that are stubbornly maintained but not yet fully understood by USA. - the outdated imperialism of treating the natives fondly, but with a certain superiority and disdain. Just because America has the hard cash that enables it to develop other people's science does not make America the originator. Remember that telephones, television, rocket science, computers were all invented elsewhere. Stop treating the inventors with contempt, just because they have less $ in their pockets with which to commercialize their inventions.<br />And this is the real nub of  'Blowback : The Costs and Consequences of American Empire'. It is a timely warning to USA to learn the lessons of history and to approach its neighbors with a good deal more respect that is shown at present. From a personal angle, I would add that American people (for whom I have afondness, a lot of respect, and a large measure of good will) would also do well to equip themselves with a better understanding of what is going on beyond their shores. I share a commonly-held view that American is insular in its understanding but global in its power. Something is bound to go wrong! It's not hatred for the American people (excluding a few demented fundamentalists), it's much more exasperation at the prevailing attitudes. 'Blowback', though limited in its coverage makes this abundantly clear.	2001-12-10
US	52317033	R22QK34EUPWEQX	1929925387	966195573	The Heretic	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is a MUST buy --- I mean MUST buy !	Probably one of the GREAT new authors of 2001, Jason K. Chapman has written a real scorcher of a novel - one that kept me reading half the night to get to the end. It's not often that a new author can fall into the habit of good dialog at the first attempt, but Chapman's is absolutely amazing. It's a strength he can play up to again and again in the future, because dialog SHOWS not TELLS, producing story pictures in the mind, just like the spells that his main character was weaving in cyberspace. <br />And here's something else that was totally refreshing about this book - you don't even get to find out the protagonist's name! Hey, and there's a thoroughly intelligent ending too. It caught me by surprise because, as the remaining pages grew less and less, I was waiting for a monotonous roll of drums as my own imagined scenario came true. No such bad luck. Fortunately, Jason Chapman is a novelist of style and originality and the ending was as bright and artful as any I could have imagined. <br />Chapman's story is of a cyberworld controlled by The Guild who, seemingly, are the good guys, protecting computer systems from black hat hackers. The Heretic, Chapman's protagonist, finds that things are not quite as they seem on the surface - and certainly not as they should be. What's worse, he's being hunted both in cyberspace and IRL (in the real world!). In short, declarative sentences that would make Mike Hammer proud, Jason Chapman has The Heretic fall in love, fight the bad guys and find true happiness. All in 201 action-packed pages WITH NOT A CLICHE IN SIGHT! <br />There were some wonderfully subtle brushstrokes too - the falcon in particular. Epitomizing The Heretic's freedom, while at the same time providing a metaphor for the watched and the watcher. Bravo Mr. Chapman. If that was your starter, your next book is going to be a real cracker. I'll be waiting for it.	2001-12-05
US	52317033	R1P0AFR6W9RRFZ	014118213X	966622039	Howards End (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the all-time classics	Forster's earliest fictional writings were short stories, many of them fantasies about men and women who  wanted to escape, from the stuffy social milieu that hemmed them in - from a dry colourless world into an infinitely expanding one. In later works, Forster had them desperately seeking the freedom to respond to a higher call.  This higher call was not religious in the conventional sense. E.M.Forster did not belong to any religion, and it is clear that his philosophy of life was man-centred, not God-centred. But personal development was important to him and he passionately believed that human beings need not stay stuck in groove but should be free to develop. <br />Thus, what  begins as a collection of seemingly unrelated events in Howards End gradually knits into a tightly woven story of tragic misunderstandings, impulsive actions, and irreparable consequences - and, eventually, &quot;connection&quot;, though Forster leaves the reader free to interpret &quot;connection&quot; as he or she will. &quot;Only connect!&quot; beseeches Margaret Schlegel as she contemplates the state of her soul (and others'). Maybe it is best that we decide for ourselves what form this 'connection' should take.<br />There are happy marriages in Forster's novels, but they do not come as the culmination of passionate love affairs. Forster himself was homosexual and, in view of the repressive climate of the time, decided to confine his less inhibited descriptions of sexual encounters to those between men in his novel Maurice and the later short stories which were not published till after his death. The first sexual incident in Howards End is a fumbled chaste kiss in a rose garden and the only other carnal exchange takes place offstage, its fruit coming as a bit of a surprise to the reader!<br />The proposed marriage between Margaret and Henry is not so much the consummation of physical love but rather a device for bringing together the conflicting ideals of two families, the Schlegels andthe Wilcoxes. Weaving its way through the story is the theme of balance, the need to integrate two essential qualities which tend to go to extremes. Margaret Schlegel, the central character, strives to integrate the opposing tendencies. <br />As so often in Forster's work, it is not a question of one or the other, reason or emotion, prose or passion, the outer life or the inner life, but of finding a middle way between the two. The two families are forever contrasted, but the novelist's aim was to bring them together, to bridge the gulf. The Wilcoxes - all except Mrs Wilcox - are for the outer life of business and getting things done, the life, as Helen puts it, 'of telegrams and anger', while the Schlegels are for the inner life of refinement, through culture and personal relations.<br />At the two extremes are Helen Schlegel on the one hand, and Henry Wilcox on the other. For Helen, the emotions and personal relations are everything. Speaking of them, she often echoes Keats famous phrase, 'the holiness of the heart's affections'. In complete contrast, Henry Wilcox says of himself: ''I am not a fellow who bothers about my own inside'. Outwardly he was cheerful and brave: but within all had reverted to chaos'. The whole drama of the novel turns on the conflict between these opposites.<br />Margaret's function is to strive to reconcile them, to bring about what seems an impossible union. She is the one to make the vital connection. 'Only connect...' is the famous epigraph of the novel. She has to 'build the rainbow bridge' as Forster puts it, between the prose and the passion, the prose of the Wilcoxes with the poetry of the Schlegels..<br />It's never easy reading a novel that was written almost 100 years ago. Sentence structures change. Word usage alters - sometimes imperceptibly other times more overtly. Yet Howards End, Forster's 1910 novel, has a timelessness that makes it good for another 100 years yet.  And just like Fortser's other works (especially Passageto India), Howards End looks at class, nationality, economic status, and how each of these affects personal relationships.<br />Read it with a sense of relief that, just maybe, things have not changed as much as we might imagine !	2001-12-03
US	52317033	R40EV93DGDHNY	0451524985	182408519	Lady Chatterley's Lover (Signet classics)	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Don't be put off by the censors	David Herbert Lawrence was born on 11th September 1885 in Nottinghamshire, England, little knowing that he would eventually have much in common with writers as varied as James Joyce and Aristopanes.<br />Ulysses by James Joyce was recently selected by the Modern Library as the best novel of the 20th century. Like Aristophanes' Lysistrata and Lawrence's 'Lady Chatterley', it was banned for decades from the U.S. mails under the Comstock Law of 1873. Officially known as the Federal Anti-Obscenity Act, this law banned the mailing of &quot;lewd&quot;, &quot;indecent&quot;, &quot;filthy&quot;, or &quot;obscene&quot; materials. The Comstock laws, while now to some extent unenforced, remain for the most part on the books today. The Telecommunications Reform Bill of 1996 even specifically applied some of these outdated and outmoded laws to computer networks.<br />So what's my message here? Simple - if we continue to allow censors to dictate what we can and cannot read, we stand the chance of being robbed of some of the world's finest written works. We're not talking exceptions here. Consider, for example John Cleland's Fanny Hill - Candide, Voltaire's critically hailed satire - Jean-Jacques Rousseau's autobiography Confessions - Chaucer's Canterbury Tales - Boccaccio's Decameron - Defoe's Moll Flanders, and various editions of The Arabian Nights. All were banned at various times in the US.<br />The 1928 Lady Chatterley's Lover is no longer distinguished for the once-shocking treatment of the adulterous affair between a sexually unfulfilled married woman and her husband's game keeper. Now that we're used to hearing and reading about sex, it's apparent that the novel is memorable for better reasons: namely, that Lawrence was a masterful writer whose wonderful story takes us bodily into the world of its characters. Of Connie Chatterley's indecisiveness, her husband's callousness, the gamekeeper, Oliver Mellors' persuasiveness - all are portrayed in a quiet, even manner until the climactic end. Necessarily, some of the language and imagery is mildly explicit (though you can read a lot worse in many of the magazines that lie around in dentists' waiting rooms), because Lady Chatterley's Lover affirms Lawrence's vision of individual regeneration through freely-expressed sexuality. The book's power and complexity make it a unique, original work-a triumph of passion and eroticism over sterility.<br />The next time you hear that something has been censored, question whether it is really to protect public morals (where war, and starvation appear to be more acceptable than freedom of sexuality), or whether it is to protect the censors' own frustrated identities! Lady C is a powerful reminder that all the censors have ever succeeded in doing is to ban outstanding literature in the name of public morality.	2001-12-03
US	52317033	R2RWGUC5WPAII3	0192834851	756102367	King Solomon's Mines (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A true classic	I was required to read King Solomon's Mines at school (about three thousand years ago), and was delighted to see that there's a new edition in the Oxford World's Classics series. And indeed this is a true classic adventure, somewhere between Treasure Island and Around The World in Eighty Days. Though some of the language may now seem a little stereotyped and cliched, it was certainly not that way when it was written over 100 years ago, and the real cliches are resident with modern imitations, like Indiana Jones. However, since imitation is the most sincere form of flattery, I guess we shouldn't complain.<br />Sir Henry Rider Haggard (1856-1925) is best known for his African adventure novels, notably King Solomon's Mines and She (1886). Their strengths are that they are not only undeniably amongst the most exciting and thrilling adventures ever written, but that they capture the very essence of  the colonial empires - an attitude that is stubbornly maintained today by American imperialism - of treating the natives fondly, but with a certain superiority and disdain.<br />The essence of the story is the adventure of an elephant hunter as his safari heads into the interior of South Africa in search of a fabled diamond mine, and to rescue the missing brother of an English gentleman who accompanies him. They are aided by an enigmatic native guide who is more than he seems. As they stumble into Zulu territory, they are drawn into the local politics and discover that their European  methods are less effective here, and that they need to learn new tricks. Quickly, they find themselves in deadly peril from a merciless king and a malevolence sorceress who conspires against them.<br />In the end, King Solomon's Mines is more than just the sum of all its parts because Haggard's intelligent and observant characterizations give him the opportunity to put together a revealing social commentary about race and class, while still telling a captivating story. Against the conventional wisdom of the time, Haggard treats his black characters sympathetically, and even dares to suggest that English society might be less than perfect (an audacious heresy in Victoria's reign). So, like Gulliver's Travels, King Solomon's Mines not only tells a great adventure story, it leaves the reader with something more robust to think about.isdom of the time, Haggard treats his black characters sympathetically, and even dares to suggest that English society might be less than perfect (an audacious heresy in Victoria's reign). So, like Gulliver's Travels, King Solomon's Mines not only tells a great adventure story, it leaves the reader with something more robust to think about.	2001-11-28
US	52317033	R1BGGF6KQ437Q8	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	24	28	N	N	You're simply the best... better than all the rest...	Stephen King's second book... starring the small Maine town of Jerusalem's Lot and the pervasive evil that comes to inhabit it. The town knows horror, of course. Years before, a man named Hubie Marsten (prisoner to psychosexual disorders he can't control) committed a murder, and now his house stands empty, seeming to watch over the town. The Marsten House becomes the symbol of evil, a central place from which terror and death resonate.<br />Introduced to the town are three strangers: Ben Mears, a writer who lived there as a child, Mark Petrie, a kid obsessed with monsters and horror movies, and Mr. Barlow, a mysterious figure who opens up a shop in town (a precursor to Leland Gaunt in Needful Things?). Though Barlow doesn't make an appearance in the novel until more than halfway through, his assistant, Mr. Straker, takes care of his business while Barlow takes care of the town's business.<br />Following the arrival of these strangers, a young boy is found dead. The scene at the funeral in which the boy's father throws himself at the coffin screaming for his son to wake up is perhaps King's most gut-wrenching. Then, when darkness falls on the town, the boy emerges from his coffin and his father's wish becomes prophecy - though not the way he would have wished.<br />Death invades the town. Worse than death, Salem's Lot is gripped by the ravages of the undead. By the time Ben Mears, Mark Petrie and their friends discover the truth, the town is almost beyond hope. Their only chance is to destroy Barlow, burn the town, and escape.<br />The novel begins and ends with Ben and Mark leaving to once again visit the Lot, as they have discovered the vampire threat hasn't vanished. Salem's Lot ends with a cliffhanger that will probably never be balanced. What we have, though, is one of King's most intense and scary books. After the steady buildup, the moments of terror come in one-two knockout style, and King's mastery of vampire myths and legends is first class, especially theway he infuses them into modern-day society. The fact that the major villain stays behind the scenes for the first half of the novel only adds to the excitement and anxiety.<br />Salem's Lot is not just a vampire novel. It is a novel of pure and unbridled fear, a truly scary book. It is about small towns and the nature of evil. It is about love found, love lost, and the persistance of hope. And, well, it has those vampires...	2001-11-24
US	52317033	R3GY06T9P3HIKL	0743412273	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	12	12	N	N	King's darkest	Early publicity for Pet Sematary stated that the novel, which King had written but not allowed to be released, was his scariest novel ever. King and his wife, Tabitha, agreed that this was no mere hyperbole. In a Fangoria interview conducted around the time of Pet Sematary's release, King said that he showed the manuscript to his wife, and she couldn't finish it. &quot;It was too... effective.&quot; Eventually, in 1983, the novel did see print. Was it as horrifying, as gruesome, as dark as all the hype purported it to be?<br />Thankfully, yes. This book is a runner-up for King's scariest novel (losing only marginally to The Shining), and it really is his darkest. It is a book about loss, and greif, and, simply put, death. Death, the great unknown; death, the all-encroaching. But, as the characters of Pet Sematary discover, there are things worse than death.<br />King himself has said that Pet Semetary is in his opinion his most frightening novel. While I may not agree with that entirely, it certainly is a story that's as creepy as they come. First the cat dies, and then the story of the old Indian cemetery comes out, and next thing you know, the dead cat is alive - if not a bit odd. Voila - the big can of worms is open. It's a can of worms that ultimately plummets this likeable family into the depths of Hell. The cemetery, against all laws of nature (but in keeping with the laws of Stephen King) appears to be able to resurrect dead animals. Could it also work on humans? Dr Louis Creed tries to postpone death by prolonging life. This is the story of a man who forgets that he can't play God. It is a disturbing novel, the kind of subversive, realistic scary story that exemplifies great horror fiction.<br />Despite a slow start, Pet Semetary picks up speed and pulls the reader into a terrifying conclusion. It is a dark, unforgiving novel dealing with the very nature of death and greif. It never gives up, just hacks away at sanity and rationality until nothing is left. In the world of Pet Sematary, death begets death, lunacy begets lunacy, and the examination of terror is an exercise in darkness, in which no light can be seen.	2001-11-24
US	52317033	R2D5506G2BO4LO	0425168220	383974610	State of Siege (Tom Clancy's Op-Center, Book 6)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Knock, knock... Wooden and dull	In this, the sixth Op-Center book, Jeff Rovin is thanked for his &quot;creative ideas and invaluable contribution to the preparation of the manuscript&quot;. This is generally taken to mean that Mr. Rovin is the manuscript author. Unfortunately, Mr. Rovin, though having a couple of other book titles to his credit, most certainly has none of Tom Clancy's ability with words.<br />The Op-Center series started in 1995 as a sound germ of an idea which owed much of its success to genuine imput from Tom Clancy and Steve Pieczenik. Now, at book six, and with Clancy and Pieczenik standing quietly in the shadows with their palms outstretched for whatever royalties they can squeeze from this series without having to do any work, the books are reaching new lows.<br />State of Siege is wooden and difficult to work through. The story might have had real potential in a proper Clancy novel. It could have been a real killer if thought out and written intelligently. Unfortunately, passing it over to a ghost called Rovin was the easiest way to doom the story to failure.<br />If Tom Clancy insists on putting his name to rubbish like this (albeit if only to rake in some extra lucre) then he MUST take some responsibility for its content. It saddens me to have to remind him, but the money he is putting in his pockets from poorly-conceived &quot;novels&quot; like this is money that honest working folk have stumped out because he has placed his name on the cover of the book.<br />SHAME ON YOU TC	2001-11-23
US	52317033	R3D0Y6U9LDC8H4	0434274089	584348240	Paperweight	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A bit of Fry and a lot of laughter	Paperweight is actually a collection of many different articles written by Stephen Fry over the years for a variety of publications. Most of these 'essays' are only between one and three pages long, but Fry fits as many laughs into each one as you would normally get in a whole book. Fry's view points are exuberantly refreshing on so many issues, yet at the same time he seems to be telling you something you knew all along, but had never been able to quite put into words. If you like originality and new twists (with gentle splashes of the surreal and deft, quirky touches) then Paperweight is for you.<br />Paperweight is an excellent introduction to Stephen Fry if you've never come across his writing before. It can be taken in small, highly digestible doses, whereas his novels need to be swallowed in one go to appreciate his arcane sense of the outrageous. This 'essay' format offers the best of this hugely entertaining all-rounder. In the book's introduction, Fry says that he used to get many desperate requests from readers for copies of articles he'd written. You'll understand why, if you read the book. In fact, the introduction is one of the highlights of Paperweight, being cripplingly ironic, immodestly modest and more witty than a witty person at a national wit contest. In fact, put simply, Fry=Wit=Laughter	2001-11-20
US	52317033	R3AV631ONBYG7I	2266076647	451452187	La Methode Simple Pour En Finir Avec La	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I'm puzzled	(...)<br />Despite the misleading product information, this book is well worth a little extra shipping to get it. In fact, since its original publication, Allen Carr's Easy Way to Stop Smoking has sold over two MILLION copies in its original English language, placing it alongside the world's most successful best-sellers.<br />Since Allen Carr wrote The Easy Way to Stop Smoking, there have been many inferior copies - people who have just added an extra little twist here, or a shake there. Essentially, they are all admitting that Carr's system works. They are all bowing to the master who, over twenty years ago, realized that the addiction to cigarettes was as easy to stop as making the decision to have dinner... as long as you understand why it was never that easy before. Essentially, Carr points out that all that is stopping us is our FEAR of stopping - our FEAR that we're going to spend the rest of our lives craving a cigarette. He bunks the myth, then helps us face the decision to quit.<br />AND IT WORKS (this from someone on three packs a day for the last 35 years!). Why am I so sure I've got it beat this time? Because I'm not struggling with a will-power problem (there's very little will-power involved), I'm not missing my old habit (there's nothing worth missing), and I'm not snacking to find a substitute (no substitutes are allowed - or needed).<br />Sounds too good to be true? Don't believe it. Go get this book wherever you can (...), and QUIT NOW.	2001-11-20
US	52317033	R3B7C3G7GUWBXL	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Too short, too weak.	Cujo bothers me in two ways. Firstly, the novel hinges on events that are almost completely coincidental. Circumstances had to go exactly right for everything to go wrong. This is frustrating because, unlike most King works, it doesn't have any basis in real life. The characters, the minor torments, even the dog attack, are all real enough. But the way events construct themselves are somehow dubious. It could happen, but is still unrealistic.<br />Secondly, instead of leaving this as a story of real life, Stephen King introduces a &quot;thing&quot; in the closet. Is that Frank Dodd? Is there supposed to be a supernatural context? The novel, supposedly grounded in reality, goes off on this minor supernatural tangent a few times. It's jerky and it's obvious. Those scenes don't have any real connections with the novel itself. On its own, the idea of the monster in the closet (and, along with that, the image of Cujo being the monster set loose) would have been fine. Loosely asserting that things paranormal are going on simply doesn't work. The multiple deaths at the end, however - George Bannerman, Tad Trenton, and Cujo himself - are among the most haunting, effective scenes King has written. Man battles Nature, and they both lose.	2001-11-16
US	52317033	R1EKQ5U2ZJRONY	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a debut !	Though lacking some of the style and poise of later King works, Carrie is nonetheless a chilling tale from The Master. Despite being an unlikeable personality, we feel sympathy towards the protagonist, Carrie, so at the end we aren't sure whether to condemn her actions or root for her. This is strange because King recently admitted that he never liked her, and felt that she deserved the abuse she got. Seemingly, he based Carrie White on two people that he taught before he took up writing full time.<br />As Stephen King's first published novel, released in 1974, no one could have predicted that Carrie would be the beginning of what would become the biggest publishing phenomenon in history. But it is surprising how well this tale of a young girl with telekinetic powers holds up after twenty-one years. Perhaps it is because the novel is still intense, still vivid, and still an apt commentary on modern life. Even after years of slasher films, mass murderers, and nuclear threat, Carrie still has bite. It is the classic Cinderella tale, with a twist. A twist so violent that the final one third of the novel burns with total wreckage, loss, and repercussions.<br />Carrie sets the stage for much of what Stephen King experimented with in later novels, but it is also a remarkably solid novel in its own right. Well written and chillingly realistic (even in the face of the supernatural), this novel will resonate for many more years to come	2001-11-16
US	52317033	R158N23S5WQQ3I	0749431431	955194444	Dirty Dealing: The Untold Truth About Global Money Laundering	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deeply interesting	Peter Lilley's \\"Dirty Dealing\\" was published quietly nine months before the horrific events at WTC and The Pentagon. It was as relevant when it was published as it is today, since it tells of the battle in which other countries have taken part to combat the funding of terrorism and drug dealers.<br />It has become even more important after the events of September 11th to understand the scale and the difficulties of the task. ...<br />\\"Dirty Dealing\\", though essentially a book that simply lays out the facts, should raise awareness of the issues that have blighted American foreign policy for decades. It's important to understand, so that we can ALL share a secure future.	2001-11-16
US	52317033	R1BB1FD78L93L9	076071200X	428521368	Allen Carr's Easy Way to Stop Smoking	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The original and still the best	Despite the misleading product information, this book IS available from the .uk and .fr sites, and it is well worth a little extra shipping to get it. In fact, since its original publication, Allen Carr's Easy Way to Stop Smoking has sold over two MILLION copies, placing it alongside the world's most successful best-sellers.<br />Since Allen Carr wrote The Easy Way to Stop Smoking, there have been many inferior copies - people who have just added an extra little twist here, or a shake there. Essentially, they are all admitting that Carr's system works. They are all bowing to the master who, over twenty years ago, realized that the addiction to cigarettes was as easy to stop as making the decision to have dinner... as long as you understand why it was never that easy before. Essentially, Carr points out that all that is stopping us is our FEAR of stopping - our FEAR that we're going to spend the rest of our lives craving a cigarette. He bunks the myth, then helps us face the decision to quit.<br />AND IT WORKS (this from someone on three packs a day for the last 35 years!). Why am I so sure I've got it beat this time? Because I'm not struggling with a will-power problem (there's very little will-power involved), I'm not missing my old habit (there's nothing worth missing), and I'm not snacking to find a substitute (no substitutes are allowed - or needed).<br />Sounds too good to be true? Don't believe it. Go get this book wherever you can (remember, it's easily available on the .uk and .fr sites), and QUIT NOW.	2001-11-07
US	52317033	RTZL7TC5Q3ERW	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	User-friendly and FULL of good advice	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web is an excellent companion (or, maybe it would be better to say &quot;continuation&quot;) to Paul McFedrie's 'The Complete Idiot's Guide to Creating a Web Page'. Where McFedries really does start at the beginning, Elizabeth Castro assumes that you have some very basic knowledge, and takes it from there.<br />Where 'HTML 4 for the World Wide Web' scores high is in two areas... First, the index is excellent (and I mean EXCELLENT). No matter what the topic, you'll find it without hassle. Secondly, Elizabeth Castro goes into some detail about actually getting your site hosted, and how to upload your files. This goes beyond the remit of other starter guides, but is obviously essential if you're planning to publish your pages.<br />Every topic is covered with abundant examples and the pages are littered with screen prints so you know exactly what you should be expecting. Castro goes into META tags (and how to get them recognized by the search engines), she covers several examples of Cascading Style Sheets, Tables and Forms; and she offers some simple JavaScript examples. <br />HTML 4 is a high quality broad reference that is well written and covers an extensive base of essential topics. If you're planning professional-looking web pages, this one is a must.	2001-11-07
US	52317033	R2OH4PRYW6OMGC	0425116840	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Jack Ryan)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good - even by Clancy's standards	The only real criticism of  The Cardinal of the Kremlin is its slow start. It won't have you properly in it's grasp until you get past about page 150. Focusing less on military hardware and more on espionage, it seems as though Clancy traded away technical accuracy in a vain attempt to develop deep and complex characterizations early on. In the process, he ignored the golden rule of the genre that he himself defined: keep the action going, describe the high-tech toys and get that story-line moving. But don't let this put you off , because the pace does get better - much better. When it comes to military matters, Tom Clancy's know-how runs deep and he is typically skillful at building suspense, with his detailed visions of deep-throat espionage at the height of the Cold War.<br />But while the high-tech weapons and clever spy tricks will still pique your interest, Clancy's attempt to focus on character development never quite lifts off. The main problem seems to be the author's need to wear his heart so obviously on his sleeve when it comes to themes of honor, justice, vengeance, right and wrong. This overt signaling makes it easier to predict the fates of characters in advance; producing an unwanted reduction in the story tension. As a bonus, however, Clancy uses 'Cardinal' to introduce the enigmatic Mr. Clark, who grows through later novels to become Ryan's negative image, Ryan's decisions based on little more than his ethics, Clark being governed by cold reason.<br />Cardinal is also the stepping off point for later major characters like the Foleys of the CIA, Col. Bonderenko, Sergey Golovko, and even Dr. Gregory, who makes an appearance over twelve years later  in The Bear and the Dragon. While not quite matching the energy of The Hunt for Red October, or the exhilaration of Clear and Present Danger, Cardinal still gets the pulse racing. It is full of  twist, turns, and surprises, and nothing will quite prepare you for the ending which is likely to draw a few tears.	2001-11-07
US	52317033	R3EEVM8PJN4SZF	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	7	10	N	N	An interesting perspective	`Taliban' provides an excellent insight into the minds of the fanatics that currently govern Afghanistan. I first read this book when it was released in hardcover format and I'm pleased to see it available in paperback so that more people can understand how the perverse minds of these people function. In my view, ANYBODY who imposes, by force, their will, whether it be religious or political, on others, is a dangerous fanatic. The Taliban have taken this control to new extremes and `Taliban' makes it clear just how they have done this.<br />There is more than ample evidence from the hundreds of thousands who have fled the country to justify the claims made in the book. I give credit to the Taliban for trying to bring to an end a civil war that was crippling Afganistan, but I strongly refute any claim that theirs is a `good system'. It is a criminally insane system. Law and order should not be based on some form of `divine guidance'. One man's god is another man's devil, so which divinity should we follow? Law and order should be based on the sort of independence of choice and expression that exist in the `free' world, without coercion and without doing harm to others. Personal morality, too, is not something to be dictated by society, it is up to the individual to determine what is right and what is wrong (always within the premise of doing harm to no-one else).<br />Surely nobody with an ounce of intelligence could believe the attack on WTC and Pentagon was the will of god? It is worth dwelling on the fact that, in the society that such people adamantly defend, a review such as this would not even be permitted. Freedom of speech is defended by a democratic society, not a society of extremists who have no true concept of what is right and what is wrong.<br />This book is a good starting place  for anyone who wants to try and understand what happened on 11 September 2001. I don't believe it tells the whole story, because the scenario is much more complex than that, but it creates a base from which to understand the evil that lurks in Afganistan.	2001-10-27
US	52317033	R3QQV8JP16V4K6	0789722569	490965027	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Creating an HTML Web Page	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gadzillion Stars for this one	If ever a technical book deserved a gadzillion stars, this one did. It really does deliver what it promises...<br />In his introduction, Paul McFedries says that he will &quot;...teach you how to create beautiful web pages in no time flat ...it's my goal in this book to show you that it's really quite simple and that anyone can build a page with their bare hands.&quot; He succeeds admirably! The book set up is simple and easy to follow and, as McFedries promises, you can follow through the steps just as they are organized in the book and, in no time, start shaping together your own web pages.<br />The Complete Idiot's Guide to Creating a Web Page doesn't assume you have any previous knowledge with Web page production (good job too!), and this means that you really do start from scratch, slowly building your HTLM knowledge. All information is presented in short, easy-to-digest chunks and the referencing is clear an precise.<br />As a bonus, the accompanying CD has notes and examples on all the chapters and completes the perfect manual for beginners on the Web. WELL DONE Paul McFedries.	2001-10-27
US	52317033	R2J5QJ5J76CMNW	0971120900	532354589	Dealmaker	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An amazing book by an amazing new author.	I was privileged to review this book prior to publication and I repeat now, what I said at the time. In `Dealmaker', Gigi Phillips proves herself to be Queen of Chill. With a wonderfully adept Post-Modern technique and distinctly different narrative, her total mastery of the language will grip your heart and your soul from the very first page. In a style that is clear and uncluttered, the author displays her gift for writing, and her equally precious gift for understanding how to inspire, provoke and arouse people's minds. This is the power of Gigi Phillip's pen. It is a power she should wield with caution as she tells a tale of terror that spans six decades and touches the lives of numerous families. Dealmaker is a book to be handled with care-with great care-in the full light of day. Lock it in a cupboard at night. Do not be tempted to unleash the demons when they are at their most powerful.<br />If, like me, you enjoy finding new blood on the literary scene, you'll LOVE what Gigi Phillips has done with Dealmaker. It's a scary story, a story of abject terror in places, a story that will have you white-knuckling the pages. But it's a story that will leave you waiting for her next release - the same as I am. A truly AMAZING debut!	2001-10-23
US	52317033	R2EMG9TNISY221	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A flawed conclusion	An interesting concept but a weak conclusion forces me to give no more than a three-star review for John Grisham's `The Brethren'. The story is simple - three disgraced judges prey on closet homosexuals, demanding money for their silence. One of their intended victims is just about to hit the political world big time. Meanwhile, in the background, the Director of the CIA is monitoring (and changing) events to suit himself.<br />While the story rolls along at a good rate, and while we're treated again to Grisham's short, declarative sentences, the outcome is one that left me wondering why I'd read the book. In any novel that is predicated on plot, the plot must be watertight and must follow through logically. This one does not. There are loopholes that an author as good as Grisham should have foreseen and plugged. How, for example, does a half-drunk lawyer who is being watched day and night by the CIA, just walk out of his house without being seen? Why would the CIA permit the scam to continue, threatening their preferred candidate, when they could have closed it down in moments? And why, at the end, were the bad guys just allowed to walk free?<br />I enjoy Grisham, but `The Brethren' left me feeling empty.	2001-10-22
US	52317033	R29WC0N5IOJM7G	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Read it and understand	Orwell was passionately anti-Communist. He first drafted Animal Farm during WWII but was prohibited from publishing in case it weakened the unnatural alliance between America, Britain and Stalin's Russia. After 1945 there were no such restraints and Animal Farm became available to remind people how evil Communism really was. For the sake of clarity, the pigs are the Bolsheviks who take over the farm (Russia) seizing it from the humans (Tzars). Over time, the pigs become as corrupt as the humans had been before them.<br />The contents of Animal Farm are known to many in the free world. But read it again because totalitarianism comes in many forms, Communism just being the most obvious one. With the current outrage following the World Towers disaster, it's interesting to note that those who follow and support the Taliban (bin Laden) have been deluded into believing that, by their submission, they're engaged in a noble cause.<br />People like Saddam Hussein, just like the Communists of the Cold War era, disguise their crimes under the banner of acting for the 'common good'. They deceive their people with false information. They protect their political powers with force, terrorizing  their dissenters into silence. All the while presenting themselves as selfless protectors of the common good.<br />Communism is alive and well in China, North Korea, Vietnam and many other areas of the world. Totalitarianism flourishes in 50% of the rest of the world, including many countries of Latin America. The 'FREE' world, as we often refer to it, is little more than USA and Europe. We need to understand the threat, to enjoy and protect our freedoms. A good starting place to gain this understanding is Animal Farm.<br />I first read this book when I was about 15. Now, over thirty five years later, I find that it still hasn't lost its power. There's a great deal more to it than just ' animals that run around and saying Comrade!'....	2001-10-17
US	52317033	R2E034SGRZNPNB	0962770523	161172961	Terrorism & The Constitution: Sacrificing Civil Liberties in the Name of National Security	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Update the rules - NOW	I first read this book about a year ago, but have just revisited it in light of recent horrific events in New York and Washington.<br />Let me say straight off, that I'm no supporter of increased governmental powers. I'm one of the breed that feels that the less government influence there is in our lives, the better. Having said that, if one of my loved ones had been victim of these monstrous events, I would want to give my government ANY reasonable powers they asked for in order to bring the perpetrators to justice and to prevent repeat attacks. Personally, if they strayed into questionable territory, I would be glad to turn a blind eye and say a quiet thank you that other people's family, friends and colleagues were safe.<br />Maybe the Constitution is wrong. Maybe Americans should give more power to their government agencies to fight this new terror. For sure the 'opposition' (Taliban, Ghaddafi, Saddam etc.) don't give a monkey's cuss about human rights. I'm not suggesting that the free world - the democratically elected governments - sink to those levels, but sometimes you've got to fight fire with fire. To try to outwit these murderous vermin without the full approval of the Constitution is like trying to outbox a championship fighter with one hand tied behind your back.<br />Terrorism &amp; The Constitution raise some interesting questions that are considerably more pertinent now, that when the book was written. I strongly urge you to read it and consider how you should change the Constitution to bring it in line with the new reality.	2001-10-17
US	52317033	R2LYPMFWIDTBC9	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AWE INSPIRING	First off, let me admit that I'm a King fan. That doesn't stop me making a critical review of his books (as I have on some other occasions), it just means that I acknowledge his supreme ability to draw his readers into his story with effortless ease. I guess it should be difficult to find a positive side for a near-death experience like Stephen King suffered, but if he has one reason to thank the driver who hit him, `Dreamcatcher' is it. It is obvious that he drew on his own experience as he wrote, and that gives this book an added dimension, way and above even SK's normal high standards.<br />`Dreamcatcher' is the story of four men who's teenage years leave behind ghosts that eventually come to rest while they are out hunting over twenty years later. In it, Stephen King reaches new heights of fiction writing, surpassing even the best of those books that have come before. We're sometimes unfairly critical of King, judging him by his own standards rather than the standard of writing as a whole. As a result, we give three or four stars to a novel that, from any other writer, would deserve ten. `Dreamcatcher', even by Stephen King standards, is a masterly work that proves again that he is the master of modern commercial fiction. <br />I hear, too, that his work isn't of high literary merit. Rubbish! High literary merit doesn't mean you can't use words that don't appear in a dictionary. High literary merit doesn't mean you can't unscramble the `rules' of grammar for effect. High literary merit doesn't mean you have to choke your readers with superfluous adjectives and adverbs. High literary merit is writing that touches the reader; that stir emotions; that drag the reader onwards through the story. So far this year, I have read five works that have been acclaimed by the pundits as being of `high literary merit'. Two of them I couldn't even finish and two of them were as indigestible as stale bread. Only one succeeded in grabbing my imagination. What does that say of `high literary merit'? It says that our definitions vary!<br />My version of high literary merit is something that makes me stay up reading till three o'clock in the morning; something that lingers on after the last page is turned; something that makes me say `Wow'; something that digs my ribs and makes me envious of the talent that held the pen.<br />`Dreamcatcher' is one of the finest books I have EVER had the privilege to read. It is stimulating. It is intelligent. It is though-provoking. And it's a darn good read.<br />IT IS POSITIVELY EXCELLENT !	2001-10-17
US	52317033	R37UGQ2563D28E	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Good, solid Grisham	After being disappointed with 'The Street Lawyer', 'The Chamber', and particularly 'A Painted House', I was convinced I wasn't going to read my copy of 'The Testament', which had been sitting on my bookshelf with several other unread books. However, I plucked up the courage and dived in.<br />I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. Though it's a gentler, slower-flowing story than such as 'The Pelican Brief', it has a charm of its own and, after the first couple of chapters, I was well hooked.<br />A billionaire dies and leaves his whole estate to an illegitimate daughter. The relatives contest the will and Nate O'Reilly goes in search of the missing heiress. His meeting with Rachel Lane, the reluctant heiress, becomes pivotal in his fight against drug and alcohol addiction.<br />My only reason for not giving five stars was that I felt O'Reilly's conversion was a bit too contrived. It felt totally unnatural. However, all said, a satisfying book that left me content at the last page.	2001-10-17
US	52317033	R146YYONDNP4KB	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Gripping thriller	So you thought that computer hacking was just a bunch of computer geeks having fun? No way, Jose! Get your fill of this superb psychological thriller where two hacking wizards battle their computer skills in a real life hunt for a serial murderer. Wyatt Gillette is serving a prison term for accessing government computer installations. Then the police spring him to help them hunt down Phate, a wizard hacker who can no longer distinguish between reality and virtual reality. But Phate and his accomplice, Shawn, are always one step ahead, even against the talents of Wyatt Gillette.<br />Jeffery Deaver has written a gripping suspense novel, one that I read in a single sitting (which is something I don't often do). The action boots in right on page one, and stays on fast track through page 422 (leaving just a neat seven pages to tidy up at the end). If you enjoy being kept on the edge of your seat, `The Blue Nowhere' is surely the book for you.<br />So why only four stars? First, the lousy punctuation, which, in the opening chapters, kept drawing my attention away from the story (I got used to it eventually). Second, a confusion of characters. A little more early characterization or a slower introduction to the various participants would have been more appropriate. These aren't big issues and, if there had been a four-and-a-half button, I would have pressed it so, small criticisms aside, `The Blue Nowhere' really is a good read and I recommend it highly.	2001-10-14
US	52317033	RIYN835MRPM0D	0060198494	938488758	Passion for Truth: From Finding JFK's Single Bullet to Questioning Anita Hill to Impeaching Clinton	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A self-serving, but interesting, version of events	I'm somehow uneasy about 'Passion for Truth'. There's no denying that it's a well-written version of events, but it's clear to me (a non-American living in Europe) that the senator tells it how HE sees it, not, maybe, how it was. I can't identify exactly WHY I hold this view, but something tells me that the author is not being wholly honest with himself. Maybe he set out to be honest, and maybe he believes that he has been honest, but I just have nagging doubts. It's possibly got something to do with his over-inflated opinion of himself - a trait spotted by other reviewers.<br />A while ago, I read and reviewed John Major's autobiography. Whatever you may have thought about Major as a Prime Minister, his autobiography was refreshingly honest, and that sincerity shone through. I'm afraid I cannot say the same about Senator Specter. I had the feeling that he was trying to justify his decisions and actions.<br />All that said, Passion for Truth was an intriguing read - particularly Sen. Specter's support for 'The Single Bullet' theory - a theory as flawed as a cracked diamond. But there's no doubting Sen. Specter's passion for sticking to his guns, be he right or be he wrong. Clearly he has been a highly successful politician, so maybe his overt narcissism is well-earned. Anybody, whether you agree with them or not, who has had a career as high profile as Specter's is worthy of a retrospective (auto)biography, and 'Passion for Truth' delivers what it says - one man's view on his own life.	2001-10-13
US	52317033	R1NU19PLXBQF4K	0789468107	369119462	Ken Hom: Travels with a Hot Wok	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ken Hom does it again	Ken Hom was born in USA of Chinese parents. He is, quite rightly, regarded as one of the world's leading authorities on Chinese cooking. Living now, in France, Ken Hom has written extensively, describing his recipes and techniques. In Travels with a Hot Wok, he presents 160 recipes with a unique blend of West and East - easy to prepare dishes from around the world, as presented on his BBC television series.<br />But more than just a collection of recipes, Travels with a Hot Wok covers equipment, ingredients, cooking techniques, and basic cooking knowledge. Of utmost importance, the 'equipment' section includes how to choose a wok, what size is best, how to season it and clean it. His recipes are divided into eight sections that cover appetizers, soups, fish and shellfish, meat, poultry, vegetables, rice noodles and pasta, and finally even desserts (yes, you can prepare some amazing desserts in a wok). And what a mouth-watering selection of recipes they are. Though Ken Hom obviously uses ingredients that are adventurous, they are all readily available at good Asian supermarkets or delicatesans, so there's no need to fear that the basic ingredients are hard to get.<br />If you've never ventured into wok cooking, now's your chance. The amazing mixture of flavours and taste represent a whole new world, and who better to present them and explain them than the Master himself. You'll be surprising your guests in no time at all, and, once used, you'll never fear a wok again.	2001-10-10
US	52317033	R32ONIKTBH7TKZ	0335205461	597886611	Surveillance Society: Monitoring Everyday Life (Issues in Society)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A thoughtful discourse	In 'Surveillance Society', David Lyon takes a closer look at the level of surveillance we are really under as individuals, and takes a fresh look at the relationship between technology and society. As most of us are already aware, personal data is collected from us all the time, whether we know it or not (and, often, whether we like it or not). Identity numbers, camera images, fingerprinting, retina scans, DNA samples, customer fidelity cards, credit cards, mailing lists, consumer groups, Internet activity, computer cookies - there are numerous ways that the ordinary life of citizens and consumers is examined by computer databases as we participate in contemporary society.<br />David Lyon argues that to understand what is happening we have to look even beyond the Orwellian warnings and the cries for more privacy. He argues that such watchfulness is not only an intrusion on our personal privacy, but that it also reinforces divisions by sorting people into social and political categories. <br />'Surveillance Society' is great thought fodder. It'll make you think about the society we live in and the one that's just over the hill. How much surveillance is acceptable, and how much isn't. Most of us would accept that a car park under the watchful eye of a supervisory camera is a good thing. It can help protect the individual and their property. But Lyon raises the question - how much 'surveillance' is there just for show? Are there really public-spirited overlords who can control a city at the touch of a mouse? Such absolute power is scarcely conceivable. The sheer mass of data would be impossible to handle. So what is useful and what is not? What can we accept and what must we reject? What choice do we have?	2001-10-08
US	52317033	R8GV2IFX2MD1Z	0060196718	665871872	The Secrets Of Nostradamus: A Radical New Interpretation of the Master's Prophecies	Books	1	8	16	N	N	Utter nonsense	If I asked ten people to read the so-called prophecies of Nostradamus and interpret the results, I would be pretty sure to get eleven different interpretations! David Ovason is just one of many who have twisted these vague mumblings of a 16th century French alchemist to try to fit them to historical events.<br />IT'S A TRICK - A HOAX!<br />Nostradamus, for all his mystical mumbo-jumbo, was intelligent enough to leave his 'predictions' as indistinct as possible and let others interpret as they will. It's the same trick used by so-called clairvoyants who glean information from their audience by suggestion and vague 'feelings' given to them by some higher authority.<br />'The Secrets of Nostradamus', apart from unquestioningly accepting that Nostradamus was, indeed, a prophet, seems to spend much of its time 'proving' how all the other 'interpreters' are wrong and he is right. Surely it would be more intellectually honest to question whether Nostradamus himself has any validity. But then, as I say, Ovason is just one of many who think they can foresee the future using the ancient rubbish of the past.<br />If Nostradamus (and, by association, Davis Ovason) is so darn clever, how come we are unable to forsee events like the destruction of WTC and the Pentagon? How is it that Nostradamus has completely missed an impending conflict in Afganistan? How is it that this mad monk and his disciples have not foretold the new world order that is developing from these events?<br />Of course, in five years time, Ovason will no doubt write a revised version that claims to have foretold all this.<br />BUNKUM!	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R3F6Z80OM8LVO0	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	6	6	N	N	History in real depth - extraordinary.	Richard Overy is professor of modern history at King's College, London. He has appeared numerous times on British television as an expert in his field. No wonder 'Why the Allies Won' is such a masterpiece of analytical history, probably answering once and for all one of the great questions of the last century. With Germany and Japan (helped by Mussolini's Italy) rampaging through Europe and the Pacific, and poised to dominate most of the world, with USA standing indecisively on the sidelines, with Stalin believing in the validity of Hitler's peace treaty, with France beaten after just six weeks, and with only Britain fighting a rearguard action, how in heavens name did the situation get turned around?<br />Overy obviously needs to point to certain pivotal battles/battlegrounds (Midway, Stalingrad, Kursk, the Atlantic, and Normandy) but he centers also on the other factors that changed history. The leadership, the morale of the troops on both sides, the determination of the British, the fighting spirit of the Russians. He points out the inefficiencies and bureaucracy of the German industrial machine, the incredible efficiency of American industry, which geared up so rapidly after the attack on Pearl Harbor. He points out that, whilst the bombing of German cities has been questioned by other historians and is now commonly regarded as having served a questionable purpose and was of doubtful morality, that it was of critical strategic importance, having drawn off the Luftwaffe from the Eastern Front, where the European war was fundamentally decided.<br />Overy's analysis of the battle for control of the Atlantic displays particular insight. Though many historians point to the Allies' radar and code-breaking abilities as being the key, Overy delves deeper and shows how basic good planning and good training was the essential added element that eventually beat the German U-boats.<br />Despite what revisionist history tells us, there was never any certainty that the Allieswould win the war. Quite the opposite. Even Churchill and Roosevelt had to come to terms with the fact that, at some point, they might have to make a conditional peace with Germany and Japan. Overy recounts how the Allies managed to regain superiority only after a series of extremely decisive military campaigns. He also points to the many other factors of the war that are too often left unsaid or not understood.<br />For a REAL insight into five years that changed the world, you should not miss this extraordinary book.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R3TDBQFJ2XYC1E	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	4	0	1	N	N	And now for something completely different...	King wrote many unpublished works before hitting the big time. Later, when the publishing house was scrabbling madly through his attic, searching for anything to publish, they came across a load of early stuff which they published under the pen name of Richard Bachman. When this didn't work, they re-titled stuff as 'Stephen King writing as Richard Bachman'. This seemed to work better ... shows what a name can do!<br />Running Man, though well written by anybody else's standards, is certainly not up to the usual King benchmark. It lacks the depth of the later King books. Having said all that, the story is entertaining and the characterization of Ben Richards, the protagonist is exceptional. In short, Richards is in a life or death race. He wins - he escapes poverty. He loses - he dies. Trouble is, no one has ever won. The game is televised and (fairly obviously) biased against the contestant.<br />In later years, King claims that there was no ulterior message in Running Man, though to me it seems that he highlights the problems of a generation who are glued to the television screens, how gullible they are to anything they see on the silver screen, and just how far the major networks will go to retain 'customer loyalty'. Also, as I write this, just after the awful attacks on WTC and the Pentagon, it strikes me that it was not only Tom Clancy who foresaw the threat of an aeroplane attack on a building.<br />Running Man is not a long book. It's an easy weekend read that will leave you amused but maybe a little sad about the future.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R1BCZ5NIBXX027	0007109989	887250060	Your Personal Horoscope 2002: The Only One-Volume Horoscope You'll Ever Need	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Not for me!	No I didn't buy it - a friend of mine did. Good job, too, because I would have hated to have wasted good money on this nonsense. On the other hand, I was invited to read it.<br />For those who truly believe astrology (I am not one of them, as you might notice), The movement of the moon, sun, planets and other celestial bodies, will somehow alter the course of your lives. I'm being a little facetious, of course, but they certainly believe that there are predictable moments of opportunity, predictable moments of threat, predictable moments of good fortune. What serious astrologers never claim is that they can offer a day-by-day account of how you should lead your lives. They only claim to know, in vague terms, whether you are threatened or whether you are in a period of better fortune.<br />Hmmm....<br />But my argument here is not with 'serious' astrologers (I'll save that for another occasion). This review is of 'Your Personal Horoscope 2002', which claims to be able to foretell your destiny month-by-month. So tell me, why is it that my brother and I, both of whom share the same star sign, have had two TOTALLY different years during 2001? A serious astrologer would not generalize. A serious astrologer would make no claims to be able to give you a day-by-day account of your life. Polansky does!<br />If you really believe that the miniscule gravitational effects of planets that are light years away can affect your lives, so be it. On the other hand, if you believe that someone can foretell your life, month-by-month, based on these astrological movements, then you're being duped for sure.<br />It's bunkum for the masses. Be warned, and stay away. Take up reading tealeaves, at least it benefits the tea growers!	2001-10-05
US	52317033	RBL9MIIX8PF0G	1901680029	950451433	The Full Monty	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What we do to turn a buck	The book (on which the film was based) is, at the same time, tragic, funny and moving. Full of the dark, working-class humor of the north of England, it tells the story of a group of unemployed men who decide that emulation of the Chippendales would be a good way to turn a buck. Sadly, these anti-heroes lack the skill or the physique of their well-muscled counterparts but decide, nevertheless, to 'go the full Monty' and give it a try. The community is kept in the dark as our six heroes practice the routines and try to tighten up the flab.<br />The Full Monty highlights the fears and inadequacies of men who have begun to lose their self-respect and possibly their families. The confidence they need can only come from stripping bare the deeper issues that trouble their individual lives (pun intended). The result is a humane, idiosyncratic, triumphant comedy that has won the hearts of millions around the world. Maybe the first full-frontal fairy tale!<br />I've both read the book and seen the film. The book is better, taking time to examine in more depth the characters of Gaz, Dave, Lomper, Horse, Guy and Gerald.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R9LOAULH5DIDY	1884656080	929604595	Ken Hom's Hot Wok: Over 150 One-Pan Wonders	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great guy, great recipes, great book	So okay, you go out and buy yourself a wok, you turn up the heat, you get out the oil - and then what? Ken Hom (one of the greatest Chinese chefs - and a terrific TV personality) will tell you. Right from the very basics, like how to prepare your new wok before putting any food in it.<br />Hom's absolute passion for Asian food, and in particular for Wok-cooked Asian food, shines through as you find page after page (bless me, 224 of them, I see!) of amazing recipes (over 150 for the punk accountants amongst you). But Ken Hom offers more than just a recipe and a photo. He strategically places notes on ingredient choice, preparation, and even cultural explanations based on his childhood in China. Added to this is information gleaned from his travels in Asia, and his exploration of Asian cuisine.<br />Ken Hom is truly international. Born of Chinese parents, raised in USA and now living in France, he travels frequently to Asia to learn more about his art. I saw him recently on a French television program, sharing the secrets of French cuisine with a top chef. Talk about  depth of knowledge - Ken Hom knew almost as much as the other guy!<br />Get this book, try out the simple recipes first, then move on to some of the slightly more difficult ones. Believe me, wok cooking can me rewarding, not just for it's simplicity, but for its superb variety of flavors and aromas. Learn from the true master, and let Ken Hom into your kitchen. I promise you, you'll not regret the experience.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R2KLAC7ZYO5I5P	0802137954	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Spicy and bad - but oh so good!	I first read J.P.Donleavy's 'Ginger Man' when I was in my early teens (many, many years ago, it seems!). At that time it was easier for me to buy an illicit packet of cigarettes than to get hold of 'The Ginger Man' or 'Lady Chatterley's Lover'. However, I succeeded in getting all three! Donleavy lived, as I believe he still does, in a tiny cliff-top village on The Isle of Man. As my school friend and I were smoking our illicit cigarettes behind the village shop, Donleavy appeared. My friend knew who he was, and we approached him. Iris Eyes were smiling that day as he took us to his home and gave us both a copy of 'The Ginger Man'. I wonder if he remembers the incident?<br />And so began my love of books. Having read 'Lady Chatterley' the week before, I became convinced that all literature was something naughty that would activate my new-found hormones! And even though that turned out not to be the case, I still took to reading like an eagle takes to mountains.<br />Having many years ago lost my original copy of 'The Ginger Man', I recently purchased this latest reprint and revisited the novel. Of course, I found a lot more to it now that I've used up most of my hormones! This is a lush, daring book about the misadventures of Sebastian Dangerfield, a young American ne'er-do-well studying at Trinity College in Dublin. If you've an ounce of humor in you, you'll chuckle at his outrageous antics. But more than that, you'll see a reflection of Sebastian's immoral, belligerent lifestyle, wherever you look. He's real and he has little regard for others or for himself. The guy's an out and out moron (and how many of those do we know?) With his drinking, idleness, womanizing, lack of guilt, you'd think you would hate him, but Donleavy has cleverly woven a character that's larger than life who we can't help liking - even if it's just a little bit. (Think Malachy McCourt if you don't believe me)<br />I suspect that the character of Sebastian Dangerfield was based on J.P. himself. If so, god help his wife! But this book deserves its place on the Modern Library's top 100 list of the 20th Century. It's wildly funny, picaresque, and a classic novel in every sense of the word.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R1TAK4J9H083NA	1857329996	155574299	Vines, Grapes & Wines: The Wine Drinker's Guide to Grape Varieties	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Deep perspective	Jancis Robinson has long been one of the established authorities on wine. I once watched her and Oz Clark in a wine tasting 'contest' on television. They were an even match with scores of almost 100% on vineyard, price, year, quality etc. I've also watched Robinson's television series on wines and her knowledge and enthusiasm seem to know no bounds.<br />In 'Vines, Grapes and Wines' Jancis Robinson puts this enthusiasm and knowledge to good use, producing 280 large format pages of unadulterated information and pictures. It's clear she wants her readers to know not just about the wine itself, but about the region, the soil, the climate, the vintners, the wine's history.<br />This is not an cozy weekend read, it's much more a reference book that gives both pleasure and information, but well worth the investment for any serious wine buff.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R18Y9M7CFRFFOS	0911752293	126292069	Neocheating the Unbeatable Weapon in Poker Black Jack Bridge and Gin	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Poorly written, but with a vital message	Frank Wallace's  'Neocheating...' was written over twenty years ago. At the time, it discussed a revolutionary method to 'Neocheat' your way to success at card games.<br />So what's 'Neocheating'?<br />Wallace describes it as white hat cheating (as opposed to the obvious black hat cheating). A method where, by sleight of hand and sleight of mind, you can take from the rich and give to the poor (or, more accurately, take from the cheats and give to the non-cheats). Why? because it keeps them in the game and, eventually, gives you the opportunity to (honestly) win the money off them.<br />But Wallace's book is about far more than card-sharping. It's a metaphor for life itself. In fact, Wallace went on to write many books and articles based on the 'Neo-Tech' way of life - to live to the fullest without usurping the values of others, without coercion, without mysticism. Though many of these books are now difficult to obtain, I recommend you make an effort to do so, since the message they contain is worth every cent you'll pay for the printed word. My five stars are not for the book itself, rather for the message that Wallace puts across.	2001-10-05
US	52317033	R1SIQM678H4IG	0767904478	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An interesting insight	Nobody other than the French could even begin to explain their love of wine. It's certainly nothing to do with alcohol abuse, since their drinking habits are very moderate by most countries standards. 'Wine &amp; War' attempts to explain this phenomenon by examining the lives of some of the vintners during the war years.<br />Above all, many wine producers went to extreme lengths to hide their best wines from the occupying forces. Not because they didn't want the Germans to have them (there were many who collaborated with and sold their wine to the Germans), but because they didn't feel the Germans would appreciate them. On this point, they were probably right, since the real significance of their wine to the Germans was in its economic value.<br />In the French view, their passion for wine &quot;contributed to the French race by giving it wit, gaiety, and good taste, qualities which set it profoundly apart from people who drink a lot of beer.&quot; Being a French resident, I am sometimes given to wonder what happened to the gaiety and wit, particularly whilst stuck in a traffic jam in the center of Paris! However, there is most certainly a national enthusiasm and pride for the nectar of the grape, and Don &amp; Petie Kladstrup set out to try to explain it. It goes deeper than just the bouquet or taste of the wine, it goes to an appreciation of contact with the earth, the passing of the seasons, the passion of the producer. In any other country you would be considered a food snob if you spoke in these terms. In France you are an ignoramus if you don't. In every day terms, there is very little snobbery attached to wine.<br />Wine &amp; War is an entertaining read, though, for me, it left behind many unanswered questions (unrelated to wine). Like why were the French so willing to forgive the Germans after WWII? The French are proud people whose loss of face during a catastrophic six week surrender has never been truly forgotten. For over four years they struggled to save their lives and their families. And they have struggled ever since to regain their self-respect. This is why the authors of Wine &amp; War sometimes had difficulty extracting stories from the winegrowers. Some things are best forgotten, it seems.<br />Where Don &amp; Petie Kladstrup succeed is in explaining the French passion for wine. Where they don't quite succeed is in a proper explanation of the French psyche that is still troubled about their calamitous war.  In a book that explores the war years, I believe some such explanation was necessary. Otherwise, an excellent read.	2001-10-04
US	52317033	R2RCQ5T1T92L1K	157851438X	30051178	The Death of Distance: How the Communications Revolution Is Changing our Lives	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A look into the future	In this updated paperback edition of the 1997 original, Frances Cairncross of The Economist expounds the theory that, with the introduction of the Internet and new communications technologies, distance as a relevant factor in how we conduct our business and personal lives is becoming irrelevant. This, she claims, will be the single most important economic force shaping all of society over the next half century.<br />This revised version covers more topics than the original. It explores the rise and fall of the dot-com phenomenon, the spread of mobile telephones, the wave of hi-tech mergers, the lasting power of the new economy, trends in e-commerce, organizational restructuring to adapt to the Internet, the impact of patent law as it pertains to communications, and the democratizing effects of communications technology on worldwide societies as a whole.<br />Francis Cairncross writes eloquently and convincingly about the cataclysmic changes sweeping through our means of communication. She discusses how the consequences of such changes will tilt the balance between large and small, rich and poor, as they influence where companies locate, what kind of work people do, how governments raise revenue, which businesses succeed etc. <br />Amongst the most striking trends, she sees citizens with a greater freedom to locate anywhere, thus leaving governments to reduce tax burdens in an attempt to attract higher income-earners. She sees, too, the continuing rise of English as a global language in business and commerce. She foretells, too, of new opportunities and challenges we will face in a wireless world.<br />I disagree with those who claim that, just because we have the ability to do something, doesn't mean we will do it and change society. If people don't want mobile phones, why do they buy them? If people don't like the Internet, why do they use it? My own experience (Brit living in France, working in various European countries, employed by an American company) tells itsown story. Twenty years ago, my situation would have been considered almost unique. Today it is commonplace. AND YOU AIN'T SEEN NOTHIN' YET !	2001-10-04
US	52317033	R2CS8SHE22VHTN	0684841843	772466538	Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide, 5th Edition: Complete, Easy-to-Use Reference on Recent Vintages, Prices, and Ratings for More Than 8,000 Wines from All the Major Wine Regions	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Just accept the bias	If you'll accept Robert Parker's bias towards French wines, you'll appreciate the 5th edition of Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide. (As a holder of France's Legion of Honour, you'd hardly expect him to lean towards  German plonk!) That said, Parker's Guide is an almost complete reference on wine vintages and prices with ratings for more than 7,500 wines from all major wine regions. It is by far the most comprehensive and respected wine rating book in the market.<br />There are critics who say that Parker is too influential, that his weakness for strong, tannin rich reds makes him biased in their favour, but there is still no other rating book that comes close. Until his critics come up with something better, they should hold their peace.<br />What impressed me was the way the Parker's Guide picks up even on some of the smaller chateaux. Clos de Gamot, for example is a tiny producer and I wouldn't have expected to find their wine given a mention. On the other hand, South Africa and Canada (both somewhat larger 'chateaux') seem to have been missed altogether! Like I said, you need to accept Parker's bias to all things French. I guess at 2,000 pages, the book weighs enough already!	2001-10-04
US	52317033	R19J2BFIINSSLN	1888580224	772450448	The Undutchables: An Observation of the Netherlands, Its Culture and Its Inhabitants	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Informative and hilarious	I spent three years in The Netherlands and The Undutchables was given to me as an introduction to the culture. What a valuable book it is too! You learn, for a start that the Dutch are like the Scottish with the generosity beaten out of them. In fact, it's not strictly true, but they certainly are 'careful' with their money. Then you learn the secret art of bicycle stealing (it's a national pastime over there). After that, the joys of trying to climb the world's steepest stairs and squeeze into the world's smallest lavatories. Talk about a culture shock!<br />But The Undutchables is also a mine of useful information. Did you know that the Dutch for 'penniless' is 'krap'? Or that 'fat' is 'dik'? And that, if you go to a bar and ask for a 'prik', you'll get a tonic water? Told you it was useful!<br />This is a great guide, and a great way to get to know the Dutch culture. My years in The Hague were happy years and I grew to love and admire these hardy people. Get yourself a copy of The Undutchables and see what I mean.	2001-10-04
US	52317033	R3C4T048915QJ8	1569472025	212108169	Moab Is My Washpot	Books	5	72	73	N	N	A stunning work and a pleasure to read	In `Moab is my Washpot' (the best-written celebrity memoir of 1999), Stephen Fry, the intellectually intimidating archetypal Brit tells his life story to the age of 20. Often outrageous, always full of humour, Fry is the darling of the media, appearing regularly in TV series and chat shows. He is highly regarded as raconteur, newspaper columnist, actor and writer. But above all else, Stephen Fry is eccentric in the Oscar Wilde sense of the word.<br />In this, his autobiography, he is frank about his early years, which included perpetual lying, expulsion from one of Britain's better known public schools, his discovery that he was homosexual, his theft and misuse of a friend's credit card, his imprisonment and, eventually, the discovery of his own personal road to Damascus.<br />The multi-talented Fry writes as he speaks. He is the ultimate wordsmith, taking his cue from Wilde by using the `correct' word - the one that paints the most vivid mind picture, rather than a pompous, flamboyant word that sends everybody scurrying for the dictionary. `Moab is my Washpot' is simultaneously daring, impertinent, open, moving, sacrilegious and funny. <br />You'll read `Moab is my Washpot' not just for the factual story of a young man whose confused sexuality takes him to the edge of self-destruction, but for the joy and beauty of the written word.<br />A stunning work and a pleasure to read.	2001-10-02
US	52317033	R1WKWP0ECNTUR4	1569471509	649148645	Making History	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Full of Stephenesque humour	Making History is another classic Stephen Fry novel - an original plot, knee-trembling humour and a protagonist who so resembles Fry, you could be forgiven for thinking it was just another autobiography! All the usual Oscar Wilde flippancy, Evelyn Waugh waspishness and P. G. Wodehouse absurdity, cleverly guided by the pen of one of the world's sharpest wits with, in this case, maybe just a touch of H.G. Wells thrown in for good measure.<br />The nub of the plot is that two Cambridge (UK) academics decide to reverse history and have Hitler 'unborn'. Simple enough, really! Unfortunately, of course, they don't foresee that the void left by a non-Hitler would be filled by someone even worse - the timing and the circumstances in Europe pretty well guaranteed it. And this is where, in my opinion, 'Making History' falls down. When you write a plot-based book, you must be certain that the plot is watertight and, unfortunately it isn't. First of all, as I say, it seems fairly clear that two bright academics would have given some thought to what might have happened in a Hitler-free world. Secondly (without giving away too much of the story) it seems that Michael Young, one of the academics, came out in the future world knowing what had happened in the other world. Leo Zuckermann, the other academic didn't. Same in reverse (not to mention a slight time shift as well).<br />It's not good enough, Mister Fry. I love your writing, but a watertight plot is essential. Also, as with other Stephen Fry novels, the subjects of homosexuality and Judaism are always at the forefront. It would be nice to get back to something more like 'The Hippopotamus' where we didn't have to be subjected to Fry's soapbox opinions. Leave the politics to Ben Elton, and get on with telling a story.<br />But for all my grumbling, 'Making History' was still an entertaining read and I would gladly recommend it to to anyone. The New York Times called it 'shockingly tasteless and deeply offensive'. Time said, 'Wit, cynicism and ill will are the virtues of this . . . funny, sharp-tongued novel'. I think Time got it right.	2001-10-01
US	52317033	R3F0APZR5OLX22	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A struggling tragedy	This is a tough book to review, so let's get rid of the negatives first...<br />The plot was thin - ice thin. It threatened to fall apart any time and the climax was verging on absolute silliness. It's the sort of plot that Stephen King could just about pull off by delving deeper into the characters and the story build-up but, in a 368 pager, there just wasn't the time to give that sort of scenario construction. Part of the problem was poor characterization. I didn't feel empathy for any of the protagonists/antagonists (they  were neither, but both), so their actions were not totally credible. I don't want to spoil the plot, but the actions of the Les Burdon, the policeman, were particularly nonsensical.<br />Like other reviewers, I was struck by a feeling of having been on a training course for manic depressives. Most stories (even tragedies that end in death and disaster) have you hoping for better things as the story progresses, or leave you with some feeling of hope at the end. House of Sand and Fog did neither. My mood simply became blacker as the plot progressed. In one way, this could be claimed to be a victory since at least the story touched me, but this victory was incomplete because of the poor plot, which distracted me too often from being able to sink into the book.<br />On the brighter side, the prose and the speech patterns were excellent and I'm sure that this author, given a different subject, will succeed in lifting my spirits instead of dooming me to an insipid weekend.	2001-10-01
US	52317033	R13CE95BA4ZZ9C	0764535196	376880656	Mastering ICQ: The Official Guide	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Masterful guide	In just over two years ICQ (I Seek You) rocketed from a messaging software with just over a million registered users to a full-blown communication suite with over 50 million registered users. The power of the program now goes far beyond simple (largely self-explanatory) chat features and a user guide has become essential for anyone wanting to use its full power.<br />The features covered in 'Mastering ICQ : The Official Guide', include ICQ mail, free homepages, streaming radio, voice communication, and plug-ins that expand the capabilities of the program. You will learn how to find people you know via ICQ, make yourself invisible while on ICQ, and send voice, graphics, and text files via ICQ. Also how to protect yourself from ICQ hackers, use ICQ as a personal assistant, and connect your phone to ICQ.<br />This excellent book uncovers and teaches dozens of uses for the program that you may not have discovered on your own. The new power of ICQ ensures that IRC (Internet Relay Chat ) will remain the Wild West of real-time online conversation, and learning to use ICQ's new power requires a clear, concise guide such as this. The topics are covered in easy-to-approach order and Peter Weverka, the author, has drawn heavily on modern teaching methods (Tell them what you're going to tell them --- Tell them --- Tell them what you told them). It might sound simplistic, but it works.<br />I highly recommend 'Mastering ICQ : The Official Guide' to anyone who wants to make use of this free internet software. (For more details, simply type  icq.com  into your search bar, and you'll be taken straight to the site).	2001-09-28
US	52317033	RW738YBHO8EA7	1569472270	572756084	The Reaper	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great fun	The Reaper is a humourous, but elegantly written story of a homicidal rector who somehow secures the reader's approval while radically culling his flock in a Wiltshire village. His first (?) victim, Bishop Glastonbury, is found in a deserted quarry with a naughty girlie magazine close at hand. The Bishop's last telephone call was to a 'Miss Whiplash' hotline. Meanwhile, Otis Joy, the guilty rector, is disturbed by Rachel Jansen, a parishoner, as he parades around his home dressed only in an apron! Getting the picture?<br />This book is a great fun read as the bodies begin to pile up and the reader is the only one who knows who's doing it. There's no mystery involved - Otis Joy is guilty of more deaths than the bubonic plague. We even learn Reverend Joy's motives. What holds the reader's attention is the lasting question, will he be caught? People are getting suspicious, and tongues begin to wag. And, of course, there's Joy's possible relationship with Rachel Jansen after her husband suddenly 'dies'... Will it happen? Can it succeed?<br />My only reason for not giving 'The Reaper' a five star rating, is because I felt we weren't given quite enough characterization of the main roles. If there'd been a four-and-a-half button, I would have pressed it. Nevertheless, 'The Reaper' earned Peter Lovesey the Cartier Diamond Dagger award and should not be missed. His other books (over twenty of them) include 'Rough Cider' and 'The Vault' - also well worth space on your bookshelf.	2001-09-28
US	52317033	R3U9OZPTB9V8IA	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Time to wake up	The frightening thing about 'Germs' is that it highlights just how easy it is, for those with the know-how, to create weapons that are beyond our worst nightmares. More scary still, former Soviet scientists now find their expertise in great demand by terrorist groups and rogue states. We shouldn't forget what Saddam has already proved himself capable of, testing the results on his own people. Iran, North Korea and other groups will soon find that this form of destruction comes at a price way below that of conventional or nuclear weapons, and no amount of international treaties will stop the proliferation. With recent events in Washington and New York, we are reminded of what any extremist group is capable of. Their own lives are meaningless to them, so long as they can kill and maim those whom they consider to be their enemies. While I (and all other people of good will) encourage the free, democratic world to fight fanaticism, we are faced with new problems for which, at the moment, we have no answers.<br />'Germs' does not set out to frighten, it is simply a factual revelation by investigative journalists. What it discloses is frightening and unforgettable. It is not a relaxing book to read. It will make you uneasy. But it will make you think. It will make you realize that, despite national and international efforts to ban biological weapons, we can never un-invent what already exists. We must simply do everything we can to minimize the risk, and learn to live with the horrifying possibility that, one day, some form of biological weapon could be launched in any of the countries of the free world. Above all, we must all work towards the goals laid out by George W. Bush - to treat those who sponsor and harbor terrorists in the same way that we treat those whose fingers are on the trigger. This applies equally to the supporters of the IRA as it does to the sponsors of the Osama Bin Laden. It applies equally to jungle guerrillas in Nicaragua as it does to  urban guerillas in the Belfast. Gadhaffi is no worse than someone who puts a ten dollar bill in the collection box for Noraid - he's just got more ten dollar bills!. You cannot simply decide that someone else's terrorist is your hero. Terrorism, by definition, includes all those who spread terror - we have to STOP BEING SELECTIVE.<br />Though the whole democratic world is in danger, America is the country at highest risk. Its wealth and power makes it vulnerable, because its wealth and power give it a loud voice, and not everybody in the world is happy to play to America's tune. This book will make you think, and will make you realize the risks America is taking if it continues with outdated foreign policies. Of all people, Americans should know what happens when a country believes it has a right to dictate its lifestyle to others (Remember King George?). I believe that, in recent years, USA has begun to understand the lessons of ethnocentrism and protectionism, and has begun to adjust its policies gently away from these dangerous arenas. I desperately hope that there will never again be an incident as tragic as those on 11 September 2001. But to ensure this, we must be conscious of WHY these things happen. None of us are blameless - no more than the English or the Spanish or the French were blameless when they discovered their empires crumbling beneath their feet as the worm eventually turned.<br />Germs is an excellent reminder of  the risks of 21st century life. It is a wake up call to all of us who detest fundamentalism and extremism.	2001-09-24
US	52317033	R5BVPIQ6N84RB	0345428064	630610345	Remote Control	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Only McNab can walk the walk	Plenty of action/thriller writers can talk the talk, but only Andy McNab can walk the walk. That's why the Colombian drug cartels and the Provisional IRA still have contracts out on him. McNab doesn't have to imagine how these things work - he KNOWS, and he tells his tales in the sure knowledge that his plots and descriptions carry the authenticity that other writers lack.<br />Remote Control follows agent Nick Stone through a storming story of IRA duplicity, murder and drug dealing. Curiously, at the time that I write this review, terrorist funding is hitting the world headlines following the despicable atrocities at the WTC and Pentagon. Andy McNab (with no foreknowledge of these events) points out that many citizens of USA have been funding the IRA for years. It's strangely ironic to be reminded of that now that USA needs the support of the rest of the democratic world. I guess one man's terrorist is another man's hero (?)<br />I notice that other reviewers point to a seeming weakness in the story regarding Nick Stone's relationship with seven year old Kelly, whom he has saved from his parents' murderers. I think that this awkwardness between the two characters is quite intentional, highlighting the emotional difficulties of any special agent who is trained to kill without sentiment.<br />Remote Control is a real page-turner of a book, delivering action that is just this side of out-of-control, and a plot that oozes authenticity. There's no doubt, almost from the outset, who the real villains are, but that doesn't lessen the suspense. How will Nick Stone get himself out of the mess and how will he save the little girl? Particularly since he's on a deniable mission and his British spymasters have disowned him. If you want to read a thriller that tells is as it really is, Remote Control is the book for you.... Five well-earned stars.	2001-09-24
US	52317033	RCQAQMUIOWL7B	037570731X	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Funny and intelligent	Lipman is a charming and funny writer who is full of wit and verbal sparkle. From its magnetic first sentence to its ingenious climax, this is a superbly entertaining book.<br />The Dobbin sisters, attractive red-headed spinsters Adele, Lois and Kathleen, live together in relative harmony until Adele's ex-fiance, the incorrigible, debonair and pathologically unreliable Nash Harvey, makes a sudden reappearance on their doorstep. But Nash soon finds out that scorned women do not make gracious hostesses. Yet the re-appearance of Nash Harvey, who deserted Adele Dobbin 30 years ago on the evening of their engagement party, throws the lives of the Dobbin sisters into disarray. Not only is Adele confused and upset, Lois has always had a crush on Nash, and now skittishly dyes her hair blonde.<br />My only concern with The Ladies' Man was that the narrative was in present tense. This took some adjusting to, and distracted me from the story too often. However, don't let that put you off, because The Ladies' Man is still a delightful novel for when you are in the mood for something light-hearted and cheerful.	2001-09-20
US	52317033	RJCFAB6MR715A	156947012X	835538748	The Liar	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A good introduction to Stephen Fry	Stephen Fry, for those of you who don't know him, is an archetypal Brit in the Monty Python sense of the word. Outrageously funny and original, he can easily be likened to Oscar Wilde. In Britain, Fry is the darling of the television public, with numerous appearances both in TV series and also on chat shows. He is also well known and regarded as raconteur, newspaper columnist, actor and writer, where he is refreshingly open about his own sexual ambiguity.<br />The Liar seems in some way to hint at an autobiography (though this was fully achieved in his later book, 'Moab is my Washpot'). Adrian Healey - Fry's protagonist - is an overachiever with no sense of right or wrong as he passes through school into university with little effort and much disrespect. There, he is challenged by Professor Donal Trefusis to produce a truly original work. Adrian seemingly achieves this, though Trefusis appears to know better. From this point on, the story moves cleverly forward, leading into strange territory and the recesses of Stephen Fry's mind.<br />If irreverent, taboo-busting, sexually explicit writing disturbs you, stay away from this book. If, on the other hand, you are open-minded enough to enjoy outrageous, in-your-face British humour, you should give 'The Liar' a test drive. I am often quoted as saying that Europeans read American literature but that Americans seem loathe to reciprocate. Well here's your chance to begin to understand the cultural differences that make us so alike yet so unique. You may not always understand the references to cricket. You may not always appreciate the British Public School jargon. But then we, too, get totally lost with the seemingly incomprehensible rules of baseball, and the unintelligible street talk of American youth.<br />Stephen Fry has a razor sharp mind and a very special wit. His story won't disappoint, and his storytelling is a literary treasure.	2001-09-19
US	52317033	R3J90EKAFQC4S7	0764546090	523690565	Microsoft Excel 2000 Formulas	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Amazing - BUY IT !	I already had a reputation at work as the Excel Wizard, so I was a little cautious about investing in a 'how-to' book on the subject. I have to say though, that Excel 2000 Formulas is worth every last cent and more. Even skimming through the early chapters, where I doubted I would find anything new, I chanced upon several easy tips I'd not known before.<br />Excel 2000 Formulas is arranged in a simple-to-reference way and the page layout is excellent, giving easy-on-the-eye icon notes, references and tips. Even so, I quickly found myself grabbing a colored highlighter to pick out the bits that were important to me. The author also has a flowing style of writing so you don't feel you're working through a manual, It's more like a fun day out, with new discoveries on every page.<br />Particulary interesting and useful was John Walkenbach's section on creating megaformulas. Though I was already familiar with the concept, and have used it to good effect at work, I found Walkenbach's methods even more concise and precise. In no time at all, you're building a relatively simple 229 character formula that does the work of 51 intermediary formulas. Not only is this more efficient and streamlined, it saves space in the workbook, thus making calculation quicker and more effective. Also of great value was the section on debugging formulas.<br />VBA had always remained something of a mystery to me (excluding elementary macros) until I got stuck into 'Excel 2000'. Now (with a bit of prompting from John Walkenbach) I'm really getting the hang of it, and finding, again, that I can streamline my workbooks and impress my colleagues. I've already bought 'Excel 2000 Power Programming with VBA' by the same author, and look forward to improving my skills in this area.<br />If ever there was a technical book that deserves more than five stars, this is it. If you need to improve your Excel skills, there's no other book you should consider - Excel 2000 Formulas has it all.	2001-09-18
US	52317033	R9811J9PZT0GW	0060196149	147649782	John Major: The Autobiography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Refreshingly honest	What struck me about John Major's memoirs was the honesty with which he tackled his subject. I'm a complete politico-skeptic. Always have been; always will be. To me, politicians (no matter what breed) are about as appetizing as burnt toast - and about as useful. But John Major was a man who earned my grudging admiration while he was Prime Minister of Britain. Not that his policies were particularly brilliant, nor that his choice of ministers was very astute; just that he came across as a man doing his best in a difficult situation.<br />When you read this autobiography, this honesty shines through. He openly recognizes his faults and his mistakes. He continues to stand by political friends and allies who let him down during his years in office. One has the distinct impression that he tells it like it really was.<br />During his years as Prime Minister, Major had to deal with his predecessor (Maggie) who simply wouldn't let go of the reins of power. He had to deal with rebels in his own party, who were so anti-European that they voted against anything and everything that came from their own government. He had to deal with colleagues who were shown to be less than honest in their dealings. If John Major had one weakness, it was that he didn't get rid of those of his ministers who were stabbing him in the back. He knew who they were, yet he allowed them to continue, hoping that right would prevail in the end.<br />This book is an excellent read for anyone interested in politics from the inside. Why four stars? Because I think Major spent too long dealing with his early years instead of concentrating on his years in power. Nonetheless, a powerful insight into the Major years in Britain.	2001-09-17
US	52317033	ROHGJ7IAVWTIZ	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The ending is tough to figure	I'm a King fan and, apart from Gerald's Game, this is the first King book that I haven't rated five stars. The opening pages of 'The Stand' are absolutely riveting. King does a great job of drawing the reader into the story right from the outset. After that, the pace is continued and the story develops nicely with King's usual mastery of characterization and description.<br />What I found weak was the ending. Somehow it seemed that SK was trying to delve into issues of religion and morality (something he usually leaves to others) and, for me, it didn't work. I admit it was a brave effort, but it just doesn't come off the way I believe King intended it to.<br />On the other hand, with the terrible and tragic events in New York and Washington recently, it seems that fact can sometimes mirror fiction (Tom Clancy foresaw the threat from the air). I hope, for the sake of all of us, that Stephen King proves to be less prophetic.<br />The Stand is a well written book (as you would expect from The Master), but it is not his best work. That said, it's still well worth the few dollars it costs to buy it.	2001-09-17
US	52317033	R3SXG77SWOCROU	0061013315	462833565	The Eleventh Commandment: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Competent	Jeffrey Archer is a competent story teller so you expect nothing but the best when you buy one of his novels. 'The Eleventh Commandment' doesn't quite meet that criteria. Whilst the story is fine (outrageous, but fine nonetheless) the author could have spent just a little more time on research since some of the errors were glaringly obvious. I have to say, though, that these errors did not spoil my enjoyment of the book, even though some of the events were predicated on chance rather than on the logical sequence of events. It is still a fast-paced political thriller that draws you quickly into the story and holds you there to the end.<br />Archer has made a name out of political thrillers, probably because he has the inside knowledge to match. A businessman, high-ranking politician and public speaker with the ability to whip up a crowd, Jeffrey Archer has also been involved in the seedier side of life, having been imprisoned for perverting the course of justice. When he outlines a plot involving politicians, you can be sure that, whilst it may be far-fetched, it is based on his insider knowledge. Maybe it's this that gives him an edge over his contemporaries.<br />The one point you may find annoying with all Archer novels (The Eleventh Commandment is no exception), is that he has a habit of writing double adjectives... the tall, angry man... the short, smiling lady... the pale, sensitive boy. For me, it detracts from the story and makes me cringe every time he does it. Maybe I'm being super-critical, because The Eleventh Commandment is still an excellent read that I can happily recommend.	2001-09-13
US	52317033	RZUYL9X19PM8G	0684843323	156249009	The Complete Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway: The Finca Vigia Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An education in style	If ever you've wondered what made Hemingway the renowned writer that he was, you could do worse than to pick up &quot;The Complete Short Stories&quot;. Here, you will experience first hand the tough, terse prose and the short, declarative sentences that won him the Pulitzer Prize in 1953 and the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1954.<br />In this definitive collection, you will not only find some of Hemingway's classics, like 'The Snows of Kilimanjaro' and 'Hills Like White Elephants', you will also find much previously unpublished work, some little more than a page long (like Old Man at the Bridge). This is one of those books that you can dive into for a few minutes at a time to enjoy, not only the short story, but also the power and beauty of the written word. Here is Hemingway in his most potent form - not a single unnecessary word - and with everything important left unsaid, but with all the clues in place for the reader to find.<br />A must for any lover of literature.	2001-09-09
US	52317033	R97ER9MTRESXZ	0802132073	823772531	The Neon Bible	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An amazing tribute	The Neon Bible tells of one boy's struggle to grow up in small-town America during the war years. It paints a picture of a small, claustrophobic world oppressed by narrow religious bigotry that eventually leads the story-teller to find the courage to make decisions that would change his life.<br />A tender, nostalgic, powerful novel written simply but effectively, The Neon Bible evokes emotions that are communicated in clean, direct prose. John Kennedy Toole wrote this book when he was only sixteen. He followed it years later by A Confederacy of Dunces, which was to win him a posthumous Pulitzer Prize. Though I don't believe The Neon Bible can match his brilliant second book, it is still an amazing achievement for a sixteen year old, and clearly demonstrates the true loss suffered by the literary world upon Toole's premature death in 1969.<br />Most writers, even those who have been writing for years with a modicum of success, would dearly like to be able to pen a novel as powerfully effective as The Neon Bible. It many ways, it makes me think of John Grisham's attempt to break out of the mould when he wrote `A Painted House'. The difference is that Toole touches numerous raw nerves that Grisham does not. (In fairness, Toole could probably never have handled courtroom drama like Grisham!).<br />If, like me, you enjoy reading books that cover a broad spectrum of  topics, The Neon Bible should most definitely be on your book shelf.	2001-09-07
US	52317033	RHFIS23DKIOF1	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	1	85	187	N	N	Save your money	I defend Rushdie's right to write anything he wants, even if it is complete and utter rubbish. There's no denying that the man has a finely-honed gift with a sharpened pencil, it's just a pity he can't use that gift for something more than writing an indigestible tome that nearly ends up getting him killed, and costs the British taxpayers millions of pounds a year so he can have his own private protection squad and a lot of free publicity. It wouldn't be so bad if the blessed thing was readable but, as other reviewers have pointed out, The Satanic Verses means nothing to those who aren't either Muslim or Indian or both. Okay, fine, I have no issue with that, but at least put a Surgeon General's warning on the cover. When you buy a ready meal, it's obligatory to list the contents on the packet. The same should be true for Rushdie books. They don't deliver what they promise.<br />I guess the Ayatollah was having a bad beard day when he issued his Fatwa against Salman because, bad though it is, The Satanic Verses doesn't exactly deserve a death sentence - flogging with a smelly fish would be plenty good enough. On the other hand, it's joined one other book I am unfortunate enough to possess that only gives pleasure to me when I use it to keep the door wedged open in summer.	2001-09-03
US	52317033	R1HEQ6UEWL20J6	0898159393	813648582	Up Shit Creek: A Collection of Horrifyingly True Wilderness Toilet Misadventures	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Amusing in a childish way	Scatological humour is fine in the right place and in small doses. Up Sh*t Creek meets neither criteria. The right place is in the men's room, or round a camp fire, where this type of story can be related first hand by the participants or witnesses. Small doses simply means that one or two stories are enough. Up Sh*t Creek attempts to bring together dozens of toilet jokes and, by doing so, is guilty of overkill - the stories lose their impact.<br />Probably the best place for this book is in the room we all use but seldom discuss. There, the stories can be 'digested' little by little and might pass for a few chuckles. Don't expect anything too cerebral, don't buy the book if the discussion of bodily functions offends you, and don't lick your fingers as you turn the pages!	2001-09-03
US	52317033	R1HZ8D6HIZ18Q9	0688177816	362197980	Altar Ego: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Just when you thought the fun had gone out of reading...	Kathy Lette is an Australian living in London and in Altar Ego, the humour of both continents is mixed into a politically-incorrect novel that will have you weeping with laughter. Lette is clearly well-versed in antipodean one-liners and mixes these with British inuendo to produce a naughty-but-nice novel that I class amongst my 'girlie books that men can read too'.<br />Becky Steele gets cold feet on her wedding day and jumps out of the bathroom window - right into the arms of Julian, her fiance. Things move from bad to better when she meets Zach, an American rap star trying to make it big in Europe, and she decides to dump Julian and move in with Zach. Unfortunately, it hadn't dawned on her that she still loved Julian. From that point, the story moves forward like an unstoppable wall of water. Events tumble out of control and Becky finds her life getting more and more convoluted.<br />Rich with dubious and memorable characters, Altar Ego is a rollicking roller-coaster ride of sexy mishaps. If you're easily shocked, leave this one alone. If you enjoy bawdy fun, grab it now and get laughing.	2001-09-03
US	52317033	R3I8TZS6PASJOD	1888451165	94545038	Adios Muchachos	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Exquisite	Of course it's pulp fiction. The huge majority of books published today are pulp fiction. And so what? The difference is that Adios Muchachos is WELL WRITTEN pulp fiction. I roared with laughter at the descriptions and at the nonesensical plot, and any book that can make me laugh is worth a good few stars.<br />Congratulations to Daniel Chavarria for writing a picaresque novel about a young lady whose aim in life is to please (in return for certain favours) without falling into the trap of writing pure pornography. I enjoyed the book, not only for the plot, but for the beauty of what was on the page. Chavarria covers many a 'sensitive' topic with a nod and a wink and a sentence structured in erotic innuendo. Brilliant.	2001-09-02
US	52317033	RZ3KQD52G4M2X	0595139094	364171376	No Hiding Place	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A VERY credible first novel	Naomi is running away - from her former lover, from the law, from her past, and from herself. But what's been done can't be undone. Her money is fast running out and her future looks bleak. Then comes Bruce, the good-looking neighbour. But Bruce is not everything he seems to be, and Bruce has a past of his own.<br />Romance isn't my usual genre, but I was recommended 'No Hiding Place' by Norm Harris, author of Fruit of a Poisonous Tree. And Norm's advice was sound because this is a genuine page-turner of a book. The story moves forward relentlessly while love and passion just ooze from the pages. Naomi is trapped in a situation she can nothing about. Her love for her new man is doomed to failure due to events in their lives that could only drive them apart.<br />I would happily have given 'No Hiding Place' five stars were it not for two things... First, I believe the authors would benefit from taking Stephen King's advice to mercilessly cut out unnecessary adjectives and adverbs. Second, since the story was told solely from the point of view of Naomi, the book would have had even more urgency if it had been written in the first person as opposed to the third. But these are small criticisms for a novel that kept me hooked till the end, and they should not deter you from reading 'No Hiding Place'. Well done the Maureen Dennis partnership.	2001-08-31
US	52317033	RQ7VSIE4WOS7J	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The ultimate in Pratchett nonsense	On the subject of writing, Terry Pratchett was once quoted as having said &quot;I can't imagine any way one person on his own can have more fun&quot; or something similar to that. He's been writing since he learned how to hold a pen, and has (apparently) never stopped. The Fifth Elephant is one of the classic Pratchett masterpieces. Wholly, completely, utterly, inventively insane, irreverent, witty and satirical, it shows why Pratchett is King of the genre.<BR>If you've not yet introduced yourself to any Pratchett books, let me give you a quick history of Discworld. Pratchett's crazy world is supported by four elephants standing on the back of a giant tortoise. Once there was a fifth elephant, but it fell off the tortoise's back and crashed onto Discworld, leaving behind rich deposits of minerals and fat and the interesting philosophical question: when millions of tons of angry elephant come spinning through the sky, and there is no one to hear it, does it, philosophically speaking, make a noise? And that's about as philosophical as Discworld ever gets..... or is it? Pratchett, in a quiet, humorous way, poses questions about, and satirizes just about any subject you can imagine. Anything from opera to the meaning of life, from local government to religion. (Oh dear, I do hope those reviewers who insist on denouncing J.K.Rowling and Philip Pullman as the anti-christ aren't reading this. They'll be chipping away at Terry Pratchett next!)<BR>When I tell you that the famous Samuel Vimes, commander of the Ankh-Morpork city watch, is sent to represent the city at the crowning of the new Dwarvish Low King, you won't be surprised to learn that Vimes hates politics and has no talent for diplomacy whatsoever. His idea of dealing with a diplomatic incident is to head-butt his way through it. It doesn't help that his assistants are a werewolf, a troll, and a dwarf. Meanwhile, Captain Carrot has fallen in love with Corporal Angua (also a werewolf), and a duplicate of a Dwarven artifact is stolen (a piece of stale bread).<BR>Can't get much more ridiculous, can it! Oh yes it can. Pratchett loves the ridiculous as he gently mocks everything in sight (always with a great knowledge of and fondness for his fellow primates, even in their more foolish moments). Consider yourself well and truly ordered to GO AND BUY THIS BOOK.	2001-08-30
US	52317033	R1JAARD98ACHYC	0316847739	991430594	A Feast of Fish	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Splendid	Very much on a par with Susan Hick's 'The Fish Course' (though maybe even more comprehensive), this excellent book by Ian McAndrew is a veritable encyclopedia of fish dishes. Beautifully illustrated, McAndrew covers the diverse subjects of choosing your fish (how to be sure it's fresh), preparation (handle with care and respect), cooking (NEVER overcook), and presentation (the side dishes and sauces that complete the meal).<BR>If you plan presenting any fish dish, you'll not find a better book on the subject than 'A Feast of Fish', and I should know - I live in France, where food is revered before everything except wine!	2001-08-30
US	52317033	R26LSCD86GHDNS	0898795982	284526114	Writing the Blockbuster Novel	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Some sound advice, but too windy	Writing the Blockbuster Novel is too long by about 20 percent. I don't mean that it's a big book - at 224 pages, it's not. It's just that much of the book is taken up with full length examples of how Follett (and others) edited their manuscripts and how the story develops through that editing. I know this is valuable information, but it could have been abbreviated and made more readable.<BR>There are certainly some useful tips in this book (though the same tips come to light in many other similar titles), and I think Zuckerman places too much emphasis on giving the novels a global setting - choosing topics and storylines that have global effects. But you only have to read Wilbur Smith to understand that a blockbuster novel does not have to concern world affairs.<BR>The one really useful piece of information I gleaned out of Writing the Blockbuster Novel was to keep everything in present tense - even flashbacks - because it gives better pace to the story. For that advice alone, I'm grateful I bought this book, but I still believe I'm being uncharacteristically generous in giving it three stars.	2001-08-29
US	52317033	R3Q2F2VXA0K3C6	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Unsatisfactory relationships? Read this book.	I guess I must be one of the luckiest guys alive. My wife and I have an excellent relationship and the advice in this book was wasted on us. Not that we couldn't see the value for other people. First of all, let me explain that my wife is French and I'm British so, despite the fact that we both speak the other's language, we do suffer occasional misunderstandings due to nuances in the spoken word. Over the years we've been together, that has made us LISTEN more carefully to our partner. And this is one of the keys in Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus.<BR>The book was given to my wife by a friend, who is still a single person, despite much partner-searching on her behalf. This same friend thought that it could help US! We couldn't resist a little chuckle as we read how women shouldn't seek to change their men (our friend dictates terms as soon as she's within hand-holding distance of her prey). We smiled over the section that explains how men should listen more closely to their partners to try to really understand what they are saying (my wife is given to speaking her mind rather more directly than is sometimes comfortable!).<BR>As I say, we gleaned nothing from this book that we did not already put into practice, but that does not mean that it lacks value. Quite the opposite. If you feel that your relationship is in the slightest bit shaky or stale, sink into Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus. It will maybe help you understand how to improve things. Just one word of warning (which I feel should be printed in bold letters on ALL books of this type), take the contents with a pinch of salt. Modify them to suit your own needs. If you literally apply what you read, you risk making a poor situation even worse. No book can apply global solutions to individual problems.<BR>An excellent book.	2001-08-29
US	52317033	RH2680O5PGHA8	0968402909	839926244	Eat Yourself Slim	Books	5	114	118	N	N	IT WORKS !	In 1986, Frenchman, Michel Montignac, wrote his first book, How to Lose Weight While Enjoying Business Lunches. In 1987 he followed with a new publication for the general public entitled Eat Yourself Slim (Je mange donc je maigris). Since then, this book has gone on to be a best-seller in twenty-five countries. If it didn't work, it would probably never have even been translated from its original French version.<BR>Montignac expounds the virtues of never mixing carbohydrates and lipids in the same meal. His method means that you never have to calorie-count and you never have to go hungry. Hence, it is long-term sustainable because it is fundamentally healthy and leaves you satisfied after every meal.<BR>For many years, critics, comprising for the most part traditional nutritionists, tried to undermine Montignac's credibility by claiming that his nutritional practices, though &quot;possibly effective in producing weight loss&quot;, were not scientifically proven and perhaps even dangerous. However, numerous scientific studies have now demonstrated not only that the Montignac Method works (producing long-lasting results), but is also an important factor in reducing the risks of cardiovascular disease. In 1999, Professor W. Willett of Harvard University released the results of a 12 year scientific study, which confirmed the absolute validity of Montignac's methods.<BR>My wife is a doctor who not only specializes in heart diseases, but has also practiced as an allergist, and is qualified in many other aspects of medicine, including alternative medicines and acupuncture (in other words, her experience is broad and she keeps an open mind). I ran the Montignac method past her, for her opinion, and she wholeheartedly supports his theories. Not only are they logical, I can vouch that they work.<BR>Though Michel Montignac first wrote with examples of foods that are commonplace in France, his book has been revised and adapted to include more traditional North American fare. The only small 'negative' to the Montignac method is that you need to adjust to slightly non-traditional meals. In other words, some of the COMBINATIONS of foods that you may be used to seeing on your plate are not permitted. However, this is a VERY small price to pay for a diet method that not only works, but improves your general health and increases your vitality.	2001-08-29
US	52317033	RSL29OTJMPTE0	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Go King, go!	Eight-year-old Charlie McGee was born with the most destructive power a human being has ever commanded and now the government wants her for its own insane reasons. The premise is scary, the plot is as gripping as any other King novel, and the action is fast and furious as Charlie (a young girl) and her father are on the run from a government agency that has discovered their supernatural powers. But the very fact that they attack her makes Charlie so angry that she uses her power to destroy the manipulators. This is another King masterpiece, only this time the book is action-driven as opposed to suspense driven (though the suspense is always there), and the author superbly captures the essence of a eight year old's torn loyalties between not wanting to hurt anybody yet not wanting her or her father to get hurt either. For value for money, King outstrips all other commercial writers. With 'Firestarter' you'll get 101 cents to the dollar - that's a guarantee.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	R39E5COIGVCCIJ	0002550490	736365653	The Downing Street Years	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Lover her or hate her, she was UNIQUE	This first volume of memoirs by Margaret Thatcher frankly recalls the former British prime minister's dealings with U.S. presidents, the Falkland War, and her election victories in 1979, 1983 and 1987. She also details the back-stabbing and eye-gouging that the British call politics. It may be a little less corrupt than politics in some other countries I could name, but it sure ain't an arena for the feint of heart. There were never any gray areas with Thatcher. The British either worshipped the ground she walked on, or detested her every word. There was nothing in the middle, because Thatcher was not given to taken the middle course. 'There's nothing I like more than a lively discussion' she would say. What she meant, of course, was that she loved a damn good arguement! This first part of her autobiography is as outspoken as she was. She pulls no punches, and her unequivocal opinions about world events she participated in and world leaders she encountered leave you wondering how she survived eleven years as Britain's Prime Minister. But would we expect anything else from Thatcher as she explains and defends her controversial policies, which caused the dismemberment of socialism and Britain's resurgence as a world power after many years of liberal misrule.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	R73B2IODPM1S3	0312050631	800037606	Confessions of a Failed Southern Lady: A Memoir	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Wonderful - A unique reading experience	Want to know what a Huggybear is? Or a Malkin? Or a Watery Mole? Or a Virago? You'll have to read Confessions of a Failed Southern Lady. Florence King (no relation to Stephen, I would add!) has a uniquely warm humor and a style that she can truly call her own. I roared with laughter in places, I choked back a shiver or two in places, I gurgled with contentment in places, and I reveled in the amazing writing that has become Florence King's trademark. What a remarkable lady. From a Southern family, raised in the racially segregated Washington, D.C. of old, King follows her own life through college, graduation and into adulthood, where she finds she is considerably more attracted to her own sex than the other. Though written in a style that is hilariously funny and relatively light-hearted, Confessions of a Failed Southern Lady also deals with deeper issues, like the definition of femininity. This added dimension makes the book all the more interesting, even for a non-female person (maybe ESPECIALLY for a non-female person!), and for those of us who enjoy something a little more cerebral than 'Noddy meets Goldilocks', Florence King's wonderful insights into growing up (and dealing with her sexuality) is a perfect companion to a blazing fire and a glass of good wine.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	RYAYELCXJVEX5	0563213639	649107366	The Fish Course	Books	5	0	0	N	N	VERY highly recommended	Okay, let's be up front to start with. I might live in France, but I'm not French. Nevertheless, living in France gives one a respect for food and wine that tends to be ignored elsewhere in the world. I've read and tried dozens of different cook books for fish (some of them French) but I've NEVER come across one as comprehensive and as beautifully produced as Susan Hick's 'The Fish Course'. To begin with, the full plate illustrations are mouthwateringly real. These alone would rate the book five stars in my view. The recipes, though, are amazing. This lady has a respect for fish dishes that shines through as you meander gently through the courses on offer. Her repertoire ranges from Salmon to Squid, from Sea Bass to Sole, and she'll tell you the best acompaniments too - the trimmings and garnishes and accessories and sauces and side salads. And if you don't believe me about this book rating amongst the best, I often make Paella for my French friends, using the recipe from this book. They absolutely love it and keep coming back for more. In fact, I'm doing it again next Saturday! For foodies and lovers of delicate dishes, this book is a dead-cert MUST HAVE.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	R21YHWVA4H9FWR	1876410000	407881645	Dive Maldives: A Guide to the Maldives Archipelago	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An Amazing Underwater Adventure	To begin, The Maldives are a group of over 400 islands (many uninhabited) that can be found in the Indian Ocean south-west of the Indian continent. These are the 'paradise' islands - idyllic bleached sand, green lagoons and blue ocean. The sun is virtually guaranteed 365 days a year (though trade winds can help lower the temperature from time to time). Most islands can be circumnavigated on foot in less than ten minutes, so I would advise anyone thinking of visiting The Maldives to do so only if they want a holiday with nothing to see and nowhere to go, OR want to spend their holiday clutching the bar stool and watching the waves caress the beach, OR love water sports. It's as quiet as that, and scuba, snorkeling and water-skiing are about as active as you'll get. If you fit into the third category, you'll adore these islands and their friendly peoples. You'll undoubtedly appreciate the diving which, in my view, ranks with the very best in the world (and I've dived a lot of places). Tim Godfrey has spent a considerable amount of time and effort putting together 'Dive Maldives'. When you consider, for a start, that the islands cover an area of ocean as big as Texas, you'll understand the scale of the task. And for readers who have attempted underwater photography, you'll appreciate that it can take several dives just to get one good picture. This book contains 191 superb photos taken throughout the atolls that make up The Maldives. Also included are 114 computer-generated maps with descriptions of over 270 dive sites based on the author's personal research over 12 years. Included in this comprehensive book is information on uninhabited islands, reefs, Protected Marine Areas, heliports, channel names, and some of the better-known dive site locations. The dive site maps show the topography and scale of the reefs, using symbols for features such as caves, overhangs, saddles and canyons, as well as commonly seen fish and marine life. Here divers can get a pre-dive glimpse of what they can expect to see during the dive. EXCELLENT stuff, thoroughly researched and exquisitely photographed. For visitors to The Maldives, who have diving in mind, this book is an absolute MUST HAVE.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	R1FCVAUKGA8GTE	158234051X	237182187	Three in a Bed : The Benefits of Sharing Your Bed With Your Baby	Books	2	17	57	N	N	Use some Common-Sense!	I can see from the reviews that I risk alienating a lot of people here, but if a review isn't honest, it's not a review! Three in a Bed takes a somewhat extreme view of parenting. Suckle your child until it's ready to stir its own coffee. Sleep with your child until it gets married and leaves home... yeah, okay, I know I exaggerate, but that's the problem with the book. It suggests extreme measures when a little bit of common sense will tell you that you can move gently towards this doctrine without swallowing it hook line and sinker. Maybe I'm biased. I was asked to read Three In a Bed by a friend who was practising the principles word for word. I watched how, over a period of twelve months, it destroyed her relationship with her husband (which is how she came to ask me to read it). Her husband felt alienated and eventually moved into another bedroom. Now he's moved to another country. I watched her child (now walking round chewing gum) lift his mother's jumper and demand 'Milk! Now!' (I'm NOT exaggerating). This sort of behaviour is perverse and it stems from taking this book literally. By all means have your child in bed with you (there are no physical risks as one reviewer suggests), but don't do it at the expense of your own or your partner's well-being. This book suggests that this can't happen. I assure you it can. Take Three in a Bed with a pinch of salt, and you'll raise happy, healthy kids. Take it too literally and you'll probably end up in the divorce courts... I'm only suggesting a little common sense.	2001-08-28
US	52317033	R1VDEWMHMU4VVZ	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quite Amazing	Stephen King is the undisputed master of horror, and in 'Misery' he more than lives up to this title. This book has no monsters, no demons, no ghouls; only Annie Wilkes, and she is infinitely worse than any supernatural creation as she terrorizes protagonist Paul Sheldon while he lies crippled in her back bedroom. 'Misery' is not only a novel, and not only a novel about how to write a novel, but it is a touchstone for any writer - this book is rich in metaphor of the trials of creating a book that someone, anyone, will want to read, and it is impossible for anyone who has known the pain of writing, and wanting to write, not to identify with Sheldon. Amazingly put together, 'Misery' is a perfect example of simple plot woven into rich tapestry. At no point does it degenerate into predictability. There is always something gripping to tempt the reader into turning the next page. The fact that the whole novel revolves around the character Paul Sheldon holed up in one room, and still being able to capture the audience is a true test of any writer's skill and creativity. And the way that the story unfolds through the eyes of a writer is a great device that already worked in &quot;The Shining&quot;. The only (very slight) downside was the ending... I wanted Sheldon to cause Annie Wilkes more pain in vengeance. Even if you have watched the film it is definitely worth reading the book. Enjoy!	2001-08-27
US	52317033	R5I64WX9JMJIM	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Excellent: Clancy on top form	Three Muslim terrorists striking a blow for freedom, destroy the Soviet Union's largest petrochemical plant. What they have done, unknowingly, is fire the first shots in World War III. NATO's forces develop Red Storm - a dazzling master plan of diplomatic subterfuge and intense rearmament. If Red Storm Rising has a problem it's that it starts so quickly that, when the inevitable pause for breath comes, it feels like an anticlimax. However, Clancy picks up the pace again from about page 150 on, and we're back on the roller-coaster ride of suspense and climax. Loads of battle situations, and the last 100 or so pages are amongst the most riveting and exhilarating I have ever read. So many similar but lesser works of fiction are based on taking you to the brink of WWIII, then drawing back... Clancy takes you to the edge, then roaring past it, leaving you in shocked disbelief that it's really happening. But the real genius behind this novel is the way that several different storylines are developed from the start, remining seperate until key points in the novel where they begin to interlock and the book becomes increasingly more difficult to put down! A refreshing departure from the Jack Ryan books.	2001-08-27
US	52317033	R1CA4KLCHDO6X3	0340394722	390039600	Sepulchre	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You love him or you hate him	In Sepulchre, there is a house that holds a dreadful secret. &quot;The Keeper&quot;, the psychic and the secret serve a force which threatens mankind itself. Judging from the reviews, readers tend to either love James Herbert or hate him. Personally, I believe he never ever gets the praise he richly deserves. I'm a big Stephen King fan, but when Herbert is on form (as he surely is in this book) he is close to unbeatable. If you've never read a James Herbert novel, make this one your first. It's fast paced and intricate, avoiding the descriptive overkill that sometimes blocks the smooth flow of King or Koontz. He has the amazing ability to make characters absolutely terrifying and utterly deplorable and if you like your horror sick and scary but with a vengeful ending this book is a must. It's yet another amazing example of Herbert's highly original mind.	2001-08-27
US	52317033	R2S03UGBPIM4XA	0425180050	794106396	Line of Control (Tom Clancy's Op-Center, Book 8)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Dire Rubbish	This book is so bad that it deserves a negative rating. First off, when you see the words Tom Clancy on the cover, you would reasonably assume that he at least had some input or some editorial control over the content. This is patently not so, because Line of Control is so badly written that a trained chimpanzee would have made a better job of it. Obviously Clancy has just sold out an idea so he can rake in the $ without any effort (which, being a Clancy fan, saddens me). To begin with, the author (Jeff Rovin) clearly knows absolutely NOTHING factual about the conflict in the Kashmir. If he wanted to base a book on it, he should have done considerably more research. Line of Control is wholly misleading. It is also full of factual holes. She looked towards the driver on her left Even school kids know that India is one of the countries that drives on the left, therefore, the driver is seated on the right. It is also full of rubbish knowledge  the sort of knowledge you would easily acquire by reading Jaynes or some such publication, but that has absolutely no place in the book For example, this is a direct extract from Line of Control (pages 180-181):- Ten Pakistan Air Force bases were operational full-time. These were the major operational bases PAF Sargodha, PAF Mianwali, PAF Kamra, PAF Rafiqui, PAF Masroor, PAF Faisal, PAF Chaklala, PAF Risalpur, PAF Peshawar, and PAF Samungli. They would all be hit with two missiles each. Then there were eleven forward operation bases that became fully operational only during wartime. All of these would be struck as well. They were PAF Sukkar, PAF Shahbaz, PAF Multan, PAF Vihari, PAF Risalewala, PAF Lahore, PAF Nawabshah, PAF Mirpur, Khas, PAF Murid, PAF Pasni, and PAF Talhar. Finally there were the nine satellite bases used for emergency landings: PAF Chuk Jhumra, PAF Ormara, PAF Ranjanpur, PAF Sindhri, PAF Gwadar, and PAF Kohat. So, how did fifteen printed lines of air force base names move thestory on? They didnt  they were never mentioned again. Talk about a waste of time, just to be told how knowledgeable the author is. Rovin also fails spectacularly to obey the prime rule of good writing  SHOW NOT TELL. He lectures the reader for page after page. Chapter 29, for example, does absolutely nothing to move the story forward  it just TELLS the background of an Indian Minister. Any half-decent novelist would have built this information gradually into the story, maybe using other peoples conversations to provide the Ministers background. Instead we have a whole chapter where the plot stalls as the author catches up on some homework that had no right being there. And that was only one example of many  chapter 20 was just as dire. And I was driven wild by the he said, she said at EVERY conversation point:- How are you? Dave said. Just fine, Maggie said. Pleased to hear it, Dave said. How are your parents? Maggie said. Keeping well, Dave said and so on. As for characterization NULL. I didnt feel empathy for any one single character in the book. NOTHING. Its the first time Ive ever read a novel where ALL the characters are one-dimensional. Pages and pages were devoted to the extra-marital relationship between Paul Hood and Ann Farris. Did it add to the story?  NO. Did it lead anywhere?  NO. Was it resolved?  NO. So why was it there? Again, it served only to stall the plot. Maybe Jeff Rovin was getting paid by the word, so needed to add as much bumph as he could. I was grossly disappointed with Line of Control. I considered giving it two stars because I kept going to the end, just to see the resolution of the plot. But even the ending was weak and hurried. This is probably the worst book I have read in years.	2001-08-25
US	52317033	RZQZYUOCSCUB2	0553571737	752077276	Under the Beetle's Cellar	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Haunting	As a previous reviewer said, it has been a while since I first read Under the Beetle's Cellar, yet images from the book continue to dance unbidden in my thoughts. I can't explain it, because, though the story is excellent and the writing is adequate, I felt at the time that Under the Beetle's Cellar lacked soul. Maybe it was the fact that I never truly felt for the characters, particularly the main character, a bus driver who, along with 50 children, is held hostage by a religious cult. One of the threads of the story is that the bus driver tells stories to calm the children. I felt that these story-telling sessions lasted far too long. A page or two at a time would have been sufficient. The story was powerful enough to overcome my many misgivings but, in the hands of Stephen King or a host of other top writers, it would undoubtedly have been a bestseller. Yet still chunks of the story still keep floating back into my head. Funny that!	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R26YS2098IHGV7	0312966652	336478930	Let It Bleed (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Rebus strikes again	Ian Rankin is amongst the best crime novelists writing today. His books are always tense, tenacious, and thrilling. At the heart of them is Rebus, a cop with bad habits and a fair dose of caustic, Scottish wit - as human and blemished as they come. Rebus knows that murder is usually motivated by passion or greed, but when the bodies begin to pile up - four of them - Rebus realizes that there's nothing simple about his latest case. In his trail for the culprit, he stumbles across a conspiracy that runs all the way to the top of the Scottish political ladder. If you've not yet picked up a John Rebus mystery from Ian Rankin, you should do so now. Rankin is the thinking man's crime writer. He mixes social comment with deep characterization and stirs it all into great plots and sub plots. Let it bleed is one of his outstanding examples and there's a hole in your reading if you miss it.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	RT3W5G3WLAHW0	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A true masterpiece of laughter	If you've never heard of Terry Pratchett, you're clearly living on the wrong planet. So join the rest of us in Pratchett's Discworld and enjoy the antics of Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg, the Disc's best-known witches. Visit Ankh-Morpork's Opera House with them (accompanied by their lunatic guests). You'll marvel at the amazing scenes of chaos that Pratchett can conjure up, seemingly without trying. And no matter what the topic, Pratchett is able to satirize it and make you question your former opinions - and you'll howl with laughter as you do so. I've read quite a lot of Discworld books and there are not many that have not held a chuckle a page and a full belly laugh a chapter. Maskerade lives up to its author's reputation in full, satirizing opera, theatre production, the lot - and all with a smile on his face. If, after reading Maskerade, you are in any doubt that Terry Prachett is not the most creative and funniest contemporary author around, you've obviously got a funny bone missing somewhere. Although it is not his best work, Maskerade is still hilarious and well worthy of five stars.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R2V6ITUVYT1ONR	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	5	21	27	N	N	It'll keep you turning the pages right to the end	I'm not renowned for reading a book twice. In fact it's a VERY rare habit based on the premise that, if I know what's going to happen, I won't enjoy it second time round. However, I made an exception with Tommyknockers because my memories of it had begun to fade. What I discovered on second reading was the depth of Stephen King's writing. Knowing the storyline and the ending probably gave me more time to savour the text and, though King is a genius commercial writer as opposed to a pretentious literary scribbler, there are phrases and structure in this book that evade all but the most accomplished authors. Let's ignore the story (there are plenty of reviews to tell you about that) and just concentrate on the writing. The hero is a troubled alcoholic poet, Jim Gardener, who comes to check on his friend Bobbi who, unknown to him, has uncovered a UFO. There's much in the character of Gardener that escapes through the line spacing first time round. His readings at poetry meetings suddenly take on a new meaning when you're not concerned about the 'plot'. Maybe King based his characterization on his own view of himself. If so, The Tommyknockers gives a real insight into 'The Master'. But then King has always been top of the tree when it comes to characterization, so maybe he just imagined it all in his head. If so, it's an even more remarkable feat. The Tommyknockers is amongst King's best works. If you've not already read it, add it to your shopping basket right now.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R2FNV7KJB0O7JK	0671867156	316670348	Pretend You Don't See Her	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Ususal formula	Pretend You Don't See Her is a typical Mary Higgins Clark novel - lots of characters, lots of plot, lots of plot twists but not too much substance. I enjoy a plot-driven book, but need the characterizations to make it a fulfilling experience, and I suspect that MHC sacrifices characterization for plot. At least, the lead player should be deeper and we should get to know her better. With Agatha Christie, we always empathised with at least one person (usually the detective who was seeking to resolve the mystery), but with Mary Higgins Clark, that closeness is sorely missing and, unfortunately it detracts from the pleasure of her novels. That said, Pretend You Don't See Her gives what it says it will give - a fast-paced thriller that will have the reader guessing right up to the final chapter. For plot, I give this book five stars. For depth of character two. Average? Three and a half, so let's say four.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R2OOEDBFGB0E9L	0451191730	583254418	Code Red	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A solid thriller	In the Peruvian jungle, Dr. Lucy Nash falls in love with fellow medical volunteer, Dr. Jean Pierre Didier. Upon his return to USA, Didier is arrested for smuggling herion and Lucy investigates, hoping of clear his name. That is when she finds he has been 'economical with the truth'. But still she digs for the truth, getting closer and closer to a dangerous, unknown group. Code Red is an excellent mystery/thriller, competently written. My only problem was characterization. I didn't feel I got close enough to the characters to really care. Nevertheless, a good beach read.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R5LMC1MFR0VVV	0440220602	233513923	The Chamber	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Readable, but not Grisham's best	Basic story is... Adam Hall, 26-year-old attorney fresh out of law school and working at the best firm in Chicago finds that grandad is on death row for killing two men (grandady's a card-carrying member of the KKK.) Hall races to the rescue and puts his career at stake to try and rescue the old-timer from inhaling the wrong type of gas! The plot has the makings of an action-packed novel, but Grisham handles it at a much slower pace, heaving in sentimentality in places. Being a writer of proven commercial abilities, Grisham gets away with it - just! He's better off in courtrooms and car chases and his handling of the final pages is, frankly, weak. Nevertheless, Grisham's ability to pen a decent plot raises The Chamber from what could otherwise have been a disaster. If you're looking for Grisham's best, look elsewhere. If you just want to be sure you've tried the whole gamut of his offerings, you find worse, but you'll find better.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R25QAEHFG5MUZT	0553287346	690006310	Well-Schooled in Murder (Inspector Lynley Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Maybe it helps to understand the system better	I shan't offer an outline of the story, since there are enough reviews to do that. The book is excellent with a well plotted, thoughtful story of murder at an English public school. What struck me as curious was my fellow reviewers' observations about 'an English public school being a mandatory setting for writers of English mysteries' and 'the hypocrisy and brutality that underlie the British veneer of politeness' To comment on the first observation, I have read many, many mysteries written by English authors. I can count on the fingers of one hand, the number that have been set at an English public school (actually, private schools!). To claim that such a setting is mandatory is rubbish. In fact, what Elizabeth George does is to use her story to probe into the system. She does this well (accept that from a former pupil of a British public school, who knows how the system works). On the second observation - 'the hypocrisy and brutality that underlie the British veneer of politeness', I can only say that at least the Brits don't wish everybody 'Have a nice day' when they don't mean it. I think that is a better definition of hypocrisy! And since when were the British regarded as brutal (save for certain bad habits in the wars of the 19th century - habits shared by many other nations)? I also believe that these reviewers are confusing English with British. It's time to understand the difference. Read Jeremy Paxman's 'The English : Portrait of a People' and you'll be better equipped to make scathing comments about a culture that you don't understand. I'm not defending the English, I'm merely pointing out that some reviews lack depth and substance.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R2ENJ9WBEK21XU	044022165X	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A sound Grisham novel	Summers are hot in Memphis, and the sweat is sticking to Rudy Baylor's shirt. His creditors are biting at his heels and the future's not looking too good. Once he had ideas of breezing his way through law school and jumping on the dollar train to anywhere. Now he doesn't even have a job. He's grasping at straws, and one of them is a smoking-related insurance dispute. The family are poor and Rudy Baylor struggles to file the lawsuit. In a novel heavy with suspense and legal shinnanekins, Rudy eventually gets to court and finds himself against a heavyweight corporate defense team. That's when he discovers he's in way over his head, facing a nightmare of lies and legal maneuverings. What started as a small insurance claim explodes into a million-dollar war of nerves that could even cost the young lawyer his life. Rainmaker is not Grisham's finest book, but it's certainly not his worst. At his worst, Grisham can pick up three stars from anyone. At his best, ten stars is not enough. This novel fits easily into the five star category. On the final page, it leaves a satisfied reader and an author who has met his commitment to deliver the goods.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R3H8Z42UB2AMNP	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of Clancy's Classics	Generally, Tom Clancy can do no wrong in my eyes (except when he lends his name and his ideas to authors less able than himself so he can take a cut of whatever they earn). Clear and Present Danger is a perfect example of Clancy at his polished best - the guy simply sets new standards of storytelling excellence. Though he occasionally drifts into needless description [...], Clancy delivers the ultimate thrillers time after time. Where I might downgrade another author for ever-elaborating, Clancy can be forgiven because the rest of the book makes up for its few shortcomings. In brief, the U.S. ambassador to Columbia is murdered by drug lords. Enemy agents filter into the jungles and Central America is ready to explode. Jack Ryan, who has just been named CIA deputy director of intelligence is enraged when he discovers that has been left out of the loop of Colombian operations, because a group of highly trained American soldiers are stranded on an unfinished mission that officially never happened. Ryan decides to get the men out. Clear and Present Danger has all the ingredients of a Clancy Classic. And Clancy doesn't disappoint, sprinkling a plot her, a counter-plot there; a pinch of action here, a measure of suspense there. And finally stirring the carefully balanced ingredients so that the finished product is a tale that won't disappoint. When Clancy delivers, he delivers big time, and Clear and Present Danger is one of his best deliveries.	2001-08-24
US	52317033	R1JECP0NBNODJJ	0679826718	220124378	The Tiger in the Well (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	I can't find the ten star button	I notice that Pullman's Sally Lockhart Trilogy are all rated 'Young Adult'. Who made that dumb decision? Pullman is eminently readable by anyone from 10 to 100 (and I should know, because I'm about halfway between the two!). Put simply - no matter what age you are, if you read just ONE Philip Pullman book, you'll be totally hooked. He has the rare ability to draw his readers into his story-telling right from the first pages, and he doesn't let go of you until he's finished spinning his yarn. He doesn't exactly attack you, but he sure has a mean way with words, that will leave a firm grip on your throat for a long while after the final page has been turned.<br />He also has an exquisite command of characterization. Not for Pullman the weak, wishy-washy characters. His positively jump off the page at you and drag you into their world of Victorian London. There's something of Dickens in Pullman's stuff. The good guys are very good and the bad guys are very bad. But that makes it sound trite and clichd - which it isn't. It's much more complex than that, which probably explains why Philip Pullman is one of the few authors from this side of The Big Pond, who succeeds on that side of The Big Pond.<br />The Sally Lockhart trilogy is on my list of 'Books you MUST read before you die'. And since I'm no longer a Young Adult, I've made sure to read them quickly!	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R1DVVCPOQPHOOF	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Another BRILLIANT King epic	As readers of my reviews might notice, I'm an avid Stephen King reader, and an unshakable fan of his writing. Maybe that doesn't qualify me to write an objective review of Bag of Bones, so just accept this as an opinion rather than a critical commentary. In my view, SK reached new heights when he wrote Bag of Bones. In it, he tells the story of author, Mike Noonan's, struggle for equilibrium after his wife's tragic death.<br />King builds up internal conflict (Noonan getting writer's block), more internal conflict (Noonan's suspicions about his former wife), and even more internal conflict (should Noonan give way to his emotions regarding a young single mother he meets). Then King builds the external conflicts (Noonan versus the 85 year old, wheelchair-bound Max Devore. Noonan versus the residents of Castle Rock on Dark Score Lake). And then supernatural conflicts (Noonan versus the dark spirits that haunt the perimiters of the lake).<br />Stephen King is much more than just a horror fiction writer and, in Bag of Bones, you will meet face-to-face his intelligence of voice and his craftsmanship (the indelible sense of place, the well-fleshed characters, the unstoppable story line). You will also be struck by the witty and obsessive voice of King's powerful imagination.	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R2900VJNWAG7XH	0824102355	200236937	Roget's Thesaurus: Of Synonyms and Antonyms (Webster's Classic Reference Library)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	The original and still the best	Roget was born in England of French parentage and made the development of an English Language Thesaurus his life's work. He gained little recognition in his own lifetime but the results of his endeavours have been diligently embellished and supplemented by generations of academics so that now, when we need another word for the one in our mind, when we are seeking a word but it won't come to mind, when we want to put together that &quot;catch phrase&quot; that will bring our customers running to our door, we reach instinctively for Roget's Thesaurus. They're even a standard part of the kit for most Word Processing programs.<br />Organized both by subject matter and alphabetically, my Thesaurus is a pleasure to dive into. If I have one problem with it, it's that, having found the word I want, I keep reaing for the pure joy of the language. It's my firm belief that Roget has help keep the English language a rich, multi-cultural language that is understood worldwide.	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R1CR0YQ3VACWNT	0394825993	994590504	The Shadow in the North (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Continuing mystery and suspense	The Shadow in the North follows on from Philip Pullman's 'The Ruby in The Smoke'. Sally Lockhard is no longer 16, she's a young, fiercly independent woman with a mystery to solve.<br />As before, Pullman draws on his knowledge of Victorian London (and, almost certainly, his interest in photography). The Shadow in the North is one of Pullman's masterpieces of characterization. He has the phenominal ability to make his readers fall totally in love with his main characters - even to the point of infatuation and, at the end of SITN, you know Sally Lockhart as well as you would know your own daughter. You're proud of her. You even wish you could be like her.<br />Exquisitely written, The Shadow in the North is packed tight with diverse, often terrifying characters. The plot takes dark, unexpected twists. The story-telling is amazing. Pullman is one of the few authors who succeeds on both sides of the Atlantic. When you read his books, you know why. The Shadow in the North is entirely impossible to put down until you've turned the final page... then you want more.	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R2ZP3QU4VWIT0Z	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	3	5	N	N	My first Stepehen King book	IT was the first Stephen King novel I ever read. It's what got me hooked on SK and I've stayed hooked for many years now. I'm not given to re-reading novels but I made an exception with IT because I remembered it as being SCARY and powerfully written. Upon re-reading, I was not disappointed. Even when you know the outcome, the power of Stephen King's writing leaves you gasping for breath.<br />The start to the story is when little Georgie Denbrough chases his newspaper boat that his brother made for him. There has just been a heavy downfall of rain and Georgie lets the boat sail down the street - straight into the drain on the side. He's about to forget about it and go home when a clown appears from nowhere and asks him if he wants it back. But when Gorgie reaches for it... bye bye Georgie.<br />After that, the horrors build, the tension groans, the suspense rattles the foundations and, once again, you're hooked into a Stephen King fantasy world where nothing is as it seems and very little is as it should be.<br />IT is still as scary as it was when I first read it. If you've not yet been tempted, give way NOW and add this book to your shopping basket.	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R35AJP6JER5PLF	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Pullman can do no wrong	I admit I am biased! Philip Pullman writes books that are readable, entertaining, educational and, sometimes, controversial. This one fits easily into the first three categories. In later books (his Dark Materials Trilogy) Pullman becomes more controversial and has opened himself up to criticism from various religious extremists who see his novels as an attack on thier own personal beliefs. The Ruby in The Smoke is NOT controversial (though doubtless some fundamentalists who have found fault with his later books will now be trolling through his earlier writing to try and find a politically-incorrect sentence they don't agree with and give it the big thumbs down).<br />The heroine is 16 year-old Sally Lockhart and she lives in Victorian London. Her father has been murdered and her life is about to be turned upside down by a legacy she doesn't want. Pullman does an excellent job of describing Victorian London (the educational concept). He also makes an exceptional job of plotting and holding the reader's attention (the entertainment). In terms of writing, his style is clear, often amusing, and he has the ability to draw settings in just a few brief words (the readability).<br />Pullman's London is full or rogues and scoundrels and vagabonds and neer-do-wells. And it seems they're all on the side of the opium dealers (who really DID exist in Victorian London). But Sally Lockhart draws loyalty from some borderline characters of her her own. People who are street-wise, and know how to help her through her problems.<br />If you've not yet read a Philip Pullman book, start with this one and see how you get on. They're a lot of fun and they're extraordinarily well written.	2001-08-23
US	52317033	R2SQWEO3R4APS8	189205101X	84642261	Guinness World Records 2001	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not without its problems	Over the years, the Guinness Book of Records has evolved, and it hasn't always been good evolution. On the plus side, the fact that the book now contains many pictures (some quite grotesque) makes it more interesting than its early predecessors. That it now contains 30% drivel is not so positive. Commercialisation has done its worst to the Guinness Media since the loss of Ross McWherter. In my youth (a couple of years after Noah landed), the Guinness Book was a genuine work of reference that cataloged man's truimph over nature, himself and anything else that got in his way. Now, we seem to have categories for the most obscure, brainless schemes and, what's worse, those new uninteresting sections are included at the expense of the genuine achievements (or underachievements) of others.<br />For style, the new Guinness Books are a great improvement. For content, I much preferred the originals	2001-08-17
US	52317033	R3GQ6XRIZJDQAS	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	12	17	N	N	I'm amazed	I'm amazed that some reviewers see the Harry Potter series as an attack on their own personal religious beliefs. They are probably the same reviewers who see the Phillip Pullman 'Dark Materials' trilogy in the same light. Maybe it's time they came to realize that many of us see THEIR opinions to be nonsensical and dangerous. Considerably more so than Harry Potter !<br />J.K.Rowling has the proven ability to LIFT the human spirit, as evidenced by the huge worldwide demand for her books. The religious fundamentalists who decry her writing do not have that ability to inspire and motivate - only to denounce, decry and control. Ask any young reader what they are thinking when they've finished a Harry Potter book. I guarantee that 999 out of 1000 will not even think to mention the word religion. They'll tell you that Harry and pals are their heroes. That they are the good guys fighting AGAINST evil. And all the evidence it the book points that way.<br />If, as some reviewers claim, the Harry Potter character represents evil, then ask who is he fighting? Are we to understand that his arch enemy, The Dark Lord Voldemort, is the GOOD guy? Come on - get real! The only reason you're slamming this series of books (and, clearly, the author) is because she doesn't appear to share YOUR views of God, Jesus, Allah, Yahew or whatever. Nothing like a bit of religious tolerance, is there? Little wonder that most of the destructive wars in history were fought on religious grounds.<br />Presumably, if you follow the logic of these particular reviewers, we must also condemn Tokien, Dahl and many others who have written children's books. They, too, have invented other worlds and characters who don't have to have a god ruling their every action. We are all entitled to our opinions (though there are many, it seems, who would deny even that fundamental right), and we are entitled to express those opinions. I do not, therefore, argue that these reviewers shouldn't say what they believe, I justfind it incredible that they really do believe such twaddle.<br />Harry Potter and chums are providing innocent entertainment for millions of children. Leave J.K.Rowling alone to get on with inspiring people in the way that you fail to do.	2001-08-17
US	52317033	R2LDFH5TSHML8C	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rowling strikes again	What an amazing series of books, Harry Potter is. Not since Tolkien has the world seen such (almost) unanimous approval of the works of one author. The few negative reviews seem to come from religious fundamentalists who, for some reason known only to themselves, feel that Harry Potter is weakening their control over others. As an non-young-person (actually I'm older than the oldest wizard), I find the H.P. series refreshing and uplifting in a simple way. Here we see a young boy fighting the forces of evil on his own and, so far, he has won each round. I fail to understand how religious crusaders can find fault in that - but they do!<br />What is also amazing is that the author manages to speak to young and old alike. When I first told my wife (who is even older than me!) that I was not to be disturbed because I was watching a game a of Quidditch, she thought I was heading into senile dementia (she's a doctor, so she knows about these things!). I challenged her to read the books and NOT get involved. She did. She failed. She became even more involved than I had (and she was reading them in English, which is not her native language). This is the magic of J.K.Rowling's writing. She entertains, she takes us out of the humdrum world of work and worry, she writes a darn good story.<br />It is the job of the fiction writer to get the reader to suspend belief. Few authors have the ability to do this like 'J.K.'. If I named, Stephen King, John Grisham and Tom Clancy as three of the best known, you'll understand why their books are instant bestsellers. They, too, can draw the reader into a world of make-believe so that the lines between reality and fiction become blurred. In Harry Potter, Rowling  attempts to draw us into a world of wizards and magic and, if you look at all the five star reviews, it is clear that she succeeds.<br />Power to J.K.'s elbow, and long may she continue to entertain and amuse us.	2001-08-17
US	52317033	RSZ1IMIVPUCBG	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Runaway success	No point repeating what other reviewers have said, Grisham's 'Runaway Jury' is a well-paced, well-characterized, well-structured story of a jury's verdict against a big tobacco company. If it had one (small) problem it was the ending. I don't want to give the plot away, but the final act of Claire (one of the protagonists) is unlikely and Grisham's writing wasn't able to convince me otherwise.<br />I'm not a devout Grisham fan. Some of his stuff is good, some is very good, and some is mediocre. Runaway Jury sits comfortably in the good category. It's not a work of high literary merit, but it delivers exactly what it promises - an entertaining read with conspiracy, intrigue and suspense built in at the right places. Splattered with moments of humor, thrills, and inventiveness, you open the tin and the contents are how you'd expect them to be.<br />Runaway Jury will not let you down. It's got the words 'made in John Grisham' printed through it like a stick of seaside candy. It's a bit like getting a guarantee of quality. He doesn't often disappoint.	2001-08-16
US	52317033	R2JE5IKUQVZ940	0911752439	319009677	Neo-Tech Ii-Psychuous Reference Encyclopedia	Books	5	34	40	N	N	So what is Neo-Tech?	Neo-Tech is the name given to a way of thinking, a way of life, committed to text by Frank R. Wallace over twenty years ago. Its fundamental concept is absolute freedom to do whatever you want, so long as you harm nobody else. It sounds like a utopian dream world but, unfortunately, it is flawed in a few basic concepts.<br />Since we all live in a real society, few of us are in a position where we don't have neighbors. The Wallace theory says that (for example) if you want to fill your garden with rubbish, that's fine. Society rules says that, if your neighbor's garden is full of junk, your own quality of life deteriorates.<br />The Wallace theory says that EVERYTHING should be run privately (he makes possible exceptions of defence and highways), and that folk will get what they can afford to pay for. Again, this works fine for those who have incomes or private means. But are we REALLY going to ignore those who have nothing? Can we REALLY say 'Sorry buddy, but you don't count.'?<br />In its conception, Neo-Tech holds up the values of truth and honesty as opposed to the lies and deceit of politics today. Few people (save for the politicians, weak-minded followers and corrupt big business) would disagree with this philosophy. However, Neo-Tech is an extreme point of view and, if you delve into its ideology, I would suggest you do so with half an eye on the truths that are written BETWEEN the lines.<br />If you believe that politicians are basically good people and that 'they know best', then you owe it to yourself to read any Neo-Tech book and consider revising your opinions. Wallace's books will lead you to understand how we are all being cheated by our so-called leaders.<br />Finally, Neo-Tech deals with the mysticism of religion (ANY religion). In its carefully though out arguments, it blows away any vestiges of religious belief that the average reader may still have. On the other hand, of course, if the reader is so blind and bigotted that his[her] religion may not be questioned or doubted, Neo-Tech will not improve the situation any, so delve into this philosophy only if you believe yourself to be open-minded.t be questioned or doubted, Neo-Tech will not improve the situation any, so delve into this philosophy only if you believe yourself to be open-minded.	2001-08-16
US	52317033	R817QJUL53KJV	0911752218	352606142	Psychuous sex guaranteed for life by using the advanced concepts of romantic love	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What is Neo-Tech and how does it relate to Psychuous sex?	Neo-Tech is the name given to a way of thinking, a way of life, committed to text by Frank R. Wallace over twenty years ago. Its fundamental concept is absolute freedom to do whatever you want, so long as you harm nobody else. It sounds like a utopian dream world but, unfortunately, it is flawed in a few basic concepts. Not that these few flaws are important insofar as they relate to Psychuous sex.<br />In its conception, Neo-Tech holds up the values of truth and honesty as opposed to lies and deceit (particularly as it relates to politics and big business). If you believe that politicians are basically good people and that 'they know best', then you owe it to yourself to read any Neo-Tech book and consider revising your opinions. Wallace's books will lead you to understand how we are all being cheated by our so-called leaders.<br />Neo-Tech also deals with the mysticism of religion (ANY religion). In its carefully though out arguments, it blows away any vestiges of religious belief that the average reader may still have. On the other hand, of course, if the reader is so blind and bigoted that his[her] religion may not be questioned or doubted, Neo-Tech will not improve the situation any, so delve into this philosophy only if you believe yourself to be open-minded.<br />And how does this Neo-Tech philosophy relate to sex?<br />Simply that, by removing society's (stifling) measures of what is acceptable or otherwise, we release ourselves to make the best of the joys of sex and the ultimate fulfilment that can be ours. Unfortunately, Wallace takes his theory over the top. His claim is that people will lose the need to hold to one partner, and will be free to indulge all physical and conceptual needs with any partner they choose. Sounds great in theory but, in practice, Wallace misses the fundamental point that most peopel WANT to be with a partner. Having said that, however, this book is still worth five stars for the insight into a philosophy of freedom and honesty.	2001-08-16
US	52317033	R3MUD8LFFR04Z5	0198601735	69619018	The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	18	20	N	N	If it ain't here, it ain't been said!	The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations is absolutely the ultimate reference book of quotations. Pithy, sensitive, ridiculous, literary, outrageous, political - no matter! If someone said it and it was worth recording, The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations recorded it. With 1136 tightly printed pages, this mine of information is an absolute life line as a work of reference, to resolve arguments, or just for the pleasure of seeing what somebody said about somebody else (like one British politician describing another... &quot;He's like a shiver, looking for a spine to run up.&quot;)<br />The quotations are arranged alphabetically, by author, so browsing by author is simple. To browse by theme, there is a full thematic index, and also a comprehensive keyword index. It is a cross-referencing masterpiece! Additionally, the reader will find special categories such as advertising slogans, last words, lines from films, epitaphs, misquotes, and much much more.<br />Dictionaries can be fun. A thesaurus can be a treasure. But The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations is an absolute god-send. Your bookshelf is not complete without it.	2001-08-14
US	52317033	R1FMG3BW76RTBO	0345444884	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	9	11	N	N	WOW !	Anyone who has spotted my reviews of other SK books will recognize a true fanatic when they see one. Why? Because Stephen King (here, in the company of Peter Straub, another fine writer) guides his readers effortlessly into other worlds, other universes. The gift of a top author is to be able to get his[her] readers to suspend belief while they enter the world of the story. In fantasy/scifi, this is all the more difficult because the reader not only has to suspend belief of what is likely and what is probable, they have to suspend belief about the real world and allow themselves to be led into a world of phantoms and dragons and witches and hobgoblins and whatever. Both of these authors have the gift of drawing their readers right into the front line of their novels. When you read The Talisman, you ARE Jack Sawyer. When you read Insomnia, you ARE Ralph Roberts, when you read The Dark Half, you ARE Thad Beaumont. King's and Straub's ability to write from one person's clear viewpoint (whilst delving into the minds of the lesser characters) is an ability that many writers lack. I'm delighted to see The Talisman republished. If you've not already read it, you should.<br />The biggest mystery is who wrote what!	2001-08-14
US	52317033	R2W2PFV4UZDC5Z	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Lost for words	The easiest thing in the world to do, is to read a Stephen King novel. The toughest thing in the world to do, is to review a Stephen King novel. What can I say that several hundred other reviewers have not said before me? This is one of King's richest novels, both in storyline and in characterization. The main player is an older guy called Ralph, who begins to suffer from insomnia (no plot spoilers so far!). During a particularly sleepless night he sees a... (plot spoiler alert!) ... a thing! (Told you it was tough reviewing King). Well, anyway, he gets involved in stuff that you and I don't, and discovers that he is about to change the course of history... at a price to himself.<br />You only have to read one of his novels (Insomnia included) to understand why Stephen King is the true Master of commercial fiction. Sure, it's no highfalutin literary endeavour, but then us King fans know that. We read his books for the entertainment and for the sheer joy of being carried away into a different world. If there are two types of book - those which urge you to read on for the resolution of the plot, and those which tempt you to stay on each page because of the beauty and power of what's there - then Insomnia falls firmly into the former category. It's what Graham Greene would have termed an &quot;entertainment,&quot; and its swift readability is the book's greatest strength. Yet there's more to King than simple readability. There's an effortless quality to his prose (actually it's downright criminal how easy he makes it seem). And isn't that the sign of a true professional? Ever watched Tiger Woods regularly holing out under par? Ever wondered how golf can be that easy? King is the Tiger Woods of fiction, and with Insomnia he's just sunk another hole in one.	2001-08-14
US	52317033	R2QOYVCRBR1M7A	0679408134	92746295	With Extreme Prejudice: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An easy summer read	[....] it's worth a few $ to own a little piece of this action. A year after his lawyer wife was killed in a car accident, a burglary in his house makes New Orleans film reviewer Mike Barnett wonder whether her death was really accidental. Eventually, (all too slowly - hence the deduction of one star) he gets to understand that her death was no accident and that it was all linked to a real estate deal which his wife fought against. Much of the 'action' takes place in extended flashback, and too much time is lost reading about Mike Barnett's endless (liberal) film reviews (hence the deuction of a second star). However, the eventual answers reveal much about racial politics and Big Easy corruption, and the book is a compelling read nonetheless.	2001-08-13
US	52317033	R36NL9QLCA52CT	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I want to talk to you up close	One of Kings finest books, Rose Madder tells the story of an abused housewife who dares to leaves her husband. Regrettably, Norm, her husband, is a cop. Worse, he's a possessive bully, and he sees no reason why his wife should have the liberty to leave him. He begins a hunt for her so he can 'talk to her up close'. Rose, meanwhile, has found a halfway house and discovers she has a natural talent for reading aloud, which gets her a job making audio books. She becomes friendly with a man and, at times, it seems that her life is getting back on the rails after 14 years abuse from Norm. But Norm is not to be fobbed off so easily...<br />Stephen King is the acknowledged master of  the supernatural. He's not so bad at suspense either! His characterization of Rose is artfully achieved through his descriptions of her subconscious, plunging deep into her fears and bringing each one of them to light at the relevant moments in the plot. The reader is right in there with Rose, experiencing every doubt, every fear. The reader also gets to understand (though not to empathize with) Norm, the bad guy cop who's tracking down his disappeared wife. Norm is a deranged psychopath, getting crazier and crazier as the story progresses, and King writes his part with a skill way beyond the ordinary writer.<br />Rose Madder is a departure from King's many supernatural novels. But it's one at which he succeeds beyond imagination. If you still haven't got Rose Madder on your bookshelf, your library's not complete.	2001-08-13
US	52317033	R3G1W6YD5EJ2LL	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The all-action novel	Pelican Brief isn't one of Grisham's strongest novels but it's certainly a page-turner, it moves with amazing speed, and it's a heck of a lot better than some of his later stuff, like The Street Lawyer or A Painted House. Many of  Grisham's novels rely upon courtroom drama - on one lawyer versus another, with some clever legal or psychological trick thrown in for good measure. Pelican Brief relies almost totally on action. Two Supreme Court justices die on the same day. Darby Shaw, a law student comes up with an ingenious theory - they were shot and strangled by an international terrorist so that the conservative president would appoint new, conservative justices who will help out a case involving an industrialist who's no friend of the tree-huggers. Darby's boyfriend, Thomas, gets dissected by a car bomb meant for Darby. She uses her 'get out of hospital free' card and hooks up with a Washington Post reporter, Gray Grantham. But bad guy terrorist is after her and everyone starts dying...<br />Pelican Brief's a fun story - not to be taken too seriously - and will provide an entertaining few hours while the dinner's cooking. But don't expect too much else.	2001-08-13
US	52317033	R9DJ529634X31	0385335040	193085718	Turn of the Century: A Novel	Books	1	13	29	N	N	One unused to dispose of	Turn of the century continues to serve a most useful purpose, months after I gave up on it. I have a door that rattles if it's not wedged open and T-o-C is just big enough and heavy enough to do the job on its own. I struggled, oh how I struggled to try and even begin to understand some of the characters. I stirred the pages wildly while I waited for the plot to thicken. I fought against closing eyelids while the book became heavier and heavier. I searched my abridged guide to good grammar to see if I had missed a couple of chapters explaining that sentences after all don't need a subject, a verb and an object - or even a permutation of two out of three. I left it on the front doorstep hoping somebody would steal it. I offered it to my  neighbor so he could jack up his car. I considered lighting the fire with it. I wondered whether, if I took just a few pages a day, I could eat it and get rid of the evidence. I offered it to my mother-in-law for Christmas. I took it scuba diving with me instead of a weight belt. And then, eventually, voila! The rattling door! What a fine tome T-o-C is. Another few hundred pages [...] and I could have used it as a sea anchor for the Titanic.	2001-08-13
US	52317033	R7AP8APX8N497	0786884142	713265752	A Monk Swimming A Memoir	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Sure an' it's not half the book of his big brother	Clearly brother Malachy cashed in on Frank's success with Andela's Ashes and 'Tis. And good luck to him I say. Sadly, he doesn't seem to have made any attempt to outdo Frank, he has just thrown together a few personal memoirs from a ten year spell in The States, and hoped that people would pay good money for it. They did... and so did I.<br />It's sad to see somebody who clearly has a talent for storytelling, lowering the bar on the standard of literature and literacy. Malachy McCourt would have searched long and hard for a publisher for this book, if it were not for his connections. To call it a bestseller may be strictly true in terms of customers shelling out hard-earned cash. But a certain standard is expected from a best-seller, and A Monk Swimming seldom attains that standard.<br />On the positive side, some of Malachy's escapades are amusing. Though, just like Frank, his penchant for a drop of the hard stuff is difficult to comprehend when both he and Frank detested this habit in their father. From the perspective of someone who lives on the other side of the Big Pond, the drinking habits of the brothers McCourt is not one that makes us gasp in surprise. The Irish as a nation seem to have the ability to out-drink even the Scots (I'm NOT English, by the way... I can hear the Celtic Clans baying for my blood already!). Note, I did say 'as a nation'. Malachy was clearly making up for the many respectable teetotalers and responsible drinkers from the Emerald Isle.<br />If you read between the lines of A Monk Swimming, the picture of Malachy McCourt's life is fairly clear. Big drink - big noise - big hangover - big drink - big noise - big hangover... He's not the only person in the world to suffer this affliction, but he's one of the few who's written a purportedly light-hearted book about it.	2001-08-10
US	52317033	R1UR5VZNVN2ZBV	0425153770	692895147	December	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Aging well	In the twelfth-century ruins of the Abbey, it is said that every stone was cemented in blood...<br />December starts with the words; `By the time he makes the doorman's office, his glasses have come off, and blood and tissue and stuff are emptying urgently from his mouth.'... Do you want me to go on? If yes, you'll be hooked by `December', a chilling tale of a young band calling themselves The Philosopher's Stone, who gather at The Abbey (now a recording studio) to tap into the site's dark history. One member of the band dies horrifyingly and the band members agree to destroy their tapes and never meet again. Thirteen years later, the Abbey tapes resurface and the members of The Philosopher's Stone know that it's time for another reunion. Time to return to that dark December night for one last performance.<br />If you can stand the suspense, you'll be hooked. `December' is a thoughtful, meandering novel that moves around in time, keeping only the thread of The Abbey to hold it together. But, once started you'll not want to put it down until you know how it will end.	2001-08-09
US	52317033	REKUOPB95VUOA	0898799015	186685584	The Writer's Guide to Character Traits: Includes Profiles of Human Behaviors and Personality Types (Writer's Market Library)	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Too muddled	The Writer's Guide to Character Traits is certainly a valuable resource, and for that I give it five stars. I deduct two stars, however, because it is so badly laid out that it is almost unusable. There is little cross-referencing so the reader simply finds him(her)self battling through pages and pages and pages of interesting but unrelated waffle before they chance upon the section they want. A work such as this requires full tabulation to make it useful.<br />It's fine if you decide one of your characters is a type four retarded delinquent-hater with a mother-breast complex but, if you've already determined your character's traits without knowing which category the character fits into, it's tough discovering what other traits you can give to him/her and remain in type (type as in character type, not type as in keyboard!). In other words, to use this book to its fullest, you ned to look up a character type and write your novel to suit. That's not the way it works! When writing a book, the characters just develop, and often they develop the story themselves.<br />The information in The Writer's Guide to Character Traits is excellent. It's just badly presented.	2001-08-09
US	52317033	R2AR8GOD493XP6	0671790455	400161668	Shadow Hunter: Shadow Hunter	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Get it if you can	To find a book that was written in 1994 and having only one other review on Amazon.com is, indeed, a surprise. Particularly since it was a well-received novel. I&#8217;ll not stoop to repeat what my fellow reviewer (June 17 1999) has said, since he sums up well the strengths of Shadow Hunter, and you&#8217;ve plenty of time to read just two reviews!<br />Will Baker broke the mould with this book &#8211; a mixture of political comment and science fiction. His images are deep and lasting, though at times his narrative and introversion is a little too long and tortuous. Nevertheless, Shadow Hunter is a great read for those who like something out of the ordinary. It&#8217;s well worthy of four stars which, unfortunately, is more than can be said for the sequel, &#8216;Star Beast&#8217;. If you can get hold of a copy of Shadow Hunter, you should do so before it completely disappears. You&#8217;ll find it well worth the effort.	2001-08-09
US	52317033	R21BQVRJVZHD8N	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of King's most thoughtful novels	Thad Beaumont, writer, uses a pen name, George Stark. He's horrified when, having discarded his nom de plume, he discovers that George has come to life, as the alter-ego of himself. Worse still, his alter ego is a murderer, signing his name to his atrocities and leaving Thad Beaumont to pick up the blame. Beaumont needs to trap his `twin' but, in order to do so, must first evade police observation. At last, they are alone together. Or are they? The sparrows are flying again.<br />The Dark Half is one of King's most powerful, but under-rated, books. As usual, the narrative is filled with authoritative detail and personal reflection. This is a scary book - a book with real depth. King, as usual, writes in criminal ease and keeps his reader hooked to the end. I highly recommend it as one of King's most thought-provoking novels.	2001-08-09
US	52317033	R4YL3S0COCFHG	0451203712	995140005	Slang and Euphemism, 3rd revised ed.	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Useful and amusing	This book is invaluable as a reference if you want to understand other peoples slang. True, its content centers round sexual slang, but then thats true of slang itself. For sure, most words you will hear on the street are contained in this little gem, though sometimes theyre difficult to find. The origins can sometimes be interesting, as can the dates of origin of many phrases. I particularly liked the phrase to rattle your dags, meaning to move very quickly. This originated in Australia, dags being the dried excrement that collects on the wool at the rear of a sheep. Apparently it can make a noise when the creature walks.<br />I agree with what one of the other reviewers says. Because this is the abridged edition, some of the cross-references dont cross-reference (hence the deduction of one star). However, for writers looking for the unusual, Slang and Euphemism is a great source if information. Unfortunately, you might find yourself including something in your dialog that nobody else understands. Ah, the guys a gonif. - No way. He might be a bit ishkimmisk, but no way a slommocks. - Get out a here, hes a real gollumpus.<br />It probably pays to maintain a good sense of humor when delving into Slang and Euphemism. Taking it too seriously will do your head in. On the other hand, if your partner asks you if you feel like a little light culbutizing exercise, youll know how to respond!	2001-08-09
US	52317033	R18XE1VF8ABFEH	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Will the real James Patterson please stand up	I was searching for the meaning of life, but stumbled upon the answer to reviewer Christopher Coleman's qustion (review dated May 10 2001) namely 'How could the author of those divinely terrific books 'Kiss the Girls' and 'Along Came a Spider' also be the writer of such infernal drivel as 'See How They Run' and 'Cradle and All'?'... So here's my theory. James Patterson IS the beast!<br />Don't you see? He was born as two seperate babies to two seperate mothers and one of him wrote 'Kiss the Girls' and 'Along Came a Spider' while the other one wrote 'See How They Run' and 'Cradle and All'. You've just got to accept that 'Cradle and All' is an autobiography. There! Problem solved.<br />But I have to say that I totally agree with Dr. Coleman's review. This book was like dining on lettuce. It filled you up but left you feeling empty. So why, you might ask, do I give it three stars compared to Christopher Coleman's two? Well, to be honest, I'm punishing myself because I read 'Virgin' back in 1980 and didn't like it much, so what was I doing buying a rework of the same book? My fault, so I award both the James Pattersons a star for being commercially aware (that's not one each, you notice. They'll have to fight over it.)	2001-08-09
US	52317033	R1550T5Q8HWDA5	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An amazing epic	River God centres around three characters. Taita, a eunuch slave and the storyteller, Tanus, the warrior hero, and Lostris the Princess. Tanus and Lostris share a forbidden love which Taita helps them to fulfill. Taita narrates the story, taking the reader through his life, how he serves his master and, subsequently, his mistress. The book is a combination of historical fact and 20th century invention, but the result is a superb account of the rise and fall (and rise) of an Egyptian kingdom.<br />I don't think it's stretching a point to call River God a stylish masterpiece. It is a powerful, awe-inspiring epic that narrates historical facts whilst eliciting the full range of human emotions. The characters are BIG. The battle scenes are monumental and epic, even on the scale of a Cecil B. de Mille. The descriptions are breathtaking. The narrative (though there is little of this) is credible. River God has the ability to amuse, engross and entertain us throughout. Wilbur Smith succeeds as never before in transporting the reader into ancient Egypt with his amazing imagery and action packed plot. River God is a book to which I am happy to give five stars (more if they were available).	2001-08-08
US	52317033	RAKHDS9HO1D2T	0140170987	18205728	Changing Places: A Tale of Two Campuses	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A quick, fun read	Unlike a fine wine, age has not matured this novel. Written some 25 years ago (but set in the sixties), much of the style has now been superceded with millenium-friendly methods. That's not to say that Changing Places does not have its strengths. It has. For one think it made me laugh. In fact, in one or two places I even laughed aloud (something I seldom do when reading - unless I've drunk a bucket of Old Speckled Hen first). Perhaps what I found distracting was the fact that there are four very cear and very distinct styles - almost like the author was experimenting. First there is the usual mixture of narrative and dialog, then there is a section where letters are exchanged between the parties, then comes a section where the story is progressed by means of newspaper articles and the like, and finally a section that reads like a film scenario.<br />The narrative and dialog were excellent. Lodge picks up the nuances of the spoken language beautifully. The exchange of letters was passable but would have been better if spread through the story and not used to tell a whole section. The newspaper articles failed. I felt that the author was using this as a way to get through large chunks of story in short time. And finally the film scenario was a disaster, particularly right at the end of the book. Again, I felt robbed, like the author just wanted to get it all over with.<br />All that said, Changing Places still made me laugh, and that alone is worth three stars. The fourth star is because much of the narrative and dialog is splendidly turned out and helps to make up for the books other weaknesses. The story is amusing (and almost believable), and the characterizations of the two main characters is adequate. Despite its shortcomings, Changing Places is still a pleasurable read and you shouldn't be put off by what appears to be my overall negativity.	2001-08-08
US	52317033	R1YN0F06WK6Q5J	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Haunting	For once, the Booker Prize got it right. I despaired that they would continue choosing bland, but well written novels, ignoring the fact that readers like to be entertained as well as seeing the literary goal posts lifted. The Blind Assassin achieves both. It has a well-plotted story and is written in a free-flowing style that could best be described as `seamless'.<br />The Blind Assassin tells a story of two sisters. Sometimes the story is told in the first person, so there's no doubt about who is who. Sometimes it's told in the third person, and puzzling out which of the sisters is involved in the plot is the central theme of the book. You'd think, with just two people to choose from, that this would be relatively easy, but it's not. For different reasons, either of them could fit into the action. And (unless you're blessed with 20/20 visionary powers) the ending should come as a complete surprise.<br />The opening chapters were difficult to get into. This isn't an easy beach read (at least, not to begin with). It's stylish and graceful, and it's well worth persevering because, from about page 100 onwards, everything that has come before suddenly starts to slot into place.<br />The characterizations were superb, particularly that of Winifred. Some reviewers feel that her brother Richard was not well characterized, but it was quite unnecessary to do so, since it was clear that Winifred was the driving force behind his success. And this alone demonstrates a skill beyond many writers.<br />The Blind Assassin with haunt you long after you turn the final page.	2001-08-05
US	52317033	R2WY208E1IQJ4F	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unusual	Few other crime novelists have written with such thematic variety as Minette Walters. The only factor that unites her books is her dark, psychological perception. The Shape of Snakes tells the story of one woman's twenty year search for the truth after a black neighbour is found dead in the street. In her quest for the facts, Mrs Ranelagh ostracises her neighbours, loses her job, and risks her marriage. The police are against her, the neighbours are against her and Mad Annie is dead. Why pursue a lost cause?<br />This is a dark, provocative, carefully plotted mystery novel, which raises issues of racism, child abuse and ignorance of mental illnesses, and it makes no apologies for doing so. My only reason for not giving it five stars is because the use of 'letters' and 'memos' and 'court reports' in the text is difficult to adjust to. It succeeds in the end, but not without diverting the reader's attention from the story for too long. If I could give four-and-a-half stars, I would. It's a darn good read.	2001-08-04
US	52317033	R6VSCQBTQNN1	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Grisham's best	A Time to Kill is, in my opinion, Grisham's finest work (standing just a little higher that The Firm). It was also Grisham's first book and I read somewhere that he had it privately published because, at the time, no-one would touch it. (Shows what unknown struggling authors have to put up with, doesn't it!). Anyway, the good news is that, after Grisham hit the top-sellers lists, A Time to Kill was republished and it, too, became a bestseller.<br />It's a gripping tale of a young lawyer defending a black Vietnam war hero who has killed two white men (who raped his daughter). The tale is a mixture of the Grisham-style legal story and of America's tragic history of slavery and black repression. Grisham tells the story perfectly. His dialogue is spot on. There is one, superb passage where the local reverend is preaching to his flock. If you can imagine a 'Blues Brothers' type of scenario with 'I have seen the light' coming from the congretation as the preacher winds them up, you'll get the picture.<br />Carl Lee Hailey (the Vietnam war veteran) gets hold of an M-16, kills the rapists on the courthouse steps, then turns for help to attorney Jake Brigance. Some of the local folk want to give Carl Lee a second medal for his action, but premeditated murder is hard to ignore, and anyway, the town is divided. Blacks note that a white man shooting a black rapist would be acquitted. The KKK turns up the heat. The NAACP gets involved. Due to the publicity, a big local firm of lawyers get in on the act and try to outmaneuver Jake. Jake has a secret weapon though - his brilliant, but disbarred ex-partner. <br />As Amazon's own review says'Crosses burn, people die, crowds chant &quot;Free Carl Lee!&quot; and &quot;Fry Carl Lee!&quot; in the antiphony of America's classical tragedy.' A superb book. A wonderful story, brilliantly written.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R1SRZRW2FNGJV3	0345430573	151155247	A Certain Justice (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fiendishly clever	Venetia Aldridge is a distinguished barrister. When she agrees to defend Garry Ashe, accused of the brutal murder of his aunt, it is one more opportunity to triumph in her career as a criminal lawyer. But events turn frightening and unpredictable when Miss Aldridge is found dead in her office. The plot is complicated by the attitude and actions of her daughter, Octavia.<br />Ingenious and beautifully written, A Certain Justice is P.D.James at her impressive best. She's become one of the national treasures of British crime writing, and this is one of her triumphs. A real page-turner of a plot, but leading to a slightly less than satisfying conclusion. Hence only four stars.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	RPI70TE31HT2P	0962500631	772450448	The Undutchables: A Observation of the Netherlands : Its Culture and Its Inhabitants	Books	5	14	17	N	N	An invaluable (and humourous) guide	I spent three years in The Netherlands and The Undutchables was given to me as an introduction to the culture. What a valuable book it is too! You learn, for a start that the Dutch are like the Scottish with the generosity beaten out of them. In fact, it's not strictly true, but they certainly are 'careful' with their money. Then you learn the secret art of bicycle stealing (it's a national pastime over there). After that, the joys of trying to climb the world's steepest stairs and squeeze into the world's smallest lavatories. Talk about a culture shock!<br />But The Undutchables is also a mine of useful information. Did you know that the Dutch for 'penniless' is 'krap'? Or that 'fat' is 'dik'? And that, if you go to a bar and ask for a 'prik', you'll get a tonic water? Told you it was useful!<br />This is a great guide, and a great way to get to know the Dutch culture. My years in The Hague were happy years and I grew to love and admire these hardy people. Get yourself a copy of The Undutchables and see what I mean.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R1O8UHQED9U0H7	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The book surpasses the film	You'd have to be living the life of a high altitude hermit to avoid the hype that surrounded the film, but I can promise you the book is much better. I read the book first and, frankly, the film was a big disappointment.<br />Joanne Harris tells a moving tale of Vianne Rocher and her daughter Anouk. Vianne sets up a chocolate shop in a small village in France. Unfortunately, the parish priest sees her enterprise as a threat to his conventional control over the simple village folk. But Vianne finds an unlikely ally in Armande, an old lady who shook off the reins of the church many years earlier. The conflict between shop owner and priest grows when gypsies arrive in town. The priest is against them: Vianne is not. And it seems that the priest is hiding an awful secret.<br />Chocolat is wonderfully written - a real 'feelgood' book. Joanne Harris reveals some extraordinary insights, fresh with gentle humour. Even if you've seen the film, I recommend you read the book.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	RPIWTT0D4OGMA	0613171373	817918233	A Child Called &#34;&#34;It&#34;&#34;: One Child's Courage To Survive (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The hidden truth	Dave Pelzer tells the harrowing story of his severely abused childhood, his struggle to live through beatings, torture and neglect by his sadistic, alcoholic mother. And his father never raised a finger to help.<br />This book is a real eye-opener for those of us who were fortunate enough to have lived safe, secure childhoods in a loving home. It is almost beyond belief, the depths to which Dave Pelzer's mother sank. And yet there's a message of hope, because Pelzer pulled through and now helps children who find themselves in similar predicaments.<br />READ THIS BOOK even if you're sqeamish, even if the thought of child cruelty is as abhorrent to you as it is to me. READ THIS BOOK is you've ever been tempted to abuse your child. READ THIS BOOK if you think that kids today are safe under the umbrella of community social protection. JUST READ THIS BOOK.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	RR1QAKIEZTDB3	0743200985	223960215	Tis : A Memoir	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Angela's Ashes II	First it was Angela's Ashes, now 'Tis. What next? McCourt The Movie? I've never been a fan of sequels. They never seem to work, and 'Tis is no exception. I loved Angela's Ashes but found 'Tis to be much of a muchness without the touching freshness and tense story of its predecessor.<br />'Tis continues the story of Frank McCourt; now living in America and trying to make a life for himself. It is still written with the same McCourt gruff (often black) humour, and at least it's honest. McCourt owns up to his mistakes. But something is missing... We never get to really learn about McCourt himself. Why does he take to drinking - a habit he so detested in his father? How does he really feel about teaching? What happened to those eyes? There are just too many unanswered questions.<br />'Tis came across as a series of random thoughts, loosely sewn together. It left me feeling a bit empty really,	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R1B8IJ044IXW6C	0440222451	915649406	Immediate Action: The Explosive True Story of the Toughest--and Most Highly Secretive--Strike Forc e in the World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Why can't I give four-and-a-half stars?	Immediate Action is the follow up to Andy McNab's incredible Bravo Two Zero, the story of a British SAS patrol in Iraq during the Gulf Conflict. The British Government did their damndest to block the publication of Bravo Two Zero. They tried even harder to block Immediate Action. In this book, Andy McNab recounts many of the 'secrets' of the training and operation of the SAS. Not that he places any lives at risk by doing so, he is careful to only release information that could not cause damage to current members of the regiment.<br />Immediate Action starts with young McNab's desire to join the elite force. It details the boot camps, the beatings, the life or death training. Then it moves on through several operations in which McNab was involved, including a raid on a jungle drugs operation in Belize (where the SAS helps to 'train' local forces). As the book ends, Andy McNab is the most decorated serving soldier in Britain - and still something of a rebel. Maybe that's what interested me - the mentality of the men of the SAS. McNab was no exception. The black humour (as in his torture in Iraq when, after a particularly vicious beating, he observes to his friend, 'Ah well, at least they can't make me pregnant!') It's spirit like McNab's that has made the SAS the world's number one elite fighting force. The motto - 'Who dares wins' says it all.<br />My only reason for a deduction of half a star is because, in places, Immediate Action seems disjointed. It would have benefited from a few link paragraphs here and there. Otherwise, an exception book from an exceptional man.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R339V9LJSE6VBO	0712676155	129746189	When The Wind Changed : The Life and Death of Tony Hancock	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Factual and entertaining	You probably need to be British to appreciate this book. You certainly need to be over forty to remember Tony Hancock. For years, Hancock drew huge television audiences (black and white pictures in those days) with his weekly 'Hancock's Half Hour. There, he became the nation's idol for his portrayal of 'your average man'. From the philosophical isolation of 'The Bedsitter' through the mayhem and confusion of 'The Radio Ham', and the misguided and self-centred 'Blood Donor', Hancock was finally fretting over his succession: &quot;What have you achieved? What have you achieved? You lost your chance, me old son. You contributed absolutely nothing to this life. A waste of time you being here at all. No plaque for you in Westminster Abbey. The best you can expect is a few daffodils in a jam-jar, a rough-hewn stone bearing the legend 'he came and he went', and nothing in between - nothing!&quot; And, unfortunately, his black humour was echoed in his real life. The more successful he became, the deeper he dove into the bottle until his eventual suicide in Australia.<br />Hancock was a British institution - a way of life even. A well-loved soul whose private life was little known by the public until his death. This book reveals that life from his grandparents through to his death in April 1968. For those of you who remember and loved Tony Hancock, this book is a must.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R16G1Q2F8424TL	0062720465	754442197	Self-Editing for Fiction Writers: How to Edit Yourself into Print	Books	5	35	35	N	N	One of the 'Must Have' books for any aspiring writer	There are just three or four 'absolute must have' books for aspiring writers who want to see their work in print. Self-Editing for Fiction Writers is one of them. The most important points covered are 'Show and Tell', 'Characterization and Exposition' and 'Dialogue Mechanics'. Without this basic knowledge, you can never hope to become a successful writer. This book is dynamic. It contains specific, pertinent, and entertaining advice from two professionals.<br />Sol Stein (one of THE gurus of the publishing world) summed it up when he said: 'My students - including the published novelists - ought to read Self Editing for Fiction Writers once a year, the Show and Tell chapter even more often.<br />Editing a first (or tenth) draft is the fun part of writing. Renni Browne and Dave King tell you how to go about it properly (and successfully). Armed with this book and the gem of an idea, you're on your way to becoming a published author.	2001-08-03
US	52317033	R1WAAXHNMVZW8Q	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Naughty but nice	He's a bad man is Bill Bryson. He says all the things I wish I'd thought of first. \\"Some of the shops were just a bit twee, I must admit. One of them was called The Cutest Little Shop In Town, which made me want to have the Quickest Little Puke in the County\\". In his irreverent drive around The States, Bryson never leaves you in any doubt about what he likes and what he doesn't like. Of one town, he says, \\"I walked up Thames Street, where some fine old sea captains' homes were fighting a losing battle with litter and dog sh*t and the encroachment of gas stations and car transmission places. It was all very sad. This was a place where the people didn't seem to care, or perhaps just didn't notice how shabby they had let things grow. It reminded me of London.\\" So, are you left in any doubt? And when he sings the praise of a town or region, he sings it high.<br />The Lost Continent is both informative and amusing - very amusing. Bryson's satirical observations are splendidly catalogued and beautifully tailored for the job in hand. Five out of five for an excellent journey, minus one for some slightly more tedious moments part way through.	2001-08-01
US	52317033	R3DCBRG0ASRDTX	0156011603	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not to be confused...	First of all, don't confuse this book with 'Beneath The Skin' by Nicci French - an excellent book, but an altogether different type of thriller.<br />Under the Skin is a cleverly thought out psychological thriller that will stop and make you use your brain a little. The story is set in Scotland where Isserley, a strange young lady, spends her time picking up stray hitch-hikers and 'doing things' with them. I don't want to give the game away but, although there are strong sexual undertones to the story, what she does with the hitch-hikers is something quite different.<br />The imagery in Under the Skin is intense and subtly woven. Not for Faber the harsh, blunt descriptions that leave little to the imagination, more the hints, the suggestions, the half-hidden. And it works beautifully (including, unusually, his use of Scottish accents in many of the speech patterns). Faber's creativity is amazing. He creeps up on the reader when they least expect it. When he bangs you with the punch line, you're stunned.<br />For a thriller that will make you think, that will have you admiring the author's audacity, that will keep you guessing right to the end, read this book!	2001-08-01
US	52317033	R8QXVWN6AQZOH	0140186301	283114178	Lucky Jim	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A liitle outdated now	Okay, so saying it's a little outdated sounds a bit harsh. After all, classics like Lucky Jim never lose their appeal. But 1954 humour is different to today's humour, though passages of Lucky Jim will  certainly cause more that a few guffaws. Also, the humour and style is dated English (and I don't mean Monty Python). You need to understand the English culture to understand some of the 'jokes'.<br />Having said that, Lucky Jim remains a delight to read as it satirises the pretentious lives of the university professors and their pathetic wives. Amis's use of internal dialogue is truly remarkable, keeping us handsomely amused with the thoughts of the principle character, James Dixon, as he moves in turn through cynical, rude, crude, catty, nasty, incisive, indecisive, mocking, and always insecure. It is a work that achieves a rare combination of being a literary treasure and also a humorous novel. I can happily recommend it.	2001-08-01
US	52317033	R2RHCB02WUHF7V	0525945725	626475978	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A chuckle a page	It's a wonder there's anybody left on planet earth after Wendy Northcutt has finished. The Darwin Awards honour those amazing people who, by their own stupidity, eliminate themselves from the gene pool. And Wendy Northcutt tells us how - like the Palestinian terrorists who refused to live on Zionist time so kept their clocks on Daylight Saving Time after Israel had reverted to Standard Time. The bombs were prepared but, when the terrorist drivers entered Israel, they reset their watches to match Israeli time. BOOM, the cars were still en route when the devices exploded.<br />This is an excellent book to be takem a bit at a time. Mine lives in the bathroom so that the few necessary minutes spent there are done so with a contented smile on my face!	2001-08-01
US	52317033	RPWPPD46N5CMO	0006475973	589606465	The Ghosts of Sleath	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not quite Herbert's best	Unfortunately Herbert somehow fails to capture the imagination in The Ghosts of Sleath as much as he does in most of his other books. The story centres around psychic investigator, David Ash, who delves into mysterious events that are terrorizing the community of Sleath, where he comes across a dark character called Phelan. Though the premise of the book is sound, and though there are solid descriptions, somehow Herbert doesn't quite capture the imagination. Maybe it's that word `solid' that gives the clue.<br />None of Herbert's books could be called weak, and I'd like to give this one three-and-a-half stars, but The Ghosts of Sleath doesn't quite come up to the spendid page-gripping terror that this author is well capable of. Don't let that put you off either this book or James Herbert, because it's still darn good reading.	2001-08-01
US	52317033	R30WTYP37X7Y44	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mayfair was always high class	I didn't realise when I bought Taltos that I was joining a somewhat exclusive club (followers of the Mayfair family). Though it is the 3rd in the series, I soon discovered how easy it was to drop into the Mayfair story (thanks to a character called Ash). I was instantly drawn in and swept away and, though his book isn't really about the Mayfair family, it uses them as a backdrop to tell a fascinating tale of an ancient race - the Taltos.   The pace is good, the humor is gentle but effective, and the mystery is complete. Above all one is struck by the beauty of the Taltos, who have lived, disguised, among humans since time began.  The ending seemed a little contrived - rushed maybe. Other than that Taltos was a thoroughly enjoyable book, I recommend it!	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R3EMICIZ3TB4C3	0671011367	484181364	Deja Dead (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The descriptions were a bit tiresome	I like descriptions if they give background to a story or tell something about the character. Unfortunately, in Dj Dead, many descriptions do neither. They appear to be there just to pad out the story which could have been a lot more compelling and better paced if there were less detail. (Do we REALLY need to know the precise deatil of police procedure? It had nothing to do with the plot.)<br />If Dj Dead doesn't attempt to be a highfalutin literary endeavour - and why should it? - then it's all the more important that the plot should be watertight. But I am not sure that it is... As others have pointed out, Dj Dead has a detailed plot which is predicated on chance and coincidence, and it is important that these make perfect sense. The trouble is that the important ones do not.<br />While Kathy Reichs had the makings of a commercial bestseller in her hands, she failed to provide some of the key elements of pace and suspense that would hold it together after the final chapter. A pity, because the fundamental story was good.	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R3E83QMWSF9IH7	0312971540	132522712	Monsoon (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A storming book	Wilbur Smith does it again as we follow the swashbuckling adventures of the Courtney family through another generation. Once more, Smith hauls his story from one outrageous situation to another making sure that his heroes (men, all of them, right down to the last man!) keep stumbling into testerone-charged territory. Lots of seducing, or being seduced, lots of battling with bad guys with bigger boats, lots of rescuing damsels in distress, lots of treasure to be captured and infidels to be slaughtered. Lots of pirates and assorted bad guys to deal with (usually against the odds, and in single combat).<br />But there's no denying Wilbur Smith's ability to pen a great yarn, and to pen it well. His descriptions flow like water under thr bows of one of his great boats. His characterizations are always outstanding... the bad guys are VERY bad and the good guys are VERY good (even in bed).<br />Kepp it up Wilbur, we're waiting for the next one.	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R246QB6LN1AH6Q	0812579046	622668415	Others	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Scary but makes you think	A man reborn as a deformed PI. A mansion full of mutant children. A pretty but deformed nurse being prepared for a snuff movie. WOW! But all is not blood and gore in 'Others'. In fact, Herbert treats the deformed unfortunates with a deal of sympathy and compassion - it is the 'normal' folk who are the antagonists. This is the ultimate 'thinking person's' book.<br />Nick Dismas, the unfortunate protagonist was born with deformities for a reason. His characterization is excellent - bad habits, bad attitude and all. As usual, Herbert writes smoothly and effortlessly, producing a novel that will grip you right from the off and won't put you down until the final chapter.	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R2SCDUNCQBXTGX	0333782380	358094426	The Dark	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Be afraid...	The premise of 'The Dark' is whether madness and extreme actions are triggered by external forces or whether they are emitted from the very soul. In this novel, Herbert has determined that the impulses are wholly voluntary and come from the characters who become one with 'The Dark'. Of the two sides of their personae, they have freely chosen to embrace the dark side and ignore 'The Light'. As with all good Herbert novels, the premise is expanded. In The Dark, London eventually becomes a killing ground for the cult of 'The Dark' and, when a small group of parapsychologists fails to stop the force, a state of emergency is declared. The Dark contains some of Herbert's most frightening and disturbing images. As usual he manages to avoid gratuitous blood and guts, but there's still no shortage in this novel.<br />The ending seemed a little rushed, hence four stars. But still worth reading	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R3LOUW800WLVWR	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Number 3672 !	What's left to say after 3671 other reviewers got here first? Only that J.K. rules - okay?<br />I was introduced to Harry Potter through lots of blurb on T.V., radio, magazines, in fact almost every form of media I can think of. Many years ago, I refused to read Tolkein because everybody else told me I should. This time I was determined not to make the same mistake and, when I met Bloomsbury Books Sales Director on a holiday in the south of France, he convinced me I should give Rowling's books a test drive... Thanks David.<br />At first, I wondered why there were lots of owls flying round the place (as a typical Muggle would). But all became clear a while later when I discovered Hogwart's delivery service. And so I became a convert. Not just to Harry, the central character, but to Hermione and Ron. And I, too, booed the bad guys, Malfoy, Crabbe, Goyle and most of all, Voldemort. And the Dursleys and their horrible fat son, Dudley. YAACH<br />So here's a message to all you teeny-boppers who think you've got Harry all to yourselves... you haven't. Some of us ancients like him too.	2001-07-30
US	52317033	R352M446L3P8JM	0753106965	589606465	'48 (Isis (Audio))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun read.	Imagine the scenario... End of WWII Herr Hitler realizes he's in for a pasting so calls in his final weapon of mass destruction - a killer virus, which he drops on London. Unfortunately the wind is in the wrong direction and he gets a load of it back in his face!! Fairly improbable, you may say, but then most horror stories are based on the improbable. It's the job of the writer to get the reader to suspend the usual parameters of disbelief for a while. And nobody does it better than James Herbert.<br />So what we're left with is a small group of people, some of whom are totally immune to the virus and some of whom are only partially immune. The bad guys (the partially immune) would dearly like to get their hands on Hoke, an American pilot who is totally immune thanks to his AB-neg blood, in the hope that they can exchange his blood for theirs. (A sort of primitive vampire-type bood transfusion?). Meantime, Hoke races about on his Matchless 350 motor bike (I used to have one of those!!) followed by his faithful hound.<br />As always, Herbert conjours up amazing descriptions - his haunting vision of a Ghost City with the hotels, subways and buses filled with the long-dead and dried-out. The plot hurtles forward on all cylinders, action scene upon action scene, until you feel ready to burst. And that's why I felt I could only give four stars. I needed a bit of a reprieve somewhere in the middle of the book - time to pause for breath if you like - but I never got it.<br />Harness yourself to your chair, Herbert has written another killer.	2001-07-30
US	52317033	RP2HURNG1RAW7	1900850486	873523784	Deposition of Father Mcgreevy	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Not a winner	To shortlist this ponderous story for the Booker Prize is almost as bad as giving the prize to Ian McEwan for his insubstantial 'Amsterdam'. The beginning of 'The Deposition' roused my interest a little, and I was hopeful that there would be a worthwhile story beyond the opening chapter. I was to be sadly disappointed. Despite increasing boredom, I plodded on, hopeful that things would improve, but was disappointed at the end. And those dreadful footnotes... (aren't I clever, they say).<br />As one reviewer so aptly put it 'Brian O'Doherty's prose is excellent and, if he could pick a better subject (more content and less waffle) I'm sure he'd end up with a best-seller'.	2001-07-29
US	52317033	R3U7W7MTPAXQUF	0898793718	309911566	Deadly Doses: A Writer's Guide to Poisons (Howdunit Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poisonously good	Whether your need is as a writer, looking for the perfect way to kill off your characters, or whether you just wondered what if..., Deadly Doses is a gold mine of information on poisons, their tixicity, the effects, the reaction time, the symptoms, the antidotes. It covers everything from animal bites to household goods. My favorite was the fiddle back spider. Naturally, the female is more deadly than the male!	2001-07-29
US	52317033	R3IPZQFUU49A70	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Somewhat predictable	I usually enjoy Anita Shreve novels, but I found 'The Pilot's Wife' a little flat - lacking in energy. The story was prdictable and lacked any sense of either mystery, intrigue or suspense. Having said that, however, it was still an enjoyable read and, as with all Shreve novels, was well written and well executed.<br />The flashbacks between Kathryn Lyon's search for the truth and her life with her deceased husband were well presented and gave a worthwhile effect to an otherwise mundane story.	2001-07-29
US	52317033	R2S3JJD7P2O0SL	0446364800	859674593	The General's Daughter	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good plot, great characterizations	This was the first Nelso Demille book I've read and I guess it won't be the last. I wasn't sure what to expect but discovered a cleverly written, well plotted story of the search for the killer of a General's daughter. And I was as involved as the investigators in trying to find the truth and discount the lies.<br />The characterizations were brilliant, mostly through the dialog between Paul Brenner (sleuth extraordinaire) and Cynthia Sunhill (sleuthess extraordinaire)! Their own love-hate relationship kept alive many of the flatter parts of the story. The suspense was built by there being a deadline on the investigation, and I admit that I hadn't puzzled out the culprit until it was exposed in the story.<br />Nothing too cerebral, but a good book for easy reading.	2001-07-29
US	52317033	R1T1PKBZ1HJIVB	1585670421	114858953	The English: A Portrait of a People	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Loss of empire, loss of empire, loss of empire, loss of.....	Having ploughed my way through 70% of this ponderous tome, I simply had to give up. I was learning nothing new as one chapter dragged into another. Paxman (who is a superb television presenter) repeats over and over and over and over and.... ad infinitum, that the English have never got over loss of empire. Good! That should have taken one chapter at most. Though he occasionally breaks the monotony and tells the reader how (in his view) the English see themselves, he soon reverts back to loss of empire. Then he moves on to loss of empire!<br />I'm uncertain what qualifications Paxman has to determine how the English see themselves. He, himself, is considered to be one of the elitist intelligentsia, so it's unlikely that he can conduct an accurate analysis of the fish and chip eating hoards who swarm to Costa del Plenty every summer.<br />As one reviewer points out, the only real piece of information in this book that is worth anything is that Paxman points out the difference between an English person and a British person. I am Manx (from the Isle of Man) which makes me British but most definitely not English. Paxman correctly accededs that English people are so smug, they fail to notice this difference (or, if they are aware of it, they ignore it). For pointing that out, I award one star. For the rest? One more star for reminding me (in case I'd forgotten) that the English are suffering angst from loss of empire (at least I THINK that's what he said!)	2001-07-27
US	52317033	R3I3CFP7YNCI39	0711701784	212087695	Haunted East Anglia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It's chilling, it's thrilling, and it's for real	Though originally written in about 1970 (this edition 1993), Joan Forman's true tales of hauntings in the East of England has lost nothing over the years. This is not a work of fiction (though many might question that), it's a well-researched and well documented narrative of some spooky events that have occurred and re-occurred over the centuries (Complete, in some instances, with photographs).<br />If the phenomonen of haunted places interests you, you'll love this book. In a short summary, Joan Forman provides her own view of what hauntings might be and how they might come about.	2001-07-27
US	52317033	R3W0NHHBD3U60F	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Strange Mixture	Though I live in the deepest, darkest depths of French France, I have not been living the solitary life of an underwater bird-watcher, so naturally was aware of the book (and the film hype surrounding Corelli's Mandolin). The book was easy going but oddly unsatisfying. It just didn't have the glorious highs, the surreal wit, or desperate lows of previous de Bernieres tomes. I was also disappointed by the ending, which I found surgically sentimental (though I gather it is a whole lot more so in the film). On the plus side Corelli's Mandolin was genuinely moving in places and expressed well the idea of platonic love (though I'm not wholly convinced that this is what de Bernieres set out to do).<br />Strangely, the author wrote his first four books, culminating in Corelli, in the space of just a few years, publishing them between 1990 and 1994. Since then nothing. I only hope that he's not waiting to offload some great indigestible pudding of a book once the Corelli buzz wears off.	2001-07-26
US	52317033	R1MOBXCAX4HECR	0440218802	371573172	Bravo Two Zero: The Harrowing True Story of a Special Forces Patrol Behind the Lines in Iraq	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Tells it like it was	Bravo Two Zero tells the secret story of what went on during the Gulf War - never mind the all-American hero bit. Sorry, guys, I know you were there doing your high-tech thing, and I acknowledge that you played a VERY major part in the rapid sucess of the skirmish, but a lot of what went on - intelligence reporting and deep penetration hits - was undertaken by a few very brave men of the British SAS.<br />On the night of 22nd January 1991, at a remote airfield in Saudi Arabia, under cover of darkness and in conditions of the utmost secrecy, eight members of the SAS regiment boarded a helicopter that was to infiltrate them deep behind enemy lines. Their call-sign was &quot;Bravo Two-Zero&quot;, and their mission, under the command of Sergeant Andy McNab, was to sever the underground communication link between Baghdad and north-west Iraq, and to seek and destroy mobile Scud launchers before Israel was provoked into entering the war. Unfortunately they were discovered and had to try to fight their way out - eight men versus large chunks of the Iraq army. The gun fights in which, despite being massively outnumbered, they still wreaked havoc - the distances they had to walk causing their feet almost to fall of - the hypothermia - the hunger and thirst they suffered - can only be summarized by the word IMPRESSIVE. And then, worst of all, the extensive torturing some had to go through when they were caught. At the same time, they remained humane, not killing one single Iraqi civilian, even when that might have significantly improved their chances of survival<br />A few people have read the book and think it's a bit far-fetched (some even think it's a work of fiction), but they don't realise that during the Gulf War, patrols like that did go out and if you were found by the enemy, you were tortured until you gave the answers they wanted. The fact that, against the odds, some of McNab's patrol survived, and mostly with morale intact, shows what the human spirit is capable ofand how much punishment the body can take without the mind giving up. <br />A lot of authors can talk the talk but only McNab can walk the walk. Having read the book, I have nothing but respect for a man who has gone through hell and come out the side to tell the tale. And a nice ending to the tale is that Andy McNab is now making a living as a successful writer. Check out his other books too. (Immediate Action, The One that got Away, and Remote Control)	2001-07-26
US	52317033	R3DIPFPKURZMK5	0879519274	879308749	Blott on the Landscape	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the few authors that REALLY make me laugh	Tom Sharpe, Christopher Brookmyre, P.J. O'Rourke, Stephen Fry, P.G.Wodehouse - they all fall into the category of authors who REALLY make me laugh. If you mix up Billy Connelly and John Cleese, you'll get the idea. In Blott on the Landscape (which was turned into a BBC television series), Sharpe's humour is as sharp as ever (pun intended) and his characterizations are an absolute scream. Of course, it helps if you appreciate British humour which, at times, can be quite black. (A woman getting a lion to eat her own husband?)<br />Tom Sharpe's 'Wilt' books were comical enough but, in Blott on the Landscape and Porterhouse Blue, he excels even his own high standards of comic writing.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R1D41CNVDNZBYG	0375705503	776660814	England, England	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Amusing and worth reading (unless you're English!)	I bought England, England after watching an interview with Julian Barnes on French television. The commentator made it clear that, in her view, the English had received the book badly, being upset that somebody could mock their monarchy and their traditions. Being Manx (which is British, but NOT English) I couldn't wait to get my hands on the book, and sat feeling smug as the postman arrived.<br />I wasn't disappointed. Barnes lets rip at commercialisation, and at the outdated English acceptance of things they feel to be beyond their control. He portrays England as a Disneyland, with the prince (guess which one!) as one of the buffoon Mickey Mouse characters. Good for him - he hit that one right on the nose!<br />Whether or not the English didn't like England, England, I can't say (there are plenty of non-Monarchists over there), but the book was a worthy read and kept me giggling and guffawing for some days. Barnes' characterizations are somewhat mixed (some good, some less so) but his portrayal of 'Sir Jack' makes up for any shortcomings in that particular department.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R2PTT8RAXFIXW6	0918880416	96888531	Jump Start Your Book Sales: A Money-Making Guide for Authors, Independent Publishers and Small Presses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I'm joining the Five Star Club	I'm not one to follow what others say or think but, on this one, I have no choice. 'Jump Start Your Book Sales' is positively the best 'How To' guide on bookselling that I have read so far. Written by two people who, themselves, are authors, this guide is packed from front to back with useful hints, advice and more...<br />If, as a writer, you are trying to choose just ONE guide that will help you launch your book, then 'Jump Start Your Book Sales' should be the one. Everything else pales into insignificance in its shadow.<br />Well done Marilyn and Tom Ross.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R21U10TQNY580X	089879983X	38830825	Guerrilla Marketing for Writers : 100 Weapons to Help You Sell Your Work	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Useful	Guerrilla Marketing for Writers certainly contained some useful ideas, but I found I had to sift through a multitude of mundane generalities to pluck out the gems. Maybe that's not a bad thing because, what appears mundane and obvious to me, might be a seed of fresh knowledge for someone else.<br />The lack of the final star is because Guerrilla Marketing for Writers spent at least 10% of its space promoting the 'Guerrilla Marketing' series and not concentrating on the subject it was meant to cover.<br />Nonetheless, a very useful book for any writer.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R20YDFVTLTONGO	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My first Maeve Binchy book, but not my last	I'd never read any Maeve Binchy until I picked up Scarlet Feather, so I had no comparisons to make to her previous novels. In a way, I think this gives you the best feeling for an author (or book) because you have no prior expectations. The book was a pleasurable read and led me to buy 'Evening Class' - so I'm going backwards!<br />Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather are catering partners in Dublin. Cathy is married to a civil liberties lawyer, who is totally involved with his professional life, and Tom is living with a young whimsy who will do anything to break into modelling. Clearly from the outset, these relationships are headed for disaster. It doesn't help that Cathy's mother was house cleaner to her husbands snobbish family. <br />Scarlet Feather is a character-driven book, since the 'plot' is not at all substantial. Nothing wrong with that, so long as you're an expert at characterization, and Maeve Binchy is certainly that. She seems to be an author who can carry off a large cast without screwing up the story line.<br />For me, Cathy's husband's young cousins stole the show. Their parents are being evaluated by social services - none too soon, you may feel. Eight year olds, Simon and Maud, start off as little horrors who are terribly serious and take everything literally. This leads to entertaining plot twists.<br />The BIG underlying question is whether Cathy and Tom will get it together. Everyone else thinks they should, but they remain loyal to their partners. Or do they?<br />For an easy, captivating read, I can recommend Scarlet Feather. As I say, it prompted me to go out and buy more from the same author.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	RVSBGE1LFQ2YD	0618093974	504583572	My Life on a Plate	Books	4	2	8	N	N	Definitely a book for the girls	India Knight has written an amusing novel about a woman, Clara, who lives in what she believes to be a stable environment (husband and two kids) but can't decide whether or not she's happy. Clara is worried that there is more to life yet she doesn't know what it is. At times, 'My Life on a Plate' is wickedly funny, at times painfully honest but it is a superficial, candyfloss type of book (a bit Bridget Jones) that is easily forget the next day.<br />There are a few classic lines from the main character and a few amusing moments as she deals with her tearaway mother, who's about to get married again for the unpteenth time. Generally, though 'My Life on a Plate' is just an easy read if you've nothing better to do.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R37ERYH5GRM2IR	0316878839	691132252	Quite Ugly One Morning	Books	5	1	4	N	N	One of the best books ...	Investigative reporter, Jack Parlabane, is having a bad day as he attends the discovery of the mutilated corpse of a prominent doctor. Then his day gets worse. He learns that the doctor had a bad betting habit. A large bundle of cash in his apartment suggests another source of income. This leads Parlabane to hunt for the source of the money.<br />Brookmyre is probably the only author who can make tears roll down my cheeks from laughing. He's certainly the only one who can describe a corpse and make it funny. He's a sort of mixture between Billy Connelly and Tom Sharpe but better than both. And yet his novels make some keen and cutting social observations that probably offend a large number of would-be readers. Tough! What you see is what you get with Brookmyre. He's about as irreverent as they come and some of his lines are absolutely priceless.<br />I guess he's not caught on as much on the American side of the big pond as he has in The Old Country, but you've only got yourselves to blame. His books are there, and you've just got to take the trouble to find them. Read this, even if you've got to buy it used.<br />Also VERY highly recommended are 'One Fine Day in The Middle of The Night', 'Boiling a Frog' and 'Not The End of the World', all by the same author. AND HERE'S THE GOOD NEWS... <br />Oh - and watch out for his latest release... 'A Big Boy did it and Ran Away'....	2001-07-25
US	52317033	RRUYGPQZGSGFO	0375726837	474101056	Experience: A Memoir	Books	2	8	15	N	N	What's it all about, Martin?	I greatly admire Martin Amis's skillful pen. I wish I could write half as well. But the subject matter of 'Experience' (Amis, himself) makes me think I lead a more interesting life. If I was setting out to write my memoires, I think I'd leave my teeth out of it (even though they've given me some trouble). Or maybe a paragraph, maximum. If I wanted people to know about the things that struck me emotionally, I would almost certainly include girlfriends/lovers - not dead relatives whom I hardly knew.<br />Most of the interesting parts of 'Experience' are the quotes from Martin's father, Kingsley. So who wants to read second-hand quotes? This book is full of explanatory footnotes that could easily have been included in the main body of text, and would probably have been more interesting for being so.<br />It was a struggle to finish.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R2N20Q2U302DQP	0670894508	256403279	Cause Celeb	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not Bridget Jones - thank goodness	Helen Fielding is better know for Bridget Jones than for Rosie Richardson, but Rosie's personality in 'Cause Celeb' is somewhat deeper than Bridget's despite a similar self-depriciating manner. Moments in 'Cause Celeb' are witty and satitical, moments are wise and sexy, but most of all, this book satirises the great 'personalities' of stage and T.V. and shows them for the shallow people they are. It also deals with the deeper subject of famine relief, highlighting the frustrations of welfare workers, and the nightmare administration that clamps the speedy arrival of proper relief for the malnourished.<br />You'll not read 'Cause Celeb' without laughing, but you'll not read it without a deep sense that things could be improved. At both levels, the book succeeds in telling a good story in a stylish way. Not five stars because it didn't grab me where it hurts and keep me riveted. Still plenty good enough for four.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	RP09KLA7GFYSN	0440223202	785923114	Evening Class	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Another great read from Maeve Binchy	Evening Class by Maeve Binchy is a well-written character-driven novel that left me with a sort of 'happy' feeling. A feeling that humanity is not so bad after all (and that's saying something from one of life's old cynics!)<br />There's a positive cornucopia of characters. Maybe one or two too many since, at times, I had to look back to refresh my memory about who was who. Binchy melds their disparate lives into a complete story revolving around an evening class to teach Italian. Each of the characters has a different motive for attending the evening class, and as the story continues, Signora (the class teacher around whom the story revolves) helps them discover inner strengths of which they were not aware. For different reasons, each member of the class has a goal of taking a viaggo to Italy at the end of the year. Meanwhile, despite their different backgrounds, they are beginning to form strong bonds with each other.<br />Evening Class was captivating and well-written but I don't feel able to offer five stars since the ending was just a little too obvious. The story's finale is something of a damp squid compared to the interest that Binchy builds during the novel. It left me hanging, wanting something more substantial.<br />Still an excellent read, though, and well worth the time.	2001-07-25
US	52317033	R10XJETP7O07ON	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Joanne Rowling has invented the ultimate winner	Not since Tolkein has the literary word seen anything that resembles Harry Potter. Whilst on holiday in the south of France, I happened to meet one of the senior executives of Bloomsbury (the original imprint for the Harry Potter series). Having heard the tales of bookshops swamped with excited buyers, I couldn't resist asking him whether it was down to good marketing or good writing. He assured me it was good writing. I believed him and bought all four books.<br />Thanks, David, for your sound advice. J.K.Rowling has, indeed, written a series that is brilliantly simple in its conception yet amazingly intelligent in its portrayal. If you've never read them, you should. Within half a dozen pages, you'll find nothing at all unusual about students of Hogwart's School of Witchcraft and Wizardry riding high on broomsticks playing a game called Qidditch.<br />Harry Potter is now adored worldwide. So is his creator, Joanne Kathleen (J.K.) Rowling, a single mother with a wonderful imagination and a gift of insight into the minds of youngsters and adults alike. She has the undeniable ability to recall her own childhood and capture those wonderful, though sometimes difficult times. It's an ability that makes her creation, Harry Potter, so easily acceptable.<br />I notice that the Goblet of Fire states 'Reading Level Ages 9-12'. Clearly a misprint. It should be 'Reading Level Ages 9-92'. Eighty years from now, Harry Potter books will be sold as collectors items in boxed sets and todays 12 year olds will still be reading them and reliving their childhoods.<br />If you still haven't read any of the Harry Potter collection, you should swallow your pride and do so now! (They print adult editions with less striking front covers!)	2001-07-24
US	52317033	R3Q3AKCDV74WS8	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wickedly funny	Nick Hornby catches the mood of the moment as he trounces his way through the life and loves of Rob, out of touch music shop proprietor. With an irreverent style and an eye for the detail, Hornby tells the story from Rob's viewpoint, and the reader soon gets to understand that he is just an overgrown teenager who has never quite managed the final step into adulthood. Rob's relations with his co-workers adds humour to this excellent book, whilst his failed relationships just keep adding up and leave you wondering if he'll ever grow up.<br />Nick Hornby has developed a finely tuned pen and uses it to it best abilities in High Fidelity. The book is one of a rare breed that is thoughtful, witty, intelligent and hard to put down.	2001-07-24
US	52317033	R1YT00612YBR5R	0375407707	185430326	The Elementary Particles	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Fuss about what?	Maybe I'm missing the point. Maybe something fundamental was lost in the translation. Maybe I was sold a first draft by mistake.<br />Elementary Particles is a slow, dull, boring, over-rated waste of time. I gave it two stars because I managed to finish it - but it was a struggle. The style is described by some reviewers as 'refreshingly straightforward'. Actually it breaks all the fundamental rules or writing and suffers because of it. It seems that the author has dreamed up a simplistic theory and has tried to prove it by pulling lines (usually out of context) from all the great philosophers. Some of his sex scenes appear to be written just to shock, and might well have appeared in the seedier adverts in a glamour mag.<br />I honestly don't know what the fuss was all about. The only character I empathised with was Bruno, one of the half brothers. His search for uninvolved sex is fairly typical of a lot of men of his age. Otherwise, characterization was shallow and left me with a sort of empty feeling - like I'd met nobody on a long journey.<br />Sorry M. Houellebecq, but this one wasn't for me.	2001-07-24
US	52317033	R37AFPE7ZSMWCU	1569470545	56387718	Hippopotamus	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fry's razor-sharp wit cuts through again	'Hippopotamus' is Stephen Fry's second (and best) novel. As usual, Fry's acerbic wit and Oscar Wilde / Noel Coward pomposity come racing to the fore. Hippopotamus is one of those rare books that both amuse AND make you admire the writer for his very considerable abilities. Stephen Fry is a supreme raconteur, author, actor and television personality, and he is not shy in using his whole arsenal of skills to keep you reading.<br />Ted Wallace, the main character, is a sixty-six year old 'unregenerate snob' with a penchant for 'a drop of the hard stuff'. Maybe this is how the author sees himself in years to come. If so, Stephen Fry will be just as amusing in his latter years as he has been to date.<br />You should buy this book at the first opportunity. You will not regret it.	2001-07-23
US	52317033	R1M79VT8U5Q63L	9997407024	458127393	Darling Buds of May	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You don't know what you're missing	I first read The Darling Buds of May about thirty years ago. Recently BBC added some episodes and turned it into a series starring David Jason, which was acknowledged as the very best of British Comnedy. Incidentally, Catherine Zeta Jones got her big TV break in this series as the beautiful Larkin daughter.<br />If you get a chance to get hold of a copy of H.E.Bates classic tale of Pop Larkin and his family, you should do so, just for the joy of reading something that is so funny it will split your sides.	2001-07-23
US	52317033	R355KOLBEGQVZ2	0446608386	298802765	Killing Me Softly	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, but a little short of Brilliant	Killing Me Softly kept me engrossed until the last page - and the ending was as solid and suspensful as the story. It's a novel of psychological obsession where protagonist, Alice, falls for mountain climber, Adam, who hides a dark secret. She leaves a safe relationship to live with Adam but her suspicions are gradually aroused until it becomes apparent that her lover plans to kill her.<br />What made this book a page-gripper was the way that Nicci French gradually, gradually unravels the plot - like peeling away multiple wrappings off a cookie. You know something isn't right, but you don't know what it is. Adam was somewhat less believable but nonetheless an interesting character.<br />An excellent read for the genre, though Nicci French's 'Under the Skin' is better.	2001-07-23
US	52317033	R3SJ8NX3QGTR56	0807126063	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	2	4	N	N	This is a 'Keeper'	The satirical genius of John Kennedy Toole will be sorely missed. A Confederacy of Dunces is sometimes hilarious, sometimes sad - but seldom boring (the exceptions being the over-long excerpts from Ignatius Reilly's diary). The contrast between the twisted mind of Ignatius (who is wonderfully characterized) and the secondary characters provides an interest in the main character that might otherwise be watered down. And yet the secondary characters are also real and provide a lively backdrop for Toole's book.<br />There are also some serious underlying messages in 'Confederacy'. Exposing the perceived flaws of 20th century living being paramount, along with the author's political wisdoms<br />The second half of the story slows down a bit after a pacey first half. Nonetheless, 'A Confederacy of Dunces' is one I shall take to my desert island with me, because it's a book which can be read time and again, just to enjoy the characters.	2001-07-23
US	52317033	R1WNTFB8HUZWWK	9997505743	133795310	Hark, Hark, the Lark!/(English Title = When the Green Woods Laugh)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Read 'The Darling Buds of May' first	About 30 years ago, I read H.E.Bates' 'The Darling Buds of May'. When the Green woods laugh was his follow-up and was equally hilarious as one revels in the triumphs of Pop Larkin, a country wheeler-dealer.<br />Nothing is too much of a problem for Pop. &quot;Perfick&quot;, he says as each event unfolds.<br />You should try and get hold of the original book (and also 'The Darling Buds of May') and read it, just for the scene where Pop Larkin sells his ramshackle country house to a gullible, drunken American (changed to a London stockbroker in American versions of the book!!). Perfickly Politically Incorrect - and huge fun. You'll discover an author and a style that will have you wishing he'd lived long enough to write some more.	2001-07-23
US	52317033	R1589QFY15K5XP	0452281881	800097079	E: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Clever - So very, very clever!	It's original, it's hilariously funny, it's well written and it's probably a fairly accurate description of life inside a top Advertising Agency.<br />Matt Beaumont has skillfully told his story through a series of e-mails. Sounds dreary? Not at all, 'e' rates as one of a few that I put into the unputdownable category. Once you're into the heads of the major players, you just keep going - and going - until the last page. As other reviewers have pointed out, Beaumont has been able to characterize his major players in the style and content of the notes they send.<br />If you're looking for this month's read - buy 'e'. It a chuckle a page.	2001-07-22
US	52317033	R20P4QWA154UJE	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	2	N	N	King tells it as it is	Being a writer, I was anxious to see whether Stephen King could come up with any worthwhile gems that the other stock-in-trade how-to books had missed... he didn't disappoint. If you take the time to read between the lines of &quot;On Writing&quot; you'll find a whole load more than anyone else can possibly offer. It's not a &quot;do this, do that&quot; book, it's an insightful book of how the master gets it together.<br />Included in the book are many insights into King's own life. Not only are these a bonus, they add to the whole picture of Stephen King's ability to turn out bestselling novels time after time.<br />Buy it today - you'll not be disappointed.	2001-07-19
US	52317033	RY3USWZFU33X5	0688153879	116064801	Kevin Trudeau's Mega Memory: How to Release Your Superpower Memory in 30 Minutes Or Less a Day	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Not so mega	I had high hopes that Trudeau's 'Mega Memory' would offer something new. It didn't. This is just another 'hooks and links' method that is fine if you want to practise party tricks but requires total devotion if you're going to use it in the real world.<br />I can't remember what else I was going to say!	2001-07-17
US	52317033	RVTQW2UUJ2CIR	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Well worth reading	Small Gods is not Terry Pratchett's best book by a long shot, but it's still a great parody on religion and... well... the meaning of life?<br />Who else but Pratchett could write &quot;The Great God Om waxed wroth, or at least made a spirited attempt... He silently cursed a beetle, which is like pouring water onto a pond. It didn't seem to make any difference anyway. The beetle plodded away. He cursed a melon unto the eighth generation, but nothing happened. He tried a plague of boils. The melon just sat there, ripening slightly.&quot;<br />Some classic Pratchett lines but a somewhat weak ending. Don't miss it, though. It's still worth a few hundred smiles.	2001-07-17
US	52317033	R2EZ6L8RMX6W2L	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Clancy rules - OKAY?	I went on holiday to relax, took The Bear and The Dragon with me and spent most of the holiday in a state or nervous exhaustion! How does Clancy do it time after time? What's his secret? His understanding of wars and fighting machines is unsurpassable, his understanding of the different cultures is a bonus. You should read The Bear and the Dragon, just to get an understanding of world politics. Top marks for Tom Clancy for pulling another thriller out of the bag.	2001-07-17
US	52317033	R3L6GY1V5HYC07	031214329X	191624993	English as a Second F*cking Language: How to Swear Effectively, Explained in Detail with Numerous Examples Taken From Everyday Life	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Not so f*cking funny	I must have a funny bone missing or something. This trite little book was a big yawn from start to finish. The only thing I can say in its favour is that, living and working in France as I do, it will be a little easier to explain some of the peculiarities of the English language to the natives.	2001-07-17
US	52317033	R2YTYPYMIGC6KT	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing !	Frank McCourt recounts the deeply moving story of his childhood in Catholic Ireland... an Ireland where bigotted religious zealots make small children feel guilty just for surviving... an Ireland where the Irish detest the English and the Ulstermen, yet are not too proud to take their money off them... an Ireland where the injustice of life is thrust in your face by the tale of a small boy struggling to survive a broken marriage and an alcoholic father.<br />You couldn't fail to read this true story without admiring the spirit of the boy who crawled his way out of the gutter to a better life. His typically Irish sense of humor (and of the absurd) shines through the squalid settings and the dismal truth of the story. You will be touched by his acceptance of burdens that most of us could never even imagine... living in absolute poverty... relying on charity for a pair of boots three sizes too big... collecting scaps of coal that have been ignored by others... always in debt... always cold... always in bad health.<br />We have a lot to be grateful for.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	R5EDXROAXAF5E	0805057633	587795843	Once In A House On Fire: A Memoir	Books	5	2	3	N	N	You'll never forget it	Some books disappear from your memory a day after you've read the last page. Some books stay with you forever, and constantly bounce back with tidbits of emotion. Andrea Ashworth's 'Once in a House on Fire' clearly fits in the second category. How she managed to survive intact and come out at the other end as a seemingly balanced person is beyond belief.<br />A brave tale witten by a very brave young lady who coped with the horrors of growing up with abusive 'fathers'. Five stars for the book - ten stars for surviving.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	R2MSWRP7W5KRL4	0751510114	508848818	Gridlock	Books	1	2	11	N	N	Elton at his worst	Gridlock is a poor cover for Ben Elton to expound his politically-correct views on the world again. It's a shame, because Elton has a fine sense of humor and the basic premise of the story's not that bad. Unfortunately, the whole sorry scenario is spoiled right from page one with Elton truisms.<br />Why can't Elton stick to what he knows best - making people laugh?	2001-06-26
US	52317033	R2YN1XVM3V3IN8	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Awsome	Be afraid. Be very, very afraid...<br />Truly gripping stuff and probably some of the best writing King has ever done (and that's saying a lot). Once picked up 'Christine' is absolutely un-put-downable. The story will grab you by the short hairs right from page one, and will not even let go at the end. You need to be either brave or foolhardy to embark on this book, but you'll not regret the experience.<br />Scary. Very, very scary.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	R2Y5V71XQLXJI8	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Grisham heads downhill	A somewhat uninspiring story of a lawyer stumbling over his own conscience. Though the descriptions of a down-and-out neighborhood and the people that are forced to live there are good, the story itself lacks pace, and the ending was about as unsatisfactory as you could imagine.<br />If you're looking for the sort of gripping tale that Grisham weaves in 'The Firm' or 'The Testamant', you'll be sadly disappointed.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	RH32PTTAMQQ9H	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A brilliant piece of writing	Wobetide any Stephen King fan who misses this one. Needful things is as creepy-crawly scary as they get and King has, again, excelled himself with flawless writing that has you suspending belief right from the first page. It's a poweful story of a junk shop that seems to sell exactly what the customer wants. But all is not as it seems (and why should it be in a Stephen King novel?).<br />King's descriptions and narratives are absolutely 100% right. The story never seems to falter or lack pace, despite the sometimes long internal conflicts of the main characters.<br />I'm slowly piecing together a list of ten books to take to my desert island with me. Needful Things is on my list.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	R1T90PR1H1HXND	0831727527	591143364	Gerald's Game	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not vintage King	As a Stephen King fan of many years, Gerald's game was too non-King to make an impact. If it had been written by anybody other than King, I would have been less critical, but one expects better from The Master. A wishy-washy story of one woman tied to a bed, with page after page of how she struggles to reach a glass of water...<br />It's not King at his best and, frankly, it's not even King in average form. It won't put me off buying more of his books, though, because even God has bad book days!	2001-06-26
US	52317033	RRQ9Q7I4IJYQC	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Not the work of a professional	If this book had been written by an unknown author, it would be lounging idly at the foot of the non-sellers list. Only the name Grisham has saved it from a fate worse than death.<br />John Grisham started sliding after 'The Firm' and A Painted House does nothing to slow his descent. I understand his need to get away from the lawyer genre, but a slow action, poor story book is not going to help. I struggled through to the end, hoping for a glimpse of former Grisham glory, but ended up feeling like I'd eaten a plate of stale air - hungry for something more substantial.	2001-06-26
US	52317033	RR3Q1C6U2LVN0	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A promise kept	Long, long ago, when I was young and obstinate (as opposed to being old and obstinate), my peers were telling me that I just HAD to read Tolkien. Now, when anybody tells me that I HAVE to do something, you can be absolutely certain that I won't! More fool me. It's taken me over thirty years to decide that I was free to read Tolkien of my own volition. Ah, the joys of being pigheaded!<br />For thirty years, I have missed the joys of Bilbo and Frodo Baggins (the Hobbits), Gollum (the lizard like horror that lives in a dark, underground pool), Sauron (the dark lord), Gandalf (the irascible wizard), and a whole host of other delightful characters.<br />So here's a message to all you other stubborn mule-heads of the world... &quot;I INSIST that you go nowhere near these books. I absolutely GUARANTEE that you will hate them&quot;... okay - got the message?	2001-06-25
US	52317033	R1VXUR62W6T35F	0425177173	842248212	Atlantis Found (Dirk Pitt, No. 15)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Great story - pity about the style	The aim of any fiction writer is to get the reader to suspend belief. My ability to do this was greatly impaired by Cussler's writing. His characters are hardly even one-dimesional, his grammar is no better than a schoolchild, and his dialog is, frankly, dreadful.<br />In the book's favor, the storyline is strong and well thought out. That didn't, however, outweigh the many, many faults.	2001-06-25
US	52317033	RPRDPIZ6X6DOK	0595155642	792817408	Time Trials	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Plenty of substance	It's difficult to know where to start with a book like Time Trials, particularly since I seemed to get from it something which other reviewers clearly did not. First of all lets get the negative bit out of the way... the book is short - too short in my opinion. It could have benefitted from more depth of scene.<br />Okay, that over with, let's move on to the bright points, and there were many of them. First of all, as I say, I think I gained something different out of Time Trials. Not for me the 'love-vibrant-spirit-quest-eternal' message (though good luck to those who saw it this way). For me, it was a confirmation of all that is wrong with conventional religious preaching - the lack of tolerance - the hypocrisy - the whole 'beggerment' factor (Gail Evans uses a different word!). And I think that the author may well share some of these views with me. Though she lifts her heroine above this conformist mess, her book is filled with tiny snippets that would indicate her awareness of all that is wrong with conventional belief. I get the impression that she would fit well in a family of modern Quakers - hard-working, tolerant, generous, warm and sensual.<br />For me, Time Trials would have been perfect if Miriam had discovered and embraced the fact that she was spiritually alone - that there was no all-seeing, all-knowing greater power. But then, this was Gail Evans' book, not mine, and she sums up perfectly why it is that people are more and more shunning the churches and more and more despising the duplicitous rhetoric of politics.<br />The great strength of Time Trials is that it offers a message of hope. Clearly, different readers get that message from different viewpoints. Maybe that was the way the author intended it. Maybe Gail Evans has the tolerence to leave her book sufficiently ambiguous that the reader can interpret as he or she will. Either way, Time Trials is an excellent narrative of one person's search for truth in a world full of extremes.	2001-06-25
US	52317033	R3BCCTFCUA4B4W	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly entertaining	Take a modicum of historical fact, stir in a twist or two of humour, add a few drops of brilliant dialogue (plus many, many months slaving over a hot pen) and you'll get a delightfully tasty 'English Passengers'.<br />For readers who've never heard of The Isle of Man, I can assure you that it exists (see my own book - Paperchase). What's more, with a name like Kneale, the author clearly has Manx ancestry. And so he picked up on the historical fact that the Manx were renowned smugglers and had a particular dislike of the English (which, to some extent, persists today). His excellent characterizations derive mainly from the individual dialogues (internal and external)and the story is told through several 'voices'.<br />Matthew Kneale has crafted a highly entertaining and historically accurate story of colonial brutality, English perfidiousness and Manx native cunning (not to mention religious fundamentalism at its worst). If you have to choose ten books to take with you on a desert island, include English Passengers!	2001-06-25
US	52317033	R3DPKOHOPHQA75	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A cut above the best	If you want to read a meaningful story of hope versus despair, past versus present, love versus lust, read Haruki Murakami's Norwegian Wood. This is a cut above the normal love story - in fact it's more than just a love story (much more) - but you'll have to read it to find out why. Let's just put it this way... some books provide candyfloss entertainment and are easily forgotten, some books make an impression and keep jumping back at you. This belongs firmly in the second category.	2001-06-25
US	52317033	R14PBW1AHLQFH4	0595176364	435110991	One Note Symphonies	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A lesson in style	A series of seemingly disconnected montages lead the reader through the thoughts and emotions of others. Sean Brijbasi strikes powerfully through his fine use of the language into other peoples' lives, like slicing through melted butter. Yet what appears to be a disconnected series of snippets melds together to form a homogenous picture - a bit like a jigsaw that has no meaning until all the pieces are matched together.<br />There's more than a hint of the poetic in Brijbasi's writing, and lovers of the language will love this book for what it is - a deep insight into the minds of others, written in a way that will make you laugh, make you cry, and, most of all, make you enjoy the power of the author's pen..	2001-06-25
US	52317033	R1FWDJPTWWNOH3	1570624240	725531037	Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within (Pocket Classics)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Not what I expected	Sometimes the unexpected comes as a good surprise - sometimes not! This was a not.<br />Natalie Goldberg (whose writing is unquestionably good) has knocked together a few pointers in a book the size of a postage stamp and released it under a major publicity blitz. Many of the so-called wisdoms in the book seem to center on meditaion which, if it works for her, is fine. Unfortunately most of us have our feet firmly on terra firma.<br />Some of the ideas she raises are credible and helpful but, to comfortably use this book, you'd need to be a minature person with very small hands! Most of the time, it fell out of my fingers and I dropped off to sleep.	2001-05-30
US	52317033	RO1VZJV55OWGV	0446609781	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compulsive and Terrifying	I enjoyed Nicci French's 'Killing me Softly' but not as much as this masterpiece. French has grabbed to suspense genre and shaken it to the core. He writing is clear but stylish and the plot is gripping and terrifying.<br />Three women with one thing in common - but what? Who will live and who will die - and why? That's the premise and you don't find out till the very last pages. Don't buy this book if you're looking for a bit of quiet beach reading. This is a read page-gripper.	2001-05-25
US	52317033	R13PMYJAWG9BLK	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A well executed novel (pun intended)	Cleverly plotted, well written, Val McDermid has written a taught suspense that deals not just with the disappearance of children in England, but with the emotions of the police officers tracking the killer.<br />The only reason I couldn't offer five stars for this beautifully written book is because I remeber the real 'Moors Murderers' in UK in the 1960s and McDermid has mixed fact with fiction in this tale. At times, I wasn't sure if I was reading a factual account or whether it was, indeed, just a novel. Maybe that was the author's intention but, for me, it distracted me a little from an otherwise brilliant piece of writing.<br />Don't let this put you off buying this book. It's an excellent read.	2001-05-25
US	52317033	R2L88RMQV1HZIK	0425178773	351280365	Day of Reckoning (Sean Dillon)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not his best	An amusing story, but not Jack Higgins at his best. Fine if you're on the beach and don't want anything too complicated.	2001-05-25
US	52317033	RZL3RQJ0BB89U	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not as good as Messiah but still worth reading	Storm failed to live up to Boris Starling's previous bestseller. It is, however, still a reasonable read. The story tells of detective Kate Beachamp leading the hunt for a serial murderer. As a second thread, Kate is one of a party caught in a sinking ship and her estranged father is leading the investigation into that.<br />There are some excellent descriptive scenes of how it feels to be aboard a sinking ferry. The hopelessness of the situation - the fear and panic - the fight for survival (at the expense of others).<br />I can't say that this book was gripping in the way that Messiah gripped me, but it was a decent read all the same.	2001-05-24
US	52317033	R1KJ9ULN0YVRHY	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not quite the gripping story I was lead to believe	The cover of A Simple Plan states 'Simply the best suspense novel of the year' - Stephen King. Sorry, but I don't agree. A Simple Plan is, indeed, an excellent novel for a first-time author and it's certainly not a bad book, but it doesn't meet the standard to be called 'Simply the best suspense novel of the year'<br />There are more deaths in this book than there are fish in the sea but the suspense fell away for most of the middle section of the story. Brief moments later on built some of it back again though generally I found it fairly flat.	2001-05-24
US	52317033	R21UYRJ7HOY8OV	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Not a prize winner, for sure	This is a poor, contrived little book that appears to intentionally keep the reader distanced from the characters. Unfortunately, style has triumphed over content.<br />The plot moves along at a reasonable pace in the first half, leaving the reader feeling vaguely satisfied, but the final fifty pages are dreadful. There simply isn't enough depth of characterisation to make us care in the slightest about the two main individuals and to sympathise with their predicaments. The final chapter is painful. Maybe, like one of his characters, Ian McEwan was running out of time.<br />I fail to see any reason why `Amsterdam' should have won the 1998 Booker Prize. For me, it passed a few hours on a long train journey but don't expect anything deep and meaningful; you'll not find it here.	2001-05-24
US	52317033	R1D45ZZ0E4RSLN	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outrageously true to life	Absolute Power is one of those 'can't put it down' books. The suspense begins on page one and doesn't finish until the end of the book. I enjoy political thrillers and the two best I've read this year are Absolute Power and E.L.Burton's '$oft Money'.<br />Baldacci has expertly crafted a plot so breathtakingly outrageous that you HAVE to believe it! As you read, you're so close that you feel like an unindicted co-conspirator. As governmental cover-ups go, this one is unimaginably over the top. Or is it? Think of Monica and Bill - think of David Baldacci !!	2001-05-24
US	52317033	R3677Z2QCEBHCU	1588209636	600178938	Fruit of a Poisonous Tree	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Stop the book, I want to get off!	Fruit of a Poisonous Tree fully lives up to its pre-publication press, delivering fast, just this side of out-of-control exploits, and characters at once believable and sympathetic. Norm Harris's acclaimed thriller is a sensation in his native USA and is fast catching on here on the other side of The Big Pond. His approach is irreverent and stylish with a high-octane sense of furious action. It's violent, moving, political, well researched and will take you gleefully in one gulp.<br />Commander Faydra Green is investigating a murder. Accused is Captain Egan Fletcher - innocent, but a pawn in a massive cover-up. Their meeting launches them on an action-packed voyage that takes them halfway around the world. At stake, a catastrophic biological war.<br />As an avid reader, I found Harris's style refreshingly stripped of superfluous adjectives and adverbs. He tells it like it is - straight to the point - and this gives his story a sense of urgency that is missing in other writers. As the plot thickens and the suspense builds, the pace quickens until the powerful climactic scenes that leave you gripping the pages.<br />This book's a must for lovers of action thrillers.	2001-05-21
US	52317033	R3P8OZTOIAWHPB	1588204030	966550406	$oft Money: The True Power in Our Nation's Capital	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wake up America!	Having just read Bill Sammon's 'At Any Cost' and David Limbaugh's 'Absolute Power', this book is a timely reminder of what's going wrong in America at the moment. Though $oft Money purports to be a work of fiction, Eric Burton either has visionary powers or he's not telling us something. I suspect the latter.<br />Before reading $oft Money, I chanced across Burton's web site (search under elburton.com). Here, in an essay entitled 'How did I get here', I saw one of the most wonderful compositions it has ever been my privilege to read. This is the power of Eric Burton's pen, and you'll find the same adept style and the same mastery of words in $oft Money (though the subject matter is somewhat different).<br />$oft Money was inspired by the recent debate over campaign finance reform and, more specifically, the role that soft money has played in recent elections. The book (apart from being an exceptionally entertaining work of fiction) poses several questions. What are the expectations of the donors of political contributions?  Are the donors' motives honorable? Why are politicians resistant to change? Just how corrupt is the White House?<br />I am a writer myself (though not in Burton's class) and all writers are avid readers. I avidly await Eric Burton's next book which, I gather, will centre on the recent random acts of violence and the need for additional gun control measures (another issue that the American people need to get to grips with). Eric Burton has a gift for writing, and an equally precious gift for understanding the issues.	2001-05-21
US	52317033	R29VFQGF7E16F7	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	5	23	40	N	N	Non-Americans knew it all along!	Sammon displays a splendid ability to consider the facts rather than the party politics. Most of what he says was fairly evident to anyone living outside USA. The only point he doesn't cover is the morality of party funding in The States. I have no axe to grind, one way or the other. Whether Gore is in the White House, or Bush, the rest of the world will still be subject to America's whims. What is sad, not just for USA, but for the whole world, is the depths to which American politics has sunk (Read E.L.Burton's book, $oft Money if you want an interesting view of this). One knows that politics in third world countries can be pretty dicey, but one hopes for better things from so-called advance society. America is NOT living up to the image it tries to portray. Consider Monica, Watergate, the Kennedy Clan. It's time for America to clean up its act.<br />From a reader's point of view, 'At Any Cost' was an entertaining read and, if you accept that Sammon has reported the facts in a non-partisan way (question that one if you will) you will find yourself drawn into a world of sleazy powergrabbing. Morality went out of the window in Florida. From an author's point of view, Sammon handles the issues with even-handedness. For sure he feels that the Gore camp were the main culprits, but he's not always complimentary about the Bush retinue either (accept this fact from an 'international' Briton living in France who thought the American election was one of the best soaps on TV last year). Sammon's writing is concise and easy to read and he hits the main points in a well-ordered, logical manner.<br />No matter what your personal views about the winner or the loser of last year's election, you should read this book. It may help you understand what's going wrong in USA at the moment. How to change it?... That's YOUR problem!	2001-05-16
US	52317033	RO4SEQOT6WIBL	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	What controversy?	Philp Pullman is the absolute master of his art. In The Amber Spyglass, smooth, effortless prose leads us to Lyra and Will's rendevous with fate You should read The Golden Compass and The Subtle Knife for the first two books in his 'Dark Materials' trilogy. Also highly recommended, the Sally Lockhart trilogy by the same author.<br />I won't waste my time repeating what other reviewers have said about Pullman's amazing gift of storytelling and his ability to weave plots and choose words that elicit the response he wants from his readers....<br />In the Dark Arts trilogy, Pullman has broken new ground, both in genre and in writing skills. Why not review the book for that unquestionable talent? The Amber Spyglass has never prostituted itself as a lesson in morals. It is just a ... good story, told by a master of his art. ...<br /><br />Leave Pullman be. He is giving pleasure to millions and his books are collecting well-earned credits for their sheer brilliance.	2001-05-16
US	52317033	RR0OF4HNTFQ0R	0871137879	53273275	Not the End of the World	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent - in line with his other books	Brookmyre has the killer touch when it comes to exposing the hypocrisy of religious fundamentalism. In 'Not the End of the World', he makes a pretty good meal of the media as well!. His humor is really 'in-your-face' - not passive beach reading as one reviewer believes - and, if you look below the (excellent) storyline, you'll see some remarkably accurate social observations about life in general.<br />Try and get his other books -'One Fine Day in the Middle of the Night', 'Quite Ugly one Morning' and 'Boiling a Frog' - they're also excellent reads.	2001-05-11
