US	52320473	R30H3N6KA3HF48	0753154439	227831482	Colditz Last Stop: Eleven Prisons, Four Countries Six Escapes (ISIS Large Print)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Colditz The Last Stop	Colditz the last stop is the incredable true story of Jack Pringle. Taking prisoner by the Germans in the early years of the war he was handed over to the Italians as a POW. Once in Italy he quikly began a series of escapes and recaptures until he was finaly sent to Colditz, a kind of maximum security for POWS being held by the Germans.<br /> Pringle tells his story in a kind of straight foward typically British stiff upper lip style. He often understates the danger in a kind of matter of fact way that is in it's own way appealing.<br />Interesting tidbits along the way include how he, with the help of David Stirling, (founder of the British SAS) were able to contact resistance movments and sympathetic civlians even from inside the prisions.  There is also a lot of intrigue, was one of thier trusted confidants an informer spoiling thier plans? or was he as he stated a spy for britian who was imprisioned as a Pow? The Question isn't realy answered in the book you have to draw your own conclusions.<br />&quot;Colditz&quot; is an interesting read well worth your time but the reader should be aware that it is written in the &quot;Queens English&quot; and if you are not used to it it can be a little distracting or confusing at times, but not really a big deal.	2001-08-15
US	52320473	R1S7DN8XJCSNAV	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Exxxxcelllent (rub hands together now)	The first thing I liked about this book is the subtitle &quot;The d'oh of Homer&quot; a clever allusion to Homer the philosopher and the new age philosophy book &quot;The tao of Pooh&quot; But the subtitle was only the first of many things about this book to like. (And you don't have to be a Simpson's fan to like this book)<br />If you were to count the truely funny sitcoms on TV in the last decade you could probably do it on one hand and still have a finger or two left over. But the &quot;Simpsons&quot; is one of those all to rare shows of late that is truely funny. &quot;The Simpons and philosophy&quot; explains what makes the show so funny in a very indepth and intellectual way by using &quot;The Simpsons&quot; as a spring board to discuss the philosophy of such intellects as varied as Plato, Kant, Arostotile, descartes and Marx (Carl not Groucho)<br />Each Character is analyzed based on his or her philosophic out look. For example: Is Bart the Nietschean Ideal? &quot;Barts whole identity is created around rebelling, bucking authority. Consequently when the authority disappears, Bart loses his identity. He no longer knows who or what he is. ... In other words far from being the Nietzchean ideal self-overcoming, self creating ideal, the being who activly gives style to his character and forges new values, Bart is still looking to identfy him self reactivly....&quot; (pg 75) hardly the Nietschean ideal.<br />&quot;In Marge we see that Aristotle's moral virtues can be successfully applied not just in the abstract, ivory towers of acadmia, but in the real, workaday cartoon world&quot;  (pg 57)<br />In addition to the analysis of the characters, subjects like Good and evil, hypocrisy, happiness and capitalism vs communisn are explored using plot lines of various episodes.<br />This is an excellent book for the philosophy student or just any ole' Simpsons fan willing to take a very intellectual look at the longest running show on TV today.	2001-08-03
US	52320473	R2D1YPIGSTG3JV	0816770115	437508686	The Incredible Secret Formula Book: Make Your Own Rock Candy, Jelly Snakes, Face Paint, Slimy Putty, and 55 More Awesome Things	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Fun for Kids seven and up	&quot;The incredible secret formula book&quot; gives plenty of neat little things to keep you and your kids busy on those boring summer days.<br />Most of the things in this book use items you probably all ready have in your home: paper, corn starch, sugar and various food items. <br />This book details things like How to make invisible ink or disappering ink. If that doesn't interest you there's making chalk out of egg shells or how to recylce paper. you can even make &quot;Mutant slime&quot; a kids favorite. Don't like mutant Slime? how 'bout psylly slime or miss muppet slime? victal slime or udderly Gross slime?  lots of fun for kids and thier mom and or dad.	2001-07-26
US	52320473	R2WMW69PXYROAL	0312261799	938167628	Inside Rikers: Stories from the World's Largest Penal Colony	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Life on and of the 'Rock'	Before I start This review a few notes, I have meet the author once or twice having worked in the same jail I also work or worked with all the officers named (a few have recently retired) in this book and know of nearly all the inmates in the book. <br />Jennifer Wynn is liberal and at times overly forgiving of inmates, (She's soft though not as much as I would have guessed) This was expected, she was a journalist and now works to help rehabilitate inmates as they reenter the street ('New York' as they say). In a few passages she uses worn out silly retoric of the left  such as: The silly Jesse Jackson misdirect &quot;It cost more to jail the to Yale&quot;  This of course is not just comparing apples and oranges it's comparing apples and mack trucks one has nothing what so ever to do with the other. At another point she notes that New Yok city  spends about 5 times more per inmate in jail than it does on students in it's public school, again a bad comparision but since most (but no quite all) inmates on Rikers are at best funtional illiterates that rocked out of NYC public schools it probably says more about public schooling than it does about NYC jails. <br />Politics aside it is clear that Wynn has a truly Good heart and is generaly concerned and compassionate about helping inmates turn thier lives around and that is a good thing (and of course it is her job).<br />She has also writen a very readable honest look a the culture of Rikers Island and the innner city. Several passages made me chuckle out loud like her description of prision poetry and trying to teach inmates how to write real poetry.  Every once in awhile there are paragraghs where it seems like she almost &quot;gets it&quot;  for instance in one chapter she describes how a former inmate is showing off his 30 thousand dollars in ill gotten money to her. He explains to her that when his medicare is approved he will go into rehab at taxpayers expense her response is &quot;'Medicaid? you don't need medicaid, Frank! you could pay for six months at Hazelden with this kind of money'. He didn't get it. he was so used to being taken care of by the state that the thought of paying for drug treatment didn't occour to him.&quot; <br />I found this book to more enjoyable the Ted Conovers's &quot;Newjack&quot; because in was not soley focused on the jail setting it takes a much wider view and encompases the everday life of inmates and former inmates as they struggle to stay straight. It is also more balanced in it's treatment of officers and inmates.	2001-07-23
US	52320473	R3JPIBT89YFFQD	0898704103	227673943	Edith Stein: The Untold Story of the Philosopher and Mystic Who Lost Her Life in the Death Camps of Auschwitz	Books	5	65	66	N	N	A great bioagraphy	Edith Stien was a Jew who in the 1920's of Germany converted to Catholicism and then became a nun much to the dismay of her orthodox mother. Those who are have heard of Edith Stien know that ultimately she was martyred in Auschwitz because of her outspokenness against the Nazi's as well as the fact that the Catholic Church in occupied Holland was the only large church organization willing to preach against the nazi regeim.<br />What must people don't know about Edith Stien was what an incredibly couragous and brillant woman she was even long before she was martyred. As this book tells the story , often in her own words and in the words of those that were close to her, she was a college professer, philosopher, and political activist at a time when a professional woman was at best a grade school teacher or nurse. Even as a nun she worked on her philosophy and her writing.<br />Waltraud Herbstrith does an excellent job portraying the complete Edith Stien, Her faith Her family and her intellect. An excellent book.	2001-07-19
US	52320473	RJ1GG3YOVFBYW	0809166372	632883343	Maximilian Kolbe: Saint of Auschwitz	Books	3	26	39	N	N	A Good beginners guide to the saint's life and death	For those not familiar with the Story of maximilian Kolbe this book is an adequate if flawed start. Maximilian Kolbe was a Catholic priest/friar who voluntarly gave his life in Auschwitz, where he was imprisioned for speaking out against the Nazi regiem, so that a Jew may live. The man whom he died for ultimately did in fact survive Auchwitz and tell his Story. While the Story of Maximilian Kolbe is inspiring, tragic and ulitimatly uplifting I was a little disappointed at the way in which this book tells that Story. First of all this book is not a very in depth look at the life and times of Kolbe, it is written at about a sixth grade level, and often over states what should be painfully obvious to any adult reader with a basic knowledge in history of WWII. The other thing that I disliked about this book was the way in which it portrayed the faith of Max Kolbe. Maximilian Kolbe in this book is portrayed as being extremly Marian in his faith. Through out the book Mary and terms like &quot;the Blessed mother&quot; &quot;our Blessed lady&quot; &quot;the mother of God&quot; ect are used over and over again while Jesus is only mentioned by name a small number of times. While I have no doubt that Mary was an important part of his faith, (She was after all the one who offered him the crowns of purity and martyrdom ) I would like to belive that his faith was much more complete than portrayed in this book. Also as a Catholic I felt that this portrayal plays into the protestant sterotype of Mary worshoping Catholics. Mary by all means should be given her due both as a saint and as the mother of Jesus but should not be placed above Jesus himself.This book could due well in teaching Grade schoolers about Maximilian Kolbe, Auschwitz, the Nazi's as well as WWII but adults would due better with other more in depth books such as &quot;Catholic Martys of the twetieth Century&quot; by Robert Royal	2001-07-16
US	52320473	R3UJNWHFKUSN81	0140544518	276032073	The True Story of the Three Little Pigs	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The wolf's story	I loved this book! Not only is it an entertaining book for children but adults as well. It is a funny and slightly sarcastic look at mordern American culture where every Criminal gets a chance to explain away or excuse his or her crime.<br />You see the wolf realy didn't mean to blow down the little pig's houses it was all just an innocent accident. (Besides they should have built them better)<br />And the part about him being a big bad wolf? All a creation of the media to jazz up his criminal trial and sell more newspapers.<br />It's rare to find a childrens book these days that is fun and creative but this one is both and belongs in every house with children that have heard the pig's version of the this crime against fairy tale swine.	2001-06-29
US	52320473	R3ACK3XD6RYV1T	0874994179	716909950	La Verdadera Historia De Los Tres Cerditos / The True Story of the Three Little Pigs (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great kids Book the the adult can love also	I loved this take on the &quot;Three Little Pigs&quot; as did my kids though for different reasons. My daughter enjoys this book because it is a humorous Wolf's versions of the &quot;Three Little Pigs&quot; her favorite children's classic. I like it because it presented a great sarcastic though honest parady of contemparary Media and American culture.   You see according to the wolf, He really didn't mean to blow down the little pig's houses it was all an honest mistake, and the part about him being a big bad wolf? Just a media creation to jazz up his trial and sell more newspapers. Its rare to find a childrens book now a days that are even a little bit creative but this one is pure genius both in it's simplicity but also in  the way it portrays the world around us. An outstanding childrens book for the whole family.	2001-06-26
US	52320473	R2Y3NQ7GLEG5X9	0345440331	920633675	Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief	Books	2	19	40	N	N	Good for would be neuroscientests and psychiatrists	&quot;If one starts with the wrong assumuption and is logical from that point on, he will never get back on the road to the truth.&quot;<br />The above quote from Cajetan pretty much sums up This book. The Authors are entirly logical in the research and writting but they begin with a few bad assumptions. (Mostly mired in new age theology). For instance the authors seem to feel that all religions are equaly Good (or bad depending on point of view) and that all religions spring from  Evolution creating a human mind that needs to reconcile mans fear of death and the unknown with the desire to live. They also seem to feel that if God does exist he exist only within the mind.    pg:37 &quot;Correspodingly, God cannot exist as a concept or as a reality anyplace but in your mind. In this sense, both spiritual experiences and experiences of a more ordinary material nature are made real to the mind in the very same way- through the processing powers of the brain and the cognetive funtions of the mind..... Whether it is in fact a perception of an actual spiritual reality, or merely an interpitation of sheer neurological funtion-all that is meaningful in human spirituality happens in the mind. in other words , the mind is mystical by default.&quot;   Pg:53 &quot;The evidence futher compels us to belive that if God does exist, the only place he can manifest his existance would be in the tangled neural pathways and physiological structures of the brain.&quot;   The problem of this kind of thinking (aside from the obvious theological objections based on western religous belifes) is that as the author's themselves point out every experience is &quot;real&quot; in your mind. If for instance you eat an apple your senses will fire neurons in varous parts of your brain in essence than eating an apple is merly a group of neurons firing in a precise order and could be said to exist only in your mind. <br />So the argument that Because a religous experence can only be measured in the mind and thefor is not nessacerly real is a circular argument signifing nothing.<br />I gave this book a second star because I found the science part of this book interesting and useful the authors explain the various parts of the brain and how they interact with each other  in a very clear and easy to understand manner.  Overall however I found the book wanting for a clear picture of the stated purpose of the book, at least as portrayed in the title.	2001-06-03
US	52320473	R1GL6OSXE9V7YO	0898704200	881198293	Treasure in Clay: The Autobiography of Fulton J. Sheen	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Treasure On Paper	Fulton J Sheen is one of America's Best Known and loved Catholic Bishops in the 20th Century. Known mostly for his great oratory skills on his TV program &quot;Life is Worth Living&quot;<br /> To say that the autobiography of Fulton J Sheen is a treasure would not be an understatement at all. All of Fulton Sheen's wit insight and warmth is in this book.  Unlike autobiographies of other great orators Bishop Sheen's Autobiography carries all the emotion and humor of his speaches with out losing any appeal.<br />Among the many great insights in this book are Sheen on his autobiography: &quot;Carlye was wrong in saying that 'there is no life of a man faithfully recorded'. Mine was! The ink used was blood, the parchment was skin the pen a spear. over eighty chapters make up the book, each for a year of my life. Though I pick it up every day it never reads the same. The more I lift my eyes from it's pages the more I feel the need of doing my own autobiography that all might see what I want them to see. But the more I fasten my gaze on it, the more  I see that everything worthwhile in it was received as a gift from Heaven. Why then should I glory in it?&quot;<br />Sheen on Communism &quot;Communism also has a complete philosophy... If one starts with the wrong assumption and is logical from that point on , he will never get back to the road of truth.  Communism is a religion ... That is why it appeals to those who are without faith and why Soviet Russia is today (WAS) regarded as the last hope of the western man who lives without God.&quot;<br />There are numours great Quotes and stories/antidotes in this book on subjects ranging from missionaries and conversions to reflections on various Popes, to teaching and Celibacy.  <br />Treasure in clay is a great book written by one of the twentieth centurie's greatest Catholics	2001-05-09
US	52320473	R3QOMHJWSCWXPK	1893554198	386838195	Against All Hope: A Memoir of Life in Castro's Gulag	Books	5	7	7	N	N	How much torture can one man take?	Armando Valladare's memoir &quot;Against All Hope&quot; is an incredible story of torture, biological and physciological experimentation that can almost defy belife.<br />For twenty two years Armando Valladares took the worst that the Castro's communist goverment could throw at him and managed to presevere through faith and prayer. His treatment in Castro's Gulags ranged from bad to the truly demonic and included Nazi like experiments in mind control. <br />When asked where he and the other political prisonors got the strength to stand up to all the torture He replied &quot;WE have an inexhaustable supply, .. an imperishable source. That is what constantly feeds us. It's love, Then gripping a bunch of flowers said &quot;These flowers are much more powerful than bayonets. they came before the bayonets and when the bayonets have disappeared from the face of the earth they will still exsist.&quot; This in a nutshell is the overpowering message of &quot;Against All Hope&quot;.<br />Still one is left wondering how he survived and why didn't  Castro's Communists just kill him and get it over with surely they had no respect for his life and it would have made no difference in the long run to Castro if he died. One can only conclude that Armando had God's favor if only so that when he was finaly freed he could tell his story and the stroies of his fellow prisoners to a world that at best ignores, and all to often condones Castro's must barbaric abuses.<br />&quot;Against All Hope&quot; is a must read for all who idolize Castro's Carribian &quot;paradise&quot;. Unfortunatley Armando is probably for the most part preaching to the converted.	2001-05-03
US	52320473	R230FO0FC23TY9	0967009804	246906824	The New World Religion: The Spiritual Roots of Global Government	Books	3	24	46	N	N	The New world Religion	This could have been a good book on the New world order/ world goverment and it's new age spiritual anti God agenda. Kahn details the new age belifes well and explains in good detail how new age leaders deceive people in an effort to control the world through a world goverment. <br />Unfortunately as with so many books on this subject written by protestant teachers &quot;The New world Religion&quot; contains all the by now almost standard anticatholic rhetoric. In addition to misrepresenting Catholic Doctrines such as devotion to Mary, works and baptism, Mr Kahn smears all Catholics by linking them to Catholics who have been seduced by the false teachings of the new age religions.<br />For example on page 201 he writes:  &quot;As a life long Catholic he (Robert muller) had been praticing meditation for years in the name of Christinity, without realizing the occoult origin of this type of meditation. He had been combining Eastern mysticism with the teachings of Catholicism. Apparently, Muller had become convinced that catholicism and the pantheistic religions of the east have the same spritual roots, a conclusion also reached by Telhard Chardin.&quot;<br />What Kahn doesn't tell you in the paragragh is that Telhard Chardin was a catholic priest that had been excommunicated for his heresey by the Catholic church his views and the views of Robert Muller in no way represent the views of the church or any significant portion of it's members.<br />In the appendx Mr. Kahn has a bogus secret oath that is alledgedly to be sworn to by members of the Jesuit order his source for this oath is the congresional record in the year 1883. The problem with quoting anything from the Congresional record is that any member of congress can place any written material into the congresional record wether it is true or not, no effort is made to verify anything that is entered into the record. Mr Kahn does not state what member of congress placed this alledged oath on the record or the original source of the alledged oath.<br /> There is a lot of useful information on the new age belifes and there links with the new world order crowd in this book. however the book's sometimes silly anticatholic bias is so distracting I can not recommend this book all that highly which is sad because this book had some potential.	2001-04-13
US	52320473	RITF6KS85YZZZ	0520215982	230148442	Spider Eaters: A Memoir	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Spider Eaters	After reading &quot;Spider Eaters&quot; and several books like it (&quot;Son of the revolution&quot;, &quot;A Woman's ordeal&quot;, &quot;Troublemaker&quot;.. ect) I wasn't Sure how to review this one. &quot;Spider Eaters&quot; is a much more complex memoir than the others. &quot;Spider Eaters&quot; does not have the simple emotional punch of other memoirs in it's class yet as a memoir it works well. As a first person acount of mordern China it works well but the book is so much more than just a personal History. Spider Eaters is probably best described as a personal psychologial drama. <br />How does a poor little rich girl survive the mental abuse that is the demonicaly inspired communism of mordern day china? How does a girl with dreams and aspirations of any little girl suppress those dreams and thoughts when they conflict with the strict communist party line and exposing them can mean ruin?<br />Rae Yang first creates a fantasy hero, an almost Christ like figure who resuces the poor stands up for the wokers even to the point of death. Later when &quot;politicaly correect&quot;  she transfers  that figure to Chairman Moa and ultimately   begins to see herself as that figure. A Savior who is betrayed by those she  loved. Later still while living in the US she must find  ways to reconcile all the various personalities into one functioning adult. A psychologist could have a field day with this book. Spider Eaters to me is a frighting look at the damage Communism can do to the minds of those it inslaves, and how a person can cope once freed of it's grasp.	2001-03-08
US	52320473	R2RYVBGBO20JGV	0879739266	175582079	The Twelve: The Lives of the Apostles After Calvary	Books	5	36	39	N	N	The Twelve	The &quot;Lives of the Apostles After Calvary is in informitive and eye opening look at the lives and personalities of the twelve apostles of Christ.  <br />Bernard Ruffin presents a human side to the apostles that is not present much anywhere else. Ruffin freely admits that information on the lives of some of the apostles such as Thomas or Barthalmew is lacking at best and there for his conclusions are sometimes conjunture. Mr Ruffin however presents a wide range of sources from historical doucuments to simple legend to present a profile of each apostle that includes thier strengths  and weakness' but most importantly their faith. <br /> This is an excellent book for any Christian esp.. one who also happens to be a history buff. <br />There is as one early reviewer put it, a slight Catholic bias to this book, but it is only slight, being Catholic I of course not only didn't take any offence in this but found it some what refressing. There realy is nothing here that would offend the belife of any seriuos protest and this book can be highly recommended for Christians of all Denomonations.	2001-03-07
US	52320473	REO5RXJNSG6NS	1880741482	630539800	Ambush at Ruby Ridge : How Government Agents Set Randy Weaver Up and Took His Family Down	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Ambush At Ruby Ridge	On August 21st 1992 A group of six U.S. Marshals dressed in camouflage and armed with fully automatic machine guns with silencers (Which would land an ordinary citizen in federal prision for about 30 years) attempted to serve a warrant on Randy Weaver for selling an illegal shotgun. In the process a U.S. mashall was killed and they shot Randy's 14 year old son in the back as well as his dog. In the stand off that followed Rady's wife was killed with a bullet to her head while holding her baby, Randy and a friend would also be shot. <br />&quot;Ambush at Ruby Ridge&quot; is a straight foward retelling of the events at Ruby ridge. It is a very fair and balanced accout of what happened it niether demonizes nor glorifies Randy Weaver and his religous and/or political belifes as so many others have done with regard to this incident. Never the less one is hard pressed to not be outraged at the heavy handed tactics used to bring a minor felon to trail and the censorship and propaganda tactics used to cover up the excessive use of force involved.<br />Ambush at Ruby Ridge is an excellent book esp. for any one interested in Police butality, goverment oppression or human rights violations.	2001-02-01
US	52320473	R302VVPJORKDD0	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Abandon Ship	In the middle Of the night on July 30th 1945, Just 2 weeks before the end of world war II, The USS Indianapolis was sunk by a Japanesse Sub half way between the Phillipines and Guam. Although 800 sailors would make it off the ship only a little more than 300 would survive the terrible conditions of the sea because the United States Navy failed to realize the the ship had even been sunk. When survivors were found nearly five full days later a search for a scapegoat was almost as immediate as the seach for more survivors. It was unfortunate for the captian of the Indianapolis, Captian Mcvay, that the scapegoating fell upon him, even though he was sent into potentialy hostile waters with out sub detection equipment or an escort leaving him and his ship defenseless against enemy submarines which the navy apparently knew were in the area. <br />Abandon ship! is a well written account of the tragedy of the Indianapolis and it's aftermath. Originaly written in 1958 by Richard Newcomb, It suffers only a little from the fact that the material is a little dated and important facts were covered up and or classified as secrect until more recently. For example The navy timed the release of the reporting of the sinking at the very hour President Truman was announcing the Japanesse surrender. Newcomb writes that this was likly a coincidence, but would anyone realy belive that it was merely a coincidence today? Also the fact that the navy knew there was a Japanesse sub in the area from classified intellgence reports was covered up pretty well. <br />One of the most interesting and moving parts of the book is the afterward (or more aptly a follow up) by Peter Maas, describing how a young 6th grade boy wacthing the movie &quot;Jaws&quot; set in motion a campaign to set the record of the Indianapolis and her Captian straight. <br />I highly recommend this book to all an excellent read, on a disaster that far to few are aware of.<br />An update: As of July 2001 Captain Mc Vay has beencleared of any wrong doing by the United States Navy, about 33 years late for the Captian who killed himself in 1968.	2001-01-29
US	52320473	R265JQWX5XKEDP	0965813754	840188166	Barley Cakes : Parables for the 21st Century	Books	3	1	2	N	N	a recepie for Barley Cakes	Take 1 part Asop fables<br />1 part parables of Jesus<br />mix in a cup of new age feel good pap and read for about an hour or until completly bored.<br />the result is &quot;Barley Cakes parables for the twenty first century&quot;.<br />While the over all message of  &quot;Barley cakes&quot; is not bad it lacks the insight and wisdom of the parables of Jesus nor does it have the simplicity of the asop fables.<br />&quot;Barley Cakes&quot; is best served to those who are luke warm or in small portions to children as a bed time snack.<br />Bottom line &quot; barley cakes is a bland read that gets a &quot;A&quot; for effort and message but a &quot;D&quot; for content.	2001-01-16
US	52320473	R2X6IMHGEXYEQZ	1577780728	859183947	Jesus Freaks: Stories of Those Who Stood for Jesus, the Ultimate Jesus Freaks	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Jesus freaks	While  &quot;Jesus Freaks&quot; is a important book worth reading it is not the best book on the subject. I preffered &quot;Catholic Martyrs of the Twentieth Century&quot; by Robert Royal because it gave a much more detailed account of the lives of each martyr. This book contains many stories of people who have suffered beating, imprisionment and even horrable deaths rather than renounce Jesus as thier Savior. While many of the stories are moving and tell of incredable faith, I wanted to know more about that individual. Most of the stories  in this book are between 1 and 3 pages long some are little more than a paragraph with a name and how they died for thier belife. I felt like I wanted to know these brave individuals better. How did they wind up where they were? What or who lead them to thier courage in Christ? What kind of backround did they come from' Rich poor? Religous secualar? sometimes these questions are answed sometimes they can be summized other times the reader is left to wonder. I also would have liked more footnotes and supporting evidence on some of the stories (of course the nature of the martydom doesn't always allow this) The list of countries and their current level of abuse in the back of this book is a nice touch as are the refferals on where to find more infomation and how you may be able to make  difference.  I felt thier was a slight but discerable anticatholic lean in this book though to be fair they do qoute Mother Terresa &quot;Jesus is everything&quot; ect..  all in all a good book that reminds us in the   west that we should always try to remeber in our prayers and in our hearts those who are suffering and or dying for thier faith in Jesus.	2001-01-11
US	52320473	R2Q8JMF0AJJO8D	0967235715	86792524	2006: The Chautauqua Rising	Books	5	12	28	N	N	Among the best novels I have ever read	Jack Cashill has written an extrodinary novel that is at once incredabley complex and yet very simple and easy to follow. TJ Colon is  sports writter who is all to aimlessly drifting through his life until he gets a phone call telling him his father has committed suicide. (Think Vince Forster here) Where his life once revolved around the trivial (IE Sports and his nillistic girlfriend whom he lives with) he is now thrown into a much larger reality namely the political. TJ is quickly drawn into a web of deverse indivduals who are ready to stand up for indivdual rights and the constition of the United States, and ulitimately he becomes thier leader. Along they way he learns the truth about his father and his own abilities.Despite some blatant forshadowing by Mr Cashill this novel has great unpredictable plot twist and suspensce. It rates with the best of any Ayn Rand novel, like An Ayn Rand novel it has a positive ending unlike an Ayn Rand novel this one is totaly belivable! An absulute most read. I hope someone has the gutts to make it a major motion picture (Though I wouldn't hold my breath)	2001-01-10
US	52320473	RSV76L5NDWXF3	1888763000	155684412	Storm Chaser: In Pursuit of Untamed Skies	Books	4	9	12	N	N	5 star photography, text a little dated	&quot;Strorm Chaser in pursuit of untamed Skies&quot; contains some of the most awesome weather photography you will find anywhere. Lightning, tornadoes cloud formations there all here in incredable photo's.The slightly weaker part of this book is the text (makes for good reading none the less) written mostly in a diary type format that takes you on the chase from warren faidley's earliest days starting as a news photographer to the first attempts at lighting photography to the professional storm chaser. The best reading in the book is the &quot;chase&quot; of hurricane Andrew. Chase is not realy the proper word here it's more like &quot;Lets set up here in this seventh story parking lot and wait&quot; still I found this chapter to be the most adventurest of the book. Interestinly it had the weakest photography in the book, (I'm partial to the lightning and tornado photos).A few points in the book will have you checking the publication date, most noteabley pg 72 &quot;Oklahoma City is located in one of the most potentialy dangerous locations within the (tornado) alley. It has been struck at least 33 times in the past 90 years although NO MAJOR TORNADO HAS STRUCK&quot; (emphass mine) Of couse that all changed forever on May 3rd 1999, when one of the greatest outbreaks of tornados ever stuck the oklahoma city area with dozens of tornados including several F4's and f5's.  Still if you ever find yourself channel surfing and realize you spend a lot of time on the weather channel or love to wacth those specials about wild weather on the discovery channel like I do, you will throughly enjoy this book.	2001-01-03
US	52320473	R2PP7SG0LWCHPI	1888763000	155684412	Storm Chaser: In Pursuit of Untamed Skies	Books	4	3	3	N	N	5 star photography, text a little dated	&quot;Strorm Chaser in pursuit of untamed Skies&quot; contains some of the most awesome weather photography you will find anywhere. Lightning, tornadoes cloud formations there all here in incredable photo's.The slightly weaker part of this book is the text (makes for good reading none the less) written mostly in a diary type format that takes you on the chase from warren faidley's earliest days starting as a news photographer to the first attempts at lighting photography to the professional storm chaser. The best reading in the book is the &quot;chase&quot; of hurricane Andrew. Chase is not realy the proper word here it's more like &quot;Lets set up here in this seventh story parking lot and wait&quot; still I found this chapter to be the most adventurest of the book. Interestinly it had the weakest photography in the book, (I'm partial to the lightning and tornado photos).A few points in the book will have you checking the publication date, most noteabley pg 72 &quot;Oklahoma City is located in one of the most potentialy dangerous locations within the (tornado) alley. It has been struck at least 33 times in the past 90 years although NO MAJOR TORNADO HAS STRUCK&quot; (emphass mine) Of couse that all changed forever on May 3rd 1999, when one of the greatest outbreaks of tornados ever stuck the oklahoma city area with dozens of tornados including several F4's and f5's.  Still if you ever find yourself channel surfing and realize you spend a lot of time on the weather channel or love to wacth those specials about wild weather on the discovery channel like I do, you will throughly enjoy this book.	2001-01-03
US	52320473	R1ZLOY1XYJWJ9	0884193748	916492396	The Bait of Satan: Your Response Determines Your Future	Books	3	7	13	N	N	The bait of satan	I normaly don't directly critize other reviewers (were all entitled to our opinion) but it is painfully obvious that the two one star &quot;reviewers&quot; of this book never read this book beyond the title. This book is not about satanism. Having stated that I do have a few problems with this book which I will cover later in this review John Bevere has written a pretty good book about the need for forgiveness and humility Or why we should not so easily take offense. It is on this level that this book works best. Because of pride and our inability to humble ourselves to those who have wronged us we destroy our relationships with each other and more importantly with God. Mr Bevere does an excellent job in describing how this inability to forgive destroys relationships. Although this book is written in the &quot;micro&quot; level (That is on/about one on one relationships) he does such an excellent job that one can see from his writting the larger &quot;macro&quot; picture, our inability as a society to forgive one another has lead to the politcaly correct culture and victimhood culture. (It's not my fault it's the Goverments/my parents/ my social status ..ect fault) It is because of our inability to forgive that we have some many problems in society today.  The problem I had with this book is that Mr Bevere writes in a deciedly Protestant manner that I as a Catholic found, given the subject matter, Ironic almost to the point of being funny.   Mr Bevere's thesis is that we should not be so easily offended yet the entire protestant reformation was based on a few individuals (Martin Luther, Calvin ect) being offended by someone or something within the Cathoolic church. Through out the book He laments Lay people and ministers who hop from one church to another because the find some one or something in there previous church offensive. Some go on to form their own church hence the thousands of protestant denominations. What better argument is there against the protestant doctrine of sola scripture is there than that? (read &quot;Not by scripture alone a catholic refutation of the protestant doctrine of sola sripture&quot;)  On page 80 he writes about John chapter 6 &quot;Most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the son of man and drink his blood, you have no life in you..... When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples complaind about this, he said to them &quot;Does this offend you?&quot; he goes on note that many disciples left becuase of this. Of course this could be because they knew him to be speaking in literal terms meaning real presence some thing most protestants deny. The point Mr Bevere was trying to make is that if someone denies the truth of Jesus and leaves the flock then let them be offended by truth. All in all this is a pretty good book that will give you somethings to think about with regards to your relationship with God and others. I can recomend this book but with some resevations for Catholics.	2000-12-24
US	52320473	R3923ERALU1WS1	1579180558	843012855	Not by Scripture Alone: A Catholic Critique of the Protestant Doctrine of Sola Scriptura	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Not by Scriptue Alone	Imagine a society where every one was able to read a penal law book and decide for themselves what the law means, without taking into account legal precedent, history, the constition or legislative intent. One could almost imagine in such a society a legal case where a defendant before the court could argue that he didn't break the law because the meaning of the word &quot;IS&quot; is questionable at least as it pretains to the law in question. (Haven't we gone down this road already?) Such is the anarchy that the protestant doctrine Sola Scripture has unleashed on those of the Christian faith. In &quot;Not by Scripture Alone&quot; Robert Sungenis puts forth a powerful argument refuting all the arguments for the protestant tradition of &quot;sola scripture.&quot; Nowhere in the  bible is the doctrine of sola scripture supported in fact the opposite is quite true, in the old testement one tribe was given responsibility to interpet and administer God's laws (the Levite's) In the new testement that reponsibilty was given to Peter and the other apostles and thier appointed succesors. Of the hundreds of arguments made in this book a few are indeed circular as a previous reviewer noted however the vast majority are Well founded and reasoned with solid scripture and history to back them up. Those who argue for sola scripture simply can't come up with enough history and Scripture to refute the facts presented here with out themselves resorting to circular arguments.This is an excellent and thought provoking book for anyone interested in biblical doctrine.	2000-12-07
US	52320473	R1XX2HFVZFF1OE	087973342X	268350430	Anti-Catholicism in American Culture	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Anti Catholicism In American Culture	&quot;Anti-Catholicism in American Culture&quot; Is a well written and comprehensive history of anticatholicism in America. Anticatholicism in America is as old as America itself. It arrived on the shores of America with the pilgrims who brought with them Anti-catholic feelings stirred up by the British royalty after Henry the VIII'S break with rome and the gunpowder plot in the late 16th and early 17th century. As detailed in the book Anti catholic bigotry has evolved over the years from one of True doctrinal difference and political differece's to a bigotry based on rejecting anything upholding moral standards and a belife in a christian God. A large part of this book deals with bigotry in the media, and contains a chapter by William Donahue on how to deal with  and respond to antiCatholicism in the media. William Donohue is a course one of the most effective in this area and his work alone in this book is worth the price of the book.	2000-11-22
US	52320473	RUOVS80UGYQKJ	0793821622	429984366	The Guide to Owning Dwarf Rabbits (Guide to Owning A...)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good basic guide for the begginer	&quot;The Guide to owning Dwarf Rabbits&quot; is a good basic guide to the first time rabbit owner. This book covers topics like Housing, feeding and health. &quot;The Guide to Owning Dwarf Rabbits&quot; is written in an easy to understand style and contains all you need to know for your first rabbit, but is not very in depth for those with rabbit experience.	2000-11-15
US	52320473	R3OG253MC05F8O	0966805631	981415468	Hope of the Wicked	Books	4	18	20	N	N	The best New world order/global goverment history book yet.	Hope For The Wicked is the best book on the new world order I,ve ever read. It is extremly well researched documented and foot noted. Unlike many books on the new world order this book is straight up facts no silly conspiracies about alien bodies ufo's or milatary bases on the moon, just well doucumented history. I had only two minor problems with this book, the first is that part three &quot;Manipulation and abuse of technology&quot; contains chapters, on HAARP and technologies that are obliterating personal privacy, that are a bit dry and boring. (Can anyone write extensivly on these subjects without being boring?)<br />The second problem was also minor but did take away some credability from this book. On page 250 Ted Flynn includes a quote alledegly from Janet Reno in which she claims anyone who belives in the second coming of christ, home schools their children, belives the second ammendments protects an individuals right to bare arms ect... is a cultist. While this almost certainly sums up Janet Reno's personal belife their is no record of her ever actualy saying that and is in all probability a mordern &quot;Urban Myth&quot;. These minor problems aside this is still an excellent book that should be read by all freedom loving citizens.	2000-11-01
US	52320473	R3JF8JVJBV4QLB	0385499515	569012921	I Like Being Catholic	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Treasured traditions rituals and stories	If your a catholic looking for spirtuality this book is not it. While this book does contain some small bites of spirituality, it is mostly a collection  of essays and stories from famous and not so famous catholics on why they like being catholic. In this book you will find insights and thoughts about being catholic, from liberal poloticians like Mario Cumo (Who supports abortion &quot;rights&quot; right up to &quot;Partial birth&quot;) to the most consevative catholic officals such as the late John Cardinal O'conner most noted for his active prolife teachings.<br />Subjects covered under this broad umbrella topic include Favorite prayers, traditions and rituals, Saints, and catholic culture among others. In the chapter on catholic culture there is a list of the ten best cathoic movies which I most take issue with. How could anyone make a list of the ten best catholic movies and include in it &quot;ET: The Extra Terrestial&quot; and yet not include &quot;The Sound of Music&quot; is beyond me. Still all in all this is a good book for catholics and noncatholics alike to read on a lazy afternoon, nothing earth shaking just a fun interesting and on occasion enlighting read.	2000-10-15
US	52320473	RBM06FYUIW541	0451201507	608936577	Drudge Manifesto	Books	4	11	13	N	N	the dawning of a new era	100 years from now when the history of the eary internet  is written, Al Gore's name will be at best a mere footnote, but Matt Drudge's name will be forever linked with internet news. Whether you like him or not, the way we get news where we get it and how we get will never be the same after Matt Drudge.&quot;Drudge a Manifesto&quot; could barely be called a &quot;Manifesto&quot; (Drudge a memior would be more apt.) it contains a minimum of motive and little in the way of future intentions. It does contain a lot of knocks at the old guard media however. Mostly written in a unique rapid fire kind of sentence sturcture that works well with the subtle but bitting humor and cultural satire in this book. If you were thinking of purchasing this book for new tid bits in the Clinton scandals or other Hollywood stories, forget it there realy isn't any thing new here. but it is a fun easy, light read worth the price of the book.	2000-10-12
US	52320473	R3NEYQ69P3SODK	0830822038	123309549	How the News Makes Us Dumb: The Death of Wisdom in an Information Society	Books	3	6	31	N	N	Does the news make us dumb or are people intellectualy lazy?	At the end of this book under a heading entittled &quot;Directions for reviewing this book&quot; Mr. summerville writes: &quot;There is no way to review this book in a few paragraphs...... So all that can be said is that you'll have to read the whole thing. It's short. The test of it's value is whether the reader can ever see a newspaper the same way afterward.&quot; Well with appologies to Mr. summerville here is my review.<br />If the sole test of this books value was truely whether the reader can ever see a newspaper the same way afterward, then I would have to give this book one star. This book is first of all largly preaching to the converted, it is doutful that anyone who spends five minutes a day with the USA Today, a half hour wacthing the local news and a half hour wacthing Peter Jennings and then considers him or herself well informed will be reading this book. Secondly any one can can think for themselves and think criticaly already knows much of what is presented in this book.<br />About two years ago Channel two here in New York (a CBS affiliate) advertised it's reformulated local news progam with a slogan (I'm paraphrasing) &quot;More news in less time&quot; in other words they would report more stories with fewer and fewer details. So the one or at most two stories that had any semblence of importance would have even less indepth coverage or analysis. They could have just as easly said &quot;weve dumbed down the news so you'll be more entertained.&quot; It is this reduction of news to smaller and smaller sound bites that this book details and the effects that it has on the public at large. Ironicaly Mr Summerville is guilty of this himself in this book. At the end of each chapter he quotes seeminly contradicting headlines from newspapers that were published on the same day. for instance:  &quot;Detroit free press, Nov. 17 1988:'pill doubles heart disease risk'&quot; &quot;Detroit News, same day: 'Encouraging news for users of the pill'&quot;   When Mrsummerville reduces these stories to nothing more than thier headlines they would seem contradictory, but it is not necessarly so. The pill does increase the risk of heart disease but it decreases the risk of contracting cancer. So both headlines can be correct and you can chose the headline you like depending on whether you an optimist or a pessimist, or perhaps wether you wish to incourage or discourage the use of the pill.<br />On page 10 he writes &quot;This book will explain why we are losing interest in the news and why it is actually a positive sign. the American public may be showing a healthy suspicion  not just of the kind of news were getting but of the whole concept of daily news.  While I hope that the American people are becoming more skeptical of the news media I doubt that they are losing interest in the news They are merly change sources from CNN and the New York Times to talk radio and the internet.<br />Mr summerville would like us to become less dependent on daily news and read more books and monthy periodicals. While I certianly would encourage people to read more books I think we need people more informed by daily news intake, not news about Modona or some other celebrity but real news, in depth knoweldge of important current events and polotics. All in all this is an interesting look at the media but not a gret book.	2000-09-27
US	52320473	R11TLLQ1AJNCQM	0879739452	404256709	Did Darwin Get It Right?: Catholics and the Theory of Evolution	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Another must have for your creationist library	Unlike &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot; and &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot;, &quot;Did Darwin Get It Right?&quot; takes a slightly more dogmatic Catholic/Christian take on the Creation/evolotion debate. Like &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot; The arguments against Evolution are explained in a straight foward manner that does not require a degree in biology or chemistry to understand.<br />An excellent suggested reading list as well as a bibliography are included and are a nice touch. This book is an excellent book for people just beginig thier search for the truth about evolution as it is less technical than &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot; and a quicker less in depth read than &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot;.	2000-09-21
US	52320473	R3WU9TLOF51LM	0879739452	404256709	Did Darwin Get It Right?: Catholics and the Theory of Evolution	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Anther must have for yourcreationist library	Unlike &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot; and &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot;, &quot;Did Darwin Get It Right?&quot; takes a slightly more dogmatic Catholic/Christian take on the Creation/evolotion debate. Like &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot;  The arguments against Evolution are explained in a straight foward manner that does not require a degree in biology or chemistry to understand.<br />An excellent suggested reading list as well as a bibliography are included and are a nice touch. This book is an excellent book for people just beginig thier search for the truth about evolution as it is less technical than &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot; and a quicker less in depth read than &quot;Tornado in a Junkyard&quot;.	2000-09-21
US	52320473	R1626F3TKY7OZX	0849937418	708780068	When God Whispers Your Name	Books	5	21	21	N	N	When God Whispers Your Name	This is the second Max Luacado book I have read, and he isquickly becoming my favorite Christian writer...in &quot;When God Whispers your name&quot; he deals with a wide range of subjects, Ranging from a christian perspective on &quot;The Wizzard of Oz&quot; (One of my favorite chapters) to the Dallas Fort Worth airport as a metophore for life as Christian. I know this may sound a little strange but he makes it work in such a simple and wonderful way that you have to marval at his ability to see a parable in everything he does.<br />This is an excellent and easy to read book, for all Christians.	2000-09-19
US	52320473	RNCR0TW7LD5KS	0895551373	572804326	Where We Got the Bible... Our Debt to the Catholic Church	Books	4	29	33	N	N	A unabashedly Catholic History of the bible	&quot;Where we got the Bible&quot; is a very Catholic History of the  bible, that will no doubt make many Protestants uncomfortable. However,  thier is little in this book the can realy be disputed on a factual  basis.<br />The Right Reverand Henery G Graham Dispells myht after historical  myth about the Catholic Church and the bible. Some of these myths are so  ingrained in society that even a large percentage of Catholics belive them.   For example many people belive the Catholic Church in the middle ages  prevented lay people from reading the bible and that the wycliff bible was  the first English translation of the bible widely available this as  Reverand Graham points out is just not true.<br />This book was origially  written in 1911 and as a result some of the material is dated, for instance  he states that no origal text dating prior to about the third century were  known to exist which was true in 1911, 36 years before the dead sea scrolls  were found. He also states that the Douay Rheims Bible was the only English  translation still in circulation that was autherized for Catholic use again  this was true in 1911 but many English versions have been approved since  then including my personal favorite the Saint Joesph Edition of the New  American Bible.<br />Even if you can't except the conclusions of this book, it  is a fun read if only for the dated and often quaint and politicaly  incorrect passages. An example of this is when he defends the crusaders as  a group of highly motivated Christians willing to lay down thier lives for  the Church and for Christ. This is at best a strech, many of course were in  it for the money and or travel/adventure. It is however interesting to  picture a time not long ago when one could defend the crusaders and not be  labeled a right wing extremist Christian bigot or some such nonsense.<br />  This is a worth while book for all Catholics and open minded Protestants  who are interested in the real history of the bible and how it came to be  as we know it.	2000-09-09
US	52320473	R2WXS3UMAQJKAH	156663217X	869552450	To Sleep with the Angels: The Story of a Fire	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Rivitng and sad.	&quot;To Sleep With the angels&quot; is the true story of how and why 92  children and 3 nuns died in a catholic school fire in  Chicago on December  1st 1958. It is also a study in how people and a society react to such an  enormous tragedy. A previous reviewer stated he was angry that people would  blame the nuns for failing to evacuate their students on time (They  couldn't) or blame the innocent janitor for some how causing the fire, but  with a tragedy of this magnatude it is to be expected, it's human nature.  When stuck with enormous loss that can't be easily explained people and  society look for scapegoats and people to blame. This book details how that  came to be in this case. In my opinion the worst example of that in this  book is the Fire commissioner berating the first fireman on the scene for  trying to extingush the fire rather then saving kids hanging from the  windows. The fireman in question was an engine man doing what he was  supposed to do, fireman assigned to truck duty are assigned resuce. It  seems mankind is a dense creature it took the sinking of the Titanic for  goverments to mandate enough life boats on cruise ships to hold all the  passengers, and it took the deaths of 92 school children to mandate common  sense fire safty in school rooms across the country. While this books most  powerful points may be made in how to prevent and or respond to fires of  this type the most powerful chapters are of course in discribing the fire  itself and the pain both emotional and phisical that the children and thier  families endured during and after the fire.	2000-08-31
US	52320473	R2JG1BF89NYMA5	0915463849	436892893	Blood Trail	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A red hot political thriller with a dose of reality	While I am not normally a big fan of fiction, the fact that this novel is based on a political scandal that is still largly buried in the US media  intrigued me (for the truth about &quot;Blood Trail, search Canadian media  web sites or worldnetdaily) As a political/medical thriller, it is above  par. The writting is a bit pedestrian and the characters, with the  exception of the lead character David Farr, lack depth. However the book  takes you on a wild roller coaster ride filled with suprising plot twists  and excitment.David Farr is out to get those who, by knowingly let tainted  blood be shipped for medical use, infected his son with the aids virus.  Along the way he must breakthrough a vast cover up while trying to outwit  the pursuing &quot;dixie mafia&quot; intent on keeping the story buried by  any means nessacary. The fact that this novel is loosely (very loosely)  based on actual events makes it all the more frighting. Still more  frighting are the attacks, threats and harrasment the author recieved after  this book was published, even though it was written with a  pseudonym.Definitly worth reading.	2000-08-27
US	52320473	R1DNTEQRNXXLTS	0061014591	57293859	The Terrible Hours	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The story of how one man can make a difference.	Being intombed on a disabled submarine, with your air slowly becoming more and more poisonous with each breath you exhale, has to be one of the most frighting ways to die imaginable. Recent events aboard the Russian sub Kursk have brought to life a largely forgotten similar story of the USS Squalus in May of 1939. The story of the Squalus which has a somewhat a happier ending is detaled in this stunnig and compelling book by Peter Maas.&quot;The Terrble hours&quot; is a detailed account of Charles Memsen a dedicated submariner who could only stand by helplessly when a sub was disabled years earlier codeming all aboard to a slow death. Memsen, moved by the experience devised plans as well as the equipment to rescue submariners trapped under water all the while having to also fight the navy buracracy.&quot;The Terrible Hours&quot; is a well written true story how one brave individual can make a difference. This story could also make a great movie. Some pictures and or drawings to help the reader understand the layout of the Squalus as well as the equipment used in the rescue would have been helpful but otherwise this is an excellent book highly recomended	2000-08-21
US	52320473	R2RC406KOJ484I	0849916550	570017569	He Chose The Nails: What God did to Win Your Heart	Books	4	42	44	N	N	What God did to win your heart	Not since Robert Folghum (It was on fire when I lay down on it) have I  read anything by anyone who could find so much meaning and depth in the  seemingly ordinary.Max Lucado (Pronouneced Lu- KAY doh not Lu-KAH-doh He  wrote an intresting chapter on this) uses ordinary events to illustrate and  explain biblical concepts in simple and easly understood ways.He also has  some fascinating insights in to the crucifcation of Jesus. Every detail of  the crusifiction is explained with amazing clarity, from the crown of  thorns and the inscription above his head to the burial and reserection.  The only problem I had with this book was it's brevity the book can easily  be read in less then five hours leaving the reader wanting more. The last  fifty pages or so are a kind of study guide for the book. I would have  preferred an extra fifty pages of Mr. lucado's insights than a chapter by  chapter study guide. All in all though this is an excellent book for all  christian and contains some useful insights and humor.	2000-08-15
US	52320473	R1Q0EBAMYNKCTG	0312261284	576297105	Blaze: The Forensics of Fire	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A suprisingly good read	I was a little worried as I began this book that it would be a boring list of fire science facts and not much else, I could hardly have been more wrong.While most readers will learn things about how a fire starts spreads and acts Mr. Faith handles these details without missing a beat or boring the reader in the slightest.&quot;Blaze&quot; uses real life fires, such as the MGM fire in Las Vegas, the Dupont Plazza fire in San Juan Puerto Rico and the Kings Cross underground station fire in London to detail how fires start, how they spread and most suprisingly how people react to a fire that may endanger their life.The strength of this book is in the way Mr. Faith puts it all together. Most of the chapters read like a good short mystery novel, Where did the fire start? how did it start? was it arson? if so who set it? why did they set it? Faith takes you step by step through the investigation until all the answers that that can be found are found.Many chapters aslo contain high drama: daring rescues, narrow escapes and all too often tragic and unnessacary loss of life. I highly reccomend this book for all firefighters, fire invesigators, fire buffs or anyone who enjoys reading a good mystery.	2000-08-14
US	52320473	R2V7D96GHSA3JW	0312261284	576297105	Blaze: The Forensics of Fire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A suprisingly good read	I was a little worried as I began this book that it would be a boring list  of fire science facts and not much else, I could hardly have been more  wrong.While most readers will learn things about how a fire starts spreads  and acts Mr. Faith handles these details without missing a beat or boring  the reader in the slightest.&quot;Blaze&quot; uses real life fires, such as  the MGM fire in Las Vegas, the Dupont Plazza fire in San Juan Puerto Rico  and the Kings Cross underground station fire in London to detail how fires  start, how they spread and most suprisingly how people react to a fire that  may endanger their life.The strength of this book is in the way Mr. Faith  puts it all together. Most of the chapters read liKe a good short mystery  novel, Where did the fire start? how did it start? was it arson? if so who  set it? why did they set it? Faith takes you step by step through the  investigation until all the answers that that can be found are found.Many  chapters aslo contain high drama: daring rescues, narrow escapes and all  too often tragic and unnessacary loss of life. I highly reccomend this book  for all firefighters, fire invesigators, fire buffs or anyone who enjoys  reading a good mystery.	2000-08-14
US	52320473	R17SUQLSEZDDR9	0842304215	535684746	The Complete Book of Bible Trivia	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Test your bible knowledge, or prepare to be on a game show	Mr Lang has written an excellent book that will truly test your bible  Knowledge.&quot;Bible triva&quot; covers everything from the simple  &quot;What two cities of the plain were destroyed for their  wickedness?&quot; To the difficult &quot;whose mother was a widow named  Zeruah?&quot; to the suprising &quot;what book is the only book in the  bible to mention an apple tree?&quot; (hint it's not Genisis) and  &quot;what woman is mentioned more often then any other in the bible?&quot;  (It's not either Mary). And then there is the just plain trvial &quot;Who  had the first birthday party in the bible?&quot; Bible triva also covers   more then just what is in the standard protestant bible, It covers things  like apocrapha, Bible versions and their history and bible movie questions,  my favorite in this catagory: &quot;Cecil B Demille's &quot;The Ten  Commandments&quot;  (1956) was a remake of a 1923 silent film of the same  title. What  famous director made the earlier film?&quot; (Ans: at the end  of the review) If there is  a weakness in this book it's that the questions  are some times redundant, asking the same question in a slightly rewitten  form. For example: &quot;What King broke his own law when he called apon a  spritualist to bring up the gohst of Samuel?&quot; (PG 49) and &quot;what  king disguised himself in order to consult with a spiritualist?&quot; (pg  107) As for who dircted the 1923 version of Ten Commandments&quot;? ANS:  Cecil B DeMille This along with many questions found in the book would make  a great question for &quot;Jeapordy&quot; or &quot;who wants to be  Millionaire&quot;	2000-08-12
US	52320473	R1YBMRSVRCWMVJ	0375411445	435436234	American Rhapsody	Books	2	23	37	N	N	American Rhapsody	I am not sure what I expected when I started to read this book but this book was certianly not what I expected.&quot;American Rhapsody&quot; by Joe  Eszterhas uses the Clinton Lewinsky affair as a kind of metaphore for all  that is/was wrong  (or right if your are Joe Eszterhas) with the Sixties  and the Hollywood counter culture, illicit sex, drugs, more drugs, radical  polotics, and more illicit sex. I gave this book a second star because it  did at times succede in two of it's major goals: 1) It did on occasion make  me laugh and 2) It Almost (On occasion) made me, a charter member of the  vast right wing conspiracy, feel sorry for Clinton. Make no mistake  however, this is NOT a nice book by any means, in fact it is one of the  meanist and most vicious books I have ever read. Joe Eszterhas Clearly is a  egotistical self centered low life, who has only disdain for anyone who  profess' any moral value. Eszterhas spends an entire chapter detailing how  he &quot;CREATED&quot; Sharon Stone,  ( he wrote &quot;basic  instinct&quot;). Then got her to have an affair with his (ex?)friend to  breakup his marriage so he could marry his friend's newly ex-wife.  He  spends another entire chapter blasting Arianna Huffington and her  Ex-husband for no apperant reason except that she dared to call for the  resignation of Bill Clinton. In a chapter tittled &quot;The Ratwoman and  the Bag Lady of Sleeze&quot; (Linda Tripp and Lucciane Goldberg) he wites  &quot;To those in Washington who learned of the tight connection between  Linda Tripp and Lucciane Goldberg, it made perfect sense, the two of them  part of the same sleazy photo: the ratwoman  gnawing on her bone in her  bunting filled gutter and feeding next to her, the noxious bag lady of  sleaze, cigerettes drooping from both their bloodred lips.&quot; And  liberals say Repulican's are mean spirited? My recommendation for this  book, wait for the paperback version, you will save some money and with the  exta time to fumigate the stench of the Lewinsky scandal the book might  seem a little funnier.	2000-08-10
US	52320473	R20JG961JNLJYS	0824518462	500167112	The Catholic Martyrs of the Twentieth Century: A Comprehensive World History	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An important book for historians of all faiths	Are you willing to die for your faith? Most of us in the western industrialized world don't really think about this much, but throughout the world in the past century tens of millions of christians, both Catholic and  Protestants, were faced with the choice of renouncing thier belife in Jesus  as their personal savior or death, often by brutal and very painful means.  In this book Robert Royal looks at primarialy those of the Catholic faith  who chose to heroicaly to die rather then renounce thier belifes. In  essentialy a chronologigal order Mr Royal introduces us to these very brave  and faithful people starting with the 1920's Mexican civil war and the  Turkish attempt at genocide (See &quot;Not even My Name&quot; by Thea  Halo&quot;) to the recent civil wars in Africa and the brutal communist  chinnese gulags.My Royal's writing is at it's best in chapters that are  narrowly focused such as his chapters detailing the stories of Saint  Maximillian Kolbe, who gave his life in a Nazi concentraton camp so that  another may live , and Edith Stien's story who also died at the hands of  the nazi's. In a few other  chapters however, we are given so much  information and so many names that the gory detais blend together to the  point that they detract from the overall individual suffering involved.This  book should be required reading for all Christians and historians that care  about the plight of thier fellow man. It also is quite an insperational  book for those who occaisionaly feel a little weak in thier fath.Definitly  recomended.	2000-07-29
US	52320473	R1GTH9NVOVG16H	0312262116	594247236	Not Even My Name: From a Death March in Turkey to a New Home in America, a Young Girl's True Story of Genocide and Survival	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An incredible story ,  brilliantly  written	The Jacket cover of this book discribes Thea Halo as a &quot;writer and painter who has won awards for her poetry and essays&quot;. Indeed Thea writes with great poetic prose, my favortie example of this is this  paragraph early in the book,<br />  &quot;A roster crowed and then another and  another rooster answered thier call. A donkey brayed. Another cow mooed the  distant hills, the myaid birds chirped and sang and sprang from twig to  twig to praise the dawning until the whole valley and surrounding hills  were alive with the music of donkeys and cows and birds and red-plumed  roosters staking their claims. Like a hunting party thrashing the ridges to  scare the sun from it's hiding, their riotous vioces reached a crescendo  worthy of a sunrise.&quot;       The first few chapters of this book are  deceptively tame. It is only in later chapters that the reader discovers  that details in the first few chapters are really emotional land minds laid  deep in the readers mind and Thea explodes them with devestating impact, as  she and her family are forced on a long death march that in terms of  brutality rival the Batton Death march or the Khmer Rouge evacuation of   Phnom penh.<br />Aside from the great writting, and the story it's self, One  of the things I liked about this book is that unlike &quot;First they  killed my Father&quot; A great book by Loung Ung, and &quot;When Broken  Glass Floats&quot; by Chanthy Him (See my other reviews). This book does  not end with Thea Halo's escape from the genocide or even with her arrival  in the United States. In &quot;Not Even My Name&quot; we follow Thea  through out her adult life and can see how she adjusted to her new life and  how her experiences effected her even into old age.  <br /> Another important  aspect of this book is the history involed,  must people (myself included  until I read this book) have never heard of the Pontic Greeks, and are at  best only vaguely familiar with the Armenian and assyrians and thegenocide  they experienced. <br />This book is a great read and would make a great  movie.	2000-07-17
US	52320473	R2QGFRDBOAP49X	1888118040	933803023	Unintended Consequences	Books	4	6	9	N	N	John Roos has a lot in common with Ayn Rand	Ayn Rand fans (of wich I am one) will love this book. Most people will say this book is about guns or the &quot;gun culture&quot;, that is really only half true. In this book which mixes historical fact with fictional  Characters, guns are the vechicle with which John Ross details the loss of  our freedoms and constitional rights. This book while engaging and thought,  provoking like any Ayn Rand novel, suffers from the some of the same  weakness' as an any Ayn Rand novel. It is a massive tome at over 800 pages  (large pages at that)  Like many Ayn Rand novels it at times falls into  overly formulaic dialog. such as when Henry Bowman, the main Chareter, is  discussing polotics and current events with a fried who had been in Africa  for twenty years and his friend is clueless as to the changes in America  during that time. Apparently the friend hadn't read a good newspaper,  wacthed TV news or phoned home in that twenty years. Must of all it suffers  from one of the biggest Any Rand flaws of all and that is it has, like most  Ayn Rand novels, an overly simple and happy but not very beliveable ending.  Definitly not a George Orwell type ending. Despite these flaws,  &quot;Unintended Consequences&quot; is an exciting, thoughtful and mostly  well written book that should be read by any freedom loving individual who  has the time to read it's 800 pages. This book is well worth the invstment  in time and money spent to purchase the book.	2000-07-13
US	52320473	R1XDNDKSSI5EEL	0393048632	218325066	When Broken Glass Floats: Growing Up Under the Khmer Rouge	Books	5	11	13	N	N	When broken Glass floats	Most of the previous reviews compare this book to &quot;First They Killed My Father.&quot; This is understandable in that both books detail, in the first person account,  the life of a young girl growing up under the khemer  rouge and both books detail an incredible love and heartfelt loss for thier  respective fathers. (Should make interesting reading for anyone who thinks  that a young child doesn't need a fathers love.) The similarities really  end there however. Loung's memior, &quot;First They Killed My Father&quot;  hits you below the belt with its gut wrenching detail and emotion.  &quot;When Broken Glass Floats&quot; takes a more literary and somewhat  more forgiving tone. This is both a plus and a negative for the reader.   The plus side is that we get a memior that reads a bit more like a novel in  the first person account. &quot;When Broken Glass Floats&quot; Gives us a  lot of back round historical information on the Cambodian civil war as it  begins in 1969 were as Loung's Memior starts a month before the Khmer  victory in 1975. Another nice plus in &quot;When Brken Glass floats&quot;  is the little snipets from the New York Times at the beginnig of the early  chapters that tell how they were covering the Cambodian story. Chanrithy  Him's more forgiving Style allows us some heartwarming moments, among the  horor, where we can see that not all of the Khmer Rouge were brutal  monsters for instance she writes of a Khemer nurse who administered modern  medicine with tender loving care, and a Khmer offical who risked his own  life to secretly feed her and her sister. It is indeed a testament to Him's  character that she can write about her experince with at least a small  sense of forgiveness, had I lived through what she and Loung did I would  likely have written a much more unforgiving book such as &quot;First They  Killed My Father.&quot; The down side to Him's style is that while the  reader will undoubtably choke back tears it doesn't quite have the same  knock out body blow that &quot;First They Killed My father&quot; does  however it is every bit its equal or better in many other ways, including  the bitter sweet chapters on life in the refuge camps. Like a previous  reviewer however, I would like to know more about Ra and her husband,  Chanrithy did kind of leave that hanging in the air. All in all an  excellent book though.	2000-07-05
US	52320473	R31XMW28WP0KJ1	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Life in prison	&quot;Newjack!&quot; every new correction officer will hear that cry from inmates more times then they could possible want to count in their first few years on the job. In years long past correction officers would carry a small pan shaped piece of heavy lead covered with leather, this was called a &quot;jack&quot; and was used for self defence and occassionaly retibution. When inmates saw a &quot;Jack&quot; that was shiny and new they would scream &quot;here comes the the new officer with the new Jack.&quot; The term stuck even after &quot;Jacks&quot; were classified a deadly weapon and made illeagal. Hence the term and title of this book. The title by the way is not explained in the book.Ted Conover brillantly portrays what it is like to be a correction Officer in Sing Sing (New York's Maximum security prision) or any other large correctional facility.So much of what Conover wrote made me laugh out loud, not only becuase of his wry sense of humor but also, because it so vividly brought back many memories of my first year on the job on Rikers Island (I'm sure I have worked with many of the same inmates as Mr. Conover) Mr Conover details all the indignities, oxymoron's and mental games within the correctional facilty with clarity and just the right amount humor, so that someone who has never set foot in a prison can almost understand what it is like to work as a correction officer. Prison of course also has it's serious side as well and Conover is equaly well up to the challange in discribing that part of prison as well. Except for a few minor differeces in political opinion that I had with Ted Conover, he is quite liberal and soft on inmates, (But what did you expect from a jounalist with a PHD?) I most defenitly enjoyed this book.	2000-06-28
US	52320473	R3KODMJY2PXOZR	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	6	7	N	N	brought back memories of my rookie year	Ted Connver in &quot;New Jack&quot; presents us with a unique view of prison life, that of the Correction officer's. We too often hear of prision life only from the inmate side (Such as in &quot;Monster&quot;). Ted  connevers accout of his year in Sing Sing is well written and funny on many  levels, his wry sense of humor will make you laugh out loud even if you  have never set foot in a jail or prision, but even more so if you have. So  much of this book made me laugh because it very accurately potrays what any  officer in New York will experience in thier first year on the Job wheter  it is in Sing Sing or Rikers Island (I'm sure I have worked with many of  the same inmates as Conover did) Conover clearly and accuratley discribes  the many &quot;mind games&quot; inmates play on &quot;New Jacks&quot; and  how officers begin to learn how to deal with them. Aside from a few minor  differences in polotics I throughly enjoyed this book. one last not for  those interested in the term &quot;New Jack&quot; officers at one time, a  long time ago, used to carry a &quot;Jack&quot; wich was a soid piece of  lead covered by Shinny leather when new which was used for self defence  (and on occasion retribution) when  an imate saw a shiny new Jack they  would say &quot;Here comes the new officer with the new Jack&quot; eventual  the term stuck even after Jacks were classified a deadly weapon and made  illeagal.  (the book doesn't explain this term)	2000-06-23
US	52320473	R39KDK81NKBTBB	189069343X	596848091	Earth Rising: The Revolution, Toward a Thousand Years of Peace	Books	3	17	20	N	N	A brave new world in our future?	Earth Rising is an important book about military technology and it's effects on our culture and freedom.<br />Do top secrect, high tech goverment projects such as weather control, biometrics, electronic survalance and  mind contol threaten our freedom and way of life?<br />Earth rising by Dr.  Nick Begich and James Roderick is a well researched book that explores the  frighting possobilities in modern technology.<br />Earth Rising raises many  important issues that must be openly and honestly debated if we are to  remain a free and democratic society. Earth Rising , however is at times  overly technical and boring to read dimishing the impact of this important  subject matter. Hopefully in the near furture we will see more clearly  writen books on this important issue.	2000-05-04
US	52320473	RYZSI1ADQJ8SB	0966816005	732790496	Tornado in a Junkyard: The Relentless Myth of Darwinism	Books	4	43	67	N	N	Darwin is dead get over it	Sir Fred Hoyle, noted astronometer once said &quot;The probabilty of higher life forms emerging by chance are comparable to the odds that a tornado sweeping through a junkyard might assemble a fully funtional Boeing 747 from the materials therein.&quot; Hence the title of this  book.<br />Unlike many books on the subject of Creationism VS Darwinism, Most  notably the excellent yet very technical &quot;Dawins black Box&quot; by  Micheal Behe, this book is an easy to read and understand book without  dumbing down the content.<br />Darwinism has more holes in it then a finely  aged swiss chesse and James Perloff shines a 500 watt spot light on each  and every one off them, from the fossil record to irreducible complexity to  the DNA evidence. MR Perloff tackles the complex subject matter in terms  any reasonably intellgent layman can understand.<br />whether your interested  in creationism for religous reason, academic research or you simply want  both sides in the Darwin/creationism debate, &quot;Tornado in a  Junkyard&quot; is an excellent book.	2000-04-28
US	52320473	R2M9N54B38NMSB	086571231X	688228440	Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling	Books	5	75	87	N	N	refreshing honesty from a former public school teacher	You may be able to read this book in only a few hours but it may just change the way you view public schooling forever. John Taylor Gatto makes a compelling case for eliminating public &quot;schooling&quot; and returning education to the parents were it belongs. In one profound paragraph he neatly sums up the reason public schools don't educate. &quot;The debate  about whether we should have a national curriculum is phony. We already  have a national curriculum locked up in the seven lessons outlined  (Confusion, class position, indifference, emotional dependency,  intellectual dependency, provisional self esteem, and one can't hide) such  a curriculum produces phisical, moral and intellectual paralysis, and no  curriculum of content will be sufficient to reverse its hideous effects.  What is currently under disscussion in our national histeria about falling  academic performance misses the point. Schools teach exactly what they are  intended to teach and they do it well: how to be a good Egyptian and remain  in your place in the pyramid.&quot; Clearly Mr Gatto knows the difference  between &quot;schooling&quot; and real education and how to achieve the  latter.()	2000-04-18
US	52320473	R3AY1FU677GCGX	1884302025	653208802	Project L. U. C. I. D.: The Beast 666 Universal Human Control System	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Echelon exists!	When I first read this book about two years ago I had a tough time beliving some of it but found the book interesting and informative none the less.<br />However, Much of what Texx Marrs has written in &quot;Project  Lucid&quot; has since been acknowleged by the goverment and or has come to  pass (Y2k excepted)<br />Most noteably Project ECHELON a vast spying and  listening computer network that scans every phone call, E-mail, fax and  other electronic transmissions in the entire world for key words.<br />When I  first read this book I figured this was at best a strecth if not fiction,  Loe and behold 2 and a half years later not only do the goverments of The  US and UK confirm it's existence but the Eourpeans are taking it seriously  enough to investigate whether it was used for Boeing and other US companies  to steal contracts from Eourpean Companies.<br />Texx Marrs may sound like a  nut on occaisoin but he was way ahead of the curve on this one, and you  have to give him credit for that.	2000-04-09
US	52320473	R3SYUK78GUEN61	0312244150	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw	Books	3	8	43	N	N	I  wanted to like this book more then I did	I realy wanted to like this book, and for the first half of this book I loved it.<br />The first half of &quot;The Pianist&quot; is an excellent insight into a rarley told and very sad chapter in modern History, that of life inside the Nazi occupied Wasaw gettho. Indeed this part of the book is  a delight to read it is as educational as it is chilling. The discription  of the brutality of the Nazi SS will move all but the hardest of  hearts.<br />The problem I had with this book is the second half, starting  with his escape by simply walking away from a work detail, seemed so  improbable that I had  a tough time beliving that this book was purely a  work of nonfiction. Some of it could be true after all many Jews beat the odds  in Europe during WWII, but Mr Szpilman's story just seems to me to have  been overly embelished.	2000-03-30
US	52320473	RST7ZFBJ9QTV5	025321291X	817647715	The Stones Cry Out: A Cambodian Childhood, 1975-1980	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A sobering look at man's inhumanity to man.	Actualy I would rate this 4 and 1/2 stars.<br /> Having read  &quot;First they killed my father&quot; by Loung Ung It would be difficult for me to review this book with out comparing it to Loung Ung's memoir.<br />Both are  essentially the same story, a young upper middle class girl living in Phnom  Phen in april of 1975 when thier life, family and happiness are torn from  them by the khmer rouge. <br />Many of thier experinces are similar as you  might expect (long hours in forced labor, family deaths, witnessing murder  ect..) but each has a unique story of thier own.<br />The writing styles also  vary greatly and this is where Loung's  &quot;First they killed my Father  is the better&quot; book. Molyda tells her story in a very straight foward  manner. Her discriptions of murder, torture and rotting corpses are alomost  clinical in tone as if she is afaid to visit or express her real feelings  at the time (and who could realy blame her)  we are giving only hints about  her family and life before April 17th 1975 (to be fair this may be in part  to spare distant family members still in Cambodia from retalation)<br />In  Loung's book however we are treated to two light hearted chapters  discribing her life in Phnom Pehn before April 17th 1975 this gives the  reader a chance to feel they realy know her, her brother's, sisters and  parents thier strengths and weakness'. <br />Loung's memoir is far more  emotional in tone and feeling leaving the reader almost gasping for air at  points. <br />For those overly squimish that makes &quot;The Stones Cry  Out&quot; the better of the two books. It is also the better of the two  books if your sole interest is the surrounding history of the killing  fields.<br />But for those just wishing to read a great emotional book  &quot;first They killed My father&quot; is the better choice but I would  highly recomend both to all.	2000-03-26
US	52320473	R2IVUAQZ8X4HKL	0060193328	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hell on earth through the eyes of a child	&quot;First they killed My father&quot; is Loung Ung's Horror filled account of her childhood stolen from her by Pol Pot's regime which ranks behind only Hitlers for it's brutality and inhumanity. It is also a story of a family's love and sacrafice for one another. A father and mother's love for thier children a sister's love for each other but most of all a little girls love for her father.<br />Think of Anne Frank Meets the &quot;killing fields&quot; and you only begin to get an idea of what this book is about.<br />Loung's writing is at once so simple and yet so vivid you can almost feel the shock, disgust and horror of a little girl living in what can only be discribed as hell on earth.<br />You can feel the confusion and fear in a little girls mind as her life of cars, TV's, phones and movies is ripped away from her and replaced with starvation, murder, bombs, gun fire and death.<br /> PA what are communist she asks, and why do they hate us? Her Father's answer is simple and direct they are destoyers. <br />This book is truly a must read for everyone, least we forget and let history repeat it's self.	2000-02-28
US	52320473	R2M928DNMXN9HJ	1576733661	890778006	America's Real War	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Did you ever wonder why liberals think the way they do?	Daniel Lapin goes right to the heart of liberals and explains almost on an issue for issue basis how and why liberals think the way they do.  He also helped me understand why so many secular Jews are liberal and toe the  democratic party line. It seems that Ayn Rand was only half right. As any  Ayn Rand fan will recall in, &quot;Atlas shrugged&quot; the lead Character,  MRS Taggart came to the conclusion that liberals hated mankind. what Daniel  Lapin argues, quite successfully, in &quot;America's real war&quot; is  liberals reject God and therefor either consciously or subconsciously view  mankind as an enemy of the earth, nature and himself.	2000-02-19
US	52320473	R2OXPNY6K9J1E3	0889651418	518700126	Ufos Friend, Foe or Fantasy?: A Biblical Perspective on the Phenomenon of the Century	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good theory, interesting book some flawed arguments	In this book William Goetz argues that the small percentage of UFO  incidents that can't be explained away are the result of demonic activity.  While I agree with him and he presents alot of valid aurguments to support  this theory many of his arguments are contradictory. For example, In the  beginning of the book he sites case after case of UFO encounters many of  which were tracked on radar. Yet later he argues that UFO's can't be  physical because they often exceed the speed of sound without creating a  sonic boom (in it's self this is a sound argument) How than can something  not physical be tracked on radar? At another point he states that dispite  stories from Roswell no physical artifact or (UFO) crash debris has ever  been recovered. This is debateable even if no debris was recovered in  Roswell how would we/he know if there were debris found else where? This  statment reminds me of a Senator who once said &quot;We Know of no secrets  which the Russians have succesfully hid from us&quot; well DUH!  All in all  however there is a lot of interesting information in this book and while I  agree with his conclusions I belive they could have been argued better	2000-02-06
US	52320473	R3UJX7RPAX1JE1	0941241009	705967777	Hidden Prophecies in the Psalms: I Will Open My Dark Saying Upon The Harp - Psalm 49:4	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A facinating and interesting book	This book is truly fascinating and interesting. I first heard of the concept that each Psalm is a prophecy for the corrosponding year of this century starting with 1901 on an A&amp;E special. when I checked into the Idea it seemed real possible. For instance the psalms from 35 through 44 could clearly discribe the suffering of the Jews in Germany and the Soviet Union at that time. Also Psalm 91 could clearly discribe the Gulf war, from the Isreali point of view. However being a novice in mordern Zionism what can you make out of say psalm 23 &quot;he leadeth me besides still waters&quot;? Well as the author explains in 1923 Britian partitioned Palistine the Jewish half of Palistine Bordered the nearly still waters of the Jordan River! The only problem I have with this book is that it is dated and the auther was jumping the Gun a little bit, too eager to see the return of our Lord. He guessed about 1998 (Based on this concept of psalms as mordern prophecy I would guess 2010) He did however predict a war in 1991 (the updated version of this book was printed in 1988) he even included by name Iraq, the threat of bio warfare and that it would not effect the Isreali's directly. (They)&quot;Need only wacth (as in on CNN/TV)the punishment [of the] wicked. Psalm 91 even gives the approximate casualties of the war. 91:7 though a thousand fall on your side (the allies) tens of thousands at you right hand (Iraq) near you it shall not come. The concept is confirmed!<br />If as this book suggests, each Psalm is a prophecy for the corrosponding year, than look for a devestating war in the middle east in the year 2002 (perhaps beginning as early as october or November 2001)	2000-01-26
US	52320473	R2PLMOWMGLI2GX	0684813467	570390801	Joshua: A Parable for Today	Books	2	8	14	N	N	The worst thing about this book is what is not in it.	If the idea of a somewhat disgruntiled former Catholic priest creating dialog for Jesus offends you read no futher this book is definitly not for you.   Dispite some very justfied criticims of the denominationalism, as  well the Catholic and protestant churchs' power stuctures there is very  little in this book to offend anyone, and that may be the biggest problem  with this book.   Nowhere in this book does the main character Joshua/Jesus  say anything controversal  (at one point he does say to another character  that to find God he should look inside himself, which seemed a bit new  ageish to me)    Joshua/Jesus in this book Never preaches Salvation, never  condems evil (Murder abortion, adultry, pornography, Idolatry...ect) Never  speaks in parables and rarely even quotes scripture (new or old testament).  In short the Jesus of this book is not the Jesus of the Bible. The Jesus in  this book is a feel good politicaly correct character.    Despite the flaws  this book isn't all bad it is an easy to follow story with a morderately  interesting plot, but far from a masterpiece.	1999-10-11
US	52320473	RLZGD96SXW2JN	0899576214	799177403	The New Age Secret Plan for World Conquest	Books	3	2	4	N	N	easy informative reading	For those who are new to the new age and conspriacies VS the bible and it's phrophcies this book is a perfect starting point.   This book is fast and simple reading (about an eighth grade reading level) which claerly  defines all aspects of the new age cults and false religions. Those who are  already well informed with the bible, and it's new age counter parts will  fnd little new or of interst however.    In fact although the book was only  written 10 years ago some of the information seems dated.  For instance  most no longer belive the 'Mark' will be a tatto, rather more likly a  computer chip will be placed under the skin.    This is an excellent book,  however, for those who are less well informed of the various symbols and  methods used by the &quot;global Goverment&quot; new age &quot;new world  order&quot; crowd to contol the masses.	1999-09-29
US	52320473	R3D0TKBELFFEGU	0812881044	152354707	The Jesus Factor	Books	1	9	23	N	N	Dumb and insulting	Lets see, the Atom bomb doesn't work unless it is sitting still? How then would you explain Hiroshima and Nagasaki? Well if your the author of this book, You can belive that a US army weather plane just happens to be flying  over Hiroshima when a Major earthquake strikes the city (One of only about  5 major Jappenese cities that had not already been bombed to oblivion). So  the Army Burns, and spreads radation over the City and then sets off a huge  flash bulb to convince the people of Japan the bomb works. (Hollywood does  the rest) Then thee days later another earthquake  Just happens to hit one  of the few Japanese cities, Nagasaki, not yet destoyed, and we do the same  thing all over again convincing the Japanese to surrender.  Now I enjoy a  good conspiracy theory as much or more than most, however, this book would  be laughable if it were not such an insult to those who were in the  cities  of Hiroshima and Nagasaki when they were bombed.	1999-07-12
US	52320473	R224WH7635P5SI	1862042020	879628075	The Last Pope: The Decline and Fall of the Church of Rome : The Prophecies of St. Malachy for the New Millennium	Books	1	9	10	N	N	Very disappointing	To say this book was a disappointment would be an understatement. Based on the tittle and jacket cover one would expect a reasoned analysis of the prophiecies of St Malachy, instead what you get in this book is a mix of Catholic and Christian bashing warmed over Nostradamus predections with the words twisted to make them fit reality. Included in the photo section is a photo of Pope John Paul II Below that is a picture of Sinead O&quot;conner tearing up his picture to protest his opposition to abortion. Why is this picture in there? I don't know excecpt that it seems to fit the auther's political opion (it has nothing to do with Malahacy prophecies) On page 338 he writes &quot;Matthew wrote down What Christ said around ad 90 57 years later. (he offers No proof for this or any other conclusions he draws) The fulfillment of Chist's prophecey about the destructionn of the temple therefor was put on record 20 years after the event took place...This piviotal prophetic dicourse.... was written down by an old man... more than half a century after Jesus uttered it. AS with so many important cornerstones of Christian dogma we are asked to take it on faith that Matthew's memory was clear and no hindsight embellishments were added to this prophecy. All this from an author who twists and embellishes the prophecies of nostradamous to fit with reality. add the total lack of footnotes and supporting evidence and you have a `book` that is hardly worth the paper it's printed on	1999-01-24
