US	52330685	R1JT85RW890K0D	0345434811	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent novel, enjoyable, well researched and exciting	`The Last Full Measure' is the third and final episode in the Civil War  trilogy written by father and son authors Michael and Jeff Shaara. For  those of you who are unaware of the chronology, father Michael Shaara wrote  `The Killer Angels' an excellent account of the battle of Gettysburg. On  the death of Michael Shaara his son Jeff was approach to write a prequel to  `Killer Angels'. Consequently `Gods and Generals'  is an account of the war  from its beginnings up to the battle of Gettysburg. `The Last Full Measure'  concludes the story of the war, taking us from Gettysburg to Lee's  surrender at Appomattox Court House and beyond.<br />With `The Last Full  Measure',  Jeff Shaara has, I feel, written a book that will enable  him to  step out from the shadow of his father's book. `Killer Angels' is often  described as the best piece of civil war fiction written, thus Jeff Shaara  had a great deal to live up to.   Shaara has matured as a writer, his  characterisation is more believable and his writing style improved.  As I  really enjoyed his first book `Gods and Generals', these improvements place  `The Last Full Measure' alongside not only his father's book but also a  great deal of civil war fiction. <br />Still using interior dialogue and the  description of the thoughts of the characters he writes about, Shaara has  created an excellent account of the motivations of, among others, Lee,  Grant, Longstreet and Chamberlain. The book takes us through Grants  Wilderness campaign, the siege of Petersburg to the final surrender at  Appomattox. A danger could have been attempting to condense these events  too much, leaving the reader unsatisfied at the lack of description.  However, although Shaara does skip some of the details he  writes so  convincingly that the reader will be swept along with both excitement and  anticipation. Shaara's battle scenes are excellent, they are both vivid and  horrific and give the reader a sense of what it must have felt like to  existin the throes of battle.  Similarly he writes well of the emotions of  war and how it changed those who experienced it.    This is an excellent  novel, it is extremely well written and will be enjoyed by both the civil  war enthusiasts and the general reader alike. I recommend it to you	2000-08-31
US	52330685	R24VUAAF1KQEAX	0061091960	98247467	Copperhead (Starbuck Chronicles)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	An entertaining read	`Copperhead' is the second in the  `Starbuck Chronicles' and it provides  the reader with all we have to come to expect from author Bernard Cornwell.   If you know Cornwell's writing, this novel will not disappoint, similarly  if you have never heard of the name, I would encourage you make his  acquaintance.  <br />During the Civil War a Copperhead was generally held to  be a Northerner who sympathised with the Southern cause.  Within the pages  of this book, although he is the son of a Boston abolitionist minister,  Nathaniel Starbuck fights for the South.  If you know your Civil War  history - and that is no way a requirement for this novel - the action  depicted within the pages of `Copperhead' takes us from Ball's Bluff near  Leesburg in Virginia to Gaines Mill close to Richmond.  However, the main  part of the novel takes Starbuck away from the battlefield and into the  arena of espionage and deceit.  The book also gives us an insight into the  insecurities of the Northern generals, in particular McClellan and his  `spymaster' Allan Pinkerton.<br />There is no doubt that in Nate Starbuck,  Cornwell attempts to create the heroics of Richard Sharpe (for those who  don't know, Cornwell has written a whole clutch of novels about English  rifleman Richard Sharpe who served both in India and the Napoleonic Wars).  To some extend he has succeeded in this, although at times `Copperhead'  lacks the pace of some of the Sharpe novels. Nevertheless, I enjoyed  `Copperhead', it is in the main well written and informative and is without  a doubt an entertaining read.<br />As a point of interest, although I'd  recommend the reader to work his/her way through the series in order, it is  not vital that you do this as each novel is self-contained.	2000-08-29
US	52330685	R34Y6LLPBFAQD1	0061091871	874881123	Rebel (Starbuck Chronicles)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wel written and good to read	Most people will associate Bernard Cornwell's writings with the adventures of Richard Shape, both in Spain/France and more recently in India.  Rebel  is set at the start of the American Civil War, yet has many of the themes  of the Sharpe books, the soldiers life, incompetent officers, sergeants to  be won over, a love interest and the occasional internal dialogue  reflecting the thoughts of the main figures.  Cornwell brings his vast  literary talents and depicts a Virginia of 1861 that is on the verge of a  destructive and bloody war.  His writing is what you would expect of an  author who fine-tuned his military fiction over a whole series of musket  and shell novels.<br />Nathaniel Starbuck is the son of a northern  abolitionist preacher. Hailing from Boston he finds himself caught up in  the turmoil of a Richmond - capital of the Confederacy - which seems intent  on war. Saved from tar and feather at the hands of a war hungry mob by his  friends father - the rich and egotistical Washington Faulconer - Starbuck  enlists in the Faulconer Legion and marches off to war against his home -  the North. <br />This is a good book and I enjoyed it a great deal. However,  where I think Cornwell excels are in his descriptions of battle scenes.  Unlike Sharpe who is usually thrown into battle within the first pages,  Starbuck does not experience battle until the end of the novel. This is not  to the detriment of the book, but it is worth bearing in mind if you are  expecting a total replica of Richard Sharpe.<br />The battle in question is  First Manassas or Bull Run in the North (the confederates usually named  battle sites after the nearest inhabitation, whereas the Federals usually  used the nearest geographical landmark). Cornwell writes with skill and  enthusiasm of the battle, which reflects his obvious extensive research of  the subject matter, for example, his depiction of the vulgar Confederate  Colonel `Shanks' Evans is wonderfully graphic and historically correct.  Often the events can seem confusing to read, not because of Cornwell's  writing but rather because First Manassas was confusing! So be prepared to  be propelled right into the heart of the battle, the musket smoke, the  crash of the shell, the whine of the shot and the gasps of the dying.  <br />Bernard Cornwell has written four `Starbuck' novels and it is reported  that the question he dislikes the most is when will number five come along.   There is no doubt that Sharpe is both his first love and indeed proves to  be more lucrative but Starbuck is equally well written, good to read and  hopefully deserving of further adventures.	2000-08-27
US	52330685	R3IHMYTV7Z1TU4	1558741127	501140521	Adult Children of Alcoholics	Books	4	43	47	N	N	Simple and easy to read - an excellent book	A book, any book is only a collection of words on paper; it's the thoughts and beliefs of another person. As such a book can't change the way you  behave. However, what it can do is provide you with the tools to enable you  to make your own changes. For those who were children in a family where  alcohol was used in an unhealthy manner there are a select groups of books  that help provided the tools for such change - Adult Children of Alcoholics  by Janet Geringer Woititz is one of those books. <br />This is a simple book,  it avoids jargon and academic theories and as a result is clear to read and  therefore easy to understand. The book will mean different things to  different people, depending on experience and perspective.  Therefore,  Woititz herself suggests the book may be useful in a number of ways:<br />To  gain greater knowledge and understanding of what it means to be a child  harmfully effected by a parent's use of alcohol.<br />As a self-help guide,  for use in an individual's move towards development and growth.<br />As a  basis for discussion groups for adult children of alcoholics.<br />The book is  broken down into four linked chapters: What happened to you as a child,  What is happening to you now, Breaking the cycle and What about your  children. Each chapter is short yet to the point (indeed the book is only  106 pages long) and gives the reader an insight into the there and thens,  the here and nows and possibilities of the future.  <br />I grew up in a  family where one of my parents used alcohol in a way that was destructive  not only to her but to her children.  As a child I had no idea of what to  expect in my family - the only constant that I knew was that on a regular  basis my mum would be drunk when I came home from school.  I took on the  role of the hero in my family - perhaps by my achievements somehow my  family would be normal.  My mum stopped drinking when I was ten but the  seeds had already been sown for me, my patterns had been established.  My  script was to achieve and that's what I did: good in school and at sports,  a Degree and a Masters, a counselling qualification, a series of  relationships where I was the helper. And then it stopped, I began to  realise that my life was shaped and often directed by the events of my  childhood.  Along with some therapy, books like Adult Children of  Alcoholics enabled me to make some healthy and liberating changes in my  life. <br />I now work as a Counsellor for individuals with alcohol related  problems. I use a lot of what is in this book as a theme to my work. I do  this because there are truths in the book that will apply to many people  who could be defined as adult children of alcoholics. My only criticism is  that the book could be longer. It feels like the first part of a book about  Adult Children of Alcoholics with the second part - an in-depth exploration  into working through some of the major issues - mentioned but not expanded  on.  That aside, this is an excellent book. Use it as a signpost for the  changes that you want to make in your life.	2000-08-25
US	52330685	R204WYIH8CCU5Z	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An unparalleled example of Civil War fiction	When considering Civil War fiction `The Killer Angels' by Michael Shaara  is unparalleled. It is perhaps the finest example of the genre that I have  read and acts as marker by which to measure all other Civil War fiction.  The novel is skilfully crafted, it is simple in its storytelling yet at the  same time intricate in its detail.  <br />Involving some 170,000 soldiers of  the US Army of the Potomac under Major General George Meade and the CS Army  of Northern Virginia under General Robert E. Lee,  `The Killer Angels'  depicts the battle for Gettysbury and covers the days of June 29th to July  3rd 1863.  After spectacular victories at Fredericksburg and  Chancellorsville the Confederate Army had invaded the North not only to  ease the burden of war on a ravaged Virginia but also to strike such a  destructive and decisive blow to the Federal Army that the Lincoln  Government would be forced to consider a peace treaty. The armies converged  on Gettysburg a small town of some 2,400 inhabitants in Pennsylvania,  leading to a battle with 51,000 casualties that changed the direction of  not only the war but also American history itself. <br />This is not just an  account of a battle, `The Killer Angels' presents the reader with the  internal thoughts of those who played a role in the events of the battle.   It gives us the feelings and emotions of Lee and Longstreet, Buford and  Chamberlain and a whole list of others whose combined actions and thoughts  create such a rich and enthralling novel.  Some suggest that such  fictionalised internal dialogue takes away from a true historical account.  Albeit based on fact, this is a novel not an attempt at historical  accounting and it must be treated as such. However, Michael Shaara writes  with such conviction that the reader will view the words with nothing short  of total belief.<br />The battle of Gettysburg was a failure for Lee, yet in  the aftermath much of the blame was placed with Lieutenant General James  Longstreet. Within the pages of  `The Killer Angels' Longstreet is  justifiably treated with such objectivity that the book provided the  beginning of a period of rehabilitation for Longstreet culminating in the  dedication of a statue to him on the battle field on July 3rd 1998. <br />If  you are only going to read one civil War novel, make it this one. True, it  is a piece of Civil War fiction but it is so well written and masterfully  crafted that even those who feel that a novel about a three day battle has  no interest for them, will on its conclusion cite `The Killer Angels' among  their favourites.	2000-08-24
US	52330685	RMRRYVWXK72ZP	0553284347	184585252	Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life	Books	4	627	648	N	N	An extremely useful book,  non-academic and easy to read	Open the front cover to this important book by Dr Susan Forward and almost as an introductory note we are told that toxic parents are the inadequate  parents, the controllers, the alcoholics, the verbal abusers, the physical  abusers and the sexual abusers.  This is not a book about parents who get  things wrong. As parents we all get things wrong - I know I do, we all do  things that perhaps we regret  - this isn't being toxic, it's called being  human.  These mistakes very rarely do harm.  A toxic parent on the other  hand is an individual whose behaviour scars and harms their child/ren to  such a degree that often it can seem like the there can be no resolution to  the damage caused. As a result the children grow into adulthood feeling  inadequate, unloved and worthless.<br />This book is about and at the same  time is for those adult children.<br />As children, our parents give us a  script, a way of being that we use to filter all that we experience. If  that script is one that says ` you are worthless, to be abused - sexually,  physically, emotionally ` then all I do in my life, all my actions, my  reactions and interactions will be through the filter of my lack of worth.    <br />This is a book for those adults whose sense of worthlessness underpins  all they do.<br />I work as a counsellor and often those I work with tell me  that they are responsible for what their parents did.  \\"If I hadn't cuddled  Daddy he wouldn't have got in to bed with me\\", \\"If I'd done better at  school I wouldn't have got punished\\".  A valuable message in this book is  that the child is a child not a mini adult. The real adults are the  responsible ones and it is they that are accountable for the abuse  inflicted on their children.  The abused adult child is however responsible  for their actions as an adult no matter their experiences as a child.  From  this perspective the adult abused as a child has it in his/her control to  change the script that has been given to them<br />If you want to change your  unhealthy script or life pattern this book is for you.<br />There are some  aspects of `Toxic Parents' that I have some professional and personal  difficulty with. Chapter Seven for example is titled `Confrontation: The  Road to Independence'. I wouldn't agree that confrontation is the only road  to independence, indeed change, growth, self determination and awareness  can all be experienced and lived without the need to confront. This aside,  Dr Susan Forward has written an extremely useful book, non-academic and  easy to read. As a result it will provide to those who have experienced  toxic parents a valuable tool for change. <br />The journey to change will be  difficult, it will be lined with pain and tears but you can get there,   `Toxic Parents' will be a useful signpost on that journey.	2000-08-18
US	52330685	R1XKML7SZ3KFG3	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Written with a sense of imagination and fun	Sshh - the reading level of this book is 9-12, I really enjoyed it and I'm 34!<br /> I grew up reading fantasy stories full of wizards and magic, elves  and goblins, worlds where almost anything can happen. It's be wrong and  unhelpful to compare this book to say Lord of the Rings (this is a  children's book whereas Lord of the Rings is not). In Goblet of Fire, J.K.  Rowling has come up with another excellent tale that is entertaining and  fun to read.  Compared to the previous three Harry books this one is a  little darker with the reader holding his/her breath as Harry moves from  adventure to adventure.<br />Our hero is getting older, he's growing and  learning new things and that is the deeper message of this book. As we grow  and develop we will experience a whole range of new things, being in groups  and teams, the need for friendship, the importance of working towards the  goals we all set - whether as children or as adults.<br />If you're a fan of  the previous books then you'll know what to expect of the fourth, the depth  of story, the twists and turns in the plot. You will be excited and amused  with shouting team badges, wand duels, quirky humour and pun after pun.  J.K. Rowling writes with a great talent, these books are written with a  sense of imagination and fun that immediately appeal to children of all  ages - even those who are 34!	2000-08-18
US	52330685	R30WWT4VMW450Y	0345345940	851160231	'It Will Never Happen to Me!' Children of Alcoholics: As Youngsters - Adolescents - Adults	Books	4	100	102	N	N	Well written, jargon free, motivating and inspiring	Claudia Black has written extensively on the subject of Children of Alcoholics (COA) and Adult Children of Alcoholics (ACOA). In her book `It  Will Never Happen to Me' she has combined her considerable talent for  jargon free language with the words and expressions of those who have  experienced life as a COA/ACOA. The result is a wonderfully insightful book  that will bring clarity to a great many people.<br />A central theme of the  book is an exploration of the roles that ACOA adopt as a means of coping  with the events around them - the responsible one, the adjuster, the  placater and so on. Often in childhood these roles are appropriate in that  they enable the child to cope with their often traumatic experiences.  However, in adulthood the over-dependency on these roles can lead to  obsessions, neurosis, mental health problems amongst other issues.   Furthermore, in a family where alcohol is used in an unhealthy manner the  child learns to `don't talk, don't trust and don't feel'.  Claudia Black  gives the reader an insight in to the possibilities that exist for the  adult child to break away from the scripts that have been set for them by  others. The message is `it doesn't have to be this way'.<br />I was the  responsible child, the hero of my family. I did well at school, was good at  sports, succeeded in almost all areas. I went on the University, gained a  good degree, a counselling qualification and then a Masters - as an adult I  was fulfilling my script to be responsible, to achieve, to be the hero. I  was also in a succession of relationships where I took on the role of  carer, replicating the role that had developed in my family. Along with  some therapy, the books of Claudia Black were pivotal in my change process,  moving away from who others wanted me to be to the person I wanted to work  towards being.<br />This book alone cannot change the behaviour of the ACOA,  words after all are only words! What this book does however, is provide the  rightwords - full of wisdom and experience - that can motivate and inspire  the ACOA to begin his/her journey to wholeness.	2000-08-11
US	52330685	RTDM9XGVQA52	1581820089	141601899	Manassas (The Civil War Battle Series, Book 1)	Books	1	9	11	N	N	A misleading title, a light and disappointing read	There is at the moment and indeed there has been for several years a  resurgence of interest in the civil war novel as a popular genre. This book  and I would assume the others in the projected series of eight are an  attempt to capitalise on that new level of interest.  The First Battle of  Manassas intrigues me; it was the battle that introduced the horrors of war  to a naive public and a mainly inexperienced set of armies. So I bought  this book with some anticipation. On reading it I was extremely  disappointed - it is not about Manassas, indeed the battle features only at  the very end of the novel. I don't like being misled and unfortunately that  is how I felt by the title of this book.  Imagine selecting off a menu only  to have the wrong dish sent to your table. Usually you'd send it right  back! However, I was willing to give this book a chance, to redeem itself,  to convince me that the title didn't matter as the writing was so powerful  that it made up for any concerns regarding any possible misdirection.<br />The  book focuses on the lives of the Bannon family in Culpeper County,  Virginia.  Specifically it follows one member of the family - Will a local  sheriff - as he attempts to round up the `bad guys'.  Do not expect a novel  packed full of civil war period historical detail, outlining the social,  political and economical events of the time - those details do not exist  within the pages of Manassas.  What is left is almost a pulp western, short  on details and lacking in excitement.   The characters in the novel are  one-dimensional; consequently I had no concern about what happened to them,  how their lives developed. <br />So in conclusion the title is misleading, the  writing is not the best Civil War fiction I've read, and the plot and  character development is limited. I did not enjoy this novel; it didn't  hold my attention to the end although I managed to get to the end! There is  some really good civil war fiction out there - works such asThe Killer  Angels, the Starbuck series by Cornwell, Look Away and Until the End by  Coyle - that are far superior to Manassas and I would direct your attention  to them before you open the pages of this book.	2000-08-08
US	52330685	R3257G5XR0L118	0312254229	447829727	Stonewall's Gold: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well written and engrossing - an enjoyable adventure	Set in the final winter of the Civil War, Stonewall's Gold follows the quest of 15 year old Jamie Lockhart as he searches for hidden Union gold.  The novel starts in a devastated Shenandoah Valley, moves on to Manassas  and concludes in a doomed Richmond. Throughout the course of the novel  Lockhart encounters friends, allies and enemies alike, taking the reader on  a dash of excitement and adventure. <br />This is not a complex novel, nor  does it attempt to describe battles and campaigns in any great depth.  However, this is not to its detriment in that the events of the war and the  terror and suspicion that it brings is skilfully used by the author as a  backdrop to the story. The novel paints a disturbing and believable picture  of a shattered country on the brink of social, economical and moral  collapse while at the same time the author contrasts this well with the  innocence of Lockhart as the plot unfurls around him. Yes, Stonewall's Gold  is a novel of the civil war but more than that it is an adventure that  keeps the reader turning the pages in anticipation. <br />The novel will  appeal to and can be read by a wide variety of ages. It is well written,  engrossing and would be, I feel, enjoyed by both Civil War enthusiasts and  novices to the genre of the Civil War novel.	2000-08-07
US	52330685	R2BTTFNO4CJBJH	014027880X	290037438	Nashville 1864: The Dying of the Light	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of those hard to put down novels!	Amazon.com have informed me that my review of Nashville 1865 has been swollowed into the land of computer nothingness. So impressed was I with  the book that I'm posting the review a second time.<br />One sitters - they  don't come around too often but when they do it's worth the wait. I read  Nashville 1864 in one evening and wished I hadn't! This little novel - some  129 pages in length - contains so much in it's pages that it left me moved,  sad, a little repulsed at the nature of war and death, but thankful I'd  stumbled accross it while browsing Amazon.<br />I'd just finished  Cloudsplitter by Russel Banks which at 758 pages is an intense and powerful  read. Nashville was the ideal follow on - it's short, to the point,  refreshing in it's simplicity and more importantly an entertaining, quality  novel.<br />Jones is a wonderful storyteller, not a word out of place, not a  wasted sentiment or action, this book involves you as a reader on a range  of levels. <br />Often the Civil War is portrayed in a romantic light, thus  reflecting how it was commonly percieved in the immediate aftermath of the  shelling of Fort Sumter on April 12th 1861. Nashville is harrowing and  disturbing rather than romantic, and here lies it's strength. The novel is  honest and if that means leaving me as a reader slightly uneasy then it's  done exactly what good writing attempts to do - to have an effect.<br />Some  books after their reading will sit on my shelf gathering dust, I don't  think that Nashville will be given enough time to gather dust at all.	2000-08-04
US	52330685	R2VUOBW4KKMGTV	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Well written, but too long!	Written from the perspective of Owen Brown, son of John Brown there is a  great deal within the pages of Cloudsplitter that can be admired. It is in  many instances well written, evocative, moving and extremely powerful. The  strengths of the novel are to be found in its depth of description both in  terms of events and environments. For example the reader gains an excellent  understanding of the hardships of existing in certain parts of 19th century  America.  Furthermore, the author develops the characterisation of both  Owen and John Brown with a great deal of skill. <br />However, at 758 pages  this book is far too long and at times I found that length of description  replaced depth of description which for this reader was reflected in a lack  of momentum and development. Consequently, I at times became frustrated at  attempts to flood me with language rather than lead me with it.  The second  half of the book - after Owen and his brother Fred head off to Kansas ( a  move which would lead them to Harper's Ferry) - picked up pace and I felt  that I had more invested in the story. I do wish however that this could  have happened before page 549! <br />I gave this book three stars because  that's right in the middle of what I could have given. I suppose this is  because Cloudsplitter for me hangs in the balance, one side represented by  fine writing and the other by at time over indulgence. Ultimately I'm glad  I read the book but for me it isn't an epic or the great American novel (as  it is described on its cover).  A measure for me of how much I've enjoyed a  book is how many times I'll loan it out to friends and family -  Cloudsplitter I regret to say will spend some time of my bookcase.	2000-08-04
US	52330685	RVHIYRX39D21Q	0345422473	947191478	Gods and Generals: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	49	50	N	N	An excellent civil war novel in it�s own right.	You may be aware or indeed unaware that Jeff Shaara, the author of `Gods  and Generals' is the son of the late Michael Shaara who in turn is the  author of `The Killer Angels' which is acknowledged as one of the best  civil war novels written. `Gods and Generals' is very much a prequel to  `Killer Angels', describing the war up until the battle of Gettysburg (the  subject matter of `Killer Angels').<br />While `Killer Angels' is indeed a  wonderful civil war novel I feel to continuously mention both books in the  same sentence does each a dis-service. Jeff and Michael Shaara, although  father and son, are different people and consequently different authors.  Thus to review `Gods and Generals' from the shadow of `Killer Angels' is  not something I wish to do here. Therefore this is a review of `Gods and  Generals' as a stand-alone novel.<br />First time author Michael Shaara has  written an excellent account of both the  pre-war and early war years.  The  novel offers an insight into the lives and motivations of Robert E. Lee and  Stonewall Jackson of the Confederacy and Winfield Scott Hancock and Joshua  Chamberlain of the Union. Shaara uses the experiences of these men in a  skilful manner to elaborate and expand on the politics and events that  occurred during the years 1858 to 1863. In doing so he is able to bring  these four into contact with many figures that played a role in the war;  Longstreet, Davis, Hooker, Burnside and so on. The result is a believable  and comprehensive account that enables the reader to stay closely involved  with the decision-makers of the war. Shaara is also able to write  convincingly of the internal beliefs and philosophies that motivated  individuals to take up arms against their fellow Americans.<br />At times I  would have liked a little more detail regarding the early battles of the  war. However, the accounts of Second Manassas and in particular  Fredricksburg and Chancellorsville and extremely well written, deep in  detail andconvincing in action.  <br />Jeff Shaara is a talented writer, not  only with regards to battles but also with reference to emotions. I found  his account of Jackson's deathbed to be as moving and respectful as his  battle scenes were exciting and horrific.<br />I recommend this book to you  and encourage you to read it not as an add on to `The Killer Angels' but as  an excellent civil war novel in it's own right.	2000-08-03
US	52330685	R8LQ76N7CWZR2	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read it with the lights bright and the doors firmly locked!	So much did this novel disturb me that at times when I wanted to put it down (mainly to sleep) I had to read on to find a place in the story line at which I could leave it.  If a book, any book has such an effect on me as  a reader then it's done its job!  Every Dead Thing is written in the first  person (not my favourite style to read) and what emerges is a novel that is  both individualistic yet somehow collective in that it taps into a variety  of  common human insecurities: the death of those close to us, the abuse of  the innocent and the chill of our personal destiny being controlled by  another. <br />For his first novel John Connolly has written an outstanding  thriller that is crammed full of suspense. The plot centres on Charlie  Parker, a former police detective as he battles both with alcohol and the  horrors that torment him following the violent murder of his wife and  child. Parker throughout the course of Every Dead Thing attempts to track  down a child killer, while at the same time graduating towards the  activities of a serial murderer known as the Travelling Man.  It would be  unfair to elaborate on the plot in more depth. It is however, realistic to  note that Every Dead Thing is at times standard thriller material, a  taut  page turner, believably frightening and totally engaging while at other  times it adopts a more dark and menacing approach that takes the reader  certainly beyond what I've previously experienced from other books defined  as thrillers. <br />I recommend Every Dead Thing to you, read it with the  lights bright and the doors firmly locked!	2000-07-28
US	52330685	R2DHXC6CVW6BSO	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	58	60	N	N	Read it with the lights bright and the doors firmly locked!	So much did this novel disturb me that at times when I wanted to put it down (mainly to sleep) I had to read on to find a place in the story line at which I could leave it.  If a book, any book has such an effect on me as  a reader then it's done its job!  Every Dead Thing is written in the first  person (not my favourite style to read) and what emerges is a novel that is  both individualistic yet somehow collective in that it taps into a variety  of  common human insecurities: the death of those close to us, the abuse of  the innocent and the chill of our personal destiny being controlled by  another. <br />For his first novel John Connolly has written an outstanding  thriller that is crammed full of suspense. The plot centres on Charlie  Parker, a former police detective as he battles both with alcohol and the  horrors that torment him following the violent murder of his wife and  child. Parker throughout the course of Every Dead Thing attempts to track  down a child killer, while at the same time graduating towards the  activities of a serial murderer known as the Travelling Man.  It would be  unfair to elaborate on the plot in more depth. It is however, realistic to  note that Every Dead Thing is at times standard thriller material, a  taut  page turner, believably frightening and totally engaging while at other  times it adopts a more dark and menacing approach that takes the reader  certainly beyond what I've previously experienced from other books defined  as thrillers. <br />I recommend Every Dead Thing to you, read it with the  lights bright and the doors firmly locked!	2000-07-28
US	52330685	R27WC6VV5B76IT	0140546855	339257949	Peace at Last	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A wonderful little book - just right for bedtime stories	Peace at Last by Jill Murphy is a wonderful little book that is just right for bedtime stories.  It's the tale of a drowsy Mr Bear as his attempts at sleep are disrupted by Mrs Bear's snoring, baby Bear's playing, clocks and  cats, taps and owls (something no matter how old, we can all relate to).  The text is easy to follow and the artwork is ideal for little ones.  My  four-year-old twins - Lucy and Joshua - adore this book, it was one of  their first and we'll be reading it long after others have lost their  appeal.	2000-07-27
US	52330685	RDCO2WP5B8ZPO	0812931599	657286306	The Other Side of Everest: Climbing the North Face Through the Killer Storm	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Everest '96 again but with a refreshing new slant	Much has been written about Mount Everest 1996 and indeed the debate that was initiated not just by the events on the mountain but by the accounts of it primarily in Krakauer's Into Thin Air and Boukreev's The Climb  continues. The Other Side of Everest  (The Death Zone in England and  Australia - don't but the same book twice!) adds to our knowledge of May  '96 while at the same time does not attempt  to mimic other accounts or  indeed to enter the understandably emotive arena of claim and counter claim  that personifies the 1996 Everest season. <br />Matt Dickinson, a film maker,  writer and novice climber attempted Everest by its North Face.  Essentially  a cameraman there to film the English actor Brian Blessed's third attempt  on the mountain, Dickinson writes with a refreshing honesty regarding his  motivations, his fears and his almost lack of climbing skill.  The result  is an excellent account of the climb that enables the reader - particularly  those of us whose highest peak is a flight of stairs - to get an  understanding of the reality not just of climbing in general but of  climbing Everest in May of 1996.  <br />Most people will read this book after  Boukreev and Krakauer have stimulated their interest in Everest.  If this  is the case you might also want to take a look at Everest: Mountain Without  Mercy, a stunning IMAX pictorial account of the '96 climb. Furthermore, if  like me you're now hooked on the whole subject of mountaineering then do a  search for the books of Joe Simpson and Andrew Greig, you won't be  disappointed.	2000-07-27
US	52330685	RGKP7MW6IDMVY	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	4	52	59	N	N	An enjoyable, well researched book with an engaging plot.	For a writer having Stonehenge as a central theme could be a double-edged sword. The history of Stonehenge lies shrouded in mystery, some give it almost mystical powers and others simple suggest it was designed as a  meeting place or the venue for ancient parties!  Having such a vast blank  page could provide an author with either a rich vein to use as a plot or it  could lead to a novel containing undisciplined guesswork. Due to both his  skills as a writer and the time he invests in research, Bernard Cornwell's  Stonehenge belongs to the former category. <br />The plot and story line  explores the motivational force behind the construction of the monument of  Stonehenge. Not only is it strong in it's sense of history, Stonehenge  offers a multi-layered approach to the development of characters and their  lives. Cornwell's writing is here particularly strong and evocative.  This  book, although well researched is fiction and it's important to hold onto  that fact.  However, Cornwell writes with such conviction that at times one  could believe that his account of the building of Stonehenge is factual in  nature.   My only criticisms were perhaps a tendency for Cornwell to  over-elaborate and the passing of time-scales in one or two lines.<br />This  book is does not have the feel of Sharpe or Starbuck and those readers who  expect that style of writing will I feel be disappointed.  Stonehenge  builds the story line rather than plunges into it. Both forms are valid but  with Stonehenge it would be unwise to expect a thrill a minute al la  Richard Sharpe.<br />An enjoyable, well researched book with an engaging plot.	2000-07-24
US	52330685	RH6395HUY0X4Q	0671890174	804121787	Until the End	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fast paced, realistic, gritty and enjoyable	Until The End is the second and final instalment of Harold Coyle's Civil War series. As with the first in the series - Look Away - the novel chronicles the lives of the Bannon brothers as they continue to fight on  opposite sides of the conflict. Although Until The End is the second  instalment of a series it can be read as a stand-alone novel. However, I  would encourage you to initially read Look Away.<br />As with Look Away, Until  The End is a splendid read if you're interested in the battles of the Civil  War. This novel takes us to the end of the war and includes amongst others,  battles scenes from the Wilderness, Spotsylvania, a particularly realistic  account of The Bloody Angle, Jubal Early's aborted raid on Washington, the  mud of the trenches at Petersburg and the surrender of Lee at Appomattox  Court House.  Although there are chapter notes at the end of the book I  certainly benefited from a little previous knowledge of these battles.  If  you're able to get a copy you would find it useful to have The Conservation  Fund's `The Civil War Battlefield Guide' as a reference source<br />I feel  that the author has fine-tuned his skills in writing about this subject  matter, as a result Until The End is the better of the two novels. It still  has the realism of the War but has lost some of the need to over elaborate  on the nature of social relationships that was to be found within Look  Away.  I enjoyed the focus on the Bannon's personal lives in the shape of  Harriet Shields and Mary Beth McPherson and found that Coyle had developed  this element of the plot in a more believable manner than the previous  novel. <br />Until The End, as with Look Away, can not be described as high  literature, it does not have any hidden agendas and it does not try to  convert the reader to any particular Civil War bias.  It is, however, fast  paced, realistic, gritty and enjoyable.  If these are qualities that you  enjoy in your Civil War fiction then whether read on it's own or as a  conclusion to the story of the Bannon brothers I do recommend this book to  you.	2000-07-24
US	52330685	R3647ASF25ZSO3	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	3	16	18	N	N	A missed opportunity	Robert Harris in his novel Archangel presents me with something of a dilemma.  I enjoyed thoroughly some aspects of the book and others I found to be almost unreadable.  I do not have an issue with plots that are  far-fetched or fantastic in nature, but to convince me they do need an  element of conviction. At times, particularly in the latter half of  Archangel, I felt the author wanted nothing more than to get the book over  with.<br />Joseph Stalin is the central figure in the plot, his thoughts,  beliefs and actions shape the events of the novel. Indeed, Harris writes  well of the power of a belief system that led to the terrors of Stalinist  Russia. He conveys the almost depressing fear of that period in history and  transposes it to a modern day Soviet Union. Thus Harris is able to set the  scene of the book in an effective way and the tension builds in a  convincing manner.  However, in doing so Archangel is set in an almost  Orwellian Russia, where the bad guys are so bad that they come over a  little cliched and the Russian people become caricatures, almost totally  grey and devoid of humanity.<br />There was real scope in this book to develop  an excellent story line to a thrilling conclusion. For me this did not  happen in that the conclusion was so predictable that perhaps the  description `thriller' was not an appropriate one. In rushing the second  half of the novel and putting so little effort into the conclusion Robert  Harris missed a opportunity to make a mediocre novel into an excellent one.	2000-07-24
US	52330685	R1Y4IYU212BDF5	0679735186	167686037	Independence Day: Bascombe Trilogy (2)	Books	2	20	31	N	N	A struggle to read!	I have no doubt that Richard Ford is a writer of talent, indeed the skill of the storyteller emerges at intervals throughout this novel, but that was not enough to either engage me as a reader or ultimately to convince me to  like the book, it's characters or it's plot.  Independence Day won the 1995  Pultizer Prize for fiction and although most of the reviews listed on  Amazon would suggest that the award is justified, I do struggle to agree  with that analysis.<br />The plot, although I would contest that definition,  is contained within three days of the life of Frank Bascombe, a forty  something, divorced real estate agent as he attempts to take his son on a  holiday.  To fill in some of the spaces Ford gives us a great many  philosophical ramblings.  Herein lies my problem with Independence Day. I  have no objection to philosophy, indeed I was confused by it on a regular  basis while at University. However, my main motivation for reading a novel,  any novel is to be entertained. That can be through sheer enjoyment,  through struggling with the challenge of the ideas (including philosophical  ideas) through humour, through frustration and anger and so on.  Independence Day provided no trigger at all to stimulate an emotion on any  level barring that of boredom.<br />Consequently the book for me, and I'm  aware that here I am in the minority, is contrived, repetitive, at times  shallow with the pretence of a deep and meaningful statement. I was unable  to invest in any of the characters and thus did not care what happened to  them during the course of the novel. <br />Ford has the reputation of a good  writer but I feel with this novel he goes to great lengths to convince us  that he deserves that title.	2000-07-23
US	52330685	R9X1JENALZDMT	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Disjointed almost to the level of unreadable	I've read a couple of  Cornwell's `Scarpetta' novels but not enough to make me either an expert or a fan.  Indeed if Hornet's Nest had been the first Patricia Cornwell novel I'd happened to come across there is no doubt  that I wouldn't have gone out of my way to pick up any of her other work.  Considering the quality of the other Cornwell novels I've read, I'm glad  Hornet's Nest has come someway down the line!<br />Hornet's Nest has a  cliched, badly written plot that borders on unrealistic. It is disjointed  almost to the level of unreadable with a lack consistency throughout.  I  didn't care about any of the characters within the book, I had no empathy  or investment in them and on concluding Hornet's Nest there is no desire  for me to continue my relationship with them.<br />You've probably come to the  conclusion that I didn't enjoy Hornet's Nest. You'd be right. My sister is  a big Kay Scarpetta fan, I don't think she has read Hornet's Nest - I won't  be encouraging her to do so!	2000-07-23
US	52330685	R33ZPHOM1CDEBA	0553106333	14890872	Ashes to Ashes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Edge of the seat stuff!	This is my first novel by Tami Hoag. I like to read thrillers now and again and with Ashes to Ashes I wasn't disappointed.<br />A good thriller, for me, needs to have some basic ingredients; believable characters, well  developed plots, moments that have me turning the pages with a sense of  anxiety and suspense, finally on that last page I want to be left feeling  just a touch uneasy. Ashes to Ashes succeeded on every point!  <br />You can  read about the plot of the novel elsewhere but be ready for twists and  turns that will keep you involved in the story all the way through. Tami  Hoag writes with skill and conviction and although at times I found small  parts of Ashes to Ashes to be a little predictable this did not detract at  all from my enjoyment of it.<br />I don't often delve into the land of the  thriller, with Ashes to Ashes I'm glad I did.	2000-07-23
US	52330685	RJTDBM8MOKWQ2	1879941112	472755103	None Shall Look Back (Southern Classics Series)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A well-written, engaging and thoughtful novel	First published in 1937 &quot;None Shall Look Back&quot; represents an attempt by author Caroline Gordon to follow the fortunes of one family throughout the Civil War years. In this she has achieved her goal  admirably. The story focuses on the Allard family of Kentucky and Georgia  as they struggle with the consequences of war both for those who take up  arms and for those left behind.<br />The central character of the novel is  Rives Allard, a scout under General Nathan Bedford Forrest. Gordon follows  Rives with skill and eloquence, she writes well of both the physical  battles and the internal conflicts that Rives experiences. <br />Gordon writes  with a passion regarding her subject matter, at times however I felt that  she has the tendency to over romanticise the idyllic nature of the pre-war  south. However this is a small quibble and one that does not detract from  the overall power of the book. General Forrest appears throughout None  Shall Look Back and as a personal preference I would have liked him to play  a larger part the novels structure but again this is not a criticism of the  book just a personal observation.<br />Ultimately None Shall Look Back is an  account of what the author saw as the stand of the heroic south, both Rives  and Forrest are presented as heroes of the Southern cause and the struggles  against deprivation and poverty are presented in an heroic yet believable  manner.<br />Before reading the novel I had some reservations regarding both  its age and subject matter. Other accounts of Civil War written during the  same period as None Shall Look back have at times been cliched and  repetitive. Gordon relies on neither of those qualities with the end result  being a well-written, engaging and thoughtful novel.	2000-07-20
US	52330685	RJLDU2PLXYJ0D	1572491086	954407	We Shall Meet Again: The First Battle of Manassas (Bull Run) July 18-21, 1861	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A good overview of the first battle of Manassas	In September of 1999 I visited the battlefield of Manassas. Prior to that  I'd done a little bit of research to give me a clearer idea of what I would  be seeing and how it fitted into the wider picture that was the Civil War.  JoAnna McDonald's book was a great help in piecing together the events that  were to become know as the First Battle of Manassas (or Bull Run depending  on your preference).<br />&quot;We Shall Meet Again&quot; certainly gives an  excellent overview of the battle, breaking down the different troop  movements into stages that the reader is able to clearly follow. However,  before the account of the battle itself, McDonald presents a useful  introduction entitled 'Ways and Means' covering such aspects as weapons,  flags and uniforms and the initial strategies and battle plans of First  Manassas. Although only giving selective and limited information this  initial section of the book acts as a useful backdrop for the events that  were to come.<br />&quot;We Shall Meet Again&quot; essentially provides a step  by step account of the battle. It does not provide nor does it attempt to  provide an in-depth history. However, it is not to the detriment of  &quot;We Shall Meet Again&quot; that it's remit is one of focus on the  battle itself and not historical analysis of it. For such an analysis I  would direct the reader to &quot;Battle at Bull Run&quot; by William C.  Davis. <br />The maps and illustrations in the book are limited and could have  done with expansion and further detail. Certainly they offer enough clarity  to allow the reader to visually follow the action but I would have  appreciated a little more.<br />An aspect of the book I found interesting were  the photographs/drawings and writings of some of those involved in the  fighting. Both these elements helped to humanise the events, reminding us  that although the battle is now seen as an historical occurrence those that  fought there were very real. If this is an area that interests you,   &quot;First Manassas - Voices of the Civil War&quot; would be an ideal  addition to your library.<br />&quot;We Shall Meet Again&quot; offers a good  introduction to the First Battle of Manassas. Although the subject matter  is quite specific - it's about one battle at the start of the war - it  provided me with an insight into the not only the details of the battle but  also the naivety of it's participants.	2000-07-18
US	52330685	R51M1M7NAVHNV	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Compelling from start to end	Almost without funds Ulysses S. Grant was aware that on his death from throat cancer his family would find themselves in a serious financial crisis - thus developed the impetus for putting pen to paper to write his  Personal Memoirs. Shortly before his death he completed his memoirs and it  is to our benefit that he was able to finish the task.<br />I read Personal  Memoirs with a fascination that was at times bordering on obsession.  The  book held me from first page to last, this due to the power of the words  and the images that they painted.  Grant writes with both eloquence and  simplicity on his subject matter. He is clear and concise when other  memoirs often flit about without a clear focus. <br />For this reader as a non  American who has not been raised with a Civil War bias - and I accept that  not all US citizens will have such a bias - Personal Memoirs is refreshing  in it's lack of romanticism - here is a man who `tells it like it is!'   Grant it would seem felt that he had nothing to prove with his Memoirs,  thus what he wrote is a no frills, honest account devoid of moralising and  self-adoration. <br />When communicating with the Confederate General who held  Fort Donelson there was no ambiguity in Grants words \\"No terms except an  unconditional and immediate surrender can be accepted. I propose to move  immediately upon your works.\\"  It is this direct approach which Grant was  able to convey with such clarity within his memoirs. It is this that is so  compelling about Personal Memoirs and indeed in itself gives us an insight  into Grant the man <br />Grant ends his introduction to Personal Memoirs by  commenting \\"With these remarks I present these volumes to the public,  asking no favor but hoping they will meet the approval of the reader.\\"    This book met my approval on every count and I recommend it to you highly.	2000-07-17
US	52330685	R3U93HDCQET2C1	067152819X	335589396	Look Away	Books	4	3	3	N	N	No frills or fancy edges just  an entertaining read	I have not read any other works by Harold Coyle, thus I am unable to compare 'Look Away' to anything else he has written. I'm not sure that here I'm at a disadvantage or an advantage, but what I do have is a view based  on this book alone. <br />'Look Away' follows a much written about theme, that  of  brothers fighting on opposite sides during the Civil War. In this case  it's the Bannon brothers - James and Kevin. Both are ostracised by their  communities and spend much of the novel struggling not only against the  enemy but also the prejudices of others.<br />I enjoyed the book, not for  offering me a great insight into the war but rather as simply a  well-written piece of fiction. At times the plot is a little predictable,  as is the conclusion but I feel that this didn't take away from the core of  the book which entertained me.  <br />The book moves at double speed with  hardly a moment spare and while this builds a sense of momentum it can at  time leave the reader wanting something different. I would have liked a  little more historical scene setting to give the events a context. This can  be applied to a general level for example perhaps to include something  about the political and social background of the war and on a specific  level with regards to particular battles or campaigns. This was omitted  during the story line and could have left those new to the war and its  history a confused. Despite this the battle scenes are well written if a  little familiar - read a few novels regarding the war and you will come  across a full description of how to load a rifle musket - 'Look Away'  wasn't inaccurate with such descriptions but nor was it unique.<br />Sometimes  I don't want to read deep, meaningful books full of symbolism and hidden  metaphors. If this is something you want then 'Look Away' may not be the  book for you but on the other hand if you want a novel that is refreshing  in the simplicity of the story telling with  no frills and  fancy edges,  then I'd encourage you to read 'Look Away'.	2000-07-16
US	52330685	R1KYHVUYJXNHO1	1888952369	143495124	May I Quote You, Stonewall Jackson?: Observations and Utterances of the South's Great Generals (May I Quote You, General?)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;Charge, men,  and yell like furies!&quot;	So much has been written about Thomas J. 'Stonewall' Jackson that at times it become hard to separate the reality from the myths. This isn't a criticism but rather just a fact - history is interpreted in so many ways  and this applies to Stonewall as it can to any other historical  figure.<br />This little book of quotes, both by Jackson and by those who knew  him give us a better understanding of Jackson - the man and the soldier.  There are quotes by Lee and McClellan, Garnett and Ewell, but it is the  words of Jackson himself, which come across with power and passion. Indeed,  at times you can almost feel the piercing blueness of his gaze as he moved  into battle.<br />This is a good little book, it gives a depth of insight into  Jackson without having to read longer biographies. I recommend it to you.	2000-07-16
US	52330685	R3RVNKXNO61WB5	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An outstanding account of the American Civil War	In 'Battle Cry of Freedom' James M. McPherson has written an account of the American Civil War that is stunning and simply outstanding. His grasp of the subject matter is so complete that if I had to suggest just one  Civil War history to a friend this book would be it.<br />The strength of this  book is in the balanced approach it presents. There are plenty of books  that are either pro-confederate and pro-union. We all have an internal bias  and thus particular books will appeal at particular times. If you want a  biased stance then 'Battle Cry' is not the one for you.  There is no  moralising in this book, no great ethical debates that must by their nature  get in the way of the subject. It is both refreshing and attractive that  McPherson presents the facts in a clear and objective manner. However,  'Battle Cry' is no dusty acedemic text, rather there is an intense passion  within its pages that will make you stay up late at night wanting to read  more.<br />McPherson has attempted and indeed suceeded in presenting so much  more than an account of the battles of the war - he skillfully merges  politics, the social and the economical and of course military history. The  result is an overview that sweeps the reader before it. What I found  particularly useful was the account of events leading up to the war. The  chapters exploring the nature of the American people and their country  before the war offered a detailed grounding from which the actual conflict  could be viewed and thus analysed.<br />I have no hesitation in recommending  this book to you. As a piece of historical writing it is without doubt  excellent, but as a piece of Civil War historical writing it is of the  highest order.	2000-07-14
US	52330685	R1NH2PB4YJR8NQ	1853266965	968000124	This Hallowed Ground: The Story of the Union Side of the Civil War (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Excellent, read it slowly - it's worth very second	The works of Bruce Catton were among the first that stimulated my interest in the American Civil War. It's a massive subject matter with what must be millions of words written in it's account. Thus reading about the war could  be confusing at the least and over powering at the most. This is not the  case with Bruce Catton who writes with a clarity that enables the reader to  clearly understand the events he is relating.<br />'This Hallowed Ground' is  no exception. It is concise, clear and informative, thus the reader whether  this is their 1st Civil War read or their 100th will put the book down and  want to know more!<br />For a factual book it often had the feel of a good  Civil War novel, it is exciting and breath taking with a real power that I  feel is hard to match elsewhere. Here is an author that not only both knows  and respects his subject matter but is  able to transfer this to the  written page. <br />One word of warning, read it slowly. If you rush through  this book (and there is a temptation to do so due to its strengths) you  will regret it when the last page is completed.	2000-07-14
US	52330685	R17SIDL3KGZETN	089862469X	439413831	Motivational Interviewing: Preparing People to Change Addictive Behavior	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Well written, concise, a  good balance of theory &amp; practice	The basic premise of this book and indeed that of Motivational Interviewing (MI) is that we as individuals have problems and issues and furthermore that given the right circumstances we as individuals have the  tools to resolve those issues and problems. Thus although the  counsellor/therapist can enable change by creating a conducive environment  that supports and sustains the process, it is the client who must be  responsible for such change. <br />MI has a grounding in Rogerian therapy but  it is more directive rather than non-directive. Commenting on this Miller  and Rollnick write &quot; ...the motivational interviewer proceeds with a  strong sense of purpose, clear strategies and skills for pursuing that  purpose, and a sense of timing to intervene in particular ways at incisive  moments.&quot;<br />The book is split into three parts: Background, Practice  and Clinical Applications. Thus there is an excellent balance between  theoretical considerations and practical implications.<br />The authors  outline  five principles which underlie MI, these are:<br />1. Express  Empathy<br />2. Develop Discrepancy<br />3. Avoid Argumentation<br />4. Roll with  Resistance<br />5. Support Self-Efficacy<br />The book is clear and detailed in  how these principles are to be put into practice at differing stages of the  change process. It is this clarity - which incidentally runs throughout its  pages - which makes  'Motivational Interviewing' such an easy yet, I feel  essential read. <br />I work for a counselling service for those with alcohol  related problems and this text is the one, which I encourage new members of  staff and students on placement to read. Similarly, if you are interested  in the subject matter of the change process, whether in terms of addictive  behaviour or other more non-specific areas, I do recommend that you take a  look 'Motivational Interviewing'.<br />A couple of years ago I attended a  conference that Bill Miller had been addressing. It fell to him to make the  closing comments. These were pertinent and to the point, however the most  notable thing about the closing notes were that Miller sang them in a  Country and Western style. A book by anybody that barmy deserves a read!	2000-07-13
US	52330685	R11O2N3OVYUF7F	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	3	75	83	N	N	Too long, too melodramatic and a touch over indulgent	Do you remember at school when there was something that you didn't quite  understand - usually algebra for me - and everybody else seemingly did?   The last thing to do was to put your hand up and ask the teacher for  clarification, thus one would stay quiet rather than be viewed as the class  dunce. The psychology of my school days apart, the reading of Cloudsplitter  by Russell Banks has left me with a similar feeling. The book has received  a great many plaudits and I don't quite understand why. So I think maybe  it's just me,  that  maybe I'm just missing something. But unlike my  algebra classes I like to put my hand up!<br />Described on its cover as `a  splendid epic' and ` A great American novel'  when I finished it's mammoth  758 pages I agreed with some of these assessments and indeed still do.  However, with the reflection of a couple of weeks maybe rather than the  pleasure of completion what I actually was feeling the relief of  completion. <br />Written from the perspective of Owen Brown, son of John  Brown there is a great deal within the pages of Cloudsplitter that can be  admired. It is in many instances well written, evocative, moving and  extremely powerful.  But the flip side is that it is also repetitive,  boring, difficult to read and at times sleep inducing.  The strength of the  novel is in its depth of description both in terms of events and  environments. The reader gains an understanding of the hardships of  existing in certain parts of 19th century America. However, for this reader  there is a vast difference between depth of description and length of  description.  On occasions I felt length replaced depth and furthermore  became frustrated at attempts to flood me with language rather than lead me  with it.  The second half of the book - after Owen and his brother Fred  head off to Kansas - picked up pace and I felt that I had more invested in  the story. I do wish however that this could have happened before page 549!  <br />Narrating his recollections via written correspondence to a researcher  the melodramatic older Owen Brown suggests that he has become \\"nothing but  paper.... a great disheveled heap of words\\" and for me coming to the end of  the novel that's how I was beginning to feel. <br />I gave this book three  stars because that's right in the middle of what I could have given. I  suppose this is because Cloudsplitter for me hangs in the balance, one side  represented by fine writing and the other by over indulgence. Ultimately  I'm glad I read the book but for me it isn't an epic or the great American  novel (living in England I'm never quite sure what the great American novel  actually is!).  <br />A measure for me of how much I've enjoyed a book is how  many times I'll loan it out to friends and family - Cloudsplitter I regret  to say will spend some time of my bookcase.<br />Now about that algebra!	2000-07-09
US	52330685	R18CCUBX73N9GQ	0765117681	711841782	Bullet and Shell: The Civil War as the Soldier Saw It	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Worth Reading	I really wanted to like this book and to a degree I did.  However, it  would be misleading to suggest that on completion I was truly satisfied  with the pages I had just read.<br />Written in 1884 by George F. Williams the  book is a fictionalised narrative account of the American Civil War.  Williams was both a soldier and a war correspondent during the years of  civil conflict between North and South and thus writes with the duel  perspective of a fighting veteran and a newspaper reporter. In his preface  to the book Williams suggests that the \\"faithful picture\\" he is presenting  is done so \\"under the guise of fiction\\".   Therefore it is important for  the reader to remember that this is not a factual account but rather is a  record which has undergone an \\"author's license\\".<br />The book is the  narrative of Frank Wilmot described as  \\" a stripling of twenty, fair  complexioned, quite tall for his years, and the possessing of a tolerable  share of good humor\\".  Following Wilmot through both minor skirmishes and  major battles such as Gettysburg and the Wilderness the accounts of combat  are particularly powerful.  Similarly the aftermath of battle is described  in a manner which is honest and believable - \\"Horror stricken and heart  sick, I gazed over the field along the line which we had held, seeing  bodies in every direction and in every possible attitude. Here one poor  fellow had crawled to the foot of a tree, and died as he sat. His fez was  still on his head, the gibbering skull beneath it seeming to laugh at me,  as the jaws had relaxed and fallen apart\\".<br />There is a great deal of  dialogue within Bullet and Shell and I feel that this is perhaps one of  it's faults.  Written 116 years ago the dialogue will of course be dated,  and that's how it reads but the interactions also rely somewhat on clichés.   If you read novels regarding the Civil War you will eventually come across  the Northern Irish Private or more often the Irish Sergeant.   Bullet andShell has one in the shape of Dennis Malone who is full of  \\"begorras\\" and   \\"to be shures\\".   Often then for me, the nature of the dialogue took away  from the intensity of the events.  Furthermore, at times I was reminded of  a bad performance of Hamlet I saw as a child at school. The dialogue was  all there but the actors were not sure what to do with their bodies and  thus with arms hanging limply at their sides there was no animation other  than the words.<br />In his excellent synopsis of the Civil War  -`America  Goes to War' - Bruce Catton notes that \\"the 1860's cannot be judged by the  standards of the more sophisticated and intricate twentieth century\\".  Here  he is talking about the nature of warfare and of soldiering in general.  However, the same principle can be applied to the reading of novels  regarding the war.  Bullet and Shell was written in the 1880's and as such  perhaps conveys the norms of American fiction of that period. These are no  better than those used today but simply different and the experience of  reading Bullet and Shell perhaps both highlighted and reflected these  differences.<br />I'm glad I read Bullet and Shell and I would encourage  others to read it. Not because I think it's the most enjoyable piece of  Civil War fiction I've come across but due to the fact that it's written by  someone who experienced the war first hand and thus has much  of value  to  say to us.	2000-07-08
US	52330685	R2M3NXOBG4RO6D	014027880X	290037438	Nashville 1864: The Dying of the Light	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of those hard to put down novels!	One sitters - they don't come around too often but when they do it's worth the wait. I read Nashville 1864 in one evening and wished I hadn't! This little (but I might add perfectly formed) novel - some 129 pages in length  - contains so much in it's pages that it left me moved, sad, a little  repulsed at the nature of war and death, but thankful I'd stumbled across  it while browsing Amazon. <br />I'd just finished Cloudsplitter by Russel  Banks which at 758 pages is an intense and powerful read. Nashville was the  ideal follow on - it's short, to the point, refreshing in its simplicity  and more importantly an entertaining, quality novel. <br />Jones is a  wonderful storyteller, not a word out of place, not a wasted sentiment or  action, this book involves you as a reader on a range of levels. <br />Often  the Civil War is portrayed in a romantic light, thus reflecting how it was  commonly perceived in the immediate aftermath of the shelling of Fort  Sumter on April 12th 1861. Nashville is harrowing and disturbing rather  than romantic and here lies it's strength. The novel is honest and if that  means leaving me as a reader slightly uneasy then it's done exactly what  good writing attempts to do - to make a difference. <br />Some books after  their reading will sit on my shelf gathering dust, I don't think that  Nashville will be given enough time to gather dust at all.	2000-07-07
