US	52336846	R2HHF5PPCCE6T2	0425181103	21671792	Phantoms	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Page turner	Dr. Jenny Paige returns to her small town home of Snowfield after picking up her sister Lisa.  Immidately they notice the town is quieter than normal.  When they enter Jenny's home, they find the housekeeper dead with some strange affliction.  Something strange is going on in Snowfield.<br />When they're finally able to call the sherrif of a local town into Snowfield, they find even more terrifying clues.  Severed hands and severed heads.  The entire town is either dead or missing.<br />More and more it's looking like the Devil himself has visited Snowfield.  And he's still there.  Playing with them like a cat plays with a mouse before he kills it.<br />A page-turner and not quite as horrific as it may seem.  Koontz always develops his characters extraordinarily well.  There's some strong human emotions and even some humor found in this book.  I could barely put it down.	2004-05-02
US	52336846	R1R6ONMD7268V2	0060959355	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautiful	This is a ghost story and love story all rolled into one. A tale about life coming full circle on itself. The chapters alternate between the storyteller, Hannah and the history of a family that touches Hannah's life one summer in a small town in Maine.<br />The history starts in the early 1800s when Claris Osgood is 10 years old and already feels completely different than her close, loving family members. She meets a boy named Danial Haskell and they fall in love. They marry against the Osgood's wishes. Danial lives on the island and the Osgoods don't want Claris taken so far away from them. They question how well Danial will treat her. They want what's best for Claris, but she won't hear any of it.<br />Claris soon finds out Danial isn't the person she thought he was at all. He is cold and heartless. Claris loses her first two daughters in a miscarriage and when she finally has a son, Amos, he is her pride and joy. Danial never cared much for Amos mostly because he reminded Danial of the Osgoods. He was musically talented, but Danial would have no music in the house. A few years later, Claris has another child, a girl named Sallie. Sallie takes after her father's side and it is apparent her mother doesn't love her as much.<br />Hannah Gray tells the story of one summer spent in the small town in Maine where Claris once lived. Her stepmother doesn't care for her and her father is never around. Hannah's mother grew up in this town and everyone sees fit to tell her how much she looks like her mother.<br />Hannah begins to see a ghost in her summer home. The ghost is always weeping, but it isn't to be pitied. It's ugly with piercing eyes and Hannah is very clear that it is a THING, not a person. She spends the summer investigating the origin of her house, which used to be the schoolhouse on the island. She finds out about the Haskell's and about the strange events that led to Danial Haskell's murder.<br />On her journey, she comes across a young man named Conary Crocker. They are immediately taken with one another and quickly fall in love. Conary has run into the ghost before as well and is the only person Hannah can turn to with her findings.<br />This is their story, as it is the story of the Haskells. What happened that summer and what happened long ago and how they are connected. The book ended with me wanting more. I wanted to know more about Hannah's life after that summer and more about the motivation behind the Haskell's. A very quick read, not scary at all for a ghost story and highly recommended!	2004-04-20
US	52336846	R1XHNR7ULW5Z9	0385507607	23679385	The Probable Future (Hoffman, Alice)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The pacing is a little off	This was a beautifully written book about the Sparrow's family history spanning 13 generations. Rebecca Sparrow walked out of the woods one day when she was seven or eight and no one knew where she originated. Named Rebecca by the washerwoman who took her in and Sparrow by the local boys who saw Sparrows flocking to her almost supernaturally, she lived a short life affecting the small town of Unity, Massachusettes for generations to come.<br />Each Sparrow woman kept her surname and bore only one child, a girl. Upon the girl's 13th birthday she would awake with a gift of some sort. Sarah Sparrow, Rebecca's child, was said to need no sleep. Elinor can detect falsehood. Her daughter Jenny can dream other people's dreams. And Jenny's daughter, Stella, who just turned 13 can tell how some people are going to die.<br />Surprisingly, the book focuses little on the supernatural gifts of the Sparrow women and more on their unity and history. Each of the remaining Sparrow women have something to learn from one another. Each of them have made mistakes needing to be corrected. The Sparrow women touch the lives of the people of Unity in a wonderful way and help them to realize what has been there all along is exactly what they need.<br />I felt the last third of the book had pacing problems. Sometimes it was agonizingly slow. Sometimes details were given so quickly and subplots were wrapped up so hastily I had to wonder if I missed something. The last third of the book didn't keep my interest the same way the first parts did. In the end, everything falls into place exactly as you expect it would with few twists and turns.	2004-04-13
US	52336846	R14EQK3GUFVZCV	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Where's the real motivation?	The Runaway Jury is marked as suspense, but I didn't think there was much suspenseful about it. Nicholas Easter is selected as a juror in a tobacco trial. He's a friendly guy with two years of law school behind him and all the jurors respect him and sometimes even look to him to explain what's going on.<br />Inside the courtroom, the plaintiff is trying to prove that a man died directly from cigarette smoking. They throw in all sorts of obscure facts about advertising and targetting kids. Things that are supposed to make the jury hate cigarettes, but these things have nothing to do with the case. The defense, in my opinion, is very weak in this case.<br />But the book isn't really about the trial, it's about the jury and what goes on behind the scenes. I'm really afraid to serve on a jury for a large trial now. Both the defense and plaintiff trail all prospective jurors and gather as much dirt on them as they can. Once jury selection is complete, the defense goes to work on influencing each of the jurors. Sometimes they use their spouses to get to them. Sometimes they do so directly with a dirty little secret.<br />Rankin Fitch works for the big tobacco companies and is, in effect, running this operation. He is very perceptive and can probably tell you your life history just by looking at you. Fitch starts getting notes and phone calls from a woman named Marlee and it doesn't take long before Fitch realizes that Marlee knows exactly what's going on and Nicholas Easter is working with her somehow to control the jury.<br />The question is, what does Marlee want, why is she doing this? Both her and Nicholas seem to have appeared out of thin air and Fitch must track them down and learn their dirty little secrets in order to get the upper hand. Will he be too late?	2004-04-13
US	52336846	R2LD78EDAUN6AU	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Involved	I was drawn into the Harry Potter series by the light-hearted, magical world J.K. Rowling created around the students of Hogwarts School or Witchcraft and Wizardry. The first three books were heavy on school activities, light on the dark, horrible world of Voldemort and plentiful with the fun, magical moments that made me fall in love with Harry, Ron and Hermione. The third book was by far, my favorite of the series thusfar.<br />The fourth book was considerably darker than any of the others and as a result, I enjoyed it less than I did the first three.<br />It's very interesting to see the books becoming more mature as the characters and readers age. I'm finding that I don't really like Harry Potter or his attitude and keep on reading for Ron, Fred and George. I also can't help but feel that Ron and Hermione would (will) be the perfect couple. I'm confident that they'll end up together in the end.	2004-04-13
US	52336846	R1J7W22L93ZZDK	006039384X	776351801	Mirror Mirror: A Novel	Books	1	6	15	N	N	Out of place	I read Gregory Maguire's Wicked and absolutely loved it.  I adore the idea of taking a common story and putting a twist on it.  I was excited about this new book, so I reserved it at the library before it had even been published.<br />I was sorely disappointed and that is being kind.  I felt like I missed something important in the story telling process that would explain what was happening.  The basic plot of the story is easy enough to follow.<br />Bianca de Nevada's name literally translates into White from Snow (Nevada being a snowy region).  Bianca is the daughter of a landowner, Vicente, who's mother died during childbirth.  She lives with the cook, Primavera who acts as her nanny and Fra Ludovico, a priest.  While draining a lake for irrigation purposes, they find a mirror laying at the bottom and put it up on a wall in their home.<br />One day a campaign comes through and the Borgia siblings, Cesare and Lucrezia pay Bianca and her father a visit.  The Borgia's are historical people, known for their wicked ways.  Cesare sends Vicente out on a quest to find the lost limb of the Tree of Knowledge.<br />The quest spans a decade and while Vicente is gone, Lucrezia drops in from time to time under the pretense of making sure Bianca is safe.  She doesn't like the girl, but is never malicious toward her until her brother, Cesare comes along and is aroused by Bianca's beauty.  Lucrezia is jealous of the attention Cesare gives to her and is bent on killing her.<br />She employs Primavera's grandson, a hunter, to take her out into the forest and kill her, bringing back her heart.  The hunter takes her out to the forest and tells her to run away, which she does.  <br />This is the part where I get a little sketchy because somehow Bianca falls into a deep sleep that spans several years.  While she is sleeping, dwarves look after her.  The dwarves are not those that appear in the Disney cartoon, they are completely separate and odd creatures.  They are not really aware ofthemselves as unique individuals until Bianca comes to them.  They are stone shape-shifters, obviously not human.  There's nothing really interesting or endearing about the dwarves.<br />When Bianca wakes up, there is an odd scene where her menstrual fluid comes out in one big spurt, as if it was being held back all those years.  I'm still not exactly sure what that is supposed to symbolize.<br />Bianca is quick to &quot;befriend&quot; the dwarves, although that isn't really the correct terminology because they are not her friends.  They name themselves for her with names like Heartless, Gimpy and MuteMuteMute.  They speak of an eighth, their brother.  He has followed Vicente on his journey. The goal was to get their mirror back.  Yes, of course, the mirror that was found at the bottom of the lake belongs to the dwarves.  They created it in order to study humans so that they, themselves, might become more human.<br />Vicente comes back from his journey with the limb.  The limb contained three apples.  One was left in another place for safe keeping.  When he comes back, he learns his daughter is dead and Primavera has lost her tongue.  Although it never states why, it is evident that Lucrezia had it cut out so Primavera wouldn't speak the truth she knew about Bianca.  Lucrezia takes one of the apples and offers a slice to the stone dwarf that is following Vicente.  The creature eats the slice and then takes the rest of the apple when it is offered to him by Lucrezia.<br />The dwarf then leaves and returns to his brothers.  They all eat from the apple.  It seems to make them more human.  It makes them age and change like a human would.<br />Lucrezia learns that Bianca is still alive from the gooseboy who saw her in the forest.  The gooseboy is supposedly Lucrezia's son, but that is another detail I missed the explanation for.  Lucrezia becomes mad and tries several different ways to kill Bianca.  She finally takes the last of the apples she was given and puts poisonon one side of it.  She gets Bianca to eat the apple by tasting from the non-poisoned side first.<br />Bianca goes into another deep sleep lasting for years.  The dwarves recapture their mirror and take the glass out to place over her coffin.  Vicente stumbles upon her and just sits there for years before wandering off and dying.  The gooseboy stumbles upon her and takes the glass off her coffin and asks to kiss her.  The hunger, Primavera's grandson, comes back and stops the gooseboy and takes the pleasure for himself, awaking Bianca.<br />Meanwhile Lucrezia wants to be happy and will stop at nothing for it.  She is obsessed with the apple and feels that if she could have only had more of it, she would be happy.  She remembers the third apple Vicente spoke of and sets off to find it.  When she gets there, she finds a man who is using the apple himself.  He has it in place of his heart.<br />The end - that's it.   The whole sordid tale doesn't make much sense to me.  The story is too hard to follow and no one seems to be motivated to act the way they're acting.  Things just happen for no good reason.  Nothing is really explained very well.<br />As mentioned before, this is a disappointment compared with Wicked.  No magical world was created for me filled with wonder and emotion, friendships and excitement.  Just a hard-to-follow story that is trying desperately to be exactly like, yet hardly familiar to the story of Snow White.	2003-11-14
US	52336846	RUEVP3AG9GCUV	0312263120	201960968	Digital Fortress: A Thriller	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I like the style of the book, not the subject matter	The National Security Agency has been working for years on a method to intercept and crack any code or encrypted message sent via E-Mail across the globe.  They finally developed a machine so powerful that it can decode even the toughest messages in just a matter of minutes.  The machine is dubbed TRANSLTR.<br />The existence of TRANSLTR is threatened when a bitter, crippled Japanese programmer threatens to release an encryption method that TRANSLTR can't crack: Digital Fortress.   Digital Fortress is placed up on the web, encrypted in itself so that only those with the passcode can unlock it.  The NSA learns the programmer is working with a partner as a safety measure.  If he should die, the partner will publish the passcode within 24 hours.<br />The programmer is found dead in Spain and the NSA must race the clock to obtain both passcodes before it is too late.<br />The whole idea that keeping Digital Fortress out of the hands of the public was a life or death situation seemed a little too weighty for me.  I believe the basic idea of Digital Fortress is that the encryption was constantly revolving, making it impossible for a computer to guess when the correct passcode had been entered.  Anyone in the computer world knows that everything has a workaround.  It may be that Digital Fortress would make TRANSLTR extinct, but necessity is the mother of invention and people would eventually figure out how to break into a file encrypted by Digital Fortress.<br />Therefore, the book seemed a little bloody to me.  People were taking the issue WAY too seriously.<br />If you put the absurdity of the subject matter aside, I still enjoyed the book.  I'm really starting to like Dan Brown's work.  I've also read the Da Vinci Code and both books are filled with information you may not have previously known (such as where the term &quot;sincerely&quot; really comes from).  They were also both written in real-time.  I absolutely love books written in real-time.  No skipping ahead three months and losing a portion of the person's life.  No thought or detail left unattended.<br />It was a good, dark read that I really enjoyed.  I can't wait to delve into some of Dan Brown's other works.	2003-11-05
US	52336846	R2IA4BJ058K9YJ	193156146X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Circle of Time Travel	In general, I like time traveler stories and this one is no exception.<br />Henry has a genetic defect that allows him to time travel.  It's not nearly as glamorous as one might think, in fact, it's usually dangerous and frightening!  Henry cannot control his time travel, although he seems to only be drawn to locations that have an emotional significance to him.  He arrives at his destination confused and without clothing.  He normally needs to be able to run fast and steal in order to survive his trips through time.<br />Along Henry's travels, he meets Clare.  The most interesting thing about their relationship is that he meets her when she is six or seven and he is forty-three.  He is coming from the future - a future in which they are married.  Henry doesn't meet Clare until he is 28.  Although Clare has known Henry all her life, Henry has never seen her before.<br />This book really made me think about time travel.  Sometimes the Henry of the future does or says something that will directly affect someone in the past.  For example, in order to get his doctor to give him the time of day, the Henry of the future looked up the birth certificate of the doctor's child, memorized the information and gave it to the Henry of the past in order to prove to the doctor that he could really time travel.  What would have  happened if Henry didn't do that?  What would be the outcome?<br />The author makes it clear that the past cannot be changed.  Henry has lived through many things and has tried to change the past, but everything is concrete.  You could imagine this would leave a person feeling helpless and a slave to their own future.  Henry has stated that he thinks people have free-choice in their present, but when exactly IS the present?<br />Trying to change the past doesn't work out.  One day when Clare was a teenager and Henry was coming back from the future for a visit, she drew a sketch of Henry.  While she was drawing, they were talking about how the past cannot be changed.  When she finishes the sketch, she starts to put the date down in the lower right hand corner, however Henry stops her.  He tells her that in the present, the sketch has no date on it.  In order to test Henry's theory, Clare puts the date on the sketch anyway to see what will happen.<br />When Henry gets back from that trip, he finds the sketch to see the date, however there still isn't a date on it.  When he asks Clare about it, she says she was paranoid that something might not go right or they might not ever meet, so trimmed the sketch to chop off the date.<br />So although they were trying to change the past to see its effect on the future, they couldn't.  In the past she had always put the date on the sketch and chopped it off.  Henry had just assumed when he saw the sketch that it had never been dated.<br />I'm going to have to go through and read this book again to make all the connections between the past events and future events.  The book is so circular and the author never seems to skip a beat.  The story was funny and sad and romantic and filled with action.<br />I highly recommend it.changed.  When she finishes the sketch, she starts to put the date down in the lower right hand corner, however Henry stops her.  He tells her that in the present, the sketch has no date on it.  In order to test Henry's theory, Clare puts the date on the sketch anyway to see what will happen.<br />When Henry gets back from that trip, he finds the sketch to see the date, however there still isn't a date on it.  When he asks Clare about it, she says she was paranoid that something might not go right or they might not ever meet, so trimmed the sketch to chop off the date.<br />So although they were trying to change the past to see its effect on the future, they couldn't.  In the past she had always put the date on the sketch and chopped it off.  Henry had just assumed when he saw the sketch that it had never been dated.<br />I'm going to have to go through and read this book again to make all the connections between the past events and future events.  The book is so circular and the author never seems to skip a beat.  The story was funny and sad and romantic and filled with action.<br />I highly recommend it.	2003-11-03
US	52336846	R2AGYDT3HQKZQ7	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nearly 1000 pages and rushed at the end!	I finally finished this book! It took me nearly a month, but I did it.<br />There's so much to this book, that I can't really give it a good book review. I was never good at book reviews anyway. It's a story about a group of people from all walks of life that find themselves living in the cathedral town of Kingsbridge Priory.<br />While a cathedral is being built, politics and pettiness of enemies get in the way. People fall in love. People make bad decisions. People die.<br />The book was nearly 1000 pages, yet I still felt rushed at the end. I'm wondering if the author would have told the story better if he made this a trilogy or series. Overall, I felt it was a good book and would recommend it.	2003-10-30
US	52336846	RPA1G8ZY9PRT1	0393039765	311054036	Fight Club	Books	1	19	58	N	N	Save yourself a few hours and rent the movie	This is one of the few books I've read where I think the movie was actually better than the book.  Even then, I don't think it's so much that the movie was BETTER, but the book just works better as a movie.  It plays out nicer.  The book stayed right on par with the movie and only a few tiny events were changed.<br />If you don't know the premise, fight club is about a guy who shall forever remain nameless.  He can't sleep at night, so he goes to support groups for diseases and problems he doesn't have.  He meets a woman named Marla Singer and they form a hate-hate relationship.  Then the guy meets a man named Tyler and his entire life changes.  He goes from a condo filled with IKEA furniture to a crack-house reject of a house.  <br />He forms a club called Fight Club with Tyler.  Men beat each other up and feel great about it afterwards.  Woo.<br />It was a quick read and a poor book.  I'd absolutely recommend renting the movie over wasting your time reading the book.	2003-10-12
US	52336846	R5QOXLAUB979P	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	17	24	N	N	The worst book ever written	This was a really quick and boring read.  I figured so many people were ranting and raving about it that perhaps reading it might do me some good.  No, not really.<br />The book is about a story of two mice and two little people who live in a maze and try to find cheese.  They all find a huge supply of cheese and when the cheese is all gone, the two mice go off to find more cheese while the two little people can't quite accept that the cheese is gone and isn't coming back.<br />The story of the people at their high school reunion telling the story is laughable.  They're all so excited to discuss how the story changed their lives.  I wrote better stories in the 3rd grade.<br />I was not motivated at all by this book.  View me as a Hem if you want, but the book is filled with things you SHOULD already know.  You have to change and adapt in this world if you're going to get anywhere in life.  You have to pay attention to your surroundings so you can notice when things are changing and be prepared for it.<br />I honestly can't believe that there are people who don't already know this.  I can't see how reading this horribly written book will motivate anyone to change their ways.	2003-10-07
US	52336846	RM4DGNY3Z0FY4	0060987324	831264929	Girlfriend in a Coma	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Kind of pointless	Girlfriend in a Coma is broken into three parts.  The first part is told by Richard.  His high school sweetheart, Karen went into an unexplained coma the night she lost her virginity.  For weeks before she has had strange dreams.  Premonitions of what is to come.  She feels that she has seen something in the future that she shouldn't have seen and feels like she is going to be taken away - taken hostage because of it.  And she is.   <br />She was impregnated the first and only time she ever had sex and her daughter is borne to her while she is in her coma.  She remains in an uneventful coma for nearly eighteen years.  Her close network of friends try to grow up during this time.  They try to find deeper meaning in their lives, but they are left unfulfilled.  Richard especially is a mess. He's living for the day that Karen wakes up from her coma instead of living for himself, for his daughter or for his friends.<br />The second part is in 3rd person.  Karen wakes up from her coma on a day holds many coincidences for her friends.  Good things keep happening to Richard.  Two of her friends, Pam and Hamilton arrive at the hospital ODing on heroin.  They have stereo drug-induced dreams which they later describe as video snapshots of the end of the world.  Both dreams are identical.  <br />Karen wakes up and tries to get on with her life and tries to recover, but she is haunted by the reason she went into her coma in the first place.  Something's going to happen.  Soon.  She gives a date to the events to come and waits.<br />The third part is told by a ghost named Jared.  Jared went to high school with Karen, Richard and their group of friends.  He died during their junior year of leukemia.  The end of the world has come and leaves only Karen, her daughter, granddaughter and her network of friends behind.  Jared is there to explain to them why this happened and what they can do to fix it.<br />I think this book had the potential to be so much more interesting.  Instead itbecame preachy and weak.   We have overtaken the Earth to a point beyond where it could repair itself if we weren't here.  We need to be content with our life and that means actually doing something with our life.  Questioning our life.  Questioning other's lives.<br />I hated the ending.  Again, I thought it was completely weak and it could have been so much more with more meaning.  The author tries to make you think, but he does so in a way that he doesn't explain anything at all.<br />There was something about the book I liked.  As with Hey Nostradamus I was left with an eerie, haunting feeling and I think that's good.    There's something about Douglas Coupland that I DO like, I just can't put my finger on it.  Both of the books seemed to dance around issues, leaving you to guess what happened.  Neither book really had any resolution at all. <br />I'll probably try one more Douglas Coupland book to see if I like this author or if he just leaves me unsatisfied.	2003-10-06
US	52336846	R2WWVGNDX0FI0	0425188809	50861192	Watchers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great story of animal compassion	Watchers was a great thriller and extremely well written.  <br />Two beings were created in a lab with near human intelligence.  One is a golden retriever normal in every way other than his intelligence.  The other is called The Outsider.  A frightful being resembling no animal or man.  Both beings escape from the lab and are free in the wild.<br />A man named Travis finds the dog and soon learns of its secret, however he is unaware that the dog still has more secrets to reveal to it.  Along the way, Travis and the dog, newly named Einstein, meet a woman named Nora.  Nora has been sheltered all her life and Travis befriends her and finds their friendship quickly grows into something more.<br />In the meantime, The Outsider is still out there.  The NSA are searching for both The Outsider and the dog which means that Travis and Nora have to watch themselves carefully.<br />Without giving anything else away, I'll just say that I completely enjoyed this book.  Animal stories always hit me right in the heart and Einstein, with his human-like intelligence, is completely endearing.  I found myself reading the book at a quick pace, always wanting more and always thinking about where I'd just left off when I wasn't able to read.  There are very few boring moments in the book.  <br />The only subplot I could have done without was that of a man named Vince who kills the scientists who created The Outsider and the dog and believes that taking lives insures his own immortality.  The entire subplot is almost ridiculous in its ending.<br />If you're an animal lover or dog lover, this book is a definite read.  You will find yourself looking after Einstein and thinking about him long after you put the book down.	2003-10-04
US	52336846	R1DWJ039T32476	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	2	4	19	N	N	Fishy	I was really looking forward to this book because I heard it would tell me everything I DIDN'T want to know about what was going on back in the kitchen of most restaurants.   I was looking for the book to relate to ME and tell me about things I am interested in. <br />Instead, I got a bunch of choppy stories that won't name names or places and seem to be hazy at best in their recollection.  I'm not saying Tony is a bad writer; I think he's pretty darned good at writing.  It's just that in order to protect the not-so-innocent, he has to blur our all the details.<br />He seems to be fixated on fish, which I can't stand and most of the first part of the book only offers advice on what sort of fish you should stay away from in restaurants and when.  I did like the chapter on Bigfoot, but everything else about the book was a bore.	2003-09-29
US	52336846	R12LMPPGXX197Y	1582343586	378018122	Hey Nostradamus!: A Novel (Coupland, Douglas)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprisingly good!	This book was centered around four main characters: Cheryl, Jason, Heather and Reg. The book is divided into four parts, one for each character.<br />In the first part, Cheryl describes the Columbine-like shooting in her school during her senior year in 1988. Her and her boyfriend Jason had just gotten secretly married six weeks ago and she just found out last night that she was pregnant. She goes back and forth between the events that led to her death and the events that led to her marriage of Jason. She is in a sort of purgatory with darkness and silence and she can only hear certain prayers, but just the words, not the voices behind them.<br />I was hooked from the very first part since I just finished reading The Lovely Bones and having the character talk about her life while she was dead seemed very similar to me.<br />The next part fast forwards in time to 1999 and is written from the viewpoint of Jason. He is writing a letter to his nephews and manages to express only his hatred for his father, Reg and the fact that he has never gotten over Cheryl's death. He expresses that he blacks out when he's been drinking and especially so when other drugs are involved. There's a few pages where he's blacked out and some strange things happen to him. I never really fully understood what was going on during those few pages, so I might need to read them again.<br />Heather writes the third part in 2002, three months after Jason's disappearance. She is Jason's girlfriend and the closest thing to a stable relationship he's had since Cheryl. She is approached by a psychic who tells her things only her and Jason would ever know. She trusts the psychic as she has no other choice if she wants to find out what happened to Jason and if he's still alive.<br />While I was reading Jason's part, I was looking forward most to Reg's part, the final part which takes place in 2003. Reg is one of those holier-than-thou types and has some pretty atrocious beliefs. He told Jason's sister-in-law that one of her twin boys might not have a soul because technically, one was a clone of the other one and he didn't believe clones could have souls. He treated Jason and his mother poorly. In the end though, there is no satisfying resolution with Reg.<br />I thought the book was well written and interesting, but I was left feeling that there wasn't much point to it. What was it all for? Perhaps I'm supposed to be left with this feeling. The book's central theme is that God may no longer be there for His people. He may no longer care to help them or hear them. In that effect, I think it would be more aptly titled &quot;Hey Nietzsche!&quot; rather than &quot;Hey Nostradamus!&quot;<br />I really didn't think I was going to like this book at all when I first heard about it (so why I decided to read it, I do not know) but I was pleasantly surprised and might end up checking out some of Douglas Coupland's other books.	2003-09-28
US	52336846	R6TBC75UVJ8VK	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Stretched a little thin.	The Lovely Bones is about a girl named Susie who is brutally raped and murdered when she is fourteen.  Susie goes to her own individual heaven and she can see everything happening on earth.  She can see her family greiving their loss and she can see her killer, a neighbor no one but her father is willing to suspect.<br />Susie watches her classmates and younger brother and sister grow up while she remains the same fourteen year old girl.  She is fixated on Earth below instead of trying to focus on her new life in heaven.<br />What I found amazing was Susie's calm and general lack of emotion throughout the events of the the book.  She is killed in a disturbing manner and Susie casually speaks of it as if she were describing someone making a peanut butter sandwich.  She is far too comfortable with her own death and murder for my liking.<br />It was certainly a unique book and a very good read, but the last hundred pages or so seemed very sluggish to me.  It was almost as if the writer were told she needed to make the book longer, so she tacked on the pages.  Thankfully it came together nicely in the last couple of chapters.	2003-09-27
US	52336846	R3NN2CMEPQN885	037576092X	892327575	Autobiography of a Fat Bride: True Tales of a Pretend Adulthood	Books	3	3	12	N	N	Chopped up stories with nothing to do about a fat bride	This book is a true autobiography of Laurie Notaro. Actually, to call it an autobiography would be unfair. It's more like a series of based-on-real-life-events stories.<br />Laurie is an odd woman, one I can identify with. She is funny and smart in her recollections of family and household antics.<br />I found the book similar to Candy and Me due to the efforts the author takes to distance herself from her readers and the one-story-at-a-time approach to writing. During the entire book, I'm not sure we ever learn Laurie's husband's name. That fact alone disturbed me. Why is it omitted?<br />There's no plot going on with the book at all. Each chapter can be read independently of each other. Again, while that's not a bad thing, it just made the book a choppy read for me.<br />For some reason I was under the impression that this book would be an actual tale of a fat bride. Maybe the struggles a fat bride has to go through to get her wedding pulled off. In fact, it's the story of a *slightly* overweight woman. Maybe two or three chapters are spent discussing the wedding. Guess I should have read the cover better.	2003-09-24
US	52336846	R27SJ346LJ05NW	0765302756	853292051	Voices	Books	3	2	2	N	N	NOT suspenseful, that's for sure.	This book was marked as &quot;suspense&quot; by the library and several other places have also insinuated that this is a suspenseful story. I don't know why.<br />The book starts out shortly after Leslie has a miscarriage. A mishap with anesthesia causes her memory to be poor. She discovers an article about a little girl that was kidnapped 25 years ago and she's convinced it is her.<br />She finds the family and tries to make herself a part of their lives.<br />Okay, the storyline was interesting, but I'm not sure why some elements were thrown in. For instance, her miscarriage is fairly important, but her sudden memory problems were not at all relevant. At no point in time did I believe she even remotely had a memory problem and the fact was just thrown out at me time and time again only until it was no longer a convenient excuse for the author to explain Leslie's weirdness.<br />And suspense? Don't get me started. I figured out the ending after Part One. The plot was entirely too predictable and the characters completely lacked emotion or conviction.<br />I wouldn't classify this as a bad book, but there are too many flaws in it for me to say it was good.	2003-09-22
US	52336846	R2EG0VBPVFUPJ7	060961004X	128353083	Eat Cake: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Simple.  Elegant.  Tasty.	This was an absolutely fabulous and unique book that I completely enjoyed.<br />Sam and Ruth live with Ruth's mother and their 16 year old daughter. Their world is turned upside down when Sam loses his job and Ruth's father is in an accident and needs to move in to be looked after by the family. Ruth's parents don't care much for one another and fight constantly.<br />Ruth tries to keep everything together, but when Sam decides he'd rather look at buying and selling boats as a trade rather than the job he's been doing for the past 20 years, the whole family decides it might be time for Ruth to get a job herself.<br />Ruth loves to bake cakes, so what better idea than to go into a cake baking business. The whole family gets involved in supporting Ruth's new career move.<br />The book is well written and charming. I absolutely loved it. To top it all off, at the back of the book there are cake recipies for all the cakes mentioned in the book. What a unique idea!<br />Great book.	2003-09-03
US	52336846	R2HF3QF3BM5B3S	0060520507	253092517	Sushi for Beginners: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Geting what they deserve	I've been screaming for a while for a good chick-lit book with strong, independent female characters and when I finally find one, I get bored halfway through.  The book was good, but I had a hard time holding my interest in it.  It follows the lives of three completely different, yet connected women.<br />Lisa is a flashy magazine editor from London.  Her work is everything.  She's been hoping to get a glamorous job at a magazine in New York City, but instead she's been assigned to setup a brand new woman's magazine in Dublin, Ireland.  She goes from a staff of hundreds to a staff of less than ten.  On top of all that, she's dealing with the breakup of her marriage and realizing she isn't quite such an awful person after all.<br />Ashling is older than Lisa and has worked for the same small magazine in Dublin for the past eight years until she invents a cleaning tip that ruins a reader's couch and is subsequently fired.  She lands a job as the assistant editor of Lisa's new magazine.  Not much else is going on with her life.  She's 31 and on the dating scene, not a terribly good mix.<br />Clodagh is Ashling's best friend.  As far as Ashling is concerned, she has the perfect life.  She's been married to Dylan (an ex-boyfriend of Ashling's) for the past ten years and has two bratty kids.  She has a wonderful house and never has to work.  Clodagh is not even remotely happy with her life though.  There's never a hint that she actually loves her children or her husband.  She is a spoiled brat, plain and simple.<br />In the end, everything works its way out.  I could have done without Clodagh altogether and some of Ashling's friends (Ted and Joy) seemed to be written into the story only to be used in a small way later on.  They have no real purpose in being there at all.<br />I thought it was a good book overall.  It was a bit slow.  Wouldn't have hurt the author to shave about 150 pages off the book.  Sushi wasn't even mentioned until page 290 and then for the remaining136 pages it's like the only thing people could think about was sushi.  It almost seems as though at that point in writing the book the author thought of the clever title &quot;Sushi for Beginners&quot; and decided to incorporate as much sushi and explanation of &quot;beginner's sushi&quot; as she possibly could throughout the remainder of the novel.	2003-08-17
US	52336846	RR4EO4TX658PE	0743245733	406231459	Candy and Me: A Girl's Tale of Life, Love, and Sugar	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Gave me a stomacheache	This was a light and fluffy read with lots of nostalgia.  Everyone can remember their favorite childhood candy and the author just about covers them all.<br />Aside from the novelty of a biography centered around candy, I can't say this was a particularly interesting read.  The author's life was dull and although she writes well, there's not much that can make up for a boring story.<br />Reading this book gave me a stomachache.  Unless you have a serious (and I do mean serious) love of candy, I wouldn't recommend it.	2003-08-11
US	52336846	R1ME8K5ID0DBYE	0060393211	551668212	Running in Heels: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly NOT bad	An overweight person reading a book about an anorexic. I really know how to pick them, don't I? After I found out I was reading a book about an anorexic, I thought I was going to hate the book. Admitedly, it is a fluff chick-lit style book. Something about me actually liked it though. I found myself feeling emotions (albeit rarely GOOD emotions) towards the characters and I'll take moving books where I can find them.	2003-08-01
US	52336846	R177I8Q01Q26KF	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Rushed at the end	Wicked was something of an unauthorized prequel to The Wizard of Oz. It tells the story of Elphie who will later be known as The Wicked Witch of the West. She is not wicked though, only scorn by the fact that everything she tries to accomplish in her life, including winning her own father's love, fails miserably.<br />In this tale you'll learn the origins of The Yellow Brick Road, the ruby slippers and the flying monkeys.<br />The first three sections of the book were wonderful. I had high hopes for the last section, which is when Dorothy finally comes into play, but the final section disappointed me greatly. It was a chance for the author to tie everything together. To explain and finalize Yackle and the Wizard. To learn more about this other world the Wizard and Dorothy come from and why that Book is so important.<br />I ended up liking Elphaba SO MUCH that the whole last section just irritated me. She wasn't acting like herself, I don't think. She was acting how the author wanted her to act in order to advance the story to the point where we all know it would end up.<br />Maybe the subtlety was lost to me, but I gathered no resolution at all from this book. All I really have to say about it was that I was disappointed, although I am glad I read it.	2003-08-01
US	52336846	RI222FTU8ZWC4	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	2	7	7	N	N	What is everyone thinking!?	Yet another chicklit book where the main character has absolutely no confidence in herself and has no personality. At first we're led to believe that Jemima Jones is overweight because she has an obsession with food. That's not quite the case. She has an addictive personality and is always obsessed with something. When she discovers the Internet, she no longer cares about eating. When she discovers the joys of working out, she no longer cares about the Internet. And the cycle goes on and on.<br />I suppose this book was designed to make women feel good about themselves, but I don't know how with such mindless characters. Always doing what they do for the sake of men.<br />To top off the poor plot, the writing is atrocious. I felt like I was reading a book for a person with a limited vocabulary - say a nine year old. I've seen online journals with much better writing than this.<br />Jane Green also keeps switching from first-person to third-person, but it isn't well done as with Jodi Picoult's Perfect Match. She seems to switch back and forth from first person to third because she write well enough to tell the story through Jemima's eyes alone. And several places throughout the book, she makes reference to what will happen later. &quot;As you'll soon find out...&quot; and &quot;For {character} and {character} already knew...&quot; are probably the two most commonly used phrases in the book. Please don't tell me what to think. The proper way to indicate what will happen later in the story is called foreshadowing. Jane Green, please learn something about it!<br />I've read several reviews of this book and many people thought it was great, but for the life of me, I can't figure out why.	2003-07-29
US	52336846	R32BJYUNPXC162	0670881791	598461998	Chocolat: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Tying up loose ends	If it were not for the few mentions of satellite dishes and cars, this book could have easily taken place two hundred years ago in a small Paris town. The backbone and detail of this story is wonderful.<br />Vianne has been running all her life. It was how she was brought up and how she's been bringing up her daughter. She has a secret desire to stop running and settle down in one place. She has a passion for cooking and specifically chocolate making, so it seems only fitting that she setup a chocolate shop. Many of the local townspeople and especially the local priest find this to be an act of defiance as the shop opens as Lent begins.<br />Through much of the book Vianne struggles with her own demons. Memories left by her mother still haunt her. It doesn't help matters that the priest despises her.<br />The story started out strong, but lost something along the way. The most climactic moments of the book happen halfway through and then the story just fizzles out, tying up loose ends. I was very unhappy with the ending, although all-in-all, it was a good book.	2003-07-23
US	52336846	R28H5ECXF9ZD70	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	1	7	11	N	N	The best thing about it was the cover	I like fluff books.<br />But this one was just taken too far. There is no real plot. Rebecca Bloomwood is a self absorbed weak excuse for a woman. She can't think of ANYTHING except shopping. Honest to goodness, she can't go more than 10 minutes without thinking of herself. As a result, she doesn't have any friends (unless you can count her flatmate Suzy - someone she couldn't care less about) but this doesn't bother her in the least.  Who needs friends when there are stores?<br />The novel didn't even reach a turning point until around page 220, which is more than two-thirds of the way through the book. The previous pages were merely spend going on and on about how much Rebecca loved shopping.<br />Dear Lord - there are people who actually like THIS fluff? At least fluffy romance novels have ROMANCE in them and GOOD THINGS happening in them. For this novel, we have to spend its entirety feeling horrible for poor Becky Bloomwood, save for the last 50 pages where things just FALL IN HER LAP.<br />This novel disgusted me. I'm going to have to choose deeper fluff from now on if I want to give my mind something fun to read.  The best thing about this book (the paperback) was it's beautifully done front cover.	2003-07-19
US	52336846	R28IJMZBWATL9F	0743418735	194962038	Perfect Match	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Interesting Perspective!	Normally I don't like books where murder is involved to any degree, so I was a bit skeptical going into this one.<br />The author has a unique writing style. The book is written in first person narrative, where the narrator is Nina, the mother. It is also written in third-person from the viewpoint of all the main characters (all of them EXCEPT Fisher, Nina's attorney). In between chapters it also contains little memories written in first person by Nathaniel, the son.<br />Perfect Match is a story of a mother trying to protect her son. She is a prosecutor and has handled many child molestation cases only to come home one day and find out her own child has been molested. She knows that the legal system does not work in the child's best interest in these sorts of cases, so she decides to take the law into her own hands.<br />I didn't care for any of the main characters. I thought all of them were completely selfish. The ending of the book has a twist, but it doesn't really make the book any better in my opinion.<br />All in all, it was a WONDERFUL book. Definitely one of my new favorites.	2003-07-19
US	52336846	R1QVQXHCBUH0QM	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	3	13	55	N	N	A crazy Canadian boy trapped in an Indian body...	For an animal lover, this isn't the greatest book in the world.  A good portion of the book deals with vivid descriptions of how animals are killed and eaten by man or by beast.<br />And let me save you about 100 pages.  The whole entire first part can be skipped.  Pi likes animals.  His family are zookeepers.  His dad thinks tigers are the most dangerous animals on the planet.  Pi secretly goes around practicing Muslim, Christian and Hindu religions until they all find out about each other's roles in Pi's life and try to convince him to choose one - theirs.  And because money isn't good and India is falling apart his family decides to get on a boat with all their animals and move from India to Canada.<br />There, 100 pages saved - completely skip that part of the book.<br />The remainder of the tale is nearly its equal in boredom.  Maybe I'm just not &quot;proper&quot; enough to &quot;get it&quot; but it wasn't my favorite book.  The most interesting part was when Pi finds a floating island of flesh-eating algae.  And the final conversation with the Japanese men who want a believable tale about why their boat sank was also interesting.<br />The rest of the book I could have skipped.<br />Beware of the New York Times bestseller list.	2003-07-13
US	52336846	R2IZGQTZIMLI3O	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Bestseller?  WHY!?	This book was so amazingly bland that I can't accurately describe my feelings for it. Through the entire book I found myself hoping to finish it so that I could put it aside and start another, more interesting book. I have never in my life disliked a main character as much as I disliked Carrie Bell.<br />She was selfish, pure and simple. When her best friend and fiance broke his neck in a diving accident, she ran off to New York and began making something of her life. She began following her dreams and exploring her emotions. In New York, unlike her hometown of Madison, Wisconsin, she was known to care about people every now and then. Be happy every now and then. In Madison, she cared about no one, least of all herself. She abandoned her friends and her fiance.<br />I have absolutely no idea how she could feel so numb towards someone who was not only her lover, but her friend. The whole book amazed me. There were no surpises. No plot twists. No caring for the character. I was more interested in the tale of her friends than her own tale. It's like watching an interesting movie through a very bland character's eyes.<br />I will never again trust the New York Times Bestseller list.	2003-07-09
US	52336846	R2B31WE3PO0R89	0806999012	101643569	Making Scrapbooks: Complete Guide to Preserving Your Treasured Memories	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Great for beginners	This book is great if you are new to scrapbooking.  It will quickly acquaint you with the techniques needed to make beautiful layouts.  After you read through it a few times, however, and practice the designs that  interest you the most, this book tends to stay tucked away on the shelf.   The techniques and layouts used in this book are simple enough that you can  remember it without having to refer to the book.  If you only scrapbook a  few times a year, this book would be a great buy.  However, if you  scrapbook often then save yourself the money and just go to the library to  find these ideas.	2000-03-30
