US	52339420	R2SDNRWL6HBOX4	034076192X	65475895	Second Language Learning and Language Teaching, 3Ed	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Bridging the gap between theory and practice	Teachers often complain that research results and theories do not help them much when it comes to choosing materials or deciding on activities: the nuts and bolts of teaching in other words. On the other hand, researchers as well as some teachers complain that teachers all too often ignore research findings and base their teaching on their own unexamined and sometimes unfounded ideas and beliefs.<br />Well, here is a book that helps bridge the gap between second language acquisition research and teaching practice. Vivian Cook (a reader at the University of Essex in the UK for many years, he will move to Newcastle University in October 2004) provides here an overview of some of the most salient points from second language acquisition research and links them with teaching practice by examining samples from published EFL/ESL textbooks (50 of them, all indexed) from around the world.<br />This is a book for practising or trainee EFL/ESL teachers. There is frequent reference to other languages (for language awareness) and to a variety of research on different ethnic groups of learners. While the book is obviously somewhat technical, given its intended readership, each section is preceded by a mini glossary and discussion questions.<br />Cook ranges widely. There are sections or chapters on: learning and teaching different types of grammar; writing, spelling and vocabulary; individual factors that affect learning (sex, age, motivation, cognitive and learning styles); on pronunciation; on the goals of language teaching, which includes a look at national educational objectives in different countries; on models of L2 learning (the input theory, Universal Grammar, communicative models, audio-lingual method, etc).<br />I enjoyed Cook's dry wit and his personal comments on some of the research findings and teaching methods he describes. For instance, on the question of L2 users versus native speakers  (Ch 7), he points out: \\"Teachers should be clear in their minds that they areusually teaching people how to use two languages, not how to use one in isolation....The aim is not to produce L2 speakers who can only use the language when speaking with each other. Myhill (1990), for instance, points out that English materials for Aboriginals in Australia, such as 'Tracks' (Northern Territory, 1979), reflect their own lifestyle rather than that of the English-speaking community: what's the point in them speaking to each other in English? Nor should the aim be to produce imitation native speakers, except perhaps for trainee spies.\\"<br />Cook provides a British perspective, often lacking in EFL/ESL books (such as Lightbown and Spada's \\"How Language are Learned\\"). The overview of methods includes \\"British mainstream EFL\\".<br />An informative and stimulating book, particularly for teaches who have been away from theory or research for a while.	2004-09-06
US	52339420	R1W87MF85NGW6W	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What is the sound of one hand clapping?	I'd read &quot;Cider House Rules&quot; and enjoyed it, so I gave this one a try. And glad I did. A very different style, more magic realism, yet the focus is on the human heart, the human condition, the need for people to understand themselves, and how we can help each other to do that, sometimes in unexpected ways. Irving veers unerringly between pathos and bathos, sometimes throwing in hilariously rude comments about his own characters! The main characters change and grow. Passive seducer Patrick Wallingford meets his match, loses his touch (and his hand), and gets a life-lesson. Is this a comedy? A romance? Irving keeps the touch light, shining a light on life's profundities yet without being in any way maudlin or sentimental or preachy. The surgeon who performs the operations on Wallingford's hand has problems of his own: a quirky character bordering on the obsessive, a bitter, vengeful ex-wife, a son who he has trouble relating to; he jogs, he can't stand dog turds, he used to play lacrosse. Irving comes up with a hilarious combination: the jogging doctor takes his lacrosse stick with him, scoops up dog-poop on the run, and flings it in the Charles river! The comic zingers took me completely by surprise and had me in stitches. I could not put this book down. Check out the one-night stand with Angie, the &quot;mess&quot; who asks for Wallingford's home phone number to give to her parents &quot;in case of emergencies&quot;, and of course the whole family calls up! The one-night stands highlight Wallingford's lack of principle and direction, yet the encounters usually teach him something about himself, and eventually something about other people, especially women, who, Wallingford slowly realizes, he never really knew. The ending was good, though a little too expected. The book reminded me of Balzac in its scope, characterization and humour, also of Kurt Vonnegut in the humour and magic realism and symbolism (the jokes about &quot;hands&quot; got a little too cuteafter a while, tho) and also a little of Nick Hornby's &quot;About a Boy&quot; (tho I've only seen the movie of the latter, not read the book). There was a little too much getting laid (I couldn't figure out the purpose of one of the meetings at all), altho it figures that a spineless womanizer like Wallingford couldn't learn about life any other way! Irving has fun with names: there's a character who has 3 names. Is it Irving the author who can't make up his mind what to call this character? Or is it Wallingford's lack of interest in his fellow human beings that causes the confusion? Notice when the main character is called Patrick, when he's Wallingford, and when he's Pat. A fun read.	2004-02-26
US	52339420	R34XA342UTA4HK	0465045154	779614124	Extraordinary Minds: Portraits Of 4 Exceptional Individuals And An Examination Of Our Own Extraordinariness (Masterminds Series)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	More on the Mind series	Howard Gardner, famous for his Multiple Intelligences theory (see &quot;Frames of Mind&quot;) continues his research into patterns of intelligences with this analysis of 4 extraordinary individuals: Mozart, Freud, Virginia Woolf and Gandhi. The biographies of these people, which take up only half of the book, were interesting. Less fascinating (but still interesting) were Gardner's categories of extraordinariness - Maker, Influencer, Master, Introspector.  Least interesting and convincing was where Gardner attempts to find patterns that might be helpful for the rest of us: &quot;Varieties of Extraordinariess&quot; and &quot;Lessons&quot; (the final two sections) were rather heavy and finally unconvincing, and the (short) paragraphs on gurus and &quot;spiritual leaders&quot; were particularly uninformative and infelicitous.<br />Gardner writes well, as might be expected of a professor in Harvard's school of education, and knowledgeably. I sometimes felt, though, that one purpose of the book was to illustrate Gardner's own brilliance. The author's name and the book's title take up equal space on the cover. <br />An interesting book, and it certainly made me want to read more of Gardner's work, as well as learn more about the extraordinary people he writes about.	2003-12-17
US	52339420	R2687VII6JY82H	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Still running after all these years	The first Updike book I've read, and it made me want to read more. Never having heard of Updike's myth, I had very few preconceptions. I found Updike's style entrancing, powerful, beautiful.<br />If you need to like the characters in a story in order to enjoy a book, don't read this book. If you need to read about characters who reflect your moral beliefs, don't read this book. Updike's style takes the ordinary everyday (many reviewers here have noted the mundaneness of the plot), takes the subtle evanescing experiences of life, and crystallises them, slows them down, so we can see, ponder, wonder, re-examine. Updike neither condones nor condemns any character in this story: each of them is described in a way that reveals or suggests the mystery and wonder (not necessarily wonderful!) of the universe that is a human being. Most of the characters have little self-awareness, with protagonist Rabbit having the least. Yet Rabbit has a very alert instinct that can sense attitudes and intentions behind the words and movements of others. Abandoning his prostitute companion, Rabbit returns to his wife, and contritely stays with his wife's parents while his wife is having their 2nd baby in hospital. The in-laws are glad Rabbit has returned yet still censure him in their hearts for having left in the first place. Updike describes the atmosphere in the house as a shifting in the furniture and the air to make a space where Harry can fit in, if he makes himself very small. This is how Rabbit lives: he sense things instinctively but rarely questions whether what he is doing is right or wrong. He can't, his instincts are too strong. He feels good when things &quot;click&quot;: when he nets a perfect basket, when he hits a perfect drive in golf. When things don't go his way, he feels uncomfortable, trapped; his disappointment is instantaneous. <br />Despite Rabbit's unpleasant character, the dilemmas he faces are common to many (as are those of his wife and Ruth, the prostitute heshacks up with for a while): what should he do about his wife's drinking? And about his own distaste for her drunkenness? About his wife's untidiness and the distaste this arouses in Harry? Should Ruth tell Harry she's pregnant with his child? Will this make him want to stay, or run? Is the woman who invites him in flirting with him? Or is he misreading the signs? No answers are provided, rather we just see Rabbit living out his life instinctively, and while we see the mess this leads him into, I felt sad when Rabbit returned to his wife. It was like watching a wild thing returning to its cage.	2003-08-31
US	52339420	R1XBA24U98V988	0878301178	826516336	Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Absolutely entrancing	I'm not an actor, have no experience of improvisational theatre (not even seen any!), but I loved this book. A fascinating glimpse into a highly creative and original mind, and funny as heck, especially the section on Status. This book would be of interest to teachers, particularly those teaching arts (including but not limited to language arts).	2003-05-16
US	52339420	R1ORAVMYT03BVN	0471592242	278144648	Trading for a Living: Psychology, Trading Tactics, Money Management	Books	3	10	17	N	N	A healthy dose of realism and experience	I enjoyed this book. I do not trade but have studied it somewhat. I can't vouch for the accuracy of the technical stuff. The writer is an educated man with a sense of humour, and he can write! Others have described the contents, so I won't. If you are thinking of trading, read this book first. Here's a sample: \\"A good trader watches his capital as carefully as a professional scuba diver watches his air supply\\". \\"Markets need a fresh supply of losers just as builders of the ancient pyramids... needed a fresh supply of slaves.\\" \\"The lion's share [is] pocketed by floor traders and brokers who took a much bigger cut than any casino or racetrack would dare!\\" \\"The major economic role of a trader is to support his broker - to help him pay his mortgage and keep his children in private schools.\\" \\"Odysseus heard the Sirens' song but survived because he could not jump. You ensure your survival as a trader when on a clear day you tie yourself to the mast of a trading plan and money management rules.\\" A healthy dose of realism from an experienced trader to those about to leap into the fray.	2002-09-18
US	52339420	R3QFRFJY1C759E	1563523302	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not a how-to-be-a-millionaire book	I found this book fascinating. It is not a how-to-be-rich book. As the title implies, it is the combined conclusions from a number of statistical studies and focus-group interviews by authors Stanley and Danko, the purpose of which was to find out more about the spending and saving habits of the rich. For their purposes they defined \\"rich\\" as more than $1 million in net worth. The results I found pretty eye-opening. Of particular interest for me was the authors' comparison between 2 groups: the true millionaires (according to their definition) and those who fit the more popular image of millionaires - high spenders who had less than $1 million in net worth. The study includes lists and tables of occupations of millionaires, categories of businesses they own, and so on. Yes, most millionaires are owners of businesses (cf Kiyosaki's \\"Cashflow Quadrant\\"). Another section of great interest is that on the children of millionaires vs those of high-spenders. There is much implied in the book (the frugality, discipline and low-profile lifestyle of millionaires are treated with obvious sympathy and respect), but the authors did very well to stick to their brief and avoid preaching, or even advice (althought there is an excellent concluding section, in true academic style, on how one might exploit the statistical information). Finally, as a non-American, I found the wealth of analysis on cars hilarious! The table on cars' cost per pound is highly thought-provoking, though. Very well written with humour and a complete lack of pretentiousness or \\"academese\\". All in all, the results of their excellent research speak for themselves.	2002-09-17
US	52339420	R3GLFFHX0MLTHH	1558605347	682025860	Philip & Alex's Guide to Web Publishing	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An opinionated book, and great fun	I came across a reference to this book while searching on the Internet for information on web design. I was looking for help with HTML. The link took me to the online version of the book and before I knew what was happening, I was so engrossed in the first chapter, I hadn't even asked myself what all this had to do with web-design! I have no experience with computer programming, little with databases, and only a little &quot;Welcome to my Homepage&quot;-type experience with design. But I was hooked. I have since bought and read the hardcopy version, and recommended it to anyone who will listen. Those who won't, I've told them about the &quot;photo.net&quot; site where they can find great photos.<br />Yes, Greenspun is opinionated - I laughed. Yes, he refers frequently to his own company &quot;arsdigita&quot;. Yes, he blows his own trumpet. But he sticks to his anti-commercial principles: software and computer development would progress faster and benefit more people if people were less concerned with being proprietary. As an example, he has put his book, and many of the services he mentions, on the Internet for free. I liked his championship of the user, and of networked computers. Much of what he said made sense to me and helped me think more carefully about my own websites. People who say he is in it just for the money can hardly have read the whole book. As others have noted, this is not a &quot;How-to&quot; book on HTML, computer programming, or even web-design. It is a broad look at the place websites have, and could have, in our technological society, and puts some difficult yet stimulating questions before the web-designer. A book written with humanity, passion, and courage.	2002-06-16
US	52339420	RMVIQLMY5BBPE	0912310170	646740945	Games Students Play and What to Do About Them	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Still relevant after all these years	Published by Celestial Arts, Berkeley, CA, in 1972, this is still relevant today. A highly readable book by Transactional Analyst Ken Ernst, for teachers and students, or indeed anyone working with young people. The word \\"game\\" does not refer to activities like Monopoly or Tag, but rather to specific patterns of interactional behaviour.  \\"When a game prevents teaching, what's your next move?\\" is the first chapter.  \\"For every game discussed here, an example is given straight from the classroom, an analysis of the moves in the game, and an antithesis (or \\"stopper\\") to the game.\\" The book is divided into \\"Trouble-maker Games\\", \\"Put-down Games\\", \\"Tempter Games\\" and \\"Teacher Games\\". They are described from the point of view of an imaginary teacher, Mr Johnson, who plays a victim who gets sucked into student games,  and then uses his Transactional Analysis skills to figure out what is going on and devise an antithesis. The games are listed in the table of contents, and easy to look up. I found the descriptions of the games clear and helpful. Of course, it's easier to spot other people's games than your own, but one of the fascinating aspects of these games is that the \\"victim\\" is also playing a game. Reading the book is like taking a course in self-awareness. <br />The games are summarized in diagrams that show the interaction between \\"Parent\\", \\"Adult\\" and \\"Child\\" ego-states of the players, and by minimal dialogues (e.g. in \\"Uproar\\", Muriel : (makes noise to bug the teacher)   Impatient teacher: \\"Out!\\").<br />I enjoyed the book's no-nonsense, layman language. Although there are frequent references to TA, the explanations are self-sufficient and do not require an expert knowledge of TA. The names of the games suggest an honest, clear-eyed yet not unsympathetic view of human behaviour: \\"Lil ol' me\\", \\"Kissy\\", \\"Wooden Leg\\", and \\"Let's You and Him Fight\\".<br />On the negative side, the book mentions many games that are not explained. Most of these games are described in moredetail in Ernst's mentor's book \\"Games People Play\\" and you will probably want to read that book too. Also, as a teacher of 20 years' experience, I frequently found myself thinking of games my students play (I work in Japan) that did not immediately fit into any of Ernst's categories, and this may be due to cultural differences.  Finally,  altho a minor point, the book's lack of \\"21st century political correctness\\" (the model teacher is a \\"Mr\\" Johnson fir instance) gives the book a slightly \\"dated\\" feel.  A reader may also feel that the book gives insufficient information about the background Transactional Analysis (although I did not feel this was a major drawback, it certainly piqued my interest).	2002-05-01
US	52339420	R25CQ04CDT08U3	0345311469	256816201	Goodbye Mickey Mouse	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Teenage reading revisited	I'd enjoyed Len Deighton's books before: I read &quot;Bomber&quot; as a teenager and was deeply impressed. I'd also read his fiendishly involved spy stories (&quot;Only When I Laugh, The Ipcress File&quot;), so I was favourably disposed to this one, a WWII story about a couple of American pilots in 1944 UK, and their lives and loves, and deaths. I enjoyed the story - as others have observed, the technical detail about fighter planes is incredible; it gives authority and power to the writing, without swamping the reader. Not only planes, but other details of American and British lives in 1944 southern England. Just as vital to the plot is the relationship between Colonel Bohnen and his estranged son, Jamie Fairbrother, a pilot. I found the male characters deeper, more carefully drawn and more interesting than the women, but that may be a failing in all Deighton's books. One of the most interesting scenes for me was when the fathers of the 2 lovers meet: Victoria Cooper's father is a psychologist, and makes these observations on parenthood: &quot;After fifteen years or more of caring for a child, parents find it difficult to relinquish their role. There's a temptation to cripple the child and thus keep the child dependent...All parents are tempted to destroy their own children, Bohnen. It's a fact of life.&quot;<br />The dogfight scenes are riveting and highly satisfying, with Deighton wandering into the pilots' feelings and thoughts as they fly and fight. Little political comment, though, or overview of the war, despite Colonel Bohnen's high-up position. <br />The ending was a shock, but I felt it did little to add to the story - it was a gimmick. And the dialogue is pretty flat. But a satisfying read overall, so 3 stars.	2002-03-25
US	52339420	R3ND04SA2CL4GA	155783024X	754325372	Unfinished Business: Memoirs: 1902-1988	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Unputdownable	When I started this book, I had no idea who John Houseman was, other than that he was vaguely associated with theatre arts. From page one, I was hooked. I had just finished \\"Goldwyn\\" by A. Scott Berg, and was pleasantly surprised to find many similar names - people, places, movies, plays. The book is well written, with a novelist's pleasure in words and phrases. John Houseman, with no false modesty, but with no avoidance of the fame and honour that came later either, tells his own, remarkable and colourful story. A tale that chronicles, in a unique way, the history of American theatre since 1918 or so to the 1980s. What makes John Houseman's life interesting to read about is not only the famous people he worked with (and the famous collaboration with Orson Welles plays a significant yet overall only a small part in the complete story), but also Houseman's own personality: born of a Jewish-Alsatian father and a British (Welsh-Irish) mother, Houseman grew up in Europe and was educated in Britain before leaving for Argentina and then the US. He jumped at exciting opportunities throughout his life, and did not let facts like complete lack of experience or qualifications deter him! He produced, directed, managed, helped write scripts and screenplays, started theatres and theatrical programs, got into movies, radio, the Voice of America, and much later television and acting. He doesn't seem to have been much of a father or husband, but this does not detract from his fascinating and inspiring story. My only gripe was the large number of typos (in the Applause paperback 1989 version).	2002-03-24
US	52339420	R15T5NPU2364BZ	1574101072	222219382	Keeping the Books	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Bookkeeping for dummies - brilliant!	When I started my first business, I found this book priceless: step-by-step instructions on how to keep business accounts and what accounts need keeping, and when to update them. The appendix contains templates of all the major records needed for a small business. For someone who knew nothing this was a real lifebelt. Very easy to read, and immediately useful.	2002-03-24
US	52339420	R3CMZV97DH3PZ1	1573227234	987588012	Goldwyn: A Biography	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Rags to riches	What a story! A remarkably easy to read account of Sam Goldwyn's rags-to-riches life. Did you know \\"Goldwyn\\" was not his real name? Did you know he was thrown out of the MGM company after a few years?! Goldwyn worked at some stage or other with just about every famous name in the business, and also fell out with just about everybody he ever met. A cantankerous and perverse character who loved contradicting people. When people quit because he made their lives intolerable, he sometimes felt personally attacked and betrayed. The book is full of colourful characters, and Scott Berg has done a wonderful job of using quotations and dialogues to really bring these people alive: Gary Cooper, Marlon Brando, Charlie Chaplin, Mary Pickford, Lillian Hellman, William Wyler, Billy Wilder, and the remarkable Hilda Berl. It reads like a movie! By tracing Goldwyn's history, the book also covers the story of many of the other famous movie companies that are still famous today: United Artists, Universal, Paramount, Warner Brothers, RKO and of course MGM. Goldwyn also came across many young actors and actresses before they were stars: Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, David Niven, Marlon Brando, John Wayne, etc. And of course the famous Goldwyn malapropisms are here, though limited to the ones actually traceable (as far as possible) to Goldwyn himself: \\"Anyone who sees a psychiatrist should have their head examined! Include me out! A verbal agreement isn't worth the paper it's written on,\\" to pick just a few.<br />A remarkably well-written and well-researched biography that brings this vigorous, infuriating, yet oddly attractive ugly duckling to vibrant life. This must rank amongst the best biographies, up there with Ron Chernow's book about the Morgans. Anyone at all interested in movies and movie history will enjoy this.	2002-03-18
US	52339420	R24PZ23ATTIVFT	0671734008	279614391	The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Running out of adjectives	A huge door-stopper of a book. I wouldn't have read it if a friend had<BR>not recommended it. Once I'd started it, though, it grew on me: Chernow has written a very readable<BR>personal history of real people, warts and all (literally!), in writing this history of perhaps<BR>the most famous bank in the world.<br />Reviewing this book is not easy: one runs out of adjectives to describe<BR>author Ron Chernow's success in handling the vast amounts of material <BR>and information. I personally found the earlier parts (which are more about<BR>individuals) more interesting and easier to read than the later parts (which,<BR>as the times change, become more about larger numbers of smaller people; the<BR>names and the companies proliferate to a mind-numbing swirl), and I lost interest<BR>towards the end, skimming through to the parts that I found of particular <BR>personal interest.<br />First, it's a history book, but one that not only impinges on the present<BR>(I find out how Chase Manhattan and Citibanks were born, for instance)<BR>but also comes right up to date (well, OK, it ends in the late 1980s).<BR>Second, it's a history book that manages to be about both large-scale events<BR>(like the 2 World Wars) and real, individual people (I learned that &quot;J.P<BR>Morgan&quot; was actually 2 people - father and son). Chernow does a great<BR>job of bringing all these people to life: many of them faced the same dilemmas as people today, and many of them (tho not all) were phenomenally successful, yet lived and died lonely, frustrated, or unhappy. <br />A fascinating tale, but definitely a book for a long vacation.	2001-11-26
US	52339420	R3RHSUUXMFZ5GQ	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	1	8	12	N	N	A thriller??!? No way!	(...)I did not like this book. I read and enjoyed \\"The Firm\\", but this one is nowhere near as good.(...)<br />This is quite simply bad writing. The book starts well, with a man on the run finally being caught, but even as his captors start torturing him to find where he hid the $90 million, his friends are moving to help him. There is tension, there is excitement, there is a beautiful woman. Who will get to Patrick first? But after that it's all downhill. 1) Grisham cannot sustain suspense. Far too many pages are taken up explainig how things were done when the reader already knows the outcome. No tension at all! 2) Grisham does not seem to understand the narrative function of dialogue versus narrative. He merely uses dialogue when 2 or more characters are talking to each other! His dialogue is sometimes almost good - we get some wit and cut and thrust, which is almost totally absent in the narrative - but mostly it's very humdrum. 3) The ending is poor because it is almost completely unprepared. A good ending can shock, but the reader should be able to look back in the narrative and find clues that prepare for it. I only found 2 and they are very weak. 4) Grisham is too thorough, like his protagonist who has everything planned. The only tension left is to find out what really happened and how he did it. And this is explained in painstaking and boring detail. For example, Grisham spends several pages first telling the real story of who (or what) was burned in his car \\"accident\\", THEN drags us through the whole business of contacting the relatives and digging up the coffin and opening it to find... exactly what we knew was in there all along! No guessing necessary. Patrick refuses to reveal the name of the dead person, but this is description of a legal tactic; it provides no narrative tension because the reader already knows! \\"They left Biloxi in Sandy's Lexus\\". Who gives a *** about the brand of car? It plays absolutely no role whatever in the story. All it does is say, \\"See? Characters in my book are rich and successful! When they make the movie, this should be a clue to the director!\\" Poor editing. In one scene in which a female (sexist stereotyping) takes notes of a meeting, Grisham explains to the reader that the note-takers in the previous meeting were now unavailable because they had gone back to headquarters. Who cares? This is just anal attention to pointless detail, realistic maybe, but narratively meaningless!<br />5) The characters are not developed at all, they are all just 2-dimensional, even the protagonist. The main female lead, Eva, has been desribed as \\"the love interest\\", but there is almost no tenderness or real expression of love in the whole novel at all! Patrick is clearly a control-freak who is so into faultless planning (which becomes the focus of the book) that he has no time left for any finer feelings, or even any feelings at all, except a few trite \\"I love yous\\". Grisham grossly neglected the fun part of the whole deal. Compare \\"The Girl, the Gold Watch, and everything\\".<br />Booring! A very thorough and clever story by a writer very familiar with the legal world. But a THRILLER?!?? NO WAY! Grisham should take lessons from Agatha Christie.say, \\"See? Characters in my book are rich and successful! When they make the movie, this should be a clue to the director!\\" Poor editing. In one scene in which a female (sexist stereotyping) takes notes of a meeting, Grisham explains to the reader that the note-takers in the previous meeting were now unavailable because they had gone back to headquarters. Who cares? This is just anal attention to pointless detail, realistic maybe, but narratively meaningless!<br />5) The characters are not developed at all, they are all just 2-dimensional, even the protagonist. The main female lead, Eva, has been desribed as \\"the love interest\\", but there is almost no tenderness or real expression of love in the whole novel at all! Patrick is clearly a control-freak who is so into faultless planning (which becomes the focus of the book) that he has no time left for any finer feelings, or even any feelings at all, except a few trite \\"I love yous\\". Grisham grossly neglected the fun part of the whole deal. Compare \\"The Girl, the Gold Watch, and everything\\".<br />Booring! A very thorough and clever story by a writer very familiar with the legal world. But a THRILLER?!?? NO WAY! Grisham should take lessons from Agatha Christie.	2001-11-14
US	52339420	R1T726Z8QPIU3V	0805056645	856506400	Are You Somebody?: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman	Books	3	7	9	N	N	The book deserves the question mark	The puffs on the front and back covers are impressive, but what I read between them left me somewhat disappointed. A brave book, certainly, because her mistakes, her failures and her loneliness come starkly through. The constant name-dropping in the middle section gets boring quickly, and  comes as a surprise after the title (which suggests an anonymous drudge, not nationally famous journalist, daughter of an even more famous journalist), and of the constant repetition of &quot;poverty&quot; (it's only much later that it becomes clear to the reader, if not the author, that the problem is neglect, abuse and alcoholism rather than impecuity). The best part of the book is an afterword, which includes comments and letters to her from people who've read her book: this part helped me understand the book's appeal - an honest expression of pain and hope - and also made clear what the theme of the book really is: the struggle to come to terms with an abused childhood and alcoholic parents. Unlike some other reviewers here, I found no wisdom in the book at all: the book proper ends with a question mark, like the original title, and that  says everything. An honest account by a brave but confused and  dysfunctional woman.	2001-07-26
US	52339420	RPLJUWQRKCKT0	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A highly stimulating read.	OK, you've read the editorials, and maybe some of the other reviews here. I have a comfortable income, but from a single source, and am starting my own business, and I found this book fascinating and very useful. The author believes understanding and education (not necessarily of the school variety) are key elements if one seriously wants to become wealthy: if you are looking for specific details on what to do, when and how, you will be disappointed. The book does not advocate one particular way to earn money, tho the author uses some examples from his own experience of buying real-estate.  This book is not &quot;Finance For Dummies&quot;. It doesn't even have an index. The book is part narrative: it tells the story of how the author learned from his rich &quot;Dad&quot;. The rich Dad sounds like an excellent teacher, probably better than the author, whose writing style is a little flat. Being a teacher myself, I thoroughly enjoyed reading about how rich Dad taught his 2 &quot;kids&quot;, and I agree with Kiyosaki's approach to learning and teaching. Not being a big business owner or high-flying investor, I cannot vouch for the financial details in the book. However, I think it does a great job of pointing out the fact that &quot;financial literacy&quot; is just as important and vital as &quot;computer literacy&quot;: one is taught in school, the other isn't. It also does a great job of starting to teach me (hate math, no good with figures) about financial literacy: I appreciated the simple language and the diagrams (OK some of the narrative is a little hokey). The present economic climate has outgrown the old reality of &quot;get a good education, a stable job with good benefits and you're all set.&quot; For me, it was a wake-up call. I immediately bought the other 2 in the series, and I want to try the game. I don't think this  book is just a scam to get rich: if it was, I think Kiyosaki would have made sure his book is a success by spending a lot more on advertising than he actually did - almost nothing.	2001-07-26
US	52339420	R3EI88LMWCETTE	0375724893	742744503	Tokyo Underworld: The Fast Times and Hard Life of an American Gangster in Japan	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A hilarious look at a very serious subject.	5 stars to Japan-journalist Robert Whiting (of \\"You Gotta Have Wa\\" fame). The title of the book says it all - a documented account of the life and times of an American gangster, Nick Zappetti, in Roppongi, Tokyo from the Occupation in 1945 to Zappetti's death in 1992. This is not fiction, nor is it a straight history book. It is more like a biography, but focusses almost exclusively on Zappetti's life in Japan, with asides on the political and criminal background, including the Lockheed scandal. This is serious journalism, written with panache and wit. Whiting has done an excellent and difficult job, which only someone fluent in Japanese could do (the footnotes and references are just as fascinating as the main story). And what a story! Despite the violence and scams, and Zappetti's final embittered years, Whiting had me laughing out loud in several places. An ageing, impotent Zappetti, embroiled in endless lawsuits, is losing money on his flagship restaurant while the ones he was forced to hand over to his wife are making money hand over fist. His shrewd wife offers her free advice - \\"change the decor, adapt to Japanese tastes, turn up the lighting\\" - which Zappetti consistently ignores. Finally, at his wits' end, he does as she suggests and invests his last millions in a complete overhaul. The new shiny restaurant opens - just as Japan's bubble economy bursts! <br />This book will appeal particularly to people who live or have lived in Japan, but also to anyone who enjoys a lurid and seedy tale!	2001-07-24
US	52339420	RFTSB7X9HM5DH	0385333781	900157828	Player Piano: A Novel	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A good read for Vonnegut fans	An interesting early novel by Vonnegut. Not as fun-filled or imaginative as later works, but contains the seeds of later themes. The main character, Paul Proteus, manages the Ilium Works. He has doubts about the technological advance that seems to value output and efficiency above people. In the story there is a writer, husband of a woman who turns to prostitution rather than have her husband compromise his artistic integrity by writing a book that will sell. The writer's first book was rejected because it was &quot;27 pages too long&quot;, and had an anti-machine theme. The wife remarks, &quot;cmy husband says somebody's just got to be maladjusted; that somebody's got to be uncomfortable enough to wonder where people are, where they're going, and why they're going there.&quot; An insight into Vonnegut's views, perhaps. Although the book is more about ideas than character or dialogue, yet both character and dialogue are competently handled. Paul questions the absolute value and benefice of technology, because of what he feels within himself as well as what he sees happening to people around him. Yet Paul never fully joins the revolutionaries either, whose fanaticism and amateurism lead to their downfall. His difficulties are compounded by the fact that he has no-one in whom he can confide, and in addition, he is being considered for promotion, and his wife is very ambitious. There is quite a lot of symbolism: Paul frequently crosses the river into Homestead where the &quot;workers&quot; live. This is seen as a socially downward move. Paul comes into contact with an underground movement, &quot;The Ghost Shirt Society&quot;, and later actually joins them in an underground bunker where he is hailed as a messiah. The alert reader will recognize echoes of Huxley's &quot;Brave New World&quot;, HG Wells' &quot;The Time Machine&quot; (with its division into 2 races), and George Orwell's &quot;1984&quot;, a world where machines and technology rule. Not as much fun as Vonnegut's later works, but solid fare, and food for thought: although the descriptions of Ilium seem dated, the theme of a technological &quot;utopia&quot; gone wrong is one that continually crops up in the popular culture, cf movies such as &quot;The Matrix&quot;, &quot;Fifth Element&quot; and &quot;Blade Runner&quot;, or even &quot;Terminator&quot;.	2001-02-25
US	52339420	R3SDX9I627RG1	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun read for both kids and adults who like fantasy	Really, I mean, a story about a load of furry woodland animals! That's Beatrix Potter-land. Well, all right, Richard &quot;Watership Down&quot; Adams did take the genre to a different level (I started it once but never finished it). What self-respecting child would read this stuff, or admit to reading it, let alone an adult? Well, I did! And I couldn't put it down! Brian Jacques has created a completely believable and endearing world of little creatures: the story is good, keeps you wanting to know what happens next; there's suspense; there's a mystery to puzzle out (where is the legendary sword of long-dead Martin the Warrior?); the dialogue is well done with all the major characters given a distinctive way of speaking; and the good guys win in the end. Remember how much fun Pixar had with ants and grasshoppers in &quot;A Bug's Life&quot;? I'm surprised Pixar haven't bought the rights to it (or maybe they have?). It's a lot of fun. Although it's obviously billed as &quot;children's literature&quot;, some of the vocabulary might be a little hard for a child under 11. I'm reading it aloud to my 8- and 11-year-olds (my 17-year-old turned her nose up at it, though). And there's a whole series of these to keep enthusiasts happy! The New York Times ran a piece a while back about how sales of Jacques books have surged up in the wake of Harry Potter (those kids who desperately need something while waiting for the next book to come out). Jacques' book is more low-key, but has many similar ingredients for a good tale. I've re-read Redwall several times, but so far have not revisited any Harry Potter story. OK, Redwall is not great literature, but it's a darn good story, well told, and worth re-reading: 4 stars	2001-01-17
US	52339420	REAWXX7XQFKU8	0451527674	115107087	Lord Jim (Signet Classics)	Books	3	20	27	N	N	Engrossing story of a guilt-ridden young man	Published in 1900, this story by British contemporary of Thomas Hardy, Joseph Conrad, is a little hard to read. It is &quot;Literature&quot; (though opinion is divided as to its value) because there is much more going on that just a series of events. Like the Stallone movie &quot;Cliffhanger&quot;, the central character is traumatized by an incident when he lost his nerve and abandoned ship. An assignment many guilt-ridden years later gives Jim a chance to redeem himself. <br />There are several factors that make this famous novel hard to read: the old-fashioned morals (white man superiority, social acceptability, duty), descriptions of &quot;the mysterious East&quot;, and the use of a narrator (Marlow, no, not the Humphrey Bogart character). At first I found it hard to take Jim's guilt-tripping seriously. The narrator, Marlow, is telling the story to a group of friends at a house one evening after dinner. Although these friends do not figure in the story, we see the glow of their cigars in the dark, and they act as foils for Marlow's narrative: he has to not only tell them the story but also explain how he felt about Jim and why he decided to try and help him. They in turn, together with other characters Marlow meets, comment on Jim. Using Marlow as a narrator also helps to delay the reader's discovery of what actually happened on board the &quot;Patna&quot;. At the end, even the physical Marlow fades away, and the final details of what actually happened to Jim are given in a letter from Marlow to a &quot;privileged reader&quot;, and are made up of what Marlow gleaned from a number of different sources, including the girl Jewel and Jim's manservant/bodyguard Tamb' Itam. The long drawn-out descriptions and the indirect narration allows the reader to ponder what is going on in Jim's mind, and in Marlow's. Although a modern reader will not agree or even understand what Jim did, the mysteries within the human heart remain as fascinating and as unfathomable as ever. Howwill we act in an emergency: stick to our duty, or save ourselves? And how would we deal with the feelings of guilt or inadequacy? Jim firmly believes that he would do his duty, and never comes to terms with the fact that he saved himself.<br />All this makes for a challenging read. This story reminded me of Kipling's descriptions of &quot;the far-flung corners of Empire&quot;, of Somerset Maugham's stories of the Far East (especially &quot;Before the Party&quot;, a traumatic incident recalled), and of Flaubert's &quot;Madame Bovary&quot;, that ironic description of a life ruined by the romantic ideals of the day.	2001-01-05
US	52339420	R1ZXAIH12Y4HDT	0446362778	732381530	On the Trail of the Assassins	Books	4	49	54	N	N	Low-key, fact-filled and fascinating	This is an amazing story, and of interest to those who like history, whodunnits or any example of clear thinking. I had always dismissed &quot;conspiracy theories&quot; as paranoia, without bothering to inform myself more. This book changed my mind completely! <br />It is low-key, fact-filled and well referenced, with footnotes and a good index. It is also a disturbing book, as it forces the reader to confront and question many sacred cows. <br />Jim Garrison, DA in New Orleans at the time of Kennedy's assassination (and central figure in Oliver Stone's movie &quot;JFK&quot;) began his own investigation immediately he heard that Lee Harvey Oswald had spent some time in New Orleans, as Garrison expected Dallas police and the FBI would soon be visiting him. They never did. The Warren Commission Report came and went. It was not until 1966 that a chance remark led Garrison to read the Warren Report for himself: &quot;Considering the lofty credentials of the Commission members and the quality and size of the staff available to them, I had expected to find a thorough and professional investigation. I found nothing of the sort.&quot; The book tells the story of what he did find and his own attempt to verify the Report's findings, in particular by talking to many of the witnesses called (and to many who should have been called but were not). His findings led him to Clay Shaw whom he indicted for conspiracy to murder President Kennedy. <br />The details of the assassination that Garrison uncovered are fascinating, e.g. Lee Oswald's negative nitrate test on the day of his arrest, the disappearance of Kennedy's brain, the odd (to say the least!) White House commands to vacuum and wash the car Kennedy was shot in, etc. Just as fascinating are the many blocks and stonewalls he encountered - why was Oswald's nitrate test result kept secret? Why was the famous Zapruder home movie of the shooting kept hidden from the American public until subpoenaed by Garrison in the Shaw trial? Why did so many important witnesses mysteriously die or disappear? Why was Oswald interviewed by an FBI agent for 12 hours yet no taperecording or notes were taken, nor was an attorney present (therefore nothing Oswald said then could be used in court)? Why did so many people warn of an impending attempt on Kennedy's life and why were these warnings ignored? <br />Some of the criticisms of Garrison that I have read do not answer these questions. Instead, oddly enough, they aim at his character, assigning to him vulgar motives such as self-aggrandizement or ambition. Some people even attack Oliver Stone's movie, as if discrediting the movie automatically discredits Garrison's own account, or makes Garrison's questions irrelevant. Other critics cite the fact that in the trial of Clay Shaw, the jury took just 45 minutes to find Shaw not guilty, as if this completely discredits Garrison's theory. The trial was about Clay Shaw, not about JFK's assassination. Firstly, Garrison himself was not sanguine about getting a conviction, but went ahead anyway as a trial would make many of his doubts and questions public. Secondly, his evidence passed the preliminary hearing (a 3-judge panel felt Garrison had enough evidence to warrant a trial).  It also brought the Zapruder film to light, and discredited the completely ludicrous &quot;magic bullet&quot; theory.<br />Garrison comes across as an initially patriotic and naive young man, and his growth is similar to that of the main character in another Stone movie &quot;Born on the Fourth of July&quot;. His style is rather plodding and perhaps here and there rather smug, but on the whole I found it scholarly and impressive.	2001-01-05
US	52339420	R37GLOXZ5VWU3G	0446604402	223320206	The Laws of Our Fathers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A slow read but finally rewarding	I had previously read &quot;Personal Injuries&quot; (also reviewed here), although I enjoyed this one more. It is a picture of people growing, and of the difficulties and setbacks, hopes and fears that surge around inside them, well into middle age. Indeed, by the end, the action figures and those who do not grow, fall by the wayside, leaving only those capable of growth on centre stage. It is a very existential novel.<br />What I found interesting was the way Trurow uses a typical &quot;action novel&quot; scenario to explore many issues of modern society. Scott Trurow handles dialogue well. Narrative tends to be handled more stiffly. Perhaps it is Trurow's legal mind, a mind that tends to get bogged down in details, and likes to follow them.<br />The story reads rather slowly. First, the courtroom antics and complications slow the story down from the initial adrenalin-running shock of the murder. But then, the past starts to complicate matters further, requiring more flashback descriptions. Using Judge Sonia Klonsky as one of the prime narrators slows things down even more, as the woman focuses on her feelings about the people involved, about the trial, about her career and her relationships. The story really took off for me when the flashback to the '60s starts to develop a plot: Seth's attempts to avoid the draft.<br />The problem I had with this book is that it is packaged as an &quot;airport&quot; novel: a &quot;thriller&quot;, a la Grisham or Crichton. However, it seems Trurow is trying to explore this genre to develop deeper themes, hence perhaps the disappointment expressed in so many reviews here. It has been said that the novel is the form best suited to describe and express a &quot;modern hero&quot; in that it can portray vividly the differences between outer actions and events, and inner feelings, thoughts and intentions. However, neither the action nor the dialogue achieve this wholly successfully, I felt. Trurow is still &quot;stuck&quot; in the &quot;thriller&quot; genre, the need to push the action ahead at the expense of character or human nature. Compare Trurow with Vonnegut, for example, for social comment; or with Henry James, for use of point of view.	2001-01-04
US	52339420	R2CRA6DBRGHI6J	0385333900	846837978	Jailbird: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a comic Kafka for the end of the century	I enjoyed the 3 Kurt Vonnegut works I've read so far. This one cruises and rollicks along as well as any. The jokes, the unbelievable coincidences, and the compassionate fury at man's inhumanity to man, both the premeditated kind and that resulting from sheer stupidity and carelessness. The nasty and the rich and powerful get even nastier and richer and more powerful, while the innocent go to jail, and the idealists go out of their minds. The twists and turns of the plot keep you turning the page. As the best fiction often does, this novel tells human and societal truths better than a factional account. The main character, Walter F. Starbuck, is sponsored by an eccentric millionaire who stuttered and was universally despised - his stammer started after witnessing a massacre of workers in front of his father's factory. Moral: the sensitive man cannot protest, only stutter, and is looked on as a fool by all; is that not the way of the world? Grown-up, Starbuck becomes a socialist and joins the communist party, like thousands of others during the Depression era: what could be more natural? A few years later, being a communist becomes a crime against humanity, and Starbuck is interviewed by the commission. Unable to take this persecution of good intentions and high ideals seriously, Starbuck flippantly announces that a famous patriot was also a communist in those days, as were so many others. This offhand remark sends the patriot to jail and ruins his life, a fact which haunts Starbuck till the end of the story. <br />The story is full of ironic symbolism and is almost a comic allegory in its treatment of contemporary American society. High humanistic ideals and compassion become a crime; those guilty of it are prosecuted with fury. Starbuck's foolishness causes a man's ruin, but rather than rail against society for this, Starbuck is racked with guilt, undiluted by his own imprisonment years later due to Watergate (tho Starbuck's role in it is never explained and Vonnegut has a ball playing with Starbuck's tenuous connection with Nixon: his entire employment in the administration is in a basement office that no-one visits and hardly anyone knows about; Starbuck's reports (on &quot;youth&quot;, a subject Starbuck knows little about) are accepted but never commented on in any way. <br />Vonnegut - a comic Kafka for the end of the century.	2000-12-25
US	52339420	R23JZVLNIX5M8J	0449127699	395884319	The Girl, the Gold Watch and Everything	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A delight	THE GIRL, THE GOLD WATCH AND EVERYTHING<br />An unusual book by John D. MacDonald, famous author of hard-boiled fiction. This one is light as a souffle, funny and moving. I enjoyed several of his hard-boiled stories, though some were rather too gloomy and violent for my taste, but this one is a delight.<br />Timid young Kirby Winter's Uncle Omar Krepps lived an ordinary life until he suddenly started acquiring great wealth, quit his job, and spent his life traveling and practicing amateur magic. Uncle Omar dies and the world besieges the young Kirby, the sole surviving relative, who worked in one of his uncle's companies: his job was making large donations to worthy charities and he therefore knows that all his uncle's fortune has been given away. Nobody believes him, of course, least of all a scheming couple who will use every trick in the book to get their hands on all that wealth.<br />The young man does get something, however: a sealed letter to be opened in a year's time, and a gold watch. Accidentally, Kirby discovers Uncle Omar's secret - the gold watch can stop time! Aided by an array of gutsy and fun-loving girls, Kirby struggles to keep the secret from the scheming couple (and everyone else). In the process, he discovers some hidden strength of character, loses his virginity and learns to have a ball. <br />A wonderful fantasy, an adventure story rather than your average science-fiction. As another reviewer here eloquently put it, like &quot;Back to the Future&quot;. No explicit bedroom scenes, foul language or blood and gore. A true delight. Personally, I think this is worth all MacDonald's other stories put together.	2000-12-22
US	52339420	R2P4XMTCAQ97XN	0446608602	375817200	Personal Injuries	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Satisfying but no humdinger!	The story is simple: some tough-talking federal agents visit lawyer Robbie Feaver at his home late at night and in return for not throwing him in jail immediately (which would mean he could not be by his terminally ill  wife's side during her final months) invite him to provide evidence to nail the rotten judges he's been dealing with. But wait! Robbie Feaver, we are told, is a total &quot;slimeball&quot; who has been bribing judges in return for favourable Personal Injuries rulings. However, the descriptions of Robbie soon show him to be almost a saint - he has a friendly wave, a smile and a few upbeat words for almost everyone; he knows everyone's story; he pays for 1 stick of gum from a blind kiosk operator while actually taking 2, but then pays for them with a $100 bill, insisting it's a $1 bill. He has a wife wasting away from a terminal  illness, and uses most of his ill-gotten gains to pay for ever-increasingly expensive treatment and equipment for her. He sleeps around, but with the likes of Catholic Judge Magda Medzyk who was a virgin till she was 40 and who looks like the back of a bus. I mean, the guy practically  walks on water! Meanwhile, the &quot;good guys&quot;, the IRS and US Attorney Stan Sennet, basically blackmail Robbie into being a turncoat. Stan Sennet's righteous and implacable zeal compares oddly with Robbie's heart of a &quot;mensch&quot;.<br />This is the book's strong point: the &quot;bad guys&quot; are Robbie and his ilk; Robbie himself is a thorougly likable and believable creation, a lovable rogue. In comparison, the &quot;good guys&quot; appear as simplistic zealous idiots with no hearts. In between is FBI agent Evon Miller, who is trying to find herself, and is so confused about her identity she is a basket case. She hates Robbie so much at the beginning, their relationship can only go one way. <br />Do the &quot;good guys&quot; win? Should they? By the end of the book, most of the nice &quot;bad guys&quot; have been ruined, for no appreciable benefits to society. Hardly a novel notion, though one not found in most betsellers, except perhaps in John Le Carre.<br />The weak points of the book are its slow pace (not a weakness in itself but a disappointment after the heavy-handed blurbs), the obviousness of the romantic plot and the less-than-subtle signaling of the &quot;good&quot; and the &quot;bad&quot; guys (although the reversal of the usual stereotypical roles is interesting); and finally, the narrator, whose role in the book was to me a complete mystery. Why have a narrator at all when the author is going to intrude and provide details which the narrator could never know and then clumsily try to explain this away: &quot;Much of Robbie's day-to-day activity was observed only by the agent code-named Evon Miller, and for the sake of a full account, I have freely imagined her perspectives.&quot; The narrator could have been used to reflect  or ponder on such things as the ruthlessness and heartlessness of the prosecutors - the IRS, the FBI, and the US government. Perhaps the strictly neutral &quot;observer&quot; is meant to highlight the ambiguity of &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot; but this is not necessary. The book would have lost nothing by ditching the narrator, and would have gained immediacy. This is poor editing.<br />On the whole, I found this a fairly satisfying read, although perhaps like Evon Miller, the book is searching for its identity.	2000-12-17
US	52339420	R1XSUNJQEK1N7H	0679720340	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	5	137	158	N	N	A tour de force	A tour de force, co-authored by one of the world's leading experts on language and meaning.@In this book, Herman and Chomsky put forward a &quot;propaganda model&quot; to explain the bias in Western (mostly US) media on international affairs. Their thesis is that, although the US is not a dictatorship where a single leader can censor the press, the very market forces that lead people to believe in the freedom of their press actually work to create a self-imposed censorship which creates a biased media, more intent on delivering audiences to their advertisers and vital corporate sponsors than in providing their readers with balanced and informed news.@The authors back up their theory with a large number of examples, and focus on 3 main topics: Latin America, Vietnam and the attempt on the life of the Pope in 1981. Using extensive quotations from US contemporary media reports, and comparing them with official sources such as government documents, White House memos, State Department press releases, as well as reports in non-US-based media, Herman and Chomsky are able to bolster their thesis of a propaganda model, and show that US media reports are nearly always skewed to show the US and its allies as the &quot;good guys&quot;, and other (enemy) states as the &quot;bad guys&quot;. When &quot;they&quot; do it, it's called &quot;terrorism&quot;, when &quot;we&quot; do it, it's called &quot;fighting for democracy and freedom.&quot; <br />Such a statement seems too blatantly simplistic to require serious consideration; nevertheless, the authors do give it very serious consideration, and the evidence they have scrupulously collected is hard to refute. Moreover, their propaganda model helps to explain why and how this can be so, even (indeed, particularly) in a &quot;free democracy&quot;: a number of filters act to screen out unwelcome aspects of news. <br />A startling eye-opener, very well researched and cogently, passionately argued. These authors care intensely aboutlives lost due to state-sponsored violence, whether that state is the US or the Soviet Union or anywhere else. A must-read for students of media and communication, and indeed any intelligent reader curious about the forces that shape what actually appears in their newspapers and television news.	2000-12-17
US	52339420	R1LJ4O20M5LJDN	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	2	24	26	N	N	A great read but finally disappointing	I read this book several years ago, and was very impressed. However, when I later heard how some Aborigines representing the tribe she described in  her book, had actually gone to the US to protest to the author, I was very  disappointed (for more details see another reviewer on these pages), so I  only give this book 2 stars.<br />There are many stories which tell universal  truths and it does not matter if the story really happened or not: the best  of the 19th century novels, for example, or the stories by Carlos Castaneda  (in my opinion), or Kahlil Gibran's work. However, I disagree with several  reviewers on these pages who say it does not matter whether Morgan's story  is true or not; in Morgan's case, many (though not all) of the  &quot;truths&quot; are dependent on the Aboriginal setting, and are  specific to Aborigines and their history, and therefore I would argue that  it DOES make a very great difference. If her message(s) is/are  &quot;true&quot;, then why dress them up in fiction? If this book is  &quot;true&quot; even if the events are fictitious, then why claim (as the  author originally did) that they really happened? <br />The fact that this is  a work of fiction (the medium) eventually undermines the message, as the  reader is left with the worrying thought, &quot;if the events described  here are fictitious, then how much faith can I put in the beliefs or  philosophical positions put forward?&quot; There is even greater  undermining in &quot;Mutant Message&quot;, because the author (and many  Amazon reviewers) originally claimed the events really happened. The  subsequent opposition by the Aborigine elders (a remarkable and unusual  event in itself) calls into question the author's integrity, and therefore  the integrity of the text.<br />As a reviewer in the UK magazine &quot;Private  Eye&quot; put it (reviewing a different book), human beings' need for  spiritual guidance is very real and urgent: it deserves a sincere respect  and response, something with more integrity than Morgan's &quot;Mutant  Message&quot;. This book, like so many others, sounds good, but has no real  substance. As a work of fiction, it's not a bad story.Those seeking real  (as opposed to superficial or trendy) wisdom are advised to look elsewhere.  Works of anthropology would probably be more reliable amd insightful, if  one is looking for information about Aboriginal beliefs or society. <br />By  the way, a similar story about interaction between white men and a native  people, also a work of fiction and full of wisdom about life and people's  relationship with the land, is &quot;A Story like the Wind&quot; and  &quot;A Far-Off Place&quot; by Laurens Van der Post.	2000-09-02
US	52339420	R3P3GR4N2VFQZL	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Another Bryson success	Bill Bryson, a travel-writer with a difference, in a league of his own. Bill Bryson could be you or me; an endearingly incompetent traveler who  often gets lost, brings the wrong map, whose nerve sometimes fails when  faced with steely service staff, who is not a great conversationalist  (unless drunk), who likes good food and drink, and who, when hiring a car  and bravely setting forth to some distant destination, more often than not  spends half a day extricating himself from the suburbs.<br />I'm British and  have read all Bryson's books, except &quot;A Walk in the Woods&quot;. In  this book, his 6th travel book, he visits Australia, which he imagines as a  sort of cross between Britain and the US, &quot;Baywatch with  cricket&quot;; however, the reality turns out to be much more fascinating  and complex than that.  <br />Bill Bryson is an honest man who gives his  spontaneous, personal responses to what he encounters - Ayers Rock (now  called Uluru) evokes from him a genuine awe, whereas some of the souvenir  shops he sees are full of &quot;overpriced shit&quot;. <br />A knowledgeable  man (Bryson was a journalist in the UK for 10 years, and has written 2  books on the English language) who clearly does his homework both before  and after his trips, as attested by frequent references to writers on  Australia, the wealth of background information, and the 3 pages of  bibliography. He comes prepared, and knows what to look for, and plans his  route accordingly. However, he is interested in the wacky and weird as well  as the conventional cultural icons, and is often ready with an interesting  anecdote about the people involved. The opening page of this book contains  &quot;the startling fact that in 1967 the Prime Minister, Harold Holt, was  strolling along a beach in Victoria when he plunged into the surf and  vanished.&quot; A little further on he tells of Sir Eugene Goossens, head  of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, whose goading led to the Sydney Opera  House being built, but who failed to see his dream realized: &quot;In  1956che was found to be carrying a large and diversified collection of  pornographic material, and he was invited to take his sordid continental  habits elsewhere. Thusche was unable to enjoy, as it were, his own finest  erection.&quot; And then there is the Big Lobster - not a biological  specimen, but made of wire and fiberglass, one of about 60 dotted around  the country, which you can visit if, as Bryson puts it, &quot;you have  sufficient petrol money and nothing approaching a real life.&quot;<br />Bryson  visits the main cities and famous spots, including the Great Barrier Reef  (complete with a hilarious description of Bryson trying to skin-dive, and a  more somber account of 2 young Americans stranded on the Reef and never  seen again), the Gold Coast, Uluru (Ayers Rock), Alice Springs, and various  deserts (often with a gruesome anecdote or two). There are also not so  famous spots, such as Shark Bay with its prehistoric stromatolites, Tree  Top Walk, Daly Waters with its famous tree, the aviation museum in Alice  Springs with the wreck of a famous airplane, Red Bluff Beach where 2  Dutchmen were abandoned, nearly 150 years before Captain Cook, and so on,  each with its own background story or anecdote, usually humorous or at  least enlightening. <br />In the background to the travel is Bryson's potted  history of Australia, including Captain Cook, &quot;transportation&quot;  era, the gold rush, various expeditions to explore the country (still  incomplete), the Aborigines, the rabbit invasion and myxamatosis, the  &quot;White Australia&quot; policy, the republican issue, and horrific  stories of crocodile attacks. This is what history and geography in school  should be like! Full of humour, and human interest, as well as information.  <br />This book told me a lot of things I didn't know, not only about  Australia but also terrestrial evolution; it made me want to visit the  place again, and, as Bryson's travel books always do, it sometimes made me  laugh till I cried, tho, as others have noted, it is not trying so hard to  be funny as his previous books.<br />(I read the UK version of this book,  entitled &quot;Down Under&quot;).	2000-09-02
