US	52336151	R1SFXMKEYRH1HM	0312340281	108266839	North of Ithaka: A Journey Home Through a Family's Extraordinary Past	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Lia revisited	It comes as no surprise that Eleni Gage turns out to be a gifted writer. It runs in the blood, I guess. Her father is the well known Nicholas Gage who wrote, among other fine books, one about his mother Eleni who was murdered by Communist guerrillas in the Greek civil war just after WW II. When I read it a few years ago it left me in a state of shock for about a week.<br /><br />  The present more upbeat work recounts the author's yearlong stay in the village of Lia, close to the Albanian border, where she succeeds in rebuilding the very house in which her grandmother and other villagers were kept prisoners before being brutally murdered more than a half-century earlier.<br /><br />  The author wants to strengthen her sense of rootedness in Epirus while holding on to the values and habits of thought she has acquired as an American woman. She wants to fit into life in her ancestral village without being seduced by a mindset she has been conditioned to reject - or at least question. She encounters lots of customs and practices that can be classed as superstition or magic (or even idolatry) that the locals think are part of Christianity but which she finds only marginally acceptable. Most of the people she runs into treat her with great kindness and become her friends even though none of them are nearly as well educated as she. They are, in fact, mostly old or elderly.<br /><br />  The author experiences some emotional turmoil as the reconstruction process runs into some snags and delays, and as she has to deal with bureaucrats and others whose venality and incompetence would make a less motivated person wonder if it is all worth it. An almost constant presence in the book is the author's earthy Aunt Kanta, the Greek-born American lady who speaks imperfect English, believes everything in America is perfect, and has opinions on every conceivable topic, including why her niece is single and what she should do to get married. Even though Kanta is very in-your-face and sometimes a pain in the neck, she is still lovable. And so are the villagers. And so are the undocumented Albanians who cross the border looking for work.<br /><br />  During the year the author has some fascinating close encounters with groups of people who enrich her experience and teach her a lot about the importance of history and continuity in the life of groups and individuals. A group of uprooted Greek Jews arrive from New York and take her to Ioannina to visit what is left of their cemetery and synagogue. She spends some time with a Gypsy family who are involved in local politics and even gets to attend a Gypsy wedding. She goes on a \\"field trip\\" to make contact with the descendents of the Dorians known as Sarakatsani.<br /><br />  The thing I like most about this book, apart from its being very well written and sometimes lyrical, is its spirit of optimism and hope for the future - of humanity.pain in the neck, she is still lovable. And so are the villagers. And so are the undocumented Albanians who cross the border looking for work. <br />    During the year the author has some fascinating close encounters with groups of people who enrich her experience and teach her a lot about the importance of history and continuity in the life of groups and individuals. A group of uprooted Greek Jews arrive from New York and take her to Ioannina to visit what is left of their cemetery and synagogue. She spends some time with a Gypsy family who are involved in local politics and even gets to attend a Gypsy wedding. She goes on a \\"field trip\\" to make contact with the descendents of the Dorians known as Sarakatsani. <br />    The thing I like most about this book, apart from its being very well written and sometimes lyrical, is its spirit of optimism and hope for the future - of humanity. <br /> <br />	2005-05-05
US	52336151	R1DTGZ379DSOAP	1590170024	170333577	Riders in the Chariot (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The amazing richness of literature and mysticism	About a quarter of the way into this book I realized I was reading a brilliant treatise on mystical theology written in the form of a novel. This is a magnificent piece of work that brings together several realms of meaning, various settings, and divergent attitudes and dispositions about what it means to be truly human and live among other humans. There are four major protagonists of widely differing backgrounds. Each represents a peculiar moral stance that makes them capable of some unexpected actions and disables them with regard to others. Most of the action takes place in and around Sydney, Australia, but there are \\"lead up\\" sections in England and Germany. Mary Hare is ugly, less than intelligent, and stark raving mad. She lives in a crumbling mansion and experiences difficulty in trying to communicate with other people. For her, words are fragile and sometimes breakable and people use them in cruel ways. Yet she is an attractive personality whom we come to like because she is described from the inside. That is, we know what she feels, suffers and, most of all, remembers. Himmelfarb is a German Jew, a brilliant professor of philosophy whose father inexplicably converts to Christianity, thereby causing his mother to fade slowly away from sadness and a sense of being betrayed and victimized. He escapes the \\"final solution\\" by immigrating to Australia and taking a meaningless job in a factory owned by another German Jew who has also \\"converted.\\" Ruth Godbold, a saintly laundress who lives in a shed with four daughters and an abusive husband, communicates mainly through acts of kindness.  She nurses Mary Hare during a long illness and takes care of Himmelfarb in his last agony when some redneck thugs at the factory try to crucify him. Alf Dubbo, a native Australian brought up by religious people whose religiosity is questionable, develops his talent at painting and communicates through art. His ability to make moral decisions is confounded by his early experience with the preacher who kept sticking his hand into Alf's trousers.<br /><br />These four have little contact and less communication with each other. None of them understands what the others are saying, except in a pre-linguistic sense. At a certain level, they already know what the others are saying, but they know it on a non-conscious level, like the prophets of the Hebrew Bible (whence the book's title is derived).<br /><br />These four major personages suffer physically and morally and profoundly. This book zeroes in on the reality of human suffering and shows that we suffer or cause others to suffer because of some flaw in our own characters, in the sense of Sophocles. This is not, of course, the \\"message\\" of the novel (novels don't have messages; we all know that). More importantly, we see throughout the book the collective and communitarian dimension of suffering and its intellectual connections to some prophetic books of the Old Testament that emphasize the unitary nature of humankind and the need for a \\"suffering servant\\" to atone and expiate for the sins of others.<br /><br />As a prose stylist, Patrick White is impressive, maybe supreme. This is the most well written book I have read in many years. His sentences are beautifully fragmented and fractured. His language (use of adjectives, etc.) is extraordinarily rich. In fact, it is gorgeous. Words and ideas have colors and smells. He omits unnecessary direct-object pronouns and even definite articles. Even the sound of his prose is amazingly satisfying: he makes liberal use of alliteration, especially in initial consonants, but in other contexts as well. Figures and tropes abound, even zeugma. And finally, if anyone wants an example of a memorable sentence, let me offer this one from page 26:<br /><br />Mrs. Hare had soon taken refuge from Mary in a rational kindness, with which she continued to deal her a series of savage blows during what passed for childhood.with the preacher who kept sticking his hand into Alf's trousers.  <br /> <br />These four have little contact and less communication with each other. None of them understands what the others are saying, except in a pre-linguistic sense. At a certain level, they already know what the others are saying, but they know it on a non-conscious level, like the prophets of the Hebrew Bible (whence the book's title is derived). <br /> <br />These four major personages suffer physically and morally and profoundly. This book zeroes in on the reality of human suffering and shows that we suffer or cause others to suffer because of some flaw in our own characters, in the sense of Sophocles. This is not, of course, the \\"message\\" of the novel (novels don't have messages; we all know that). More importantly, we see throughout the book the collective and communitarian dimension of suffering and its intellectual connections to some prophetic books of the Old Testament that emphasize the unitary nature of humankind and the need for a \\"suffering servant\\" to atone and expiate for the sins of others. <br /> <br />As a prose stylist, Patrick White is impressive, maybe supreme. This is the most well written book I have read in many years. His sentences are beautifully fragmented and fractured. His language (use of adjectives, etc.) is extraordinarily rich. In fact, it is gorgeous. Words and ideas have colors and smells. He omits unnecessary direct-object pronouns and even definite articles. Even the sound of his prose is amazingly satisfying: he makes liberal use of alliteration, especially in initial consonants, but in other contexts as well. Figures and tropes abound, even zeugma. And finally, if anyone wants an example of a memorable sentence, let me offer this one from page 26: <br /> <br />Mrs. Hare had soon taken refuge from Mary in a rational kindness, with which she continued to deal her a series of savage blows during what passed for childhood.	2005-04-21
US	52336151	R1VUFTJ52ZOWO4	1857883438	64813284	It's All Greek to Me!: A Tale of a Mad Dog and an Englishman, Ruins, Retsina-and Real Greeks	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Sheer madness on Evia	The best thing about this book is that it is extraordinarily funny, but it has lots of other virtues too. The Brit author/narrator buys (in a drunken stupor, of course) an old goat shed from a wily local with the intention of turning it into a house for himself and his family. After much work and disappointments major and minor it becomes a nice little house, but all the twists and turns of getting it completed are incredibly conmplicated and somtimes approach the Kafkaesque. Along the way we get to know all manner of Greek people, most of whom are lovable but a few are rascals. Both types are entertaining. The author's wife and children have to put up with a lot so he can carry out his insane plans but they keep their cool and things work out nicely. One day at a time (and plenty of booze) seems to be the rule of thumb.	2005-02-16
US	52336151	R12QO933JJ3805	1862076812	553592529	Eurydice Street: A Place in Athens	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Moving to Athens	This charming book was written by a British lady who goes to live in Athens with her Greek-born husband and pre-adolescent daughters. The fact that she is an anthropologist gives her analysis of the city and the Greeks a depth and completeness they would not otherwise have. She loves the Greeks and their ways of living and their values, but she is not therefore blinded to the way they sometimes take moral shortcuts and fail to live up to who and what they claim to be. Her overriding goal is to fit in and be accepted as a Greek wife and mother and citizen. She is delighted when her daughters rapidly learn the language. She relishes her new Greek friendships. She is saddened by the fast pace of urbanization and bemoans the way it combines all the country's worst traits: corruption, money-madness, rejection of traditional values. She knows Greeks have no monopoly on these traits but she hates to see them in a country she loves so thoroughly. The author has quite a sound sense of history and is keenly aware of all the historical and ethnic elements that make up modern Greece. Highly recommended.	2005-02-16
US	52336151	R2C427U3ADLYP5	1582341354	930586325	The Flaneur: A Stroll Through the Paradoxes of Paris	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Cruising Paris	Of course this isn't really about cruising. If it were it would be awfully boring, and this book is anything but boring. Even so, there is nothing quite so pleasurable as a stroll down almost any street in the French capital. Edmund white, who lived there for a long time, offers a distillation of his experience in this delightful little book. Reading it is almost as good as being there. Second best. Whie writes elegantly and intelligently. The part I most enjoyed, and from which I learned most, is about the Camondo Museum and the tragedy of the family that built and owned it. After reading this book I went to visit it and it turned out to be all White says it is. Delightful. But the book contains other wonderful descriptions of people and places as well. Highly recommended.	2005-01-18
US	52336151	R1EUI3HL6BNLSH	034076337X	450587350	Modern Greece (Brief Histories)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Modern history and identity-forming myths	This amzing book offers in about 250 pages a no-nonsense historical outline of the modern Greek nation. It starts out with a description of the Ottoman legacy including the role of the church, society, economy, and the diaspora, which at that time was centered largely on western Europe.<br /><br />  In the second chapter dealing with the \\"birth\\" of the modern nation-state, consideration is given to the intellectual ferment among Greeks and the Enlightenment before and during the revolution, the fascinating lives and works of Korais and Velestinlis, the development of ideology, and the War of Independence. The chapter is rounded out by a description of Kapodistrias's presidency. It also offers a carefully balanced discussion of the origin of a specifically Greek national consciousness, and the author shows how the revolutionaries availed themselves, inevitably, of an aggregate of procedures known as \\"myth-making.\\"<br /><br />  Chapter Three goes up to 1897 and covers the various political settlements, efforts at nation building, and political reform.<br /><br />  The very important question of Greek identity is discussed at length ... and very intelligently ... in the next chapter, along with the Megali Idea and the unfortuate consequences of trying to implement it.<br /><br />  Chapter Five deals most informatively with Greek society in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries: family, village, farm, marginal ethnic groups (like the Vlachs), gender issues, and the growth in the importance of Athens.<br /><br />  The next few chapters are devoted to an examination of the wars through which the Greek people suffered up to about the mid-point of the twentieth century, reconstructon efforts after each war, periods of authoritarianism in government and chaos in society and the economy.<br /><br />  The final chapter deals with the restoration of democracy and the rise of PASOK with Papandreou as its guiding light.<br /><br />  I think I can recommend this book to anyone interested in modern history and especially to those interested in Modern Greece.tory and especially to those interested in Modern Greece.	2005-01-18
US	52336151	RKTDN3BDYB9B8	0691102449	538312664	The Poetics of Manhood: Contest and Identity in a Cretan Mountain Village	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An ethnographic study with oomph and panache	Ever since I became interested in Greece I have been reading books that I would not otherwise have bothered with and some of them have widened my horizons and deepened my understanding (of things in general) to an extent I would not have expected. This book by Herzfeld is one such work. Its rather peculiar title contains a number of words whose meaning has to be worked out early on. Poetics has nothing to do with poetry. It refers to the way people work out value and meaning in their everyday lives. Contest, etymologically, has a connection to male reproductive organs and therefore to the ways males relate to each other, which is usually by fighting -- at least in traditional or primitive societies. Yeah, heroism, bravery, cunning, violence, ruthlessness and all those qualities held in such high esteem by the writer of the Homeric poems.<br /><br />  The name Glendi (the village in Crete where the author carried out the field work on which the book is based) is a fictional invention of the author himself but the rest is real-life data and careful scientific analysis.<br /><br />  Most of the data is concerned with animal thievery and the rhetoric that accompanies it after the fact. The rhetoric shows how the Glendiot men structure meaning. Meaning is the way people constellate mental images relative to each other in the collective consciousness, and value is the relative measure of psychic energy it takes to keep an image constellated. A poetics shows how people map their values onto their everyday activities. In the present case this involves the activities, verbal and non-verbal, one carries out in the process of identifying himself as a man. (I hope I am not over-simplifying.)<br /><br />  This is not any easy book by any means. The reader has to do a little work. But the rewards are enormous. A first-rate study.	2005-01-04
US	52336151	R1L4L6QPZHEB4U	0374189374	763984396	Little Infamies: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An explosive imagination	I once heard a story about a southern writer -- may have been Flannery O'Connor or Eudora Welty -- who, in response to a foolish complaint that her stories contained far too many freaks and monsters, declared that this was because in the South they can still tell a freak when they see one. This book by Panos Karnezis not only recognizes freaks and monsters but also tries to explore what makes them what they are, thus bringing out the beeauty of their basic humanity as well as their brokenness. This exploration is enormously, sometimes shockingly successful as the author unleashes his expansive, explosive imagination on a Greek town so poor it doesn't even have a name. He involves all the reader's senses, even smell and touch, to describe how his characters make what seem to them reasonable moral decisions and lay out what they consider logical plans for the future they will never have. Their reason and logic is of course the ethos of poverty and ignorance, which is what largely characterizes their existence. The reading public has reason to celebrate Karnezis's arrival on the literary scene. As I understand it, he is still under forty. Good grief.	2004-11-23
US	52336151	R2VLURI3GKKTRS	1893996158	168926959	Some Wine for Remembrance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truth, love, indifference	We are so accustomed to saying love and hate in the same breath that we believe they are opposites or contraries, but this is not actually the case. The opposite of love is indifference. With love comes compassion and various forms of altruism. With indifference comes cruelty and unkindness. The German soldiers of the Second World War did not hate the Greek peasants whose country they occupied. They were mostly indifferent to them. That is one of the reasons they developed the tactic (or was it a strategy?) of wiping out entire villages and massaccring the inhabitants whenever one, just one, of their own was killed by the resistance. This book is about finding out, long after the fact, who was responsible for giving the order for one such massacre in 1944. It zeroes in on a well known Austrian politician, a \\"distinguished gentleman\\" running for a high office who just happened to be an intelligence chief in Greece at the time of the massacre. We all know how that story played out in real life, and even while this book has an incontestable historical background, it does not claim to be anything more than fiction. It is excellent fiction. Much of it is narrated by some of the protagonists in the form of a diary, a deposition, and written responses to a list of questions. The deadly power of human indifference flows from these documents. This is an excellent novel even if it is not quite so beautifully written as some of Edmund Keeley's other works. After all, it must be hard to squeak beauty out of a massacre in which 146 farmers are burnt to death in a bakery.	2004-11-23
US	52336151	R1RCCE2WYYP8X6	0844662631	531167786	Mani: Travels in the Southern Peloponnese	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A WORLD OF NOW-VANISHED WONDERS	MANI ... It is not for nothing that Patrick Leigh Fermor is generally considered the greatest living travel writer in English. Reading any one of his books, always a smooth, elegant and intellectually exciting undertaking, is to accept an invitation to the private world of a master observer of places and manners who is also pretty sharp in such areas of human endeavor as history, architecture, music, theology, psychology, mythology, and languages both classical and modern. He is extremely erudite - an autodidact, he says - and his approach to travel writing is strictly literary and sometimes sublimely so. This book, doubtless conceived as a companion volume to ROUMELI, which deals with Northern Greece, takes us to the southernmost part of the Peloponnesus. Unfortunately, the world of rocks and rustics and supreme beauty it describes is now largely vanished, so it is therefore of great value to have a traveler's vision and memory of it as it was about sixty years ago. Always subtle and elegant, the story takes on a heightened aesthetic and intellectual intensity at certain points and in particular locales. For example, the opening paragraph of the book's final chapter describes the writer's arrival at Gytheio by means of an extended metaphor comparing entrance into a city with the act of coitus, and if any reader should miss this metaphor let me point out the author's use of such words as maidenhead and deflower. A further adornment of the metaphor, conceptual and literary, is provided by the revelation that the little island a few yards off the coast, now named Marathonisi and now connected to Gytheio by a causeway, but called Kranae by Homer, is in fact the island where Paris and Helen spent their fist night after the famous elopement. At another point the reader is invited to watch the dolphins scull down at exactly the imaginary line in the Adriatic where the filioque drops out of the creed. We are allowed to eavesdrop on a group of centaurs on the Pelion Peninsula, and a passing reference to Henry Miller and George Katsimbalis develops into a chain reaction of crowing roosters around the world and back again. There s an excellent chapter on the peculiar little village of Areopolis, the gateway to the Inner Mani, where the author attempts an interpretation of the ancient carvings on churches and houses. This marvelous book will be of interest to anyone who feels attracted to the beauties of Greece and its people, but also to those who enjoy supremely well-written prose.la, and a passing reference to Henry Miller and George Katsimbalis develops into a chain reaction of crowing roosters around the world and back again. There s an excellent chapter on the peculiar little village of Areopolis, the gateway to the Inner Mani, where the author attempts an interpretation of the ancient carvings on churches and houses. This marvelous book will be of interest to anyone who feels attracted to the beauties of Greece and its people, but also to those who enjoy supremely well-written prose.	2004-07-31
US	52336151	RCS7948AZCY99	041510002X	315994436	Greek: A Comprehensive Grammar of the Modern Language (Routledge Comprehensive Grammars)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An intelligent work of Greek grammar	I have been using his book for some time and I must agree with what the other reviewers have said. It is an excellent book based on sound principles of modern linguistics, which is to say that it is descriptive and not prescriptive. What I most like about it is that the authors have omitted or renamed some of the older grammatical categories so that the entire system makes more sense. Actually, this has to be considered a masterwork.	2004-05-15
US	52336151	R23QITCAJ0LHRY	2895072442	650079014	The Way of the Dreamcatcher: Spirit Lessons with Robert Lax: Poet, Peacemaker, Sage	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Spirit lessons from Patmos	The author has written a fine book about Robert Lax and about most of the issues that come up in discussions of the spiritual life. Lax, who passed away in 2000, was an elderly hermit-poet who lived on the island of Patmos in Greece. The author is an artist-theologian, a California type who finds in Lax a kindred spirit with whom he spends many hours. In the first chapter we find out much about Lax's early life, his education, and how he came to Patmos, where he spent the last 35 years of his life. This is followed by two chapters that give the essence of Lax's philosophy of art. Here we learn how he developed his own minimalist style. The next chapter is more directly devoted to the spiritual life, and here the central element is, as it should be, love, which includes our relation to transcendence (God) and also the way we treat each other. In their conversations Lax and Georgiou return frequently to the idea of love. They both believe strongly in it. The book is well written and it is an enjoyable read. Definitely recommended.	2004-04-27
US	52336151	R1MVNMVVJ4QPJD	0521011841	11487616	A History of the Spanish Language	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Solid scholarship, sound history	This book is extremely complete and quite well written. In the introduction we find some general observations on the nature of linguistic studies, consideration of the various peoples who have contributed to the make-up of what we know as modern Spanish, and other &quot;humanistic&quot; considerations. The phonology section covers all kinds of historical change (this is the section that held most interest for me). Under morphology and syntax there are a bunch of things that, as I read them, I felt like kicking myself because they had never occurred to me. The part on the lexicon is vastly instructive, with discussions of borrowings as well as changes that have taken place over time in the Latin sub-stratum of the vocabulary. There is a final part on semantics, and the author himself suggests that it may be weakest section: any discussion of the semantic development of a language is &quot;is inevitably incomplete and is likely to be at least partially inaccurate.&quot; But here the fault is not the author's. Actually, he does and excellent job of telling what there is of the semantics story.	2004-01-02
US	52336151	R2UBN3LHBMR86D	0141001763	855770597	Ravelstein (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Modern Mannerism	RAVELSTEIN. This novel is living proof of the viability of the mannerist temper for exploring in fiction the tensions and ambiguities of civilized life as it is currently being lived. I am not sure it is a masterpiece, but I suspect it is. Notice that I am not suggesting that this is a novel of manners. That would be a question of form, and with regard to form this is a roman a clef in which the author expects readers, or some readers, to recognize persons from real life in some of the characters. So Ravelstein is Allan Bloom, Chick is the author-narrator Saul Bellow, Davaar is Leo Strauss, Grielescu is Mircea Eliade, and so on. In other words, here we find some of the most important figures in American intellectual life in the late twentieth century. Even Paul Wolfowitz puts in a brief appearance under a name I can't remember right now.<br />Moving from form to style, this book is conceived in the great mannerist vision of John Donne, St. Teresa of Avila, most of El Greco's paintings, and Shakespeare's Hamlet, who, like Ravelstein, was sick in his obsession with a late-medieval sense of death. In the way the novel is structured, it is of small comparative importance that the main character is also sick, physically sick and dying of a terminal illness. This just intensifies the mannerist tendencies to the point that the attentive reader feels immersed for a time in \\"facile learning, abused ingenuity, witty affectation, a knowing pose, distortion through preciosity, and excessive freedom with conventional proportions, images, and attitudes.\\" That's what I mean by mannerism. All these tensions and ambiguities are present in Ravelstein and brilliantly so, and no attempt is ever made to resolve them. After all, life doesn't resolve them. What life does, and what literature should do, is simply hold up to us, perhaps like a mirror, our very real sense of insecurity brought about by living in a world without a known order. In this sense, Ravelstein is an extraordinary accomplishment.plishment.	2003-10-17
US	52336151	R1FYVIAVU35ZCW	285036858X	946968734	Le Petit Robert de la Langue Francaise (French Edition)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An undeclared national treasure	The French really ought to declare this dictionary a national treasure. It is a monument of competent lexicography and contains a lot more information than the user suspects he or she might need some day. For each entry there is an etymology and date of first appearance in French; a vast cross-referencing network for synonyms, antonyms, analogues and homonyms; a complete definition covering social connotations; examples of how the word is actually used in diverse situations; and a phonetic transcription in IPA. Anyone with a serious interest in learning French will probably want to have this volume.	2003-08-19
US	52336151	R1E4TSBAV1PN6D	1864500115	32496045	Lonely Planet Paris City Map (City Maps Series)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Mapping out a reaction ... What a letdown.	The fact that over the years I have used Lonely Planet publications with entire satisfaction and sometimes delight, merely increases my disappointment with this piece of cartographic mediocrity. From every conceivable point of view, it is awful. Any Paris department store gives out better tourist maps ... free.	2003-08-19
US	52336151	RONAISNCMLVKW	0844630438	279788528	Four Stages of Renaissance Style	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Intrinsic analogies...art and literatureTalk about your work	Talk about your works of staggering genius. Published about fifty years ago, this book has to be considered among the most important of the twentieth century, even though it is still among the least well known. The general theme of the work is that style changes in art and architecture can be correlated roughly but clearly to evolution in styles of literature. The period of the Renaissance (1400 to 1700) is divided into four stages covering renaissance proper, mannerism, baroque, and late baroque. The term renaissance is assigned a more limited range of meaning than is usual, and the word rococo is not used at all, while the excesses of the baroque (as distinct from late baroque) tenor are given extensive coverage. Although Chaucer is usually considered an example of the Gothic temper, the author shows why his major work, with its sense of drama and psychological interplay among the characters, could be considered to have solidly renaissance elements. John Milton and the painter Rubens are identified as baroque in the fullest possible sense despite their many differences. Since they are full of unresolved tensions, Shakespeare's Hamlet and much of John Donne's poetry show all the features one expects in mannerism, along with most of El Greco's paintings. With their psychological stability and Augustan tone, the dramas of Racine and the paintings of Poussin are late baroque. I am necessarily making all this seem a lot simpler than it really is. It is in fact not simple at all and this book is not an easy read. The author possesses a special sensitivity that allows him to see and sense characteristics and tendencies in art and literature that are lost on the rest of us; he also has an aesthetic lexicon that opens up for the reader many more dimensions of some works of art and literature than most readers had previously been aware of.	2003-08-04
US	52336151	R2E7ZQ9SDKTMDD	078670778X	631748219	Cardinal Richelieu: And the Making of France	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A man of contradiction and contrast	This is a good work of popular history. As he wrote it, Levi was probably thinking of people like me who know their knowledge of French history in the 17th century is inadequate but don't want to spend months in the library filling in the gaps. The book is full of important figures like Marie de Medici, Anne of Austria, and Gaston of Orleans, but Richelieu and his career are at the center of the whole story. The author is at his best when analyzing Richelieu psychologically and morally, but he seems to value those of his subject's virtues that might place him closer to the Homeric moral universe than to ours. He praises the cardinal for his bravery, tenacity, and ruthlessness rather than looking for signs of compassion, tenderness, or justice. Of course Richelieu was intensely loyal to the king, Louis XIII, but he was equally loyal to his own quest for power, prestige, and possessions, three realms in which he met with overwhelming success. One of the interesting side issues in the book is the king's inability to relate sexually to women and his dalliances with several men, most notably with Cinq-Mars, who betrayed him. Richelieu did his best to protect the king's reputation even in this area. The more important question Levi works with is how Richelieu almost single-handedly changed France from a collection of separate areas, princedoms and duchies, with their various customs, laws, traditions and loyalties, into a modern nation-state under the absolute authority of the monarch. He also did much to promote culture, art, and literature. But he achieved all this at the cost of unendurable suffering among the common people, who were over-taxed, underfed, and who lived in general misery. Naturally, he was generally despised.	2003-08-01
US	52336151	R1N6BZSY3KZTBW	0679454810	937658431	Seven Ages of Paris	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Multi-dimensional Paris	Since this book is beautifully written in elegant, engaging prose, it might properly be considered a work of literature rather than of history or travel. But it offers the reader plenty of history: of politics and conflict, social change, art and architecture, glory and gloom. It starts in late antiquity and goes up to the departure of General De Gaulle. It also has a delightful epilogue about the Pere Lachaise Cemetery with snippets about some of the famous people, French and foreign, who currently abide there.	2003-07-31
US	52336151	R16RF8A6RL9SQ9	0872431053	655221444	Marriage of East and West: A Sequel to The Golden String	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Richly intellectual, profoundly spiritual	I am amazed that there are no other customer reviews about this fine and important work of spirituality and interreligious dialogue. It is certainly among Griffiths' best works. Most people who have done doctoral dissertations on the author are correct in considering this to be his second autobiography, and the subtitle tells us that this was more or less the author's intention as well.<br />First the author writes about fifty pages to show how life in India -- by the time he wrote this book he had been living there about thirty years -- has changed his heart and soul and expanded his mind.<br />The remainder of the book is devoted to outlining the Vedic, Judaic, and Christian Revelations and most of the subsections are so arranged as to show how myths have developed and grown in each of these three major religious traditions. I must confess that my background in Hindu religions is not sufficient for me to read that section critically, so I concentrated more on the Jewish and Christian sections. I have a whole lifetime to learn more about the Hindu traditions.<br />I have no problem with viewing most of the material in the Old Testament as radically involved with myth. Even the creation story. It is a beautiful myth, but still a myth. But there are a lot of Christians who can't get over a literal historical understanding of this material. This book was clearly not meant for them.<br />Even the story of the foundations of Christianity is tied up with the mythological. But since Christ is a historical figure, it is harder to sift out the strictly historical from the largely mythological elements in the tradition's founding events. Griffiths identifies the Christian revelation as the \\"rebirth of the myth.\\" He centers his discussion on the myth of Christ and the myth of the Church. The myth, he says by way of validating his argument, appeals to the imagination, to the heart, and transforms the person.<br />It should be pointed out that large parts of Griffiths' discussion owe a heavy debt to the work of Mircea Eliade. The book can be recommended to anyone seeking religious or spiritual enrichment.on owe a heavy debt to the work of Mircea Eliade. The book can be recommended to anyone seeking religious or spiritual enrichment.	2003-02-24
US	52336151	R35EZ8HDBNI68Y	1850892121	163612502	Roumeli: Travels in Northern Greece (Transaction Large Print Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful book on Hellas	All of Patrick Leigh Fermor's books are of an unusual beauty, but this is without doubt the most beautiful of all. But the author is not for just anyone. I have a friend who bought Roumeli and got only ten pages into it before deciding she didn't like it. But there are reasons for that. She has a journalism background and she lives in New York. Appreciating Leigh Fermor involves taking the time to savor elevated language and imagery emanating from several sometimes unfamiliar realms of meaning. Sorry, folks, but the dumbing down process stops here.<br />In the first chapter we have a description of the author's travels in Trace and in particular the area around Alexandroupolis, which, interestingly, is named for the Russian Czar Alexander II and not for Alexander the Great. The focus here is the people he calls The Black Departers, or the Sarakatsans, a mysterious and little-studies nomadic group who some say are descendants of the original Greeks who came into the peninsula.<br />Then there is a delightful chapter centered on the monasteries of Meteora and the holy but realistic Father Christopher, the abbot of St. Barlaam, who has a few tales to tell about the foreign occupiers and their mindless cruelty and how the monks outsmarted them on a few occasions.<br />Chapter three deals with the famous difference between Hellenes and Greeks (or Romios) that has been used as an analytic model by many serious writers who take an interest in modern Greece, including Robert D. Kaplan in his Balkan Ghosts. This is the division or polarity existing within every Greek you meet on the streets and it shows the distinct pulls of the Eastern and Western orientations that still abide in the Greek collective consciousness and which give, sometimes, the impression of a split personality. Mention is made of George Soteriades the archeologist who insisted that Romios should be used only in the pejorative sense of a mean, vulgar, and sordid man. But the word has also had its very distinguished defenders.<br />Also worth noting is the fact that this book contains the very elegant and entertaining essay called Sounds of the Greek World, of which I cannot resist giving a few examples here:<br />Chios is  a cakewalk on a cottage piano. ....Hermoupolis is the filioque. .....The Plaka is a drunken polyphony at four in the morning in praise of retsina and the tune of a music- box perched on a photograph album of faded plum velvet with filigree clasps at five in the afternoon.<br />Yes, this book is beautiful. Take the time to read and enjoy it.ed defenders.<BR>Also worth noting is the fact that this book contains the very elegant and entertaining essay called Sounds of the Greek World, of which I cannot resist giving a few examples here:<br />Chios is  a cakewalk on a cottage piano. ....Hermoupolis is the filioque. .....The Plaka is a drunken polyphony at four in the morning in praise of retsina and the tune of a music- box perched on a photograph album of faded plum velvet with filigree clasps at five in the afternoon.<br />Yes, this book is beautiful. Take the time to read and enjoy it.	2003-02-19
US	52336151	R34R64Q5887PGX	0860785432	616398988	Anatolica: Studies in the Greek East in the 18th and 19th Centuries (Variorum Collected Studies)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE GREAT HELLENIC  AWAKENING	Written for various periodicals over the course of about thirty years, eighteen richly informative articles are brought together in this volume on Modern Greek history, all by the famous and highly respected historian-scholar Richard Clogg. The articles try with great success to throw some much needed light on what was going on in the \\"greater\\" Greek world of the 18th and19th centuries to the east of the tiny but later enlarged Greek state that came into being in 1830 after the Greek War of Independence.<br /><br />The first chapter, written, unlike the others, specifically for this volume, lays out all the themes and issues to be cover in the rest of the book. It starts by examining the very Greek and historically realistic notion of \\"our East\\" that later developed (once the Greek state was firmly established) into the notion and political goal of the \\"Megali Idea\\" as first coined and elaborated by the wheeler dealer manipulator Ioannis Kolettis, Ali Pasha's onetime personal physician, in 1844. Both notions came to an inglorious end in 1922 with the ignominious defeat of the Greek military by the Turks and the sad exchange of populations that followed.<br /><br />Chapter II traces the history of the Greek millet in the Ottoman Empire, which was actually a grouping for administrative and fiscal purposes of all Orthodox Christians under the Patriarch of Constantinople without much regard for national or ethnic origins. Within the Greek millet one \\"party,\\" including church hierarchs, lay bureaucrats, and wealthy merchants were unalterably in favor of maintaining the status quo, while another group, the protagonists of Hellenism, composed mainly of intellectuals, lower clergy and Diaspora folk, promoted the idea of armed of armed rebellion to gain independence immediately. A. Korais was in favor of raising arms should it become necessary but he insisted that the Greeks, whom he considered mostly ignorant savages, should prepare and educate themselves to fight and then to govern themselves. The sole objective the two \\"parties\\" had in common was their desire to instill a sense of \\"Greekness\\" into those members of the Greek millet who considered themselves primarily Christian and Greek only as a kind of afterthought if at all. In this chapter Clogg deals with the question of Greek schools and teachers, most of whom were trained at the University of Athens and despite whose best efforts many Greek-speaking villages became entirely Turkophone in the course of the 19th Century. The millet ceased to exist in 1919 and it is pointed out that what is surprising is that it should have lasted (as it did) for nearly a century after the establishment of an independent Greek state.<br /><br />Chapter III begins by analyzing one of the major problems at the talks (Britain, Greece, and Turkey) that culminated in the tragic exchange of populations following the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923. This relates to the large number of Turkophone (ethnic) Greeks in the Ottoman Empire who wanted (and should have been allowed to) stay put but were eventually shipped off to Greece (large numbers of Greek speaking Turks were also uprooted from their homes in Greece and shipped eastward). A major difficulty here for the historian resides in determining how the \\"karamanlides\\" (monolingual Turkish speaking Greeks who wrote Turkish in Greek characters) actually identified themselves, with the plot being thickened by Fallmerayer's claim about the non-Greekness of most Greeks, which Clogg reminds us is futile and beside the point. These people, he points out, adopted Turkish as their only vernacular language, surprisingly, as early as the fifteenth century.<br /><br />Chapter IV is titled \\"The Byzantine legacy ...\\" but it is actually a brilliant analysis and description with possibly universal application of how myth, image and symbol can be manipulated and instrumentalized to bring about desired political goals, in this case the Megali Idea, the dominant (some would say only) ideology of the young Greek State. Here Clogg discusses in detail the contributions of Ioannis Kolettis (Hellenized Vlach and onetime personal physician to Ali Pasha), Neophytos Doukas and Rigas Velistinlis (for obvious reasons Korais does not figure in this essay), but the author concentrates on perceptions of the Megali Idea at a more popular level among the unlettered mass of Greeks under Turkish domination and later on, so he explores several of the \\"prophecies\\" about the imminent end of the Ottoman Empire that made life bearable for the lower classes and furthered the expansionist interests of Greek politicians. Interestingly, the klephtic warrior Theodore Kolokotronis admitted to having been reared on such prophecies. (This essay should be read in conjunction with Chapter XI).<br /><br />In Chapter V we are given a valuable introduction to the \\"Fatherly Instruction\\" of 1798, and then the Dhidhaskalia itself, integral, in English. The sixth chapter is an exploration of the Greek Enlightenment that preceded the War of Independence in relation to Greek cultural life under the Turks. The contributions of the wonderful Korais are examined in this and later chapters (VII, VIII, XVI).<br /><br />Chapter VIII deals with 18th and 19th century anticlericalism in the Greek world. The author shows that it was widespread at the popular level but the factors causing it (priestly ineptitude, ecclesiastical corruption) had been effectively eliminated by 1830. The next essay connects a certain attitude of \\"envy\\" on the part of Greek merchants with regard to Western Europe (and to the Smyrna rebellion of 1797). What awakened their envy was, of course, the conditions of endemic disorder and institutionalized rapacity under which they themselves were forced to operate within the Empire.<br /><br />The remaining essays in this volume, while interesting and well written, are mostly of specialist interest. Richard clog has been the preeminent scholar-historian of Modern Greece for several decades and frequently manages to write with what I would consider brilliance. It is hard to imagine that anyone with a serious interest in modern history (not just Greek or Turkish history) would be without this volume.say only) ideology of the young Greek State. Here Clogg discusses in detail the contributions of Ioannis Kolettis (Hellenized Vlach and onetime personal physician to Ali Pasha), Neophytos Doukas and Rigas Velistinlis (for obvious reasons Korais does not figure in this essay), but the author concentrates on perceptions of the Megali Idea at a more popular level among the unlettered mass of Greeks under Turkish domination and later on, so he explores several of the \\"prophecies\\" about the imminent end of the Ottoman Empire that made life bearable for the lower classes and furthered the expansionist interests of Greek politicians. Interestingly, the klephtic warrior Theodore Kolokotronis admitted to having been reared on such prophecies. (This essay should be read in conjunction with Chapter XI). <br /> <br />In Chapter V we are given a valuable introduction to the \\"Fatherly Instruction\\" of 1798, and then the Dhidhaskalia itself, integral, in English. The sixth chapter is an exploration of the Greek Enlightenment that preceded the War of Independence in relation to Greek cultural life under the Turks. The contributions of the wonderful Korais are examined in this and later chapters (VII, VIII, XVI). <br /> <br />Chapter VIII deals with 18th and 19th century anticlericalism in the Greek world. The author shows that it was widespread at the popular level but the factors causing it (priestly ineptitude, ecclesiastical corruption) had been effectively eliminated by 1830. The next essay connects a certain attitude of \\"envy\\" on the part of Greek merchants with regard to Western Europe (and to the Smyrna rebellion of 1797). What awakened their envy was, of course, the conditions of endemic disorder and institutionalized rapacity under which they themselves were forced to operate within the Empire. <br /> <br />The remaining essays in this volume, while interesting and well written, are mostly of specialist interest. Richard clog has been the preeminent scholar-historian of Modern Greece for several decades and frequently manages to write with what I would consider brilliance. It is hard to imagine that anyone with a serious interest in modern history (not just Greek or Turkish history) would be without this volume. <br />	2002-12-20
US	52336151	RKAZUZ8LLIWPI	0743205413	57266233	The Summer of My Greek Taverna: A Memoir	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enthusiastic about Patmos	Since I have spent a lot of time on the Island of Patmos, I was glad to learn that this book had been published and I ordered it immediately. I have a few negative observations to make about the book, so I'd better start out with the positive stuff. The book is a pleasant read. In general the author captures the flavor and beauty of the island and its inhabitants. It is also a fast read. But my own experience on the island makes me believe that its people are rather un-Greek in the sense that they are kinda sneaky. They are also generally unhappy people, quite grim. This may be caused by being dominated by the church. One young Patmian I met said he wanted to go away and live in Athens because he couldn't stand the idea of living his whole life in a cemetery. Too much religion makes Demitrios a dull boy.<br />Now, the book is about how an American gets duped by a Patmian when he agrees to become his partner in a beachside restaurant. This isn't really enough of a story to make a whole book, but as it turns out, it is rather successful because the author has flair and a knack for characterization that he uses effectively.<br />There may be a problem in the possiblility that readers will get the notion that all Greeks behave in the same underhanded way as the author's alleged partner. They do not. Patmians are a special kind of Greek, which may have something to do with the island's being dominated by the monastery up on the hill. The abbot of the monastery actually functions as the local bishop, and he isn't even a bishop. Most of the monks at the monastery  are a pretty sour lot, too. The local priests, on the other hand, are a nice bunch of people who try to make outsiders feel welcome even in church. Strange, isn't it?<br />The author is also the narrator, and little attempt is made to separate the two. This means there is little literary distance in the work...the author gives the impression of writing in the white heat of his emotional letdown when the whole situation at the restaurant comes to a head and he has to confront his thieving partner. The other characters are portrayed quite well, even the minor ones.<br />Summing up, this is an interesting story, but is only a story, even though it is probably based on real life experience. But there of not enough of it for a full length book.uation at the restaurant comes to a head and he has to confront his thieving partner. The other characters are portrayed quite well, even the minor ones.<br />Summing up, this is an interesting story, but is only a story, even though it is probably based on real life experience. But there of not enough of it for a full length book.	2002-12-17
US	52336151	R2M0YW3Q8KG3O8	080506897X	131163771	A House in Corfu: A Family's Sojourn in Greece	Books	2	7	10	N	N	A not-so -great book on a Greek island	I enjoy reading books on Greece so I buy a lot of them. This one was a disappointment. I have to agree with the reviewer (above) who says it is a waste of time. It is one of those books that lament the advent of mass tourism and infrastructure development, and I suppose these inevitable changes deserve lamenting in several senses, but other writers have done it so much better. Maybe the first and last chapters could be recommended but the rest is boring. None of the characters come alive and none of the real issues they face are made as clear as they should be. All the people (tourists and locals) seem to do is drive around looking at the mountains and eat... and they all eat too much.	2002-10-03
US	52336151	RCESD04JWEGLX	0609804448	617196338	Paris: The Collected Traveler: An Inspired Anthology and Travel Resource	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great little book on Paris	This is a great little book on the City of Paris but it is not the kind you read through once and then leave on the shelf. You will probably want to read parts of it at first and then keep returning as your interests and perspectives change. It won't be very useful as a guide book and will be enjoyed most by those who have already been to the City of Lights and loved it (who wouldn't love Paris?).  What Kerper has done is compile a number of articles from just about everywhere and publish them in a single book. I didn't count them but there's a great big bunch of them. All of them are well written and some are by well-known writers ... James Baldwin and Saul Bellow, to name just a couple. All are done with the idea of bringing you closer to the spirit of Paris or to reveal a specific dimension of the city's inner life that may not have been so obvious to the reader. The arrangement is by theme, and before you get to the articles there are 74 pages of practical information that is, frankly, a lot better than what you find in some guide books, and it is all arranged alphabetically from accommodations to yellow pages. If you like having books with heart and soul (and maybe some wine and cheese) in your personal library, don't miss this one.	2002-06-02
US	52336151	RB5XTO2PVGN0X	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Temps perdu	They don't get much better than this.<br />I noticed when I started this book that it is a translation done by Anthea Bell, but this may in itself be just a literary device, or the author must have worked very closely with the author. How else could he, or she, or both have achieved such beautiful English prose. Truly enviable. I am glad to see that one reviewer talked about the texture of the prose in terms of music, and he is right on the mark. Everything is in a minor key and the general tonality and pacing contribute richly to the darkness of the narrative, which is indeed dark. The main theme seems to be how easily if unwillingly we tend to fall from life into death. And almost, sometimes, back again.<br />Austerlitz tells his story to an unnamed narrator. He was brought up in Wales by a fanatic but civilized preacher and his marginally functional wife but as an adolescent discovers his true origins lie elsewhere. Most of the book deals with his attempt to learn about his beginnings and his parents, victims of Nazi genocide.<br />The book's fascinating structure is built on descriptions of European train stations and other public buildings, most notably the new National Library in Paris which Austerlitz considers  (and by any reasonalbe accounting is) an abomination built on hostility to readers and their search for understanding. Yes, I have visited it.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who has despaired of finding high literary standards in contemporary writing.	2002-05-23
US	52336151	R3FYS1T8UX182Q	0872431126	243917735	Return to the Center	Books	5	78	79	N	N	Griffiths' Finest	Of all Griffiths' books this is surely the most beautifully written and the most profoundly mystical. In the first chapter he gives a kind of progress report by reflecting on what life in India has done to him, on how his mind has developed over the years, on the changes that have taken place in his way of life and in the depths of his soul.  As a framework for all this he explores the meaning of the three vows of religious life: poverty, chastity, and obedience.<br />He understands humans as products of evolution, including the evolution of consciousness, and culture and religious expression as conditioned by history. What makes humans unique is their capacity for self-transcendence, and this is what religion is all about. Each religion is a culturally determined medium (or vehicle) to undertake the search for ultimate reality or absolute being. This reality has been revealed in a variety of ways in different circumstances and historical epochs.<br />In subsequent chapters, Griffiths looks at the meaning of original sin as a failure to appreciate the idea of interiority. He looks at the eternal nature of each person as a thought in the mind of God. Death, he says, should not be feared or despised but regarded as a sacrament of passage into eternal life. He contrasts the eternal religion with the church as a sacramental entity and explores each of the higher religions in terms of three features they all share: organization, ritual, and doctrine. In a fascinating later chapter he speaks of the Spirit as the feminine principle guiding the development of the world. Not all Christians will be pleased with this author's critical views of the Church. But they are views with which we can all agree after some reflection on our own history and culture and on the real meaning of our own religious belief and practice.	2002-05-23
US	52336151	R7XYL2P3RFYAY	0872431347	33418786	Christ in India	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Refining interreligious dialogue	This is a gentle, beautifully written book that should be read by anyone who senses the importance of religious understanding for the future well-being of humanity. It contains many delightful passages in praise of India and her people and her religions. Yet most of the ideas it offers are by now out of date because its basic premise is what interreligious dialoguers call \\"inclusivism,\\" or the attitude that while non-Christian religions do contain some basic elements of moral truth, they are all just preparations for the coming of Christianity, or Christianity will in a sense \\"complete\\" or \\"perfect\\" them. That was a quite respectable attitude when Griffiths was writing the articles of which this book is a compilation. He himself was later to arrive at an attitude of complementarity by which he saw each religion as necessary and complementary to the others because each religion is built up around a profound and unitary if culturally conditioned core of truth, and that truth is the love of God for his creation, the universe. Of course not all contemporary Christians share this vision, but not all Christians have had the spiritually enriching experience of living forty years in India among Hindus.	2002-05-02
US	52336151	R2LQHU08AR1Z3A	0262510928	872878913	The Greek Paradox: Promise Vs. Performance (BCSIA Studies in International Security)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Greek politics, economy, diplomacy, and other troubled areas	These fifteen essays show you what can happen when a bunch of first-rate minds get together and express their findings in a single volume. Dynamite. No fluff, no filler. Just hard facts about modern Greece, razor-sharp analysis, and reasonable conclusions, mostly following rigid scientific procedures and a few based on anecdotal, impressionistic material. This means that we are dealing with a publication away from which those who wax romantically ecstatic at the mention of Greece should stay.<br />The paradox mentioned in the title refers to the unfortunate gap between Greece&#8217;s many endowments (democratic government, strategic geographic position, economic potential) and the way the country has failed to make the most of its gifts (top-heavy bureaucracy, feckless foreign policy, economic disequilibrium).<br />By way of introduction to the volume, Kalypso Nicolaidis starts off on a note of controlled optimism by asking if there really is a Greek paradox, a gap between promise and performance. Viewing the present moment as a window of opportunity for Greece that calls for analysis, introspection, vision, and leadership, she briefly shows how these elements are woven into the other articles.<br />In an article dealing with political issues, Nikoforos Diamandouros declares that the paradox (potential in contrast to achievement) is indeed real. He suggests that a comparison between the period from the 1950s to the 1970s and that from the mid 1970s to the present is essential to grasping the &#8220;logics&#8221; that might explain the disappointment characterizing the latter period.<br />The article by Misha Glenny was written in 1995 when the situation in the northern Balkans was &#8220;uncertain&#8221; and &#8220;troubled&#8221;. Glenny points out the absolute importance of Greek diplomatic initiatives and bilateral treaties as a means of maintaining peace and economic growth. He discusses the ineptitude of some Greek diplomatic maneuvers and the general unpreparedness of the foreign ministry for changes in the structure of Soviet and Yugoslav power.<br />Dimitris Keridis writes that the Greek economy is badly in need of structural reforms that cannot be carried out unless there are parallel efforts to get rid of a pervasive &#8220;political culture based on populism and clientelism&#8221; (read, alternatively, corruption and cronyism.) His analysis is informed and his conclusions strengthened by consideration of five distinct historical developments that have contributed to Greece&#8217;s current status as an economic underperformer in the European Union. Starting off with the underlying principle that states are supposed to &#8220;tax fairly to provide their citizens with a maximum of physical and a minimum of economic security and equal opportunities,&#8221; he identifies pressures in support of reform along with three specific areas at which reformist undertakings might effectively be directed: decentralization of policymaking; encouragement of accountability, hierarchy, and meritocracy in public administration; an increase in the independence and accountability of such institutions as the courts, the central bank, the universities, public utilities, and state companies; a strengthening of the civic dimension of Greek citizenship to include separation of church and state.<br />Further recommendations and suggestions for improving the economy and political leadership are put forth in the article by Basilios E. Tsingos. Greece could do a lot to enhance its diplomatic capital among the nations of the West, principally by abandoning it current belief that the world owes the Greeks a living (because of their historical contributions to the development of Western culture). This requires a shift from the language of &#8220;entitlement&#8221; to the idiom of &#8220;present-day interests.&#8221; The entire thrust of Greek foreign policy should be shifted away from the East and toward the West. The nation should make stronger efforts at image-building in the West. (Endowing a few chairs of Hellenic studies at Western universities would not be a bad idea.) Reform of the electoral system is indicated to render the central government stronger and more effective. This would involve doing away with the current system of &#8220;proportional representation.&#8221; And finally, private initiative should be encouraged and government entrepreneurial involvement diminished.<br />Alexis Papahelas also takes up the theme of structural reform in politics and economics and mentions the deep-seated cynicism and inertia that characterize contemporary Greek society. He proposes the establishment of an independent, privately funded foundation made up of homeland Greeks as well as members of the Diaspora. This would serve as a think tank to analyze all aspects of public life and make recommendations to government and other public institutions.<br />In his contribution (Chapter 9), F. Stephen Larabee examines five issues touching on Greece&#8217;s potential as a leader among the nations of the Balkan Peninsula. Susan L. Woodward also considers Greece in its Balkan context and points out some lessons that have been, or should have been learned from the wars in Yugoslavia.<br />In the concluding essay Loukas Tsoukalis offers a &#8220;subjective interpretation&#8221; of the Greek paradox. He follows the logic of the whole undertaking by saying that prescription should follow diagnosis but tries to steer clear of writing a political manifesto. He continues with the reformist agenda and zeroes in on politics, economics and foreign relations as areas of public life that need serious attention. His &#8220;prescriptions&#8221; are well worth careful study.<br />This book is an indispensable work for anyone interested in modern Greece, and it could well serve as an important work of reference. Highly recommendedrts at image-building in the West. (Endowing a few chairs of Hellenic studies at Western universities would not be a bad idea.) Reform of the electoral system is indicated to render the central government stronger and more effective. This would involve doing away with the current system of &#8220;proportional representation.&#8221; And finally, private initiative should be encouraged and government entrepreneurial involvement diminished.<br />Alexis Papahelas also takes up the theme of structural reform in politics and economics and mentions the deep-seated cynicism and inertia that characterize contemporary Greek society. He proposes the establishment of an independent, privately funded foundation made up of homeland Greeks as well as members of the Diaspora. This would serve as a think tank to analyze all aspects of public life and make recommendations to government and other public institutions.<br />In his contribution (Chapter 9), F. Stephen Larabee examines five issues touching on Greece&#8217;s potential as a leader among the nations of the Balkan Peninsula. Susan L. Woodward also considers Greece in its Balkan context and points out some lessons that have been, or should have been learned from the wars in Yugoslavia.<br />In the concluding essay Loukas Tsoukalis offers a &#8220;subjective interpretation&#8221; of the Greek paradox. He follows the logic of the whole undertaking by saying that prescription should follow diagnosis but tries to steer clear of writing a political manifesto. He continues with the reformist agenda and zeroes in on politics, economics and foreign relations as areas of public life that need serious attention. His &#8220;prescriptions&#8221; are well worth careful study.<br />This book is an indispensable work for anyone interested in modern Greece, and it could well serve as an important work of reference. Highly recommended	2002-02-11
US	52336151	RM3GJQ28T4VDO	0959089411	249910959	The Greek War of Independence	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Gorgeous graphics	This is a book for the coffee table and it makes no pretense to being scholarly or historical-analytic, even though the text is not at all bad.<br />What is really exciting about this publication is that it brings together many of the classical paintings that depict various scenes - battles, retreats, confrontations - that took place during Greece's struggle for independence from the Ottoman Empire.<br />There are also some fine portraits of many important military figures, politicians, and philhellenes.  Most of the original paintings can be seen in Athens at the National Art Museum, the National Historical Museum, or the Benaki Museum. For at least one, though, you will have to go to Paris.<br />While I suppose art critics and historians would consider most of these paintings to be of only limited artistic merit, I personally find them - well, most of them - gorgeous. Some are very touching: sad reminders of how the Greeks lived under the Turkish yoke. In one a young boy is being taken from his parents by a government official in charge of the infamous \\"boy tax.\\" In another an Orthodox priest is teaching a group of youngsters in one of the \\"secret schools\\" while an armed guard watches over them. The paintings that show church hierarchs in ceremonial robes are especially beautiful and those depicting naval battles are glorious.<br />This book could be recommended to anyone who enjoys looking at beautiful things and in particular to those who also have an interest in the history of modern Greece.	2002-01-06
US	52336151	R16OH7534EGXSO	158567172X	286477152	The Greek War of Independence: The Struggle for Freedom from Ottoman Oppression	Books	5	60	64	N	N	Nation building in Modern Greece	In a possibly apocryphal but highly instructive story a traveler asks a nineteenth-century Balkan peasant if he considers himself mostly Bulgarian or mostly Greek. The peasant answers that he has no idea what the traveler is talking about and goes on to say he is Christian, by which he means he is not a Turk. (He had no clue about being of either nationality.)<br />Most people in the Balkans at that time had no sense of belonging to a nation but they knew they were part of a non-Christian empire and that they were an oppressed people. Little wonder, since the notion of nation-state with a common language, religion, ethnicity, was still largely a Western idea of which the Greeks and their neighbors had little practical sense. For most of their long histories empire and foreign domination was the political and economic reality. This means that any account of the beginnings of modern Greece has to deal pretty heavily, perhaps insistently, on the whole issue of \\"nation building.\\" David Brewer does an admirable job of weaving this theme into his account of the Greek war of independence.<br />The situation at the time was a general disaster of decline and decadence in the Ottoman Empire, warlords and ignorant peasants in the homeland, bandits in the mountain passes, and wealthy Greeks who wanted the Turks out so they themselves could take over as oppressors of the have-nots.<br />Brewer begins with a brief description of the church and its hierarchy as unifying elements in the struggle against the oppressors, and then moves on to the more interesting (because less well-known) intellectual underpinnings of the war. The important figures here are the wonderful Adamantios Korais (educated in France, invented the Modern Greek language almost single-handedly, believed the outbreak of hostilities should be postponed at least a generation) - and Rhigas Phaeros (poet-patriot cruelly executed after betrayal by his own).<br />The author examines the roles played in the war by a variety of people, including Ali Pasha of Jannina, the savagely cruel but culturally refined Albanian despot who ruled Epirus with an iron fist and had a thousand concubines and fifty young boys. He traces out the problems involved in organizing the secret society known as the Philiki Eteria and in getting new recruits who could be trusted. Not everyone could be.<br />Greece was liberated only gradually, the Peloponnese being the area of earliest conflict and first liberation. The country did not attain its present borders until well into the twentieth century. Theodore Kolokotronis is the major military figure of the war, or at least the most memorable. But once he had power in his grasp he was unwilling to yield it to the civil authorities, as were most of the other military leaders. In fact Greece underwent a dreadful civil war even before it even became a country. The still fighting new nation had a series of constituent assemblies that were unable to work out a governmental structure to curb the selfish interests of the military and the wealthy grandees.<br />Brewer has a special talent for making history dramatic, and he uses it well in describing battles, especially sea battles, of which there were many. Yet he never includes any superfluous details. As a backdrop to the whole story he includes material on the various alliances, sometimes \\"holy\\" and constantly shifting, among such other European powers as England, France, Austria, and Russia. He is probably correct in his assessment that Great Britain was Greece's closest friend and most generous ally in the war of independence. But he also explains how the story of England's two enormous loans to the new nation turned into horror stories of nineteenth century capitalism gone wrong. The generosity of those English and French Philhellene idealists (most notably Lord Byron) who sacrificed their well being and sometimes their lives to the cause of Greek freedom is depicted honestly and with feeling.<br />This finework of history can be recommended to the informed general reader but those with a solid background in historical studies will also enjoy it.ne work of history can be recommended to the informed general reader but those with a solid background in historical studies will also enjoy it.	2002-01-02
US	52336151	R26F30AAPPZDQE	0465020909	633269661	Next: The Road To The Good Society	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The good society -- and moral responsibility	This essay deals with how to develop what civilized people have been craving since the ancient Greeks or earlier: the good society. This is basically a question of social ethics, and for the author the good society is one in which a preponderance of relations among people are of the I-thou type. Some of our relations are necessarily of the instrumental, I-it kind in which we use people (to some extent) in order to achieve our goals, but in the good society these will be strictly limited in number and in most of our dealing with others we will take people as ends in themselves, in their personhood, and not as means to other ends. The author presents the good society as a community of communities, a third element that must be given as much or more importance as the government and the market. Communities are the intellectual \\"centers\\" where people meet each other most easily as persons and treat each other as ends in themselves. Society is a collection of such value-sharing communities formed around affective bonds and moral culture. The various motivations for community formation include age group, work, school, neighborhood or any other social situation that brings together the common interests and values of people. Many social functions currently carried out by the government could be handled, and handled better, by communities, which have up to now been the neglected partners of government and market.<br />  In his third chapter the author describes what he calls a soft moral culture, which is soft not because of the norms it promotes but because of the way it fosters them. It is the midway between the authoritarian morality of the postwar years and the kind of moral vacuum in which American society seems to be operating at present. He advocates a formal - as distinct from material - ethics in which the strident language of rights would be slightly muffled but of course not completely silenced, so that more people can reflect for themselves on what is truly good for themselves and for society.<br />  In his fourth chapter he shows that much could be gained if the government would stop treating the people to whom it dispenses services as mere clients and started treating them like citizens. He pleads for more discernment about which roles the government should properly maintain and which ones (and to what extent) should be contracted out to private (for profit) entities. Here he examines current policy and practice with regard to prison facilities, welfare, health insurance, availability of experimental medications, and protection of the environment.<br />  Still, we must live with the market and the largely anonymous, instrumental relations it encourages. The economy should be strengthened but not allowed to grow disproportionately to other human values. The author decries corporate welfare and speaks eloquently in favor of investing in people. It is well known that while American universities are among the best in the world, elementary and secondary schools are a disaster area. Most work during the first two years of college are largely remedial. At this moment first educational priority must be given to recent immigrants and their children.<br />  In chapter six the author takes on the way politicians have used the democratic process to carry out private vendettas and political lynching. Here he discusses several cases that were in the news during the 1990s. He does not suggest changing the rules of the political game but saving them and teaching those who use them how to use them fairly and with the common good as the general goal.<br />  The author then discusses the issues involved in celebrating cultural and ethnic diversity in America while working toward an ever more united nation. Inequality will never be eliminated but its harmful effects can be limited. Especially in regard to equitable educational opportunities for young children, programs initiated within the community and promoted by the government and the market have been especially successful.<br />  Books of this kind should be much more important among the American reading public than they are now. We need to analyze our recent past without too much interference from political rhetoric. We need to be reminded that we have made mistakes, some of them grave. Our future can be very bright if we develop the kind of moral culture Etzioni advocates. And if we don't, we cannot claim that no one warned us of the consequences. I would recommend this book to anyone who believes in the good life for him- or herself and for everyone else, that is, anyone who believes that moral culture and community values are just as important as the government or the stock market. Maybe they are more important. For those who do not believe this, maybe reading this book will convince them.have been especially successful.<BR>    Books of this kind should be much more important among the American reading public than they are now. We need to analyze our recent past without too much interference from political rhetoric. We need to be reminded that we have made mistakes, some of them grave. Our future can be very bright if we develop the kind of moral culture Etzioni advocates. And if we don't, we cannot claim that no one warned us of the consequences. I would recommend this book to anyone who believes in the good life for him- or herself and for everyone else, that is, anyone who believes that moral culture and community values are just as important as the government or the stock market. Maybe they are more important. For those who do not believe this, maybe reading this book will convince them.	2001-12-31
US	52336151	R2W31IRSR7EZOU	0679602836	838354674	The Magus (Modern Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Literary surrealism at its finest	John Fowles ends his new introduction to this 1998 edition by saying, &quot;I can't really be Greek, but I wish I were.&quot;<br />Well, yeah, him and me too.<br />The story takes place on a not-so-imaginary Greek island which is actually Spetses.<br />Long stretches of this work are ugly and horrifying, but at the same time they are beautiful, because they cover all the range of human experience that each of us knows so well and has to put up with: betrayal, violence, lies ... but also hope, freedom, and love.<br />The protagonist meets up with an elderly eccentric who wants to pass as a wizard or shaman but is really involved in a dehumanizing psychological experiment whose true purpose is never made clear. Everything is staged, apparently to make the main character suffer as much as possible, both physically and spiritually.<br />There is something Hamlet-like about his thinking as he decides between getting wholly involved or opting out. At some points one might get the idea he enjoys the savagery being inflicted on him.<br />Fowles is the absolute master of modern English prose narrative, his writing is richly textured, his imagination inexhaustible.	2001-12-09
US	52336151	R2O4YVA214H334	158234003X	362428213	Blood Ties	Books	5	8	9	N	N	(A mother's) love makes the world go round.	This splendidly crafted work of fiction covers five generations of an Irish family and its focus is on the emotional lameness that can result from a lack of parental nurturing.<br />Despite violating every known convention of what schoolteachers call the mechanics of writing, Jennifer Lash offers us a magnificent novel of the effects of alienation and indifference on human development. Many think the opposite of love is hate, but this is not the case. The opposite of love is indifference. And this is Violet Farr's problem: she is totally indifferent to anything that involves affect, sentiment or love.<br />Worshipping the memory of her own dead father and married to a marginally conscious, sexually repressed gay man, Violet is rich, intelligent, cultured and extremely competent in dealing with things and ideas. She has an innate talent for managing things but is inept in her dealings with other humans at the level of emotion, especially as regards needs, apirations, individual interests, fears.<br />Her son, conceived only because her husband manages to fantasize about a delivery boy during coitus, soon turns into an unclean, foulmouthed drunk and gets shipped off to school in England, where he goes from bad to worse, finally begetting a child on a bimbo barmaid whose mother has died in an insane asylum.<br />Violet's grandson lives with his slovenly mother for several years but then gets trunked off to Ireland to live with Grandma, who is still emotionally unable to deal with the situation of having a young child around. After a particularly unfortunate incident involving a dead chicken she packs him off back to England as she had done with his father.<br />The boy goes to school for a while, lives in foster homes, and then takes to the streets and lives a life of meanness and horror in contact with unruly, violent young vagrants. He is rescued from it all by Winifred and her daughter, who nurse him back to health and stability and give him the human kindness he has been denied most of his life. After making love (but it is genuine love) to Winifred's daughter and inseminating her, he is killed in a bike accident.<br />The child of this liaison has the chance to bring a kind of redemption to Violet and her loveless existence.<br />The author has a special gift for rich characterization, and even her language changes as she moves from one personage to another describing them and their activities in individually appropriate terms. Only occasionally does she fall into stereotyping, as with the know-it-all priests and the wise, faithful family retainers.<br />This book can be recommended for anyone interested in human development or parent-child relations. It would also do nicely for those fascinated with the Irish literary tradition, of which it is a noteworth representative.s been denied most of his life. After making love (but it is genuine love) to Winifred's daughter and inseminating her, he is killed in a bike accident.<br />The child of this liaison has the chance to bring a kind of redemption to Violet and her loveless existence.<br />The author has a special gift for rich characterization, and even her language changes as she moves from one personage to another describing them and their activities in individually appropriate terms. Only occasionally does she fall into stereotyping, as with the know-it-all priests and the wise, faithful family retainers.<br />This book can be recommended for anyone interested in human development or parent-child relations. It would also do nicely for those fascinated with the Irish literary tradition, of which it is a noteworth representative.	2001-08-16
US	52336151	RJ3W2SKBY7BIA	1566562295	150264115	A Traveller's History of Greece	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Useful for the traveler	This book should prove quite useful for those traveling to Greece, whether the trip is still in the planning stage or even if it has already been done and the traveler wants to enrich his or her experience with some background information. It is clearly intended for the non-specialist but contains a few insights I had not found in more learned volumes. The style and tone are crisp and fast-paced throughout. The first part, by Boatswain (120 pages), goes from very early Greek civilization to the fall of Constantinople. Normally, this would be too few pages for so much material, but the author does an adequate job, considering his purpose. The second part, by Nicolson, takes us to the end of the twentieth century. I must admit to a bit of disappointment with Boatswain's treatment of the world of Hellenism. He gets all the facts right but wobbles on the spirit of the Hellenistic -- as distinct from the Hellenic. But this is not a real flaw since few historians bother to elaborate on the distinction. Recommended for travelers and for general readers.	2001-07-03
US	52336151	R1IZVEXU6HUJIU	0970114001	939819398	Ganja Tales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stories of Stoners	As a card carrying member of the gin-and -whiskey generation, I got quite a jolt from reading this collection of nine stories all dealing with drug users whose every act is motivated by the prospect of their next high or by reminiscences about outstanding highs in their pasts.<br />In fact there were several jolts, some pleasant, some not. Craig Pugh is an honest writer who unmasks much of what is false and petentious in modern societies by placing his characters in situations, sometimes dangerous ones, that require interaction with the establishment or with the law. Most of the characters, depressingly inarticulate narcissists, are young and apparently permanent members of the underclass, even if their origins may have been otherwise. Some have the beginnings of an education. Others have none. Their conversation is as stuimulating as a brick wall and as hard to penetrate, owing to the extensive sub-culture lexicon they use. Apart from their highs, one has to ask what their values might be like.<br />These stories are not of uniform quality but several are good. In &quot;Slingin'&quot; the drug dealing Tony is kidnapped by two murderous urban savages who stab him and then force him to drive out of town so they can finish him off, and the reader does not expect him to survive the ordeal. The narrator makes the most of Tony's thoughts, similar to what the rest of us would think in such life-threatening circumstances.<br />The final story, about a wood carver who has a semi-mystical experience at the rim of a volcano-crater that manages to work out some inner demons that had been bothering him, is probably the best in the whole collection.<br />The author get high marks for his lean-and-mean prose style and also for writing mostly out of the thoghts of his characters, out of their mental processes and personality quirks. He even makes some of them likable: I never thought I could feel empathy for a drug dealer like Tony.	2001-05-17
US	52336151	R15NC4DI1C72YI	0300089236	577388286	Inside Hitler's Greece: The Experience of Occupation, 1941-44	Books	5	25	31	N	N	A valuable contribution to modern historical understanding	Meticulously researched and thoughtfully written, Mazower's Book is a valuable contribution to our understanding of European history in the first half of the twentieth century, especially during the decade of the 1940s. As the title suggests, this is a work about the German occupation of Greece. The unique character of Greece's political, social and economic structures make the story especially complicated. The suffering of the Greeks during the occupation was particularly intense. The famine that caused many thousands of deaths is a part of the suffering. So were the occupiers' reprisals at resistance activity. The author offers insightful analyses of the work and organization of the resistance, including various Communist groups, to show how and why the communists were able to carry on a civil war against the Athens government once the war was over. In an excellent chapter on the suffering of Jewish Greeks, he details how about fifty thousand Jews -- mostly from Salonika -- were deported to death camps in Poland and elsewhere. Personally, I take some comfort in Mazower's statement on page 159 that, in general, most Orthodox Christian Greeks made a determined effort to save their Jewish compatriots from the invaders by hiding them and providing them with food.<br />Mazower has recently edited a book of fourteen essays titiled After the War Was Over, exploring the question of how collaborators were dealt with in the years following the occupation. ...	2001-05-11
US	52336151	R1CKNB0MS4XTXP	0446400157	580002452	A Morbid Taste for Bones	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Medieval murder, monastic setting	This story takes place in Britain toward the middle of the 12the century, less than a hundred years after the Norman Conquest, so the several groups involved have not had time or chance to assimilate into what we know as the British People.<br />Right from the first few pages the reader is captivated by the author's character description and analysis in terms of ethnic origin. The Welsh are innocent, hard-working and faithful. Normans are arrogant,  duplicitous, cunning and effete. Saxons are sober, vigorous, reflective and intelligent.<br />Seeking to improve its status among the faithful and fill its coffers, an English Benedictine monastery sends a delegation of monks to a Welsh village to bring back the bones of Saint Winifred. Her relics are sure to turn the monastery into a center of pilgrimage.<br />But the villagers are not anxious to relinquish the bones of the maiden saint who has protected them for so long. The leader of the opposition is murdered while the monks are still in the village trying to convince them. Most the the remainder of the plot is occupied with solving the crime and restoring peace to the village. Brother Cadfael, the level-headed monk who accumulated plenty of worldly experience before entering monastic life, is the Benedictine who functions as detective.<br />This book can be recommended to just about anyone, but especially to those who enjoy stories set in the Middle Ages.	2001-05-04
US	52336151	R28R4XELJV74IR	0691000506	970842211	Modern Greek Lessons	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Worth reading several times	If anyone wants to decide whether a given country is modern, he has to start with an examination of what he means by modernity. Faubion examines this question admirably in this challenging but peculiarly beautiful book, but his work is so complex and so insightful that anyone undertaking to review it should probably ... have his head examined.<br />Faubion is endowed with -- or has acquired -- a splendid vocaulary of great precision that serves him well in all the tenuously nuanced dimensions of the present-day Greek reality he explores here. His syntax is baroquely elaborate, almost theatrical (in a sense of excellent theatre) and some of his longer sentences are not fully comprehensible on the first go. But that is no problem because the reader can always have a second go at any given sentence and in the process learn how real writers with real ideas, like Faubion, go about their business.<br />This is a hermeneutics of contemporary Athens and, by extension, of modern Greece, which is to say that the author regards meaning as the mediator between experience and consciousness and therefore undertakes a search for analogues adequate to trace a movement from unmediated experience to the historical consciousness in the several realms of meaning into which it (hopefully) differentiates.<br />Superimposing on this hermeneutics a specifically literary turn, he adopts from Harold Bloom -- and uses as an analytic tool -- a figure called ... metalepsis, which may be the poetic face of what we tyro Hegelians call sublation.<br />When the author mentions his field experience among highly educated cosmopolites in Kolonaki, one thinks back with compassion on linguist an anthropologist friends suffering through field work in the wilds of West Africa or Borneo (life really isn't fair, is it?).<br />The book offers not only an exploration of the historical consciousness of some few Greeks, but also tests social and cultural theory (Weber, Schiller, Foucault) and critiques some widely held positions in the fields of sociology and anthropology. To use a well worn scheme, Faubion clearly favors considerations of strategy, process and practice over rule, structure and theory. He outlines the historically constructivist (as distinct from classicist or essentialist) Greek self-understanding as it comes forth from his associates who function as field informants. On this basis he discusses anecdotally the sunsettled relations between such aspects of modern life as economics and politics, tradition and modernity, among many others.<br />I would venture to say that most hermeneuts of the Ricoeur school may experience difficulty with the author's position on the relation between writers and the texts they produce, but even if he rejects textual autonomy he still offers valuable insights on some modern Greek writers and their position in society. His treatment of the whole question of sexual liberation and identity is also excellent.ely held positions in the fields of sociology and anthropology. To use a well worn scheme, Faubion clearly favors considerations of strategy, process and practice over rule, structure and theory. He outlines the historically constructivist (as distinct from classicist or essentialist) Greek self-understanding as it comes forth from his associates who function as field informants. On this basis he discusses anecdotally the sunsettled relations between such aspects of modern life as economics and politics, tradition and modernity, among many others.<br />I would venture to say that most hermeneuts of the Ricoeur school may experience difficulty with the author's position on the relation between writers and the texts they produce, but even if he rejects textual autonomy he still offers valuable insights on some modern Greek writers and their position in society. His treatment of the whole question of sexual liberation and identity is also excellent.	2001-04-27
US	52336151	RSWA4GLWAH552	006017143X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Maupin is a master of his craft	A few weeks ago I tuned in to Bernard Pivot's Bouillon de Culture on France 2 and found Armistead Maupin as part of a round table discussion of reading and writing with five of the more important figures on the current French literary scene. I was delighted, not just to see the person responsible for Tales of the City, but also because Maupin's observations were a good deal more intelligent than what the others had to say. So, those of you who saw Maupin on Rosie O'Donnel, eat your hearts out.<br />Anyway, I bought and read Maupin's The Night Listener and here are a few comments.<br />Since there is still such a long way to go toward tolerance and acceptance, it is a pity this superb novel uses a gay vehicle to develop its themes, which I take to be love, trust, and faith. These are universal themes but some potential readers might be turned off by the story's gayness.<br />Be this as it might, how do I love a particular person when my other, sometimes baser needs are attracting me elsewhere? How can I identify the basis of my love and distinguish it from my own psychological and social needs? How can I maintain my trust in the essential decency of those around me in the face of doubts about their motivations and agendas? How can I keep faith in the underlying benignity of reality despite its frequent cruelty and unremitting ambiguity? These issues are tests of our humanity and working through them is what is involved in human redemption. These are also the major themes, I believe, of this novel.<br />When he starts on the new antiHiv cocktail, Jess gets a new lease on life that he celebrates by installing a gold ring in his nose, taking up with some leather-fools and terminating his ten-year love affair with Gabriel. Gabriel is the celebrity narrator and is significantly older than Jess, a radio story teller who lives for his craft and lives well because, like Maupin, he has mastered his craft. Pete is fourteen with a long history of psysical and sexual abuse by his father and his father's friends while his mom gets it all on video tape back there in (wouldn't you know it) Wisconsin. He is rescued, adopted and reincorporated into human life by an altruistic psychiatrist, but is dying of AIDS, apparently a grisly gift from one of dad's friends. A book Pete has written is close to publication and Gabriel is asked to write a blurb.<br />Thus begin the daily phone calls in the course of which Pete and Gabriel develop something resembling love between father and son. But Jess sows the seeds of doubt by pointing out the similarity between Pete's telephonic voice and that of the psychiatrist. From that point on the story shifts to a shimmering mode of uncertainty about what is going on, which is not resolved even in the book's final paragraphs. Underlying the anecdotal material we have  an exhilirating tension between doubt and faith, trust and the need for clear proof, love and indifference. Of course things are revealed and disclosed as the story moves forward -- but not everything. This entire work is a totally satisfying exploration of the need to &quot;know&quot; in order to believe, the need for proof of a person's worth (or even of their existence) in order to love.<br />All in all, this is a most excellent piece of work.s father and his father's friends while his mom gets it all on video tape back there in (wouldn't you know it) Wisconsin. He is rescued, adopted and reincorporated into human life by an altruistic psychiatrist, but is dying of AIDS, apparently a grisly gift from one of dad's friends. A book Pete has written is close to publication and Gabriel is asked to write a blurb.<br />Thus begin the daily phone calls in the course of which Pete and Gabriel develop something resembling love between father and son. But Jess sows the seeds of doubt by pointing out the similarity between Pete's telephonic voice and that of the psychiatrist. From that point on the story shifts to a shimmering mode of uncertainty about what is going on, which is not resolved even in the book's final paragraphs. Underlying the anecdotal material we have  an exhilirating tension between doubt and faith, trust and the need for clear proof, love and indifference. Of course things are revealed and disclosed as the story moves forward -- but not everything. This entire work is a totally satisfying exploration of the need to &quot;know&quot; in order to believe, the need for proof of a person's worth (or even of their existence) in order to love.<br />All in all, this is a most excellent piece of work.	2001-02-22
US	52336151	R26HH8EMB1QIOO	0521378303	252699886	A Concise History of Greece (Cambridge Concise Histories)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A delightful work on Greek history	Richard Clogg is a renowned international scholar who has been writing about Greek history for decades. This work is a popularization (from footnotes deliver me) that should prove very helpful to the layman with more than a casual interest in Greece. It invites comparison with C.M. Woodhouse's also famous history, but I must declare myself incompetent to decide if one is better than the other.<br />Clogg's section on the Ottoman period is blessedly brief and his discussion of the Nazi occupation and Communist insurection are to-the-point yet incisive.<br />Perhaps the most exciting feature of the work is the great bunch of pictures gracing nearly every page and showing the days of glory in Modern Greece as well as some of the saddest. The maps are also helpful.<br />There are no footnotes but the selective bibliography will be useful to most readers. There is also an appendix giving thumbnail biographies of some luminaries in modern Greek history.	2001-01-17
US	52336151	R1C6W1XE2J6XKC	0571197949	436562983	Modern Greece: A Short History	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Most Excellent Work	This is an extremely fine history of Greece up to about 1990. The word MODERN appears in the title even though it starts with Constantine, but this only enriches the total work. Its main virtue is that it weaves the cultural and intellectual life of Greece into the story of national development in the post-Turkish period. Especially good is the way it details 18th and 19th century attempts to develop a national Greek consciousness. It also offers fascinating details on the intellecual currents that led to the armed insurrection against the Ottoman government.<br />Probably deserves more than five stars.	2001-01-17
US	52336151	R2I5O87HKCWFZR	0738820342	42866089	Death at the Olive Press	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Misdeeds on a Greek Island	This story will prove very satisfactory to a lot of people, and for a lot of different reasons. It has something for nearly everyone.<br />When her evil neighbor's body is found with his skull smashed in very close to the ancient olive press she is restoring as her home, Alexis is jailed ... on suspicion ... and spends five days in a Piraius cell, dark, dank, dirty and dour, where the matrons (with one exception) are sadistic monsters. Alexis has of course been framed, but on her release another can of slimy worms plops open involving art thieves, crooked government ministers, and a few sleazy characters out to make a fast buck by exploiting the system and each other.<br />Alexis has the choice of withdrawing from all this and leaving well enough alone but her innate sense of decency leads her to investigate all leads, and this brings her into situations of risk and danger from assorted domestic and international criminals as she exposes malfeasance at several social and political levels. Not that she is a gangbusting superwoman. Her moments of self doubt and moral reasoning make fascinating reading. In her brushes with danger and moments of vacilation she finds comfort and support in her growing love for Theo, the surprisingly well educated Albanian migrant worker.<br />But she also protects Theo, mostly by withholding crucial information about his whereabouts at specific times from police investigators.<br />Extremely good is this story's handling of such specific social issues of Greek life as the status of migrant workers. Interesting also is its deftness in unfolding two narrative sequences at one without having recourse to the  ... flashback ... technique.<br />The author clearly has a healthy respect for the Greeks and their civilization. She also seems to know a lot of individual Greeks both men and women, whom she loves as friends. But she is no wide-eyed romantic. She brings out plenty of faults and foibles in the Greek character, which is, after all, human character.n character.	2000-12-14
US	52336151	R2AC8FXERDJRBP	0807073032	175588159	Encountering God: A Spiritual Journey from Bozeman to Banaras	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Pluralism in a world of diversity	I had read and heard a lot about this book before actually buying and reading it. In eight closely reasoned, carefully explained chapters the author (a Harvard professor active in interreligious dialogue and open to any and all intelligent religious ideas) sets out the case for religious pluralism.  She does this primarily by rational argument but also by personal and anecdotal narration, some recent history of interreligious dialogue, sound theological reflection, and sociological analysis.<br />  In chapters subtitled The Meaning of God's Manyness and The Fire and Freedom of the Spirit she describes the many dimensions of humankind's connectedness to the transcendent and the variety of ways cultural differences assist us in our search for the absolute.<br />  Her seventh chapter outlines in satisfying detail the three general attitudes members of a given religious community might hold toward those of other faiths: exclusivism, inclusivism, and pluralism. Pluralism is clearly the most desirable of the three, and she examines this stance by distinguishing it from other dispositions to which it bears a superficial resemblance but with which it should not be confused. Pluralism is not simply plurality or merely tolerance: it presupposes both. Nor is it relativism or syncretism. Eck emphasises the importance of interreligious dialogue, on which genuine pluralism is necessarily based and from which it flows.<br />  In her final chapter the author shows why all this should make important differences in the way we live and interact with each other. This is a beautiful essay on religious praxis (not to be confused with practice) calling for radical changes in our minds and hearts (truth and value) that should enable all of us to live together creatively, with dignity, and in full appreciation of what it means to be human. This book can be recommended not only for those who profess a religious faith, but also, perhaps especially, for those who do not.	2000-12-10
US	52336151	RB0ZRR00P6L6F	1569247226	628698228	Spirit of Place	Books	5	44	50	N	N	A Durrell treasure chest	Here we have a marvelous collection of short works by Lawrence Durrell that should satisfy both beginners and older Durrell addicts.<br />We all know that, as the most brilliant member of a brilliant family, LD had an enviably interesting life, living all over the globe for more or less long periods and reflecting deeply on what he observed. This volume shows that he also had a fascinating inner life -- of the mind, the soul, the spirit. Edited by Alan G. Thomas, it contains letters and articles along with excerpts from early works that show the writer had lots of star quality even as a young man, even if the world didn't come to know about it till The Alexandria Quartet.<br />Durrel seems to have been capable of a very wide range of emotions and feelings. Mostly he had a childlike (but not childish) sense of wonder at the world and the great diversity to be found among people of various nations and climates. Also central to his emotional life is his sense of compassion...this becomes clear in the short memoir about J. Gawsworth.<br />The letters -- to such figures as Freya Stark, Theoldore Stephamides, his agent Anne Ridler, and even T.S. Eliot, among others, are written from a variety of locales and offer insightful comments, especially comparative observations, on places and people. He tries to get to the heart of the notion of identity, what it means to a Frenchman, say, to be French, or Greekness to a Greek. He himself was not exactly taken with Argentina and he had no love at all for its people, whom he rightly describes as zombies. Of course he loved Greece above all nations and is proud to speak Greek fluently. He probably would have had many good things to say about Yugoslavia but the blight of Communist dictatorship colors his reaction to life in that sad country.<br />Like most persons of high and genuine refinement, he is hopelessly enamored of French culture and civilization. Some of the finest pieces in this book deal with French writers and artists (Stendhal is the preferred novelist and gets a lot of attention here). But Durrell is also interested in more mundane, everyday pursuits like wine production, studies at a university, and political allegiances.<br />Still, Durrells strongest, most enduring love is reserved for Greece and the Greek people among whom he lived for so many years. Especially touching is the piece where he describes his return to the Island of Corfu as an acclaimed writer after a twenty year absence only to discover that his old friends and neighbors, whose lives he had described so beautifully in his writings, have now become infected with materialism, commercialism and the profit motive, and they even want to capitalize on his fame. They suggest he come back to the village and live in his former house so they can get more money from the tourists by showing him off to them.<br />Yet the timeless beauty of the Greek people and the earthly paradise they inhabit comes shining forth in very many pages of this splendid book, which was editied and published during the writer's lifetime.tendhal is the preferred novelist and gets a lot of attention here). But Durrell is also interested in more mundane, everyday pursuits like wine production, studies at a university, and political allegiances.<br />Still, Durrells strongest, most enduring love is reserved for Greece and the Greek people among whom he lived for so many years. Especially touching is the piece where he describes his return to the Island of Corfu as an acclaimed writer after a twenty year absence only to discover that his old friends and neighbors, whose lives he had described so beautifully in his writings, have now become infected with materialism, commercialism and the profit motive, and they even want to capitalize on his fame. They suggest he come back to the village and live in his former house so they can get more money from the tourists by showing him off to them.<br />Yet the timeless beauty of the Greek people and the earthly paradise they inhabit comes shining forth in very many pages of this splendid book, which was editied and published during the writer's lifetime.	2000-12-05
US	52336151	RCRSFL6I6X20H	0810117665	72529887	Deep Blue Almost Black: Selected Fiction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Greek fiction with universal appeal	Despite their somber tone and sometimes dark narrative sequences, all these stories are beautiful. Each is a metaphor (pardon the buzz word) of some aspect of the human condition and the human psyche in a world that seems to offer little hope and less joy. Each explores a distinct dimension of our emotional lives in such  limit situations as illness, imprisonment, alienation, mental derangement and death. Each affords immediately clear universal resonance while probing the entirely unique sensibilities of modern Greeks.<br />A story about a Greek immigrant couple in Australia explores themes like loss of identity, resignation in the face of radical change, conformity... and materialism. Petros becomes Peter and Panayiota is transmogrified into Pat, and they acquire wall-to-wall carpeting and marry off their daughter in a splendid wedding where even the waiters wear gloves.<br />Political repression and police brutality become painfully real in another story set in the period of the Communist insurrection.<br />Yet another story relates the first-person hospital experience of a badly injured construction worker whom medical personnel wrap in plaster and then finish off by plastering up his eyes and mouth. The anecdotal experience is secondary to the patient's anxieties and his not always successful struggle to keep a grasp on reality while undergoing it. Pain and discomfort bring on paranoia: ...I thought I heard whispering behind me...  I could neverthless sense a slight change in her attitude. There is a particular beauty in this story because it captures the ambiguity so pervasive in contemporary life: has the patient's suffering caused him to lose contact with reality ... or has the medical staff actually decided to finish him off after learning from his X-rays that his body is apparently beyond repair.<br />The final selection, an extraordinarily successful novella that gives the book its title, is a longish first-person exploration of the female psyche, or what is left of it after more than half of a woman's life has been lived. The narrator is basically dishonest and superficial. She tries to give the impression of radical candor about herself and those who have been more or less important in her life. She is presently lonely and unhappy. She has had three husbands and several lovers. If there is a core of truth in her monologue -- and perhaps there is in every self-examination -- it is not so surprising that she is alone and lonely. It is clear that she deserves it, but the writer does not judge or condemn the speaker: he simply discloses a range of emotions and feelings. His grasp of modern psychology is uncommonly sound, but he (happily) refrains from analyzing his subject in psychological terms. He lets her do al the talking -- and talk she does, and in the process she shows an amazing lack of wisdom, for her age. She is a case study in stunted emotional growth and failure to face up to the reality of herself. Like all the pieces of fiction in the book, this one is massively successful.<br />The translators have done an extremely fine job. They have taken great care -- and probably devoted a lot of time -- to putting out an excellent piece of English prose.is left of it after more than half of a woman's life has been lived. The narrator is basically dishonest and superficial. She tries to give the impression of radical candor about herself and those who have been more or less important in her life. She is presently lonely and unhappy. She has had three husbands and several lovers. If there is a core of truth in her monologue -- and perhaps there is in every self-examination -- it is not so surprising that she is alone and lonely. It is clear that she deserves it, but the writer does not judge or condemn the speaker: he simply discloses a range of emotions and feelings. His grasp of modern psychology is uncommonly sound, but he (happily) refrains from analyzing his subject in psychological terms. He lets her do al the talking -- and talk she does, and in the process she shows an amazing lack of wisdom, for her age. She is a case study in stunted emotional growth and failure to face up to the reality of herself. Like all the pieces of fiction in the book, this one is massively successful.<br />The translators have done an extremely fine job. They have taken great care -- and probably devoted a lot of time -- to putting out an excellent piece of English prose.	2000-12-03
US	52336151	RTV09EUUMCRD9	0684809664	910343100	Janet, My Mother, and Me: A Memoir of Growing Up with Janet Flanner and Natalia Danesi Murray	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating memoir	As a New Englander of mixed Italian and English ancestry, I feel I can  relate easily to William Murray's experience, even though the Italian  ladies in my background were houswives and factory workers, and not the  brilliant and accomplished sort of person his mother was. Natalia's  relationship with Janet Flanner is interesting and shows her (Natalia's)  deep sense of humanity and commitment as well as her strong nurturing  capacities. Italian mothers always think they are right, and my own opinion  is that they always are right.  Murray emphasizes Flanner's virtues and  other good points, but I wonder about why she was so incapable of  sacrificing a little of her time, her career, her work for the woman who  loved her and whom she said she loved.<br />By the time I finished reading  this book, which is a very lovely memoir, I had really taken a strong  liking to Natalia with her patience, tenderness, humanity, character, and  love.	2000-08-19
US	52336151	R2KGG8UHND9CA8	091861869X	632851670	The Scorpion	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The short story: alive and well and written in Greek	When I finished this marvelously well written book I asked myself, who is this Lili Bita person and where has she been all my life?<br />The stories in  this book show how a pre-modern society is structured by male dominance,  ignorance, magic, superstition and idolatry. With one exception the stories  are set in the rural areas of the Greek islands. Men run the whole show and  make life and death decisions for women. Women suffer from men's stupidity  and ignorance. Sometimes they die or are murdered -- in the name of family  honor (men's honor).<br />The moral universe the characters inhabit forces  them to resort to cruelty, violence or revenge as a way of dealing with the  hypocricy they see around them but do not fully understand.<br />The stories  are all erotically toned and the writer handles the sexual episodes with  restraint -- but also with realism. Here sex is not something men and women  do together; it is something men do to women. Women are not expected to  enjoy it, and if they do their sense of morality becomes suspect.<br />These  stories contain a wealth of symbol and metaphor of the kind that are  appropriate to each situation, flow easily and naturally with the  narrative, and do not cry out for attention.<br />In the future I hope to see  a lot more of Lili Bita's work in print. I found no flaws in this amazing  book.	2000-08-16
US	52336151	RJNO0GAJQ5DQH	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A work of genius	The blurb on the front cover from the Los Angeles Times Book review describes this brilliant work as exhuberent, which is an understatement if ever there was one. Actually it is a work that overflows from start to finish with imagination, beautiful language, daring narrative technique, profound understanding of people and their emotional lives, and plenty of wit and wisdom. It takes place on the island of Cephalonia, Greece, and covers the long period from the first Italian invasion to the end of the civil war and then up to the present. Pelagia, the main character, knows from the start that she does not love the gorgeous fisherman with the beautiful buttocks who courts her and eventually becomes a Communist without understanding what Communism is all about and then tries, Communistically, to rape her. She also knows that she does love Antonio Corelli, the Italian officer who billets himself in her house and sleeps, alone, in her bed. This novel has much in common with Latin American magical realism, but keeps its feet on the ground while allowing itself some almost unbelievable flights of imagination.	2000-07-11
US	52336151	R1Z8R388W5WFIY	0140013997	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Penguin Essentials)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I may read it again next week	I cannot remember when I enjoyed reading a book so much as this one. It is about the five years the author (Lawrence Durrell's younger brother) spent living on the island of Corfu as a youngster and budding naturalist. It is  full of anecdotes about collecting animals and about the family that  delight the heart and tickle the funnybone. His collection of animals  includes snakes, birds, furry things. There is a collection of dogs with  peculiar names. Theodore Stephanides, a real life person, a doctor who  helps Gerald organize his collection in more or less scientific fashion,  figures in some of Lawrence Durrell's writings. He  was apparently a  wonderful and possibly brilliant person. Concerned over the young boy's  education, or lack of it, his mother sends him a few times a week to the  Belgian consul, who tries to teach him French by reading out of the  dictionary, starting with ''A''. Of course he learns no French. The consul  spends most of the lesson time shooting mangy cats on neighboring roofs.  This is not an act of cruelty: the town is overpopulated by cats and they  are mostly ill and dying and spreading disease. Then Mother sends him to a  British person with a Slavic surname for lessons in just about everything.  This strange looking man has a collection of rare birds and a mother who  never leaves her bed but has wonderful fantasies about her own lost beauty.  Older brother Lawrence is, of course, a writer still learning his craft.  Leslie is the gun expert who builds the youngster a strange boat for use in  collecting marine specimens. Margo is the sister who cares for little in  life but how she looks in a bathing suit. Spiro is a hefty Greek with a big  belly who drives the family around in his car and helps them in unexpected  ways, even getting them out of innocent scrapes with police and customs  officials. The mother is a marvelously sensible English lady who behaves  very properly and cooks up a storm, almost constantly.  The author's  language and style are elegant, and one gets the sense of looking at the  world through the wondering eyes of a young boy, but always with the idea  that behind him there is the mature and accomplished writer. Yes, reading  this one again next week would not be a bad idea.language and style are elegant, and one gets the sense of looking at the  world through the wondering eyes of a young boy, but always with the idea  that behind him there is the mature and accomplished writer. Yes, reading  this one again next week would not be a bad idea.	2000-06-18
US	52336151	R1JH899H6X8Q17	9607269470	916211237	This Way to Paradise--Dancing on the Tables	Books	5	10	10	N	N	It's a wonderful life	The author is a journalist from New York who decides to settle in the village of Lindos on the Island of Rhodes with his Scottish wife, and this is the story of their thirty-five years there. As a lover (worshipper) of  everything Greek including the Greeks I went far beyond my normal reading  dose of 100 pages a day, which is to say, I couldn't put it down. The story  starts in the early 60s when Lindos was still a beautiful village with  cobble-stone streets, donkeys, people who cared about each other, and  marriages that lasted. There were a few foreigners and a few tourists, but  not many. The couple have two kids who grow up speaking English and Greek.  They make solid and lasting frienships among the locals and among the  foreign residents, who are mostly artists and writers. As the title  suggests, this is indeed paradise. But then mass tourism rears its ugly  head, as it has done in so many beautiful places around the globe, and  along come drugs, vandalism, lousy taste, excess garbage, and so on. Many  Greeks sell off their choice properties to the developers, and things in  general become ugly, as in McDonald's. The couple survives the reign of the  dictatorial coronals and build themselves a house on the ruins of a very  old building that had been leveled by an earthquake. Although the author is  fond of pointing out differences in Greek ways of viewing reality and  getting things done, he is never patronizing or condescending. It is clear  he loves the Greeks. Almost as much as I do.	2000-06-17
US	52336151	RV2E5Y9INCBA7	1892430002	401520901	A Lone Red Apple	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A fun read, but maybe the wrong genre	Yes, this extremely light-minded novel is a fun read, but about twenty pages into it I started to suspect it might have been more successful as a screenplay than as a novel. Everything is done in superficial stereotypes  that are more at home in the cinema than in the library. It is a love story  in the old standard form of boy meets girl, boy almost loses girl, boy  finds girl again after nearly getting involved with some other  ill-intentioned ninnie. The main character is a beautiful Greek woman who  behaves as if she has no  meaningful attachment to anyone and has no real  emotional depth. The guy is a British professor (of classics, naturally)  who is overly shy when shyness is convenient, and an overpowering  supermacho when it isn't. Hovering on the sidelines is an overachieving  department head (probably a deconstructionist) who has eyes for him and  tries to manipulate him into bed and possibly into a permanent  relationship. There are sundry students, all budding emminences and  brilliant nitwits; a cook in a restaurant on Mykonos (sexy but limited);  the heroine's parents (defenders of tradition); and a walk-on trio of  fisherman who have turned their backs on tradition by selling their  patrimony to the ''developers.'' Then there is the Poetess Sappho and a  bunch of deities who are constantly chatting in the wings and occasionally  carry out some mischief to change the course of the earthly action and  bring it all to happy ever after conclusion.  I have to take special  issue with the depiction of the woman's parents, who come off as  stereotypes of old time Greeks who have problems with the modern world.  Also, as we all know, Mykonos is a very gay place in July and August. I  have nothing against gays and I hope they have nothing against me, but if  they are going to figure in a novel, why not let them figure completely  with all their gifts and flaws? Aurelia just leaves them as a kind of  backdrop that could easliy be replaced by any other backdrop.  There is  a delightful little embellishment when Sappho becomes angry at being called  an epic poet by one of the professor's students. In revenge she sends a  strong wind that lifts his term paper into the air.  The next time  Aurelia takes pen in hand she should think in terms of screenwriting. Or  maybe she should just sit by her phone and wait for a Hollywood offer for  this work. I'll bet they call soon, bless their hearts.rop.     There is  a delightful little embellishment when Sappho becomes angry at being called  an epic poet by one of the professor's students. In revenge she sends a  strong wind that lifts his term paper into the air.     The next time  Aurelia takes pen in hand she should think in terms of screenwriting. Or  maybe she should just sit by her phone and wait for a Hollywood offer for  this work. I'll bet they call soon, bless their hearts.	2000-05-05
US	52336151	R30FYUOU1WV09Z	014009430X	461196309	Between the Woods and the Water: On Foot to Constantinople from the Hook of Holland	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Exquisitely between two worlds	Like most literary masterpieces this marvelous book has a outer vehicle that develops an inner theme. The vehicle is a journey on foot, horseback and barge across Europe in the 1930's when the author was 19. The inner theme is a resolution of polarities and opposites of all kinds. First there  is the overriding polarity of solitude and company. He enjoys spending time  with friends and friends of friends at their country homes in Hungary and  Roumania and passing hours in their sometimes fabulous libraries but he  finds refreshment and spiritual renewal in long solitary walks in wooded  mountains and along the banks of the Danube where he meets an occasional  deer or golden eagle. He relishes staying with his wealthy, worldly and  sophisticated hosts but also enjoys the company of peasants, gypsies and  lumberjacks. He likes passing  comfortable nights in reasonably soft beds  with clean linens but doesn't shrink from sleeping in hayricks or under  sheltering oaks. The interplay of past and present are another polarity he  weaves into the narrative. His knowledge of history and use of it in this  work is both magnificent and enviable. Leigh Fermor is in fact one of the  most cultured contemporary writers I have had the good fortune to read. He  is a good linguist, a masterful historian and , surprisingly, a  knowledgeable theologian. But that is only half the story. He is also a  super-macho man of action completely aware of his body and its interaction  with the  environment. This we know from his activities, almost heroic  feats, during WWII, especially in Crete. In the present book he coordinates  his mental and physical endowments to produce a gorgeously textured  masterpiece of English prose. Sex is not absent from the narrative but it  is never described in terms that could be considered even remotely graphic.  Acts are kept in the wings while he concentrates on the social,  intellectual, and aesthetic dimensions of his relations with women.  Unfortunately Amazon.com does not keep an ample stock of Leigh Fermor's  works, so I had to purchase my copy from Amazon.co.uk. I may be impatient  but my sense of company loyalty is unimpeachable. No?zon.com does not keep an ample stock of Leigh Fermor's  works, so I had to purchase my copy from Amazon.co.uk. I may be impatient  but my sense of company loyalty is unimpeachable. No?	2000-05-03
US	52336151	R2F8AVI71P9O9Z	068486276X	826370631	Commonweal Confronts the Century : Liberal Convictions,  Catholic Tradition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent thinking, superb writing, and still fresh	When I discovered a while back that I am a Commonweal Catholic I decided, now that I could put a name on my malaise, to sit back and enjoy it and to purchase this book to deepen my knowledge of the intellecual tradition from  which my illness springs. The book is published in celebration of  Commonweal's 75th anniversary and offers reprints of important articles  that have appeared in the magazine. The first is a chilling account by  George Shuster of what the atmosphere in Austria was like as Hitler was  smashing his way to power. The rest cover social, political, and religious  issues that today are constantly in our faces but, back then, only drew the  attention of such intellectuals as Thomas Merton, Dorothy Day and others  less famous but equally brilliant. Commonweal has always been interested in  the arts and that area is well represented in this volume. The Editors are  to be congratulated.	2000-04-29
US	52336151	R199LLWKHYJUS8	1569247668	499310942	Prospero's Cell: A Guide to the Landscape and Manners of the Island of Corcyra (Corfu)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Corfu as I wish it still was (or were)	This is a memoir about Durrell's stay of several years on the Island of Corfu and about the delightfully intelligent and profoundly cultured bevy of lunatics who make up his circle of friends. There is an Armenian jounalist, a studious doctor, a member of the nobility of dubious origins.  There are marvelous land- and seascapes, peasants, servants, drivers and  fishermen. While the author maintains the kind of distance from his  material needed for writing, he also shows the love he feels for all these  people and for this island. He makes us curse our fate for not being  present at the conversations he has with his friends, which are full of  historical and literary references and novel interpretations of texts and  events, not in the form of rarefied abstractions but all connected quite  concretely to the island and its fascinating people. There is also light  banter and refined teasing. The doctor comes into possession of a brain  from a cadaver that he intends to use for scientific purposes but by  accident it gets served to his guests for lunch. The Armenian discovers a  Greek wine he finds exquisite (he has heretofore hated Greek wines) and  buys 85 bottles of it, only to find that 84 are actually quite inferior,  more like high class vinegar. Durrell describes many of the customs and  attitudes of the local people and makes them seem a lot more honest and  human than one would suppose. He treats us to a performance of the  well-known Karaghiosis puppet theatre and describes the (mostly crude)  reactions of some of the town luminaries. The show is ostensibly for  children but the adults enjoy it as well, perhaps even more  since they can  appreciate all the thinly veiled political and religious references. There  is a detailed description of the grape harvest with a subtly drawn  Christ-figure clad only in a white shirt who treads the grapes with his  arms outstretched as the red liquid oozes out from the bottom of the vat.  This probably symbolizes the bloody crucifixion Greece would undergo in a  not so remote future. Durrell describes a paradise but war is coming and  soon all these friends will be evacuated to Alexandria, where the book's  final words are written. It was very beautiful while it lasted and reading  about it still gives pleasure.crucifixion Greece would undergo in a  not so remote future. Durrell describes a paradise but war is coming and  soon all these friends will be evacuated to Alexandria, where the book's  final words are written. It was very beautiful while it lasted and reading  about it still gives pleasure.	2000-02-12
US	52336151	R2Z95MLXX40QR4	1877727768	255311550	An Albanian Journal (Terra Incognita Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Europe's Survivors	Edmund Keeley's sharp eye and even sharper intelligence conspire in this slim if somewhat pricey memoir to suggest that where there are humans there is hope. This is a journal of of Keeley's short trip to Albania in the late  90s to take part in a television interview, part of a mutual co-operation  project in which US writers are supposed to help Albanian writers to get  their act under way and Albanian writers are supposed to offer similar help  to their American counterparts. But the author's sensibility takes in a lot  more. We get a glimpse of empty, weed-grown lots, refuse in the streets and  a people totally unprepared for participation in the democratic process.  Keeley writes about adventure and discovery and harks back frequently to  the annotations of Edward Lear, the 19th landscape painter who found things  even darker and dirtier than Keeley does. But the author makes it clear  that hope for the future lies in the bright and cultured people who have  still not sunk into the despair that afflicts most of their compatriots.  Outside the cities there is still much beauty in the mountains and rolling  hills, but their real beauty is that they roll into Greece, where the  author's serious emotional energy has always been heavily and rightly  invested. This trip necessarily involves contacts with stiff and boring  diplomatic personnel and involvement in their also boring social functions.  But there are exceptions to this: a few of the Americans living in Albania  in an official capacity are genuinely likeable. The Albanian Bujar Hudhri  is the principal interpreter and host for Keeley and his companions, and he  is certainly likeable, but is put upon from all sides in a country where  directives from above usually lack any sense of pragmatic reason.  Interesting are Keeley's reflections and meditations on history and  literature, inspired by just about anything, including the lumpy bed in his  less than attractive hotel room. This work is recommendable for anyone  interested in travel writing of the finer sort. Keeley always writes  beautifully.nyone  interested in travel writing of the finer sort. Keeley always writes  beautifully.	2000-02-11
US	52336151	RWL66KANRAB6	0811201090	899892595	The Colossus of Maroussi	Books	5	99	106	N	N	Barbarian sensitivity and good writing	This  must be counted among the most peculiar books ever wrtitten about Greece by an Anglophone writer, but it is also among the most truthful and  , at least in part, beautiful. Henry Miller states that he approaches  Greece with little book learning (p. 89) and considers himself a savage. He  is really no savage but we can perhaps call him a barbarian, in the sense  that Walt Whitman and Robert Browning are barbarians. This is an important  point that distinguishes him from his friend and fellow philhellene writer  Lawrence Durrell, who also wrote a good deal about Greece but with another  kind of imaginative but more refined sensitivity. The title of this book  refers to someone called Katzimbalis, a magnificent raconteur who seems  never to have published anything himself but did a lot to promote the work  of some important modern Greek poets. (See Edmund Keeley's books for  details of the great English-Greek-American literary friendships of the  thirties and forties.) But the book is not really about its purported  subject. It is about the changes taking place in Greece during the thirties  and changes that took place in Miller as a result of his long stay in that  country. He presents the experience as mind-altering. The structural pivots  of the book are visits to Knossos, Phaestos, Mycenae and Epidaurus. Each of  these visits becomes an occasion for meditations on the meaning of life and  death, all delivered in the author's peculiarly masculine and barbarian  style. But the best writing is found when he deals with the low-lifes of  Syntagma Square in Athens, who offer him whores and beautiful young boys.  How innocent life was in the thirties. Listing is an important part of  Miller's style. He piles up great numbers of nouns or present participles  or finite verbs. Sometimes the reader feels a bit overwhelmed by them.  Miller lived in France for quite a while and brings to his work the  post-adolescent dislike of American culture and society that used to infect  every intelligent American a few generations ago. Everything American is  bad...everything Greek is good. Miller is passionate about nearly  everything and dosn't try to hide it. He doesn't write to give the reader  pretty words but to give a vision of truth as he sees it. I think he sees  it well, even though his vision is different from mine.nfect  every intelligent American a few generations ago. Everything American is  bad...everything Greek is good. Miller is passionate about nearly  everything and dosn't try to hide it. He doesn't write to give the reader  pretty words but to give a vision of truth as he sees it. I think he sees  it well, even though his vision is different from mine.	2000-01-16
US	52336151	R2NF98ZSDCSU5J	0140249230	32112726	The Impossible Country: A Journey Through the Last Days of Yugoslavia	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Balanced observations on an unbalanced land	Brian Hall knows there is no reasonable way to explain what happened in Yugoslavia, so he doesn't even try, at least not in this exciting if somber travelogue. What he does do is travel extensively in that country and  engage in conversation with all sorts of people, many of them journalists  who themselves are trying to figure out what is going on politically in  their own country. Apart from a few wry comments and astute observations on  some of the more glaring inanities and venalities he encounters, Hall  refrains from expressing his own opinions, prefering to let his several  interlocutors express the truth in their own words and ways. The difficulty  is that there are several truths here, or versions of it. Croatians are  Catholic and they think they hate the Serbs because they are Orthodox. They  are unable to admit they hate Serbs because they feel dominated by  Belgrade. On the other hand, Serbs think they despise Croatians because  they are Catholics and because Croatians helped the Nazis when they came  calling. They can't admit to a certain envy of Croatia's Western  orientation. An underlying philosophical theme of this book is 'attitude to  truth.' South Slavic culture seems to believe that one can be in possession  of the truth absolutely and for all time. The idea of striking out  independently and asking questions that might lead to more and more  questions is simply not part of the Yugoslav mindset. Each group or  'republic' has its own view of reality and this is usually so out of sync  with the rest of the country that there is no point in discussion or  conversation. The only solution is force, or so each party thinks. If you  can't make sense of your neighbor's point of view, kill him and his family  and friends. This general outlook must have helped Milosevic in his sleazy  rise to power. Most Yugoslavs, as Hall points out, believe that Serbian and  Croatian are two distinct languages, which is completely at odds with what  linguistics tells us. And then there is Bosnia and its overwhelmingly  Muslim population, unloved by both the Croatians and the Serbs. In  hindsight, one shudders to think... The journey described in this book took  place in 1991, when things were starting to heat up in the Balkans.  Slovenia had just separated. The author shows how ominous things were at  that point, how one didn't need much imagination to foresee what the  unhappy future would hold, including the sad Kosovo events. Hall has done a  masterful job of describing Yugoslavia on the verge of disintegration. He  includes excellent descriptions of buildings and landscapes, but his more  important work is reporting on the interviews he conducted with real people  in real situations of frustration, danger, and sometimes despair. Now that  the NATO bombing of Serbia and Kosovo is just a puzzling memory, we should  all go and read a lot of books that show how and why all that came about.  Of all such books, this is one of the best I know of.s. And then there is Bosnia and its overwhelmingly  Muslim population, unloved by both the Croatians and the Serbs. In  hindsight, one shudders to think... The journey described in this book took  place in 1991, when things were starting to heat up in the Balkans.  Slovenia had just separated. The author shows how ominous things were at  that point, how one didn't need much imagination to foresee what the  unhappy future would hold, including the sad Kosovo events. Hall has done a  masterful job of describing Yugoslavia on the verge of disintegration. He  includes excellent descriptions of buildings and landscapes, but his more  important work is reporting on the interviews he conducted with real people  in real situations of frustration, danger, and sometimes despair. Now that  the NATO bombing of Serbia and Kosovo is just a puzzling memory, we should  all go and read a lot of books that show how and why all that came about.  Of all such books, this is one of the best I know of.	2000-01-09
US	52336151	R1Z5RVHBQ20XNZ	0691001952	399597330	The Muslim Bonaparte	Books	5	17	20	N	N	First-rate historiography	My two brief stays in Ioannina whetted my curiosity about the almost legendary figure who governed Epirus with an iron hand in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, and I figured it would be great  to read all about the cruel Turkish despot who had five hundred women and  fifty young boys and who personally murdered his son's mistress in the  middle of the lake. But, alas, Ali was not Turkish but Albanian. He was not  appointed by the Sultan but just took over the government. He clearly did  not regard himself as a vassal of the Sultan but, like his Egyptian  counterpart, Mehmet Ali, looked more to the west for recognition and  reaffirmation, playing off the French and the British against each other.  This is actually a book about historiography rather than history and it  deals with questions like how reliable the sources are and what kind of  arguments are most productive for understanding the subject, and at times  the reader gets the feeling that the author's dissertation advisor is  looking over someone's shoulder. As Fleming sees it, the greatest obstacle  to real understanding of Ali Pasha is the orientalizing tendency of the the  primary sources, mostly British and French travel writings that tried to  provide Europeans with a glimpse of what a Turkish despot was like. So,  even though I was looking for lurid anecdotes, Fleming's approach to Ali  and his times is more intelligent and more enlightening. In fact, this is  an excellent book that should be read by anyone interested in the modern  history of Greece and the Balkans. We can get our scandalous stories  elsewhere.	1999-12-29
US	52336151	RR4AFNSJWZS6R	1883513049	209247917	Greece: A Traveler's Literary Companion (Traveler's Literary Companions)	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Hidden Literary Treasures	Artemis Leontis deserves a lot of credit for compiling these twenty-four short pieces of prose transaltion. Among them we find selections by Elytis, Seferis, and Kazantzakis, but also some stunningly attractive pieces by  other less well-known names. The editor says in her introduction that  collections of contemporary Greek prose in English translation are scarce.  If that is true, it's a real pity, because most of these selections are  gems of the short story form and those that are not fiction are laden with  ideas and forms of expression that dazzle one with their originality, grasp  of history, and understanding of life. Elli Alexiou takes us back to the  unfortunate exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey and shows us  people of both ethnicities who were neighbors and friends and loved and  respected one another. They say good bye at the dock knowing they will  never see each other again, and they promise to write. The narrator's  mother promises to take good care of the grave in which the Turkish family  has buried their little son. She writes every now and then to tell them how  the flowers around the grave blossom each year in due season. When the  Turkish cemetery is bulldozed to make way for an apartment complex, she  doesn't have the heart to tell them so, and keeps on writing year after  year that the grave is still beautiful. Eugenia Fakinou looks at the City  of Athens and the first day in a big city school through the eyes of a  little girl who has been transplanted from the Island of Symi. Supposing,  correctly, that the reader can interpret the experience for himself, the  writer limits herself to recording the child's impressions and perceptions.  Beautifully done. Dimitris Hatzis tells us about a tanner in Yioannina  who  slowly and painfully comes to realize that he himself is not necessarily a  failure, but that the times have changed along with technologies and  viewpoints and he has no choice but to make necessary adjustments. In the  offerings by the three well known writers mentioned above, there are quite  a few quotable sentences that make the reader stop and consider why and in  what sense they express deep truth. All these selections are beautiful.  They explore various apects of modern Greek life, urban and rural, and they  examine, poetically, what most readers will acknowledge to be universal  human values. For future editions, the editor might consider changing the  books's title. As it is now, it gives the impression of being a guide book,  while in fact it is something much more important, namely, a literary  treasure trove.e  offerings by the three well known writers mentioned above, there are quite  a few quotable sentences that make the reader stop and consider why and in  what sense they express deep truth. All these selections are beautiful.  They explore various apects of modern Greek life, urban and rural, and they  examine, poetically, what most readers will acknowledge to be universal  human values. For future editions, the editor might consider changing the  books's title. As it is now, it gives the impression of being a guide book,  while in fact it is something much more important, namely, a literary  treasure trove.	1999-12-20
US	52336151	R2MFNIAUGJQEZZ	0679744789	912148652	Dinner with Persephone: Travels in Greece	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Information, Perception, Humor	Lacking any sense of self criticism, a small sector of the English speaking Greek diaspora has found this book objectionable, at least in part. That is unfortunate, because I happen to love Greece and the Greek  people and I found this account of the author's year in Greece to be great  fun, truthful, thoughtful,insightful, and all the other fulls one expects  from an American woman who goes to live for a while in any foreign country,  and especially a Mediterranean country. The author gets involved in nearly  every aspect of everyday Greek life and her descriptions of family  interactions are great. She even includes a description of the MANGAS in  his various rescensions. Public utilites companies come in for their share  of criticism and scorn, all rightfully deserved. There is a discussion of  transvestites and a famous novelist who gets murdered by one of his tricks.  Holding the whole thing together is the Greek DREAM BOOK, which one  consults to find out what dreams really mean. Their only problem is that  they wear out quickly and a new one must be bought. Stamatis is a  fascinating character who appears now and then throughout the book and  helps the narrator to get a hold on things, to understand better what she  sees and hears. He is like an all-knowing spiritual presence who provides  meaning when it seems to be lacking. His only problem is that he is usually  leaving for somewhere the next day. Toward the end of the book there is a  long chapter on Penelope Delta that bothered me at first because I thought  it was a senseless excursus, but by the time I finished I was very glad to  have read it. Sometimes the book's tone is stridently feminist, but all in  all it is great fun and quite poetic.	1999-12-19
US	52336151	R28H1HDMPLHZGF	0345410432	636037328	Eleni	Books	5	71	75	N	N	Overwhelming	Human diminishment is the theme of this masterwork, which shows how people can sacrifice their rational powers and nobler instincts on the altar of a reductionist ideology, then descend into the (home) economics of envy and  the politics of resentment, and end up killing off even the mildest  opposition. Concretely, it is about how Communist guerrillas in Epirus took  over the village of Lia, reduced the once sturdy villagers to treacherous,  starving, vermin-infested semi-savages, used them for slave labor, and  finally murdered many of them. The story centers on Eleni Gatzoyiannis, who  attempts to escape with her children, more for their sakes than her own.  The Communists manage to get other villagers to snitch on her and they end  up torturing and murdering her in a ravine along with a few other  villagers. Nicholas Gage reports here on what he found out about exactly  what happened in that doomed village and what happened to Eleni. Gage is,  in fact, Eleni's only son and he managed to escape to America just before  the Greek national armies managed to rid the northern mountains of the  Communists. A successful journalist in the US, he has written a marvelous  account of some unsettling and depressing events. Toward the end of the  book he has the chance to take revenge on the person most responsible for  his mother's fate, but decides it would be a more fitting tribute to her if  he did without his revenge. Some parts of the narrative are (necessarily)  reconstructed, but in general the work is faithful to the facts of history.  Extremely powerful, it will stay with the reader long after the reading is  finished.	1999-12-13
US	52336151	R1E98CBKFN698T	0394580559	189445934	Fear	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Shows promise	I am going to have to leave this book on the shelf and then read it again in about a year, because I am ambivalent about it and don't want to make any absolute judgments yet. The author clearly has a talent, and maybe an  important one. Her prose is lean and I like that. She creates atmospheres  that seems to live and breathe and grasp the reader. At some moments the  fear and dread are palpabe, and so are the almost comically absurd (dinner  with Anna's parents) moments. But I have one complaint. The only character  that seems to be really developed is the main protagonist. When the others  are presented the reader is delighted because he/she thinks they are very  interesting characters with wonderful possibilities, but the author just  seems to leave them undeveloped, and that is a real disappointment.  Shouldn't what happens in the novel grow out of certain features of the  characters' personalities? Veronica's father is fascinating when he  appears, but then he crawls into the woodwork. The same goes for her  brothers the twins, but they too fade out in no time. Anna's father is a  stone wall and her mother should get a life, at least an inner life. Anna  herself is fleshed out nicely and the characterization of her makes the  book worth it. I am not sorry I read this book, but I look forward to  future work by this talented author. I know she will end up writing  something wonderful.	1999-12-12
US	52336151	R3QVRKBSHTMNPJ	1569247919	986403467	Reflections on a Marine Venus	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Richly sensuous	This is a lovely piece of travel writing about the Island of Rhodes by a master observer of both the human character and the land- and seascapes with which Greece and its islands always delight us. It is a richly  sensuous account of Durrell's years in the British civil service just after  the end of WWII and just before the island is handed back to Greece. The  eye is feted with descriptions of fields, hills, oranges and lemons, and  flowers of every form and color. Sounds range from the rhythm of the sea  (alternately savage and soothing) to Greek folk songs to sparkling  conversation with Brit expatriates (including Gideon the half-sighted  wonder). The author even offers a neat summation of a Greek picnic in tems  of smells: petrol, garlic, wine and goat. Intermingled with  these  delicious attacks on the senses there is the play of light over the island  as the sun moves across the sky and its rays are filtered through sea mist,  mythology and the grim reality of having to rebuild a nation and an island  after Nazi cruelty has left it a shambles. Like it or not, the reader is  filled in on some mildly interesting points in the author's understanding  of ancient history and the medieval Knights of St. John, who came into  possession of the island for a time. The last section is about an enormous  cookout in honor of a saint at whose shrine miracles have been know to  occur, even raising the dead. It is a stroke of irony that during the  festivities a young child is run over by a truck and dies the following day  despite the best efforts of Mills, a good hearted but overextended British  doctor. All in all, this is a delightful book, highly recommendable for  those who enjoy travel writing. But Durrell is no Rebecca West, and this is  not an example of the best Durrell. But it isn't bad Durrell, either.	1999-12-07
US	52336151	R1OGOM6NL2XUBX	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Pure pleasure	One has to stand in awe before this enormous (ll40 pages) masterpiece of literary travel writing, even with its prejudice and poetry and occasional unkindness. Ms West and her husband and Constantine (he of the stubby fingers and wicked keyboard technique who tells unbelievable stories and  opines on every imaginable topic) travel through Yugoslavia at the time  Hitler is gaining power in Germany and the Habsburg Empire is just a dirty  memory. Constantine is a Serb utterly devoted to the continued existence of  the Yugoslav state but he's married to a dreadful hausfrau who despises  anything that is not German and especially Slavs. She thus makes her own  life miserable and does a number on the lives of everyone else. The book  offers rich descriptions of all the states that make up (or made  up)Yugoslavia, including religious and social customs, the mental and  emotional tendencies of the people (sometimes depending on which outside  influences -- Turkish, Austrian -- have impacted them most decisively).  Montenegran men come in for high praise because because of their physical  beauty and the presumed ease with which they could inseminate any woman.  The book is a masterwork of richly textured Enlgish prose done in long,  elegant, sometimes convoluted sentence that are a delight to read and may  remind some readers of Proust. St. Paul and St. Augustine come in for the  mistreatment they so richly deserve (the author traces several questionable  religious practices she encounters to ideas found in their writings). This  is a work for reasonably well educated adults, so anyone approaching it in  search of accurate factual history is making a mistake. But nor will it  mislead anyone on matters of historical fact.	1999-12-06
US	52336151	R32CFP5EK05EDK	0943875676	443977081	Greece Prepares for the Twenty-first Century (Woodrow Wilson Center Press)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Scholarly excellence	Clearly not intended for the merely casual reader, this volume presents eleven deadly-serious essays that apply modern analytical methods to issues and problems facing the Greek Nation and State, with a view toward  indicating what seems to be working and what needs adjusting. The fields  covered are politics, foreign relations, economics, sociology, and change  in all of these areas. Some essays require a high level of competence in  the methodology of the given area; others are more immediately accessible  even to the informed layman. One discusses the contributions to nation  building made by the Orthodox Church since the early 19th Century and  points out some changes that might be made in the Church's relations with  government and society at this point in history. Another speaks to Greek  attitudes toward making a living and contributing to the common economic  good (problems here). There is also an extremely intelligent feminist  article that examines the glass ceiling phenomenon in the Greek setting,  particularly in the labor force and politics. The writer, Nota Kyriazis,  points out that de jure equality...does not automatically produce a real  improvement in women's status because attitudes and behaviors tend to  remain tied to tradition and resistant to change. As indicated, all these  essays are serious and scholarly. Everyone who still has some hope for our  collective human future and the Greek stake in such a future should read at  least some of them. The quality of analysis and writing is consistent  throughout -- uniformly high.	1999-11-28
US	52336151	R1URYU8RCA4SUY	0805061096	979586902	The Priest Fainted: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Remarkable achievement	The theme of this superb novel is change. Change that happens in people and places when people are uprooted, for whatever reason, from places their forebears have loved for centuries. The book's persona spends time in  Greece trying to understand the truth of her relationship with her mother  and grandmother. In that sense it is a piece of fiction for women, but it  also offers plenty about relations among humans in general. By far the most  interesting and likeable personage is the over-achieving mother, who  actually got a lift uptown from Eleanor Roosevelt. There is lots of sex in  this work, all of it honest, none of it forced. The protagonist falls into  a manipulative relationship with a gorgeous athlete whose sense of basic  humanity is second-rate and of course she suffers. But that's a kind of  trade-off because at the same time she is learning things and resolving  issues with regard to members of her family, both Greek and American. There  is a happy array of flamboyant minor characters here, each with his or her  own special character flaw and particular fear or maladjustment. I suspect  the author had as good a time writing this book as I did reading it. She  comes off as a joyful person. The book is structured by seemingly mythic  stories that move the narrative along and at the same time tie us back to  what it means to be Greek and Greek American, even though thorough  enjoyment of Davidson's book does not depend on any Greek connection.	1999-11-26
US	52336151	RZD5DWSVNXOER	0864424590	135822767	The Olive Grove: Travels in Greece	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A Real Treat	This book is about travel in Greece. It is not organized with care, and this is one of the things  I most enjoyed about it. The reader sorta follows along as the writer takes him to this or that corner of the  mainland and the islands without a preestablished itinerary, and that's the  way it should be in a relaxed place like Greece. The descriptions of some  places are superb and there are lots of interesting characters, each with  his own emotional baggage and fascinating story. Some of them are likeable  and others are pretty awful. The best thing about the book is the close  connection the writer has with some of the people she writes about. They  are her family and some of them have suffered fiercely from wars and  political conflict, but the worst suffering is what the land itself is  undergoing in the name of &quot;development:&quot; abandoned groves and  fields, empty villages, people unaccustomed to the modern world and left  without hope for the future, some not even able to understand the  possibilities of the future. Since she is an Australian of Greek descent,  the author knows there is no going back from Western values and attitudes,  but her book asks what is so great about such attitudes and ambitions if  embracing them means we have to leave behind the tenderness, beauty and  love of the land that are still the basic principles of life in many areas  of Greece. Interestingly, the writer is remarkably even-handed in dealing  with Greek/Turkish relations. I would recommend this work to just about  anyone, even those who are not particularly interested in Greece.	1999-11-25
US	52336151	R1QNMNINRA6R1M	0374177171	156889862	Inventing Paradise: The Greek Journey, 1937-47	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Beautifully written	A writer of outstanding repute in all his endeavors (translator, novelist, critic), Keeley has temporarily left aside all that academic stuff  to write one of the five most beautiful books I have read in the past twenty  years. Greek and Anglo literati like Seferis, Durrell and Miller come alive  for us in these pages and special features of their work are examined with  new depth. There are also some minor writers who serve as attractive  backround to, and greatly enrich,  the larger story. In his final  paragraphs, Keeley hints that he might have a first person narrative in  store for us covering a subsequent generation of philhellene writers. Let's  hope he makes good on this almost-promise.	1999-11-22
