US	52341491	R17BQUZ3UCFRGY	0393321126	702934503	The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	59	67	N	N	Avi's use of primary sources makes this a compelling book	Avi Shlaim has painstakingly gone through the Israeli state archives as well as the public record office in London and interviewed many prominent notables including Abba Eban, King Hussein, Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres, and many other major players for this massive history of modern Israel and its relations with the Arab world.  All of this massive research and inquiry has culminated in what is one of the most complete and compelling history books written about Israel.  Uncompromising in his inquiries, Shlaim addresses the problems that both sides faced during their struggles for supremacy in British Palestine.  <br />Starting with the Prologue, Shlaim begins with an interesting look at the early years of Zionism, which began as a nationalist movement in Europe.  Shlaim makes some good points regarding its birth as a response to European anti-Semitism and the inability of some Jewish groups to fully integrate into European society (many exceptions to this existed however).  We get insights into all the major Zionist figures including Birnbaum, Herzl, Weizmann, Jabotinsky, and the mastermind himself, Ben-Gurion.  The problems faced by the early Zionist movement can be summed in an interesting early statement from a fact-finding mission sent by Herzl, which stated [about Palestine], \\"The bride is beautiful, but she is married to another man.\\"  Meaning that the proposed land coveted by the Zionists already had a population of predominantly Arabic speaking peoples.  Here begins the conflict that Shlaim writes about.  <br />Shlaim goes over the relentless and systematic approach of early Zionist leaders to court all the prominent leaders of the early 20th century by telling them what they wanted to hear.  The Ottomans were offered money and investment for their cooperation, while the British were given promises that the new Jewish state would be a British colony, and so on.  Two forces emerged from the early Zionists according to Shlaim.  One group wanted a complete population transfer and a new Jewish majority state planted in the area, while another group sought a partition plan that would give them a state, while leaving some territory for the Arabs.  Both camps varied in terms of how they viewed the natives of the area.  Some like Jabotinsky, Shlaim contends, basically viewed the Arabs as savages who could be easily removed in order for the Jews to have a homeland.  Others were more conciliatory towards the Arabs and sought some sort of co-existence.  <br />Israel was born during the tumultuous events following the UN resolution 181 to partition the region.  The new state of Israel had many anomalous problems such as an Arab population that was nearly half the population of Israel itself.  After decades of selective political pressure, the new state of Israel emerged as the most powerful state in the region.  Shlaim correctly points out that the new state of Israel was not a David battling the Goliath of the Arab world.  On the contrary, the new state had a military that was twice the size of the ill-equipped Arab adversaries it faced.  Shlaim does a great job in showing what was reality and was fiction.  The Arabs were never told to leave by surrounding Arab nations, but fled after hearing about massacres like Deir Yassin and in some cases were expelled by Israeli forces in order to create a decisive Jewish majority in Israel.  The result was the Palestinian refugee problem that came to be the biggest obstacle to peace during the subsequent peace talks at Lausanne.  The views of both sides by this time had become uncompromising.  Shlaim points out that the Arab states opposed the creation of Israel from the outset for the simple reason that it was based upon an undemocratic process that would give Jews dominant political power, while nearly half the population was still Arab.  In addition, leaders like Menachem Begin (once a terrorist commander of the extreme nationalist Irgun) proclaimed that, \\"The partition of Palestine is illegal.  It will never be recognized.... Jerusalem was and will forever be our capital.  Eretz Israel (biblical Israel) will be restored to the people of Israel.  All of it.  And forever.\\"  So while the Arabs sought to extinguish the state of Israel in 1948 as something they had never agreed to, the Israeli view was that they too wanted all of British Palestine.  Preferably without any Palestinians left to oppose them.<br />The details of the wars in 1956, 1967, 1973, and the invasion of Lebanon are quite interesting as well.  Israeli leaders often had conflicting views as to how to pursue different goals that Shlaim correctly describes as Byzantine in complexity.  We learn that France and Britain were Israel's main allies during the early years and in order to maintain its military advantage, the Israelis even turned to Germany only a decade after WWII and the tragedy of the Holocaust for arms.  Effectively outmaneuvering the Arab states through smart diplomacy, the Israelis managed to maintain the upper hand over the years.  Shlaim goes over the political process and interaction before and after the 1967 with great detail in a section entitled \\"Poor Little Samson.\\"  This is a reference to the Israeli leadership's attempt to depict Israel as an underdog, when in reality they had the military advantage from the beginning.  The saber rattling of the Arab states is interesting to read about as well.  Why did Nasser order the removal UN peacekeepers in the Sinai?  To appease the Arab critics who complained that he was \\"hiding\\" behind the UN.  From Israel perspective, this made war a possibility though.  Both sides misinterpreted each other's moves and this led to war, according to Shlaim.  <br />I have compared Shlaim's work with many other books I've read, and have found this book to be one of the more objective books about Israel.  It is critical of all groups involved and presents an honest attempt to analyze the conflict using mostly primary sources.  I would recommend reading Shlaim's work along with other similar works such as \\"Righteous Victims\\" by Benny Morris.  Highly recommended.	2003-05-18
US	52341491	R1BNP3SA0IZTJH	0452260892	125080911	Flash for Freedom! (Flashman)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Flashy gets to be a slaver, abolitionist, and then a slave!	Harry Flashman, England's most irrepressible scoundrel, is back for more international adventures.  Flashman meets all the greats in this superb historical novel from the future British Prime Minister Disraeli to the future American President Lincoln.  Fraser makes things consistent, I'll give him that.  Flashman is still looking out for, well Flashman, but somehow he ends up winning accolades for committing criminal acts that seem to somehow get misinterpreted.  Not that Flashman minds or cares mind you.  The novel centers around the issue of slavery during the mid-19th century before the American Civil War.  Flash for Freedom is another example of historical story-telling that is packed with real events.  Losing his chance at a political career, Flashman is forced to join a ship of slavers headed for West Africa.  Flash makes eyes at an alluring Amazon there and then finally ends up in New Orleans.  Posing as a dead naval officer, Flashman manages to lie and cheat his way across the country with nothing on his mind except vengeance against his miserly father-in-law and getting into the pants of every half-way decent woman he encounters.  Filled with twists and turns, you'd think ol' Flashy was done for except for the fact that he is writing this posthumously sometime in the future when he has become an aged Flashman.  This book has it all with lots of adventure, romance (well sex anyway), intrigue, humor, drama, and much more.  Highly recommended for those interested in history or those who just want to read the adventures of a lousy no-good scumbag who somehow manages to get us to root for him!	2003-04-23
US	52341491	R3JGUR1IRW1UOY	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Flashman's first misadverture as he becomes a legend	This is the book that starts the Flashman series featuring the cowardly opportunist Harry Flashman.  Gifted with a handsome physique, sharp wit, superb horsemanship, and an uncanny linguistic prowess, Flashman embarks upon his military career and ends forcibly married and then sent to the far corners of the British empire before and during the Anglo-Afghan war.  At times you'll debate whether you even want Flashman to survive as he backstabs his fellow Brits, uses his native allies, and attempts to molest any half-way attractive woman.  No, he's not a noble heroic archetype.  Flashman is a selfish, arrogant, and conniving pseudo-aristocrat.  The superb account of the British retreat from Afghanistan during the 1st Anglo-Afghan war is fascinating.  The characters are all drawn from historical figures and George M. Fraser breathes amazing life into all of his characters.  No one-dimensional figures here.  No one is entirely good or bad.  They are human.  It's rare to see such honest writing that is sometimes uncomfortable and disturbing, but always wildly entertaining.  Flashman ends up in the thick of the Anglo-Afghan War and along the way he meets all of the well-known British and Afghan/Pathan historical figures of the time.  If you want to learn history the fun way and want to read a book you won't be able to put down until your eyes start to burn, then this is the book for you.  My personal favorite so far in the Flashman series (I've only read one before), this is a novel I won't soon forget.  This series deserves to be on the silver screen, but knowing most film-makers they wouldn't do it justice and they'd turn Flashman into a real hero, which he is most certainly is not!  Great stuff!	2003-04-20
US	52341491	R2SLA7BQ2Z2O54	0452263034	110874900	Flashman in the Great Game: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Extremely well-written story about the king of rogues!	George Fraser is one hell of a writer.  He writes with a combination of natural flair and minimal description (most historical novels tend to be quite long-winded when describing the events and places) that tells us all we need to know without dwelling upon it (notes in the back are there for those of us who are interested in more in-depth analysis though).  Fraser has created one of the most interesting anti-heroes I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.  Our \\"hero\\" is nothing short of a selfish and cowardly Englishman who is none-the-less gifted with an amazing linguistic prowess and an almost supernatural ability to survive.  To give you a better idea of the type of character Flashman is, every time he meets a woman, for example, he will mercilessly assess what he likes and dislikes about her and then assess his chances of getting her into bed.  He's even more ruthless when dealing with fellow Englishmen and the natives (the \\"n\\" word generally used to disparage people of African descent is used to describe the Indians, as the British apparently did, and is used in almost every other sentence, so if this bothers you, well you'll be a little uncomfortable for much of the novel) and his ability to cut through the pretenses of all the people he meets is astounding.  We can't help but root for Flashman though because of one reason, he is brutally honest.  Sure he feels that he's superior to the natives and thinks most of the Brits around him are pretentious blowhards with limited ability and the women are mere objects for his amusement, but he'll tell you this himself!  No stiff upper lip and stoicism here.  Flashman does not want the spotlight and he does not want to serve his country in any way, shape, or form.  Unfortunately, the more he tries to not to do anything the more he is thrust into precarious situations.  Along the way though, he encounters one woman who matches his ingenious ruthlessness with a shrewdness of her own, the Indian princess Lakshmibai.She matches him with her own sexual appetite and her own machinations.  Flashman also has to contend with a Russian count who also happens to a sadistic spy, but you'll have to read the book to see what happens between those two.  <BR>Fraser's look at the British empire is oftentimes uncompromising and lacking in any attempt to glorify them.  They are shown in this book warts and all and that's what I appreciated.  Fraser uses Flashman to expose the absurdity of ALL the people in the novel.  From ridiculing Indian superstition to proper English ladies willing to get it on with a native as long as he's not an \\"Indian\\" (Flashman's linguistic ability allows him to pose as an Afghan/Pathan tribesman and it's both thrilling and comedic to see him transform himself and try to maintain his identity while bedding an Englishwoman and an Indian prostitute during a life and death foray into enemy territory!).  Flashman is one of those rare characters we can all identify with as he is not like the usual mold of perfect heroes with high principles and morals.  He's simply a man who wants to amass as much wealth as possible and lay down with as many women as he can, while endearingly returning to his two-timing sexpot wife of course.  And he ain't in love with her for her brain, that's for sure!  Flashman will serve his country if you twist his arm and hold a bazooka to his head and he'll inspire the troops simply because he has no other choice.  He'll even pretend to be a native and manage to attain not one iota of sympathy for them (there are moments where even Flashman has his lapses though, bless his cravenly soul).  It's all about Flashman and he really couldn't care less about what anybody thinks.  Finally a hero we call all relate to!  I can't wait to read the rest of his exploits!	2003-04-01
US	52341491	RHB7DVBV7H9JG	0451458737	353854112	The Peshawar Lancers	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The setting is the best character in this novel	The Peshawar Lancers is yet another alternate reality science fiction novel set in a world where a meteor shower or comets or asteroids rained down on earth and wiped out half the world's population in the late 19th century.  This leads to millions of British, French, and Russians fleeing south to forge new empires or simply continuing their imperialism as active participants rather than distant rulers.  It's an interesting idea as the story is set in a British India that not only never died at the hands of Gandhi and Indian nationalism, but is actually bigger because millions of Britons have come to physically reside in the British raj and they seem the most at home in the far northern province of Kashmir (quite timely what with the active conflict between Indian and Pakistan over that predominantly Muslim region) with its European climate.  The technology is only slightly more advanced than the late 19th century and some of the Europeans who remained in the north have become cannibals for some reason that is not fully explained.  The British have merely entrenched themselves as the upper caste called the sahib log (or ruling people).  We get hints at how the French have established themselves in North Africa and I kind of wish we could have seen more of the Casbahs, but perhaps in another novel.  What seems a bit strange is the depiction of the Russians as devil-worshipping cannibals who flee to their empire's southern territories in Central Asia and apparently they now eat the natives and sometimes each other I guess.  It's never really explained (at least to my satisfaction) why the Russians worship Satan or are cannibals still.  It's as if they are simply all barbarians (along with the Arabs who now rule an empire stretching from Hungary to Iran) and the British and French are the good imperialists.  <br />The noble English are represented best by Athelstane King, a good soldier who follows orders and yet seems to have a great deal of empathy with the natives.He has his Sikh subordinate who comes from a long line of Sikh subordinates (ah, the wonderous caste system which allows one to always know one's proper place) and then gets an Afghan tribesman to pledge allegiance to his cause in exchange for gold (now that I can understand).  In addition, Mr. King has a remarkable sister who is something of a feminist and a scientist and she is perhaps the most well rounded character in the story because her brother is so one dimensional it's maddening sometimes.  This is true of nearly all the characters.  There is no depth of emotion or range.  Everybody is one way or another.  The Sikh is loyal yet proud, the Russian seeress is fragile yet alluring, the Afghan is stubborn and also proud, and the assortment of Englishmen and women are all walking stereotypes.  The royal family is wayyyy too understanding and good-natured and perhaps is the least dysfunctional royal family in history!  The French emissary is mysterious and yet seems to have all the skills of a soldier rather than a diplomat.  And then the Russian villain who is possibly the most one-sided of all.  He is pure evil and would probably eat his own mother if he felt that Satan wanted him to dine that night.  At first the simplicity of the characters seems appropriate since we are first introduced to them, but they never really evolve.  This is perhaps part of the homage that Stirling pays to the stories of Rudyard Kipling and films like the Bengal Lancers, but I wanted to see some changes.  The story is predictable even if some of the events are not.  <br />With all of that said, the setting is still intriguing and I would be interested to read about other parts of the world as long as it isn't another long novel.  A short story or novella about French North Africa or Australia or the Americas I could see myself looking forward to.  I wanted the story to break more of the conventions and be daring.  Why do the English curse by revering Krishna for example?  Why wouldChristians pay homage to Indian deities when neither Muslims or Christians in India do the same?  I can see them adopting the native dress simply so that the population won't feel totally alienated and resentful though.  And one would think that there would multitudes of mixed Anglo-Indians walking around and perhaps adding even more character to the story, but we never meet one.  Even Indians mix the castes I would imagine.  Nonetheless, I would recommend reading this book if you are looking for an easy read and have time to kill and can find it at your local library or a used bookstore.  If you like Kipling and want to read something that pays homage to his work then this book will also interest you.  If Stirling writes a sequel (and I imagine he would in such a vast and interesting setting) I hope moves away from one-dimensional characters and perhaps shaves his cast down to a smaller group that could  be more well rounded next time out.	2003-02-15
US	52341491	R3HTM40ZXUW7Y6	0060929499	356393047	There's Nothing in the Middle of the Road but Yellow Stripes and Dead Armadillos: A Work of Political Subversion	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hightower's no nonsense reporting is astounding!	I read this book in less than a week while attending school at night and working during the day. That's how good it is. Hightower has that rare gift to strip away the topsoil and shows us all the bugs in the ground. Corporations are now ruling this country like feudal lords and tell us what we should think and act. Hightower points to the encroachment of corporations into the classrooms where they spend millions of dollars educating children on how delicious big macs are and how they should all aspire to wear a pair of Nike cross trainers. Corporations do it all better we are told. Do what better exactly? Care about the poor and downtrodden? Not bloody likely according to Hightower. It's about the bottom dollar and if you happen to get trampled while some elite 1% fat cat gets his extra billion, then too bad. <BR>Hightower moves on to tackle what is my favorite section, the so-called \\"liberal\\" media. Yes indeed, it can be said that most anchors and reporters are liberals for the most part, but their bosses are most certainly not. In addition, the liberal mainstream of this country has become quite centrist and not very liberal at all. All is not lost though! Hightower points to independent media outlets that have to constantly struggle with behemoths like Disney whose conservative agenda is no secret to anyone who has seen what they have done with ABC. It is hilarious to read about his take on shows like Crossfire, which claim to illustrate the \\"conflict\\" between left and right. Again, it's more like center and right and what's more how leftist are the liberals when they support, for example, the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza? How liberal are commentators when they are pro-death penalty and their biggest gripe is that the poor don't get enough tax cuts? Hightower slices through the jungle of rhetoric and \\"conventional wisdom\\" (which he correctly points out is a way to make the masses believe that there is just one common sense way of looking at issues) and makes the point that we all have to learn to think for ourselves and not allow the media outlets and corporations to run our lives. We are living in a country where democracy is dying. Corporations have a strangle hold on both parties (merging into one despite the public banter and \\"conflict\\" over minor points at best), voter turn-out remains low, and no viable 3rd parties are allowed to compete because corporations control the airwaves and the big two parties dictate who gets the airtime. Freedom of speech is no good unless you have an outlet for people to listen. Otherwise you might as well as get on a soapbox and bullhorn and yell to passersby. <BR>Lastly, what makes Hightower unique is that he brings a much-needed progressive view from the most conservative region of the US, the South. He's a native who is rebelling against what of his fellow southerners and Texans believe and he does so with brilliance and a compelling writing style. Don't miss out on this superb example of progressive politics!	2003-01-28
US	52341491	RR9U92KYNP7T6	0553109200	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Too long to recommend and far too convoluted	Kim Robinson's done some very compelling work with his Mars trilogy (although at times some of those works \\"drag\\" a bit).  I read his trilogy and found the first book interesting and then it kind of deteriorated from there for me anyway.  Here, Robinson takes an interesting premise that has been done before, namely a world dominated by non-European powers.  In the book the forces of Islam emerge from the plagues that ravage Europe relatively unscathed and battle the Chinese and Indians for supremacy of the world over the ages.  Already one can see that this is just too much to put into one book.  The main characters all go through a reincarnation process and keep meeting during their lives.  This is meant to create some continuity and also is meant to allow the story to flow from one time period to the next.  The characters are generally used as archetypes and are often extraordinary individuals or simply part of the masses.  Robinson certainly knows a great deal about what he writes about and has done his homework.  He has thoroughly researched the Chinese, Islamic, and Indian civilizations, but he should have focused on some of the more interesting segments and not simply turned the book into a massive saga spanning over 1000 years of history.  It's too much and some of the segments are just downright sleep inducing.  I liked the first segment with the slave boy and the Mongol/Tartar warrior.  The segment about the Muslim feminist Sultana was also well written and interesting but too short.  This is a recurring problem in the book.  The interesting stories are too short as Robinson can't wait to get to the next time period.  The segments with the Central Asian inventors and the war between the Indians and the Ottoman Empire (the Ottoman caliph was particularly lively, but his part comes and goes too quickly, while his dull vizier becomes the focus of the segment) were also interesting but either too short or focused on broad philosophical questions rather than thecharacters.  The story about the Japanese Samurai Ronin in America hooking up with the Native Americans was also quite interesting.  Now with all of these interesting segments Robinson could have focused more on any or all of them instead of proceeding down the road of trying to philosophize about everything about Islam including the sufis and then discussing how similar sufism is to buddhism and hinduism etc.  Personally, I found it all rather tiresome.  I wanted entertainment, not a retread of my comparative religions class which I took years ago.  He could have just as easily done books about each of the interesting segments as well.  Also, I found it somewhat absurd that the plague specifically wiped out only Europeans and why would remote peoples in Scandanavia be effected and not the Ottomans who were essentially living partially in Europe?  I would have gone with the premise that it wiped out the major powers of France, Germany, Britain, Russia, and northern Spain etc. and left some pockets of people alive to be absorbed into the Islamic fold or something.  The development of the Indians makes no sense either.  How could India develop when they were constantly being invaded by Islamic armies (arguably if not for the British, India would today be either an Islamic state or under Islamic domination in some way I believe).  The Japanese also seem anemic at times and then the Native Americans somehow all learn to fight the invaders from the Old World.  Maybe one group could hold out, but to assume that they would cooperate with the Indians and Japanese to fight a balanced war seems somewhat far-fetched.  Robinson seems to have been intent on the world developing the same technological level that currently exists, but this is absurd because the Europeans were a part of the development of the world.  At the very least without Europe either the world would have developed less by the 21st century or perhaps moreso because it didn't have Europe to contend with, but not the same.  Too much of this book seems rigid in this regard.  It's too bad because some the characters are really interesting and could have used more development.  And I would personally skip the last 2 segments of the book as they involve really weak characters and stories.  I'd read the first half or two-thirds of the book after getting it from the library, because buying it in hardcover is asking wayyyyy too much.	2003-01-22
US	52341491	R3JKFB5OAFAE8L	0449219631	247826792	Jaws	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Pretty much a classic book that is different from the movie	I read this book over the winter break (actually I read it in a day while it rained outside) and I have to say that it was very entralling.  Having seen the movie a dozen times over and never getting tired of it, I thought I'd check out the book because a friend told me that the book was different.  How different?  Well, let's just say that except for Quint (and even he's kind of different in the book) the main characters all seem very different from the characters in the movie.  The Chief is not a NYC sophisticate, but is more of a former beat cop whose \\"dream\\" was to one day become chief of police in Amity.  His wife is not as devoted as she is in the movie.  Hooper the shark expert is also somewhat different and this book is interesting because the people are interesting, while the shark is sort of a looming natural threat like a hurricane or earthquake.  The basic plot is similar as the washed up corpse of a girl is found on the beach, but then it totally veers off into a different story.  And that's a good thing because it felt like I was reading an unpredictable book and not a retread of the movie.  I probably would have stopped reading the book if it had been exactly the same as the movie because why bother if you know what's going to happen?  I can see why this book was such a major blockbuster as it is quite fascinating to read.  The knowledge about sharks does seem very dated (but then a quarter of a century will do that), but isn't that bad.  I recommend this book because it is not like the movie in many ways and will surprise the reader and it's almost like a parallel world to the movie version which I appreciated.	2003-01-06
US	52341491	RCP0K8SJ81U8N	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Combining humor with incisive insights into today's America	Moore has a superb sense of humor and discusses all of the absurd socio-political aspects with unfettered sincerity.  Indeed, his discussion of how Dubya (aka Bush Jr.) and his pals \\"stole\\" the election will have you laughing out loud whether you are a conservative or liberal or whatever else along the political spectrum.  The section called Idiot Nation is probably the funniest and scariest chapter as the facts and figures that Moore mentions (such as the state of the nation's ivy league graduates) are nothing of short of shocking.  One would think Harvard and Princeton students would have at least a rudimentary grasp of American history, politics, science, and literature.  What Moore reveals is pretty surprising.  He makes other hilarious parallels such as discussing how millions of Americans can recite obscure sports trivia, but don't know when the Civil War was fought or where Afghanistan is on a map.  You'll be somewhat surprised to read that a prominent proponent of teaching classical literature in schools (a conservative newsman named Barnes who is a semi-regular on the MacLaughlin Group and who voices concerns about teaching world literary works rather than teaching the established classics) who fears that future students will not know what the Iliad is admits to not having read the book or anything by Homer and not even knowing what it's about!  Just a tad hypocritical, yes?  Another superb section is devoted to the Democratic Party, which gave up the ideological fight and has been co-opting the Republican and conservative position on a number of key issues such as the death penalty, gun control, taxes, and welfare.  In effect, the Democrats have shifted to the center and thus there is no longer a viable American leftist movement other than at the grassroots level.  Does Moore exaggerate when he calls Clinton one of the best Republican presidents ever?  Perhaps, but he drives home the point that the state of American politics is that the right-wing movementin this country has pulled the mainstream to the right and done so by making words like \\"liberal\\" synonymous with communist!  In other words caring about your fellow man and being tolerant of other people and their beliefs is a bad thing, while wanting to hoard as much wealth and material possessions as possible while waving a flag and seeking to incorporate religion into secular institutions such as schools is a \\"good\\" thing.  So there is a recession on, but as Moore correctly points out, the wealthy elites remain untouched, while the masses take the bad news and simply go on because the news tells them that everybody is having a tough time!  Moore is tireless crusader, willing to fight the good fight against the very hypocrites who claim that things are just fine as they are.	2003-01-06
US	52341491	R188FMASCNB3XF	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A compelling look at the state of the nation's poor	Ehrenreich went \\"undercover\\" and worked as a minimum wage worker and did so in order to better convey the epidemic of poverty that exists here in the world's richest nation. Millions of Americans have to struggle to survive and have no time or resources to attain an education or escape the poverty they were born into. Health coverage in this country continues to leave millions of Americans (including children) out in the cold and having to crowd into free clinics where the resources are limited and less than adequate. This is the reality that the wealth elites would have the masses not scrutinize. Instead, we get the whole \\"pull yourselves up by your bootstraps\\" garbage. That's fine if you're born into a stable family and have had the advantage of going to safe and relatively competent schools (which I have had), but it is foolish to believe that those people who lack these advantages can simply rise above their lot in life without some aid (either in education or at least providing all Americans with basic food, shelter, and health coverage). What is perhaps even more disconcerting are the number of poor and middle class Americans who have bought into the whole conservative myth that the rich are the ones being discriminated against because people want to take away their hard-earned money! Exactly how hard does a person who inherits millions work? Does a CEO work any harder than a lifelong construction worker? It's about fairness. After a certain point, the money you've earned can be increased through investments and not hard work. And without an education and the means to attain wealth, the poor masses remain stuck in the position they were born into while the rich and privileged continue to pull the wool over the eyes of their supporters by duping them into believing that minimum wage is a livable wage. Not here in California it isn't. I work and go to school and barely scrape by, but I'm not going to complain. It's the people that I've known and still know who are stuck working low paying jobs and I see them barely making rent payments and going without health insurance that troubles me. Ehrenreich shows through example that working minimum wage jobs is not enough for survival in this country (even in states where the cost of living isn't as high as here in California or New York etc.). Not to mention the fact that the work is itself extremely taxing and no doubt there are many workers who toil their entire lives only to die in abject poverty and all so the very rich can keep their hoarded billions in a form of gluttony and greed that is pointless and contrary to the American dream. Ehrenreich has done us all a great service and this book is definitely worth checking out.	2002-12-30
US	52341491	R15MGQHWBL1FGH	0314233075	442255708	Cases and Materials on Criminal Law (American Casebook Series)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The cases are great to read, but the book is mediocre	This book was required for my criminal law class (as it is for many law students) and I must admit that the cases were generally very interesting to read.  Now having said that, the book has some faults.  The huge sections devoted to opinions of various academics (for example those who are for and against the death penalty) seemed a bit out of place and should have been shorter (and probably presented in another class dealing with more philosophical issues) so that more could have been presented to clarify legal concepts.  Some sections such as Inchoate Crimes could use more explanation and I thought it didn't make sense to separate the Actus Reus and Mens Rea sections simply because they are interconnected concepts.  It felt as if we were jumping around from one subject to another rather than proceeding in a more deliberate and logical manner.  I'm not alone in my criticism of this book as many of my classmates voiced similar concerns, but our professor was an excellent teacher and with her help I was able to better understand some of the concepts while I used the book as more of a compass rather than a guide.	2002-12-30
US	52341491	R34PTK6RCSUJFZ	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Harris is a good writer, but this is an unnecessary story	Hannibal continues the saga of Hannibal Lector and it is really a pointless work and elevates Hannibal from mastermind psychopath to a primeval force of nature or something.  He wreaks havoc upon his adversaries and at the same time remains a conneiseur of taste and sophistication.  Yes, he still has a thing for brains and fava beans, but the biggest let-down is the character of Agent Starling who has been turned into a weak character.  Whereas we saw Starling grow into a formidable agent in the previous book, she is now almost passive and the ending of the book makes little sense on either a realistic or surreal level.  Of course if I was getting paid as much as Harris was I'd keep cranking out books about Hannibal Lector and probably go back and cover his childhood too for that matter.  The first two books, Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon were better and seemed to go somewhere, but now it feels like retread city.  The Italian settings and characters give this book a more international flavor which is nice, but Hannibal lacks the heart of Harris' previous efforts.  I'd recommend reading this book if you are really bored and you have nothing else to read and that's about it.	2002-12-30
US	52341491	R2IVGXZBH0MPQI	0314022244	859331652	Torts and Compensation: Personal Accountability and Social Responsibility for Injury (American Casebook Series)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The typos kind of annoy, but the book is informative	Like many students in law school I had to read this book for my Torts class.  Our professor did an excellent job with a fairly mediocre book by explaining the concepts and cases at length (and thus eliminating the need for me to go and buy supplemental materials).  There are sections of the book that you can gloss over (and this is precisely what our professor had us do) unless you really need to know more about tort wars or statutes of limitations etc.  This book is something of a necessary evil for learning torts, but as a reference book it doesn't really cut it.  If you want a more clear and concise book that you can read or peruse or use as a reference then this is not the book for you.  It's strictly a textbook, but one that does the job.  It could have been done better and without the typos (surely a computer spellchecker could have been used as this is the 21st century for crying out loud!).  I'll be selling my book back this coming semester simply because I don't think there is anything I need from this book that I can't get elsewhere and for the record I actually enjoyed learning about torts.  I would thank my excellent professor more than this book though.	2002-12-30
US	52341491	R367T793PCSEV0	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	34	88	N	N	Nonsensical for a variety of reasons aside from racism	When one delves back into America's past we find that throughout American history xenophobic &quot;realists&quot; have been decrying the horrors of immigration. The Irish, Germans, Italians, Slavs, Jews, Cubans, and so on have all been lumped together as unable to be assimilated and as &quot;inferior.&quot; This sort of absurd thinking has been altered by some of the descendents of these immigrants ironically (who now view themselves as &quot;real&quot; Americans) and is now the resentment is aimed at the immigrants coming from Asia and Latin America rather than Europe. Mostly, it's the same xenophobia that has existed in this country of immigrants since the revolutionary war. What is the problem with Latin American immigrants, for example, anyway? They do work that &quot;real&quot; Americans refuse to do (anyone want to go out in the fields and work for slave wages?) and primarily because they aren't lily white (Latin peoples can be of any race depending upon which country they are from, while Mexicans are primarily of mixed white and native american ancestry) they are the new Irish, despised and resented. <BR>This absurd fear of an alien nation that is being espoused by Buchanan (himself a descendent of, you guessed it, the once reviled Irish immigrants) and others of his ilk is usually due to their being armed with limited data and erroneous conclusions. One needs to understand that in-spite of the high birth rate in regions such as sub-Saharan Africa (that is Africa south of the Sahara or black Africa as it were) is countered by a high mortality rate &amp; the AIDS epidemic (for those racists who are afraid that there will be too many black people in the world or something equally ridiculous). So the average American will be more tanned in the future. So what? As in the past, the immigrants will become Americans. Multiculturalism (as portrayed by the media and rejectionists) doesn't work other than as a more tolerant view of new immigrants who stick to their ownfellow immigrants (as has always been the case) until their children begin to assimilate and disappear into the masses. Asian immigrants, for example, fill technical jobs and help keep America the leader in industrial innovation. Why does Microsoft recruit software engineers in India &amp; China? Why because they are good at what they do and there aren't enough Americans willing or able to do the job. America needs immigrants to thrive and there is plenty of room in this vast country with a stagnant growth rate. People need to simply be honest and just say you don't like people who don't look like you or talk like you or worship like you instead of trying to make absurd arguments about demographic trends that are highly suspect. The immigrants aren't the problem. It's the people who have no room for tolerance and who would rather wallow in ignorance and believe that immigrants are a danger to America who are the problem. Mexico's birth rate has been dropping rapidly since the 1960s and is currently on track to be at the American level within 10 years (it went from 6 children per family to the current 3 on average as compared to about 2 in the US). This coupled with rising living standards in Mexico make it unlikely that we'll be living in a nation swamped by immigrants. In fact, the nation that has sent the largest number of immigrants to the US remains Germany followed by Britain, Italy, Ireland and so on.  The world's borders are more porous today and perhaps our future is to live on a planet where most people will literally be multinationals and not simply one nationality. There are many pros to this scenario. Multilingualism that would allow people to communicate over vast areas of the world (this is for those who are so terrorified of having to learn a language other than English when in places like Europe most people are bilingual and trilingual and seem to lead enlightened lives). Healthier people of mixed origins and an interesting fusion of ideas and cultures may also be the result of added immigration. Why else did America become such a dynamic nation? It was because of all immigrants who came from all over Europe and the Mediterranean and not simply those of English descent. I for one am not afraid of a little color in this country and we really need to look at more reliable data and not simply believe every racist crying out about the barbarians at the gates.  Buchanan needs to go back to the drawing board and get more accurate data before he starts yelling fire.	2002-12-30
US	52341491	RCTZIZ4UTF7J3	0140245642	444232160	War and Peace in the Middle East: A Concise History, Revised and Updated	Books	5	22	29	N	N	Superb analysis from one of the best of Israel's historians	Avi Shlaim's incisive comprehension of Near Eastern geopolitics is evident in this short yet compelling critique of what has been wrong with America's involvement in the Mid-East.  Shlaim points out that America's outlook has been warped by seeing a Soviet threat in every corner rather than simply confronting it where it actually existed (such as in Afghanistan).  For this reason, Shlaim's contends, America has had a two-pronged (and confused, flawed, and ultimately detrimental) policy: globalist and confrontational designed to \\"contain\\" Soviet influence and regionalist/rationalist which would take each situation in the world and deal with it as per the local state of affairs.  What is amazing is that the globalist approach often had the opposite effect because it often drove Arab states to become Soviet clients vis--vis the Israeli situation.  Reagan, for example, was obsessed with the Soviet threat (and rightly so at the time), but he was shortsighted and unable to extricate regional conflicts such as those between Israel and Palestine and the destructive Iran-Iraq from the possibility of Soviet intervention.  Of course the US didn't turn itself into the master puppeteer in the Mid-east until it forced Britain, France, and Israel to back out of Egypt in 1956.  This marked the end of direct imperialism and the beginning of American hegemony wherever American interests lay.  So why did the US start supporting Israel?  Many reasons, Shlaim explains.  Israel wisely positioned itself as a natural ally of the west and promoted the idea that it was opposed to Soviet Communism in the region (this played big with the gullible American masses, but not with American realists and academics).  Israel had the most democratic society in the region (albeit in apartheid form) and was related to Americans as such by the so-called \\"Friends of Israel\\" (including groups of Jewish Americans, but not all, as well as many Christian fundamentalists and others).  The American-Israeli interest groups promoted a hugely successful propagandist campaign that made any criticism of Israel synonymous with anti-Semitism and convinced many Americans that supporting Israel in her imperialist ventures was actually stabilizing the region when, in fact, it had the opposite effect.  American foreign policy, Shlaim argues, was not to promote a \\"New World Order\\" but to entrench the Old Order that had existed since post-Ottoman times.  The local perception of the disillusioned masses was that the US was the supporter of authoritarian regimes dependent upon American military assistance and as guarantors of the status of elites (the downfall of the Shah of Iran was largely due to American short-sighted support of his oppressive regime) of the region.  What's more the wanton death and destruction that was continuously fueled by America's arms shipments to Iran (covertly and illegally done during the Reagan administration and subsequently dubbed the Iran-Contra Affair) and Iraq.  What was the point of American foreign policy in the region?  To safeguard American interests wherever possible, even at the expense of local populations.  Why did the US leave Saddam in power in Iraq?  In order to promote the Old Order that has been in existence since the carving up of the Ottoman Empire into unnatural states.  The British and the French had created unnatural nations in the post-Ottoman period and the US thought it unwise to allow Iraq to disintegrate for no credible reason.  Where was the US after it told the Kurds and Shiites to rebel against Saddam?  America's vanishing act led to the deaths of thousands of Iraqi opposition forces and all to appease the Turks and to keep Iraq as weak as possible rather than pressing for a democratic Iraq which could stand as a beacon for progressive change in the region.  What's also interesting is that Shlaim compares different American administrations and how the peace process would move forward when direct American pressure was brought to bear (such as under Bush Sr. who did not depend upon the Jewish American support) upon Israel to withdraw from the Occupied Territories (the parallels with the resolutions calling for Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait are almost identical to those calling for Israel's withdrawal).  The peace process would then get stalled every time the US resumed its blank check policy of supporting Israel's imperialist ventures when substantively receiving nothing in return except greater instability (this was the opinion of Baker and Bush Sr.).  Shlaim argues that many of the solutions that the US could promote and enforce as the world's hegemonic power involve threatening to cut aid to Israel until they comply with UN resolutions.  A natural Iraqi breakup would also actually promote greater stability in the region.  With the Israeli \\"threat\\" gone, the region's radicals would find themselves without an audience to sponsor instability in the region, Shlaim contends.  Why does the US public remain unable to comprehend the complexities of this conflict, which has poisoned America's image around the world?  Because of misinformation and propaganda, short-sighted and flawed foreign policy, and selfish actions that keep the oil flowing but hurt civilian populations by the millions.  Rather than simply taking the usual one-dimensional view that the region is simply full of radical primitives, Shlaim argues that there are clear patterns of logical response going on.  Radicals aren't born in a vacuum.  The seeds have to be planted and nurtured and the seeds of instability have had as their sole gardener, the US.  Only a logical and CONSISTENT regional approach to the Near East can actually turn the perception of the US as a malevolent imperialist bully into a very plausible view of the US as an even-handed promoter of democratic rights and, in essence, the true American way and not the current policy of short-term elitist support and resource exploitation and catering to domestic interest groups such as AIPAC (the most prominent pro-Israeli lobby in Washington).  The US does not have to be despised in the region.  All it takes is more interest and action by the American masses and an independent press and political system that does not require private funding to function.	2002-08-11
US	52341491	R3389JP66DIBUX	1587670062	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Weak entry from the late Richard Laymon	As a perennial horror junkie I've read a few of Laymon's other books including his best book, in my opinion, \\"The Traveling Vampire Show.\\"  \\"Night in the Lonesome October\\" is not anywhere near as interesting as his other efforts.  Laymon's raison d'etre is to write about sexy young girls in dangerous situations that involve molestation and often the threat of being raped.  There is not a moment when a female character is in a scene that Laymon doesnt start talking about her erect nipples or shapely buttocks etc.  I dont mind the salacious writing, but it gets kind of tiresome and distracting after a while.  Night in Oct. wont disappoint you if you are looking for some good examples of Laymons sexual fantasies.  This book is pure Laymon minus a good story line.  Injecting a series of bizarre events and more homosexual characters than one might imagine can be found in the entire Castro district of San Francisco, Laymon sets his main character, a dull college student named Ed Logan, on a strange journey of facing the terrors of the night...  This guy is dull beyond belief and yet is thrown into all these strange occurrences that simply happen to him because he decides to go out at night and get some fresh air.  It's all tied together at the end, sort of, but makes little sense.  Then there's the one-dimensional female lead Eileen who is apparently a really attractive young lady (I wont even comment on how sexual the descriptions of her every body part are) ...  Her few moments of showing more depth come from her discussion of her very conservative political views as an Ayn Rand fan/minion (which strikes me as odd coming from such a sexually forward girl) and an expert of English lit.  The mysterious young girl that Ed also encounters during his night walks is another one-dimensional character who isnt what she seems (duh) and I started to wonder what Laymon was thinking when he concocted this story.  Its predictable and that wasnt the case with Vampire Show.  The reader is supposed to believe that this whole nighttime world filled with danger exists and that no one is aware of it except for boring old Ed and his pals.  Laymons got a certain unique writing style that sometimes meanders in this book and it felt like it could have been a nice short story or novella, but not a full-length book that seemed to take forever to get to where it was going...  I'd pass on this sub-par story from Laymon and go read the Traveling Vampire Show if you want to see Laymon at his best.	2002-08-04
US	52341491	R29LJ1LDSHGGGT	0140514465	42428873	The State of the World Atlas: Sixth Edition (Penguin Reference)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	This book was better in the past, but still very informative	I own an earlier edition that was more detailed and expansive, while this newer edition appears to be more vague.  The sections of Ethnicity and Religion used to be more interesting as sections called Minority Rights (showing the various minorities of the world and their varied types of struggle), while the religion section told us the religions that were followed and their variants.  This has been changed and not for the better.  The sections on women are somewhat bigger and better however as we get to see Women Working and Mothers Working which would have helped the last edition.  The economic indicators have also been changed, but not for the better as things are more vague.  The US, UK, and Japan have a similar Stock Market value we are led to believe (as they all exceed 1 trillion dollars, but this is obvious.  Shouldn't the US be in a class of its own in this regard?  The book has a European perspective which I can appreciate as I am tired of the American perspective which I've grown up on, but I was actually looking for a more global perspective.  Still though, this is a one of kind source for this sort of information for those of us looking for a quick look at how the world is today.  I'd recommend it until something better comes along or they take some of the old and some of the new and do a better job with the next edition.	2002-07-29
US	52341491	R3DDF205VGT4OI	1582401837	27203823	Powers Vol. 1: Who Killed Retro Girl?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bendis's best work in my opinion!	Powers is yet another attempt at making those with \\"powers\\" more realistic and is a compilation of a series from Image (collecting the first 6 issues) that has been turned into this great graphic novel, continuing the marketing trend towards targeting the twenty and thirty-somethings who grew up reading comicbooks and who are thus more open-minded than the average reader.  Powers reminded me of Alan Moore's Top Ten in many ways, but this isn't a bad thing!  The Powers story arc presented revolves around the murder of Retro Girl (cool name by the way), an all-American girl who is pretty, spunky, and superpowered and thus beloved by the people.  Lucky for her she wasn't a hunchback pygmie I guess.  The main character is a stoic detective named Christian Walker, who is actually a nice guy (think Clark Kent as a cop) and this was very refreshing as I think we've all seen the mean uncompromising tough cop routine wayyyy too many times already.  He is partnered with a diminutive female detective who's personality varies from being a nosy you know what to an effective yet idealistic cop.  There's also a hilarious little girl that Det. Walker has to take care of who keeps asking him what a clitoris is.  Bendis writes some of the best natural dialogue I've encountered.  People stutter, make jokes that are sometimes lame, and the characters don't all sound the same.  This is what has been lacking in other similar works in American pop culture.  The story centers around the death of Retro Girl, but there are sub-plots that mainly help the reader learn more about the world that Det. Walker and company inhabit.  There is, for example, an interesting Ironman/Tony Stark-like character who has a past connection to Retro Girl and is considered a suspect.  There's the strange yet eclectic criminal element that adds spice to this rich world.  There are only a few credible leads for the detectives to follow up, but the story never gets boring.  We also get the now common use of tv commentary and news segments that Frank Miller started back in his original Dark Knight series in 1980s.  Bendis keeps things moving and interesting you'll find yourself done in a matter of hours.  Aside from the 6 issue story, this graphic novel contains an interesting script of the 1st issue and this could prove useful to those people looking to become writers of graphic novels and are looking for a superlative example of the medium.  There is a short promotional strip that appeared and a gallery of characters and the evolution of how the characters were given their current appearances.  Kind of superfluous if you ask me, but fans will appreciate I imagine.  This graphic novel comes with a hefty price tag though (I got lucky and got it used less than half the price), but this one's kind of worth it, especially considering its immense entertainment value.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-26
US	52341491	R2U03X67XQ33IM	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	1	85	220	N	N	Written with an Israeli apologist stance	Oren has done a great deal of research for this book, but the flaws involve his obvious reasoning geared at justifying the war that Israel launched and called a \\"pre-emptive strike.\\" Like most apologists who reason that Israel had to attack her neighbors for the 2nd time (1956 was the first time), the blame for the causes of the war are laid upon the aggressive rhetoric of the Arab states which makes about as much sense as blaming Russia for being invaded by Napoleon. The point of view is mainly an Israeli one and that saps any semblance of balance. Oren focuses upon the Israeli concerns of security, real or imagined prior to the war and then focuses upon the war itself for most of the book. This book reads like an official Israeli rundown of how they viewed the 1967 war or, more likely, would like the world to view the war. For example, Oren focuses upon the Arab states negative and hostile views of Israel following the 1948 conflict, but writes little about Israeli views (especially avoiding anything negative). No mention of Ben-Gurion's preference for the tenuous armistice of 1949 so that he too could keep the option of war open. This is a running theme in this book. The Arabs are the ones clamoring for war and the Israeli transgressions are largely ignored. The background events to the war focus upon the hawkish actions and rhetoric of the Arab states, while again saying very little about the Israeli side. Were there no Israelis looking to take Gaza and the West Bank to complete Eretz Israel as Ben-Gurion and Menechem Begin claimed was the ultimate Zionist goal? Reading this book you'll never know. Why were the Palestinians hostile to Israel aside from the obvious reasons? Like today's headlines in most American media outlets, Oren's weakness is that he only discusses the events and not the root causes. The negative aspects of the Arab states are discussed in great detail, while nothing is expressed about the various factions in Israel and Oren continuously expresses his very un-academic admiration of Israel and expresses obvious bias. The root cause of Israel's ignoring of the Palestinian refugees was and is a major reason for the hostility of the Palestinians and is given perfunctory mention by Oren, while every raid and attack and the birth of the PLO are given some mention. It's apologetic to the Israeli POV while using an academic style that is detailed yet also judgmental and unbalanced.<br />The book focuses upon all the major events of the 6-Day War in great deal, but the lack of objectivity saps the effort. At the very least, Oren COULD have discussed the perceptions of both sides and the hawks that clamored for war on both sides, but instead we get a rundown of Arab rhetoric which realists like Nasser never meant to be taken literally. Oren also does not discuss very extensively the bad Israeli intelligence that failed to assess the fact that the Egyptian formations in the Sinai were defensive (the words of Yitzhak Rabin as quoted in Le Monde). Instead we get a rundown of the threat from the Arab states such as the token troops sent by Iraq to Jordan which were purely symbolic rather than any practical military threat. The strength of this book lies in the details of the 1967 war, which can be gleaned from other books minus the blatantly pro-Israeli bent. The Israeli victory was rapid and surprised even the Israelis (again proving how bad Israeli intelligence was at this time) and the details of the conflict are the one redeeming quality of this book. This is not the best resource to learn about the Palestinian-Israeli conflict or the Six Day War unless you balance it out by reading something like \\"Bitter Harvest\\" by Sami Hadawi which presents the Palestinian POV or the more neutral \\"Righteous Victims\\" which goes over the same events that led up the Six Day War and the details of the war itself that Oren presents, but also discusses what was going in the minds of Israeli leaders and the bad intelligence of the Israelis.sraelis.	2002-07-26
US	52341491	R3TQ03PFWT41V5	0521338891	869647686	The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem, 1947-1949 (Cambridge Middle East Library)	Books	5	37	56	N	N	Morris hits another home run with this superb effort!	What makes this and other similar works by Israel's \\"new\\" historians significant is that they are coming around to what academics in Europe and some even in America have known for decades, that Israel forced the majority of Palestinians out of Israel through the use of terrorism, mass murder, and forced expulsions.  Morris has joined the growing number of Israelis and Jewish Americans who are coming out and looking at Israel's past without rose colored glasses and this is, of course, angering Israel's supporters who hold to such laughable notions that the Arabs left of their own accord or were instructed to leave by other Arab leaders for some reason that remains mysterious.  One might as well claim that the Native Americans moved to reservations because they wanted a change of scenery.  The criticism aimed at this book is part of the usual obfuscation process to make it seem as if \\"there are two truths\\" or that Morris and the multitude of Israeli historians like him are all prone to hyperbole.\\"  This is nonsensical to say the least.  Neutral academics who aren't involved in this conflict and Israeli Jews such as Morris receive nothing but constant \\"criticism\\" for revealing the truth about this conflict to wider audiences in Israel and America (the Europeans and others in the world don't require \\"new\\" or \\"revisionist\\" history as they have been aware of the Palestinian refugee problem and what caused it since it happened).  The declassified information found in Israeli official archives is nothing new to much of the world, but it does help those people who know very little about this conflict or have the wrong idea in Israel and the US.  Many of the critics who have attempted to \\"pan\\" Benny Morris' work are the same \\"academics\\" who support such charlatans as Joan Peters.  They don't want people to learn the obvious truth and see past the propoganda.  This is especially important here in the United States where pro-Israeli sentiments run high and blind support for that apartheid regime is unwavering.  Also, the critics don't note some of the interesting insights Morris gives such as pointing to some Israeli actions as purely military and not meant to drive out Palestinians (and thus supporting pro-Israeli views), but they still had that effect anyway.  Morris doesn't protray the Zionists as some evil army, just a well organized one that planned for and carried out an expansionist campaign designed to disenfranchise the Palestinians of their lands.  The war was fought weeks before an Arab armies even announced their intentions to \\"attack\\" Israel and yet strangely all the fighting took place in Palestinian designated regions.  We also get some interesting insights into the major players like David Ben-Gurion who was one of the master planners of the Zionist plot to conquer Palestine.  Morris, contrary to what some reviewers claim, is actually quite balanced and neutral and isn't as harsh towards the Israeli side as purported (he's actually a Zionist himself).  Morris is just not interested in living in some fantasyland that has been built up largely in Israel and the United States that the Arabs were all rabid anti-Jewish masses waiting to attack the Jews and that the fledgling Zionists did what they had to do to survive.  It was not survival which they sought, it was conquest and expansion.  And even many Israeli academics have arrived at what has been obvious to the rest of the world.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-25
US	52341491	RPACHWSXSS6HB	1563895501	659744149	Kurt Busiek's Astro City: Confession	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Best of Astro City and one of the best of all-time!	Astro City Confession is an interesting look with Kurt Busiek giving the entire superhero genre a fresh look with riveting action and superb storytelling.  Much of the story is told through a young man who comes to be known as Altar Boy, a sidekick to the mysterious Confessor.  These two are obvious counterparts of Batman and Robin only a lot more interesting because unlike those franchise characters.  Confessor is a menacing avenger in the night and the criminal element fears him.  He seems to appear as if out of nowhere and moves with blinding speed.  Altar Boy is his chosen junior partner and they make a good pair, but things aren't what they seem.  <br />Busiek is great with story layering.  The Confessor tells Altar Boy to look at things as if they were puzzles and figure out the patterns.  Altar Boy wants to know more about the Confessor only to be told to look at the patterns.  This applies to the reader as well.  We also get an alien invasion, anti-hero unrest (very similar to the anti-Mutant sentiment found in X-Men), an examination of what a hero is, the quest for respect and a place in this world, and we the next step after Watchmen.  This graphic novel is that good.  Busiek has, of course, revived what once seemed like a book destined for perpetual mediocrity, the Avengers.  Yet in Astro City, we see Busiek push the \\"realism\\" envelope in ways that he can't do in the Avengers.  It makes sense that in Astro City, an analogue to Metropolis or Gotham City, there are Christian fundamentalist heroes who believe that their powers are a gift from God.  People respond to things in different ways and it's refreshing to see the flawed characters in this graphic novel.  This is pure entertainment that will definitely please folks who have enjoyed Watchmen, Top Ten, and the Avengers.	2002-07-23
US	52341491	R1Z1KH4AMV2YPY	0940793768	849165671	Bitter Harvest: A Modern History of Palestine	Books	5	38	45	N	N	Let the Palestinians be heard!	Sami Hadawi's book is written from a Palestinian refugee's perspective and is a much-needed view for those of us who live in the US and have to hear the Israeli view of the conflict over and over again. Hadawi examines his own ties to the country now called Israel and relates the tragic tale of a people displaced by a stronger military force initially backed by powerful European states, the UN, and then later the world's only superpower, the United States. He covers everything from the history of the region and Palestinian life before the coming of the Zionist colonists/conquerors to the present conflict and what the Palestinians have gone through. Hadawi refrains from too much criticism of Israel though and instead focuses upon the results of the expulsion of Palestinians from Israel as well as the imperialist occupation of the West Bank and Gaza by Israeli forces and fanatical Israeli settlers/squatters. Some of what he writes about is personal and about families displaced and homes destroyed and the indifference of the world towards the plight of the Palestinians.  Personally, I have mostly read Jewish-American and Israeli historians from both sides of the conflict and Hadawi's voice is something that is needed to counter-balance what is known about this sad situation that continues to be a major focus of American foreign policy concerns. Hadawi's words are filled with sadness that we can almost visualize such as his memories of his home in what is today Israel. What we learn from this book is that there are two people with ties and attachments to the land called Israel and the Occupied Territories. Only one people have all the rights and all the guns. If you are open-minded and want to see this conflict from a new POV that isn't given extensive coverage by the American media then you should make an effort to read this book.	2002-07-19
US	52341491	R34EWKYYM9EQLE	0843948507	749306061	The Traveling Vampire Show	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Laymon's sexually explicit tone is ever present!	Laymon loves to delve into sexual escapes and why not?  He writes with a natural flair.  The vampire theme is used as ghost story allegory that exists to scare a trio of local kids who have been friends for years.  One kid is a nerd with [indecent] tendencies, another kid is afraid to express his feelings to the girl next door he loves/lusts, and the hot girl-woman they hang out with.  Laymon does a good job in presenting the various characters and there is a \\"Stand By Me\\" feel to this story.  It's another book in the same tradition of small town American horror stories, but few are written this well.  For most of the book you will get teased (and it's a big book for a horror novel) and wonder what is going on, but you won't get bored.  This book won the Bram Stoker award for good reason, it's good and a fast read and you can't compliment a book much more than that.  I found myself thinking what a cool idea it would be to take... this on the road, but I imagine it might sound better on paper than in real life.  Not to digress.  What Laymon captures with this effort is the innocence of youth combined with a lot hormones and sexual tension that is quite explicit and yet kind of realistic.  Most writers hesitate to write about what most us grew up thinking and doing and during the teen years, sex is what most kids think about.  Laymon does a great job keeping the reader off-balance though and the combination of seriousness, issues that come up, the mystery surrounding the Travelling Vampire Show, and the overactive imaginations of the kids makes for a fun read if you're at the beach, sitting at home during a rainstorm, or just find yourself with time to kill.	2002-07-19
US	52341491	R1Q58F2WBHWKIN	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting look at the Great Game and Afghanistan	During the 19th century two vast land powers, Russia and Britain found themselves rivals in Central Asia.  The Russian empire had advanced south to Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, while the British had fought two Anglo-Afghan wars and \\"won\\" most of what is today Pakistan from the Afghans.  The final frontier for both empires was Afghanistan.  The British were unable to conquer most of Afghanistan and had to settle with a sphere of influence situation, while the Russians did everything they could to arm the Afghans and counter-balance the British.  In reality, neither empire is particularly benevolent and Hopkirk does an excellent job of being an objective academic.  What was the most interesting portion of the book involved some of the British spies disguised as Afghans and attempting to discover what the Russians were up to.  Such was the case with Arthur Conolly and \\"Bokhara Burnes\\" who travelled in Central Asia to gather information and make contacts for Britain.  The Russians played a similar game in Central Asia such as with their man from the Caucasus, Lt. Alikhanov, whose efforts helped conquer various Turkmen strongholds.  Why was this region so important to these respective empires?  What seems to have been the case is that both saw a threat in the other and Afghanistan became a cold war type battleground.  Sometimes Afghan rulers played the two powers against one another such as Abdur Rahman who ultimately leaned towards the British.  The results of this Great Game would continue to reverberate many decades later.  Hopkirk gives a superb analysis as to why this part of the world has been so important for so long.  It's the crossroads of civilization and ancient trade routes and, of course, a potential resource bonanza.  An excellent source of information for those seeking some background to the recent conflict in Afghanistan and why that country has had its difficulties in the midst of foreign interference and intervention that has gone on for centuries.	2002-07-18
US	52341491	R121XDX7XKHRWS	0679744754	26336400	Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001	Books	5	25	35	N	N	Analysis from an Israeli academic that is free of bias	Benny Morris is part of a group of Israeli academics often called the  \\"new\\" historians, but what Morris examines in \\"Righteous Victims\\" is not new.  Prof. Morris delves into the Zionist movement from its earliest inception in Europe down to present-day.  He chides the Arab world for treating Jews as 2nd class citizens (and over time converting untold multitudes to Islam) who had to give up their religion to change their status.  Such a choice is, of course, not an option for the Palestinians of today.  Morris is a realist though.  He eloquently expresses the suffering of the Jewish people over the centuries, but makes it clear that the Zionist movement was not a peaceful remedy.  For the Jews to have their traditional homeland the Palestinians had to go.  He discusses the efforts of Zionists to persuade the Ottoman Empire to give them a homeland and the beginnings of Jewish settlement.  However, it was not until the British came that the Zionist movement gained momentum.  Morris points to two types of Jews in Palestine: native Jews who spoke Arabic and were part of the landscape, and Zionist Jews from Europe who came as conquerors.  The Jewish Arabs as a religious minority avoided confrontations with their fellow Muslim and Christian Arabs, but the Zionists displayed no fear of the Arabs and a great deal of arrogance and this vivid picture speaks volumes.  Morris discusses the importance of the Balfour Declaration and later British moves that gave the Zionists a promise of a homeland and the right to arm themselves while the Arab majority was kept unarmed.  Next, we are given an explanation of the events leading up to the birth of Israel.  The UN granted a minority-run state for the Jews, while the Arabs continued to own most of the land and were still a slight majority, but had few political rights in the new order.  Morris discusses what few Americans know, the violent aggression of Zionist terrorists such as the Irgun and Stern Gang who targeted civilians.  We learn that most Arabs didn't leave of their own free will, but were driven out of Israel after hearing about massacres such as Deir Yassin perpetrated by the Irgun (led by none other than a young terrorist named Menachem Begin).  Morris then continues to discuss how the war in 1956 happened and the opportunity it presented to the young Israeli state to weaken its most formidable foe, Egypt, with the help of resurgent imperialists Britain and France until the Americans and Soviets intervened.  The most interesting section is about the 1967 war.  Were the Israelis really under some threat of attack from the Arab states as they claimed (the 2nd time they attacked their neighbors)?  According to Morris the Egyptians, Syrians, and Jordanians didn't plan an attack upon Israel for various reasons.  They had remained wary of Israel's military might and Israel's attack came due to hysteria whipped up by expansionists and bad information from Israeli intelligence.  Morris also discusses the refugee crisis that Israel created and refused to address.  The Israeli official line was to act as if the refugees did not exist and this group of Palestinians in Diaspora (eerily similar to the fate suffered by Jews), in turn, felt that Israel had no right to exist.  From this mutual animosity came the PLO and Fatah (the two groups would merge later and Arafat would become its head).  Morris discusses the reasons for Palestinian unrest and we get an intriguing behind the scenes negotiation before the 1973 war between Moshe Dayan of Israel and Sadat of Egypt along with Yitzhak Rabin.  We learn that Golda Meir was far more of a hawk than the American media ever reported her to be.  She wanted to keep the option of reoccupying the Sinai open to Israel and she wanted to keep Gaza.  Sadat rejected this outright as the Egyptians prepared for a war to take back the Sinai.  We also get some interesting information about how Sadat favored military yes men, rather than people like Egyptian war minister Gen. Ahmad Sadek who wanted to wait until Egypt had a stronger air force to match the Israelis.  We learn that the 1973 war very nearly ended in a disastrous defeat for Israel and only an American airlift saved them, but still left them in a precarious position as their forces had crossed the Suez, but Egyptian forces had also made it into the Sinai.  The later peace deal came because both countries could deal on some equal footing.  Morris continues with a discussion of the invasion of Lebanon, which Israel conducted by breaking int'l law and in order to pursue terrorists stemming from refugee camps that they claimed didn't exist.  With the invasion, the civil war heated up and the Israelis added to the bloodshed by killing thousands of civilians while pursuing armed militants.  Lastly, we get a rundown of the peace process and how the settlements remained a sore point.  Morris also discusses Rabin's efforts and early skepticism at prospects for peace during the 1st Intifada.  Morris discusses how the PLO came to be the head of the Palestinian people as it was favored by the masses.  He also makes it clear as part of his conclusion that many of the things the Zionists did they had to do to create Israel.  He doesn't pass judgment upon them, but merely explains what Israel's supporters don't want to hear.  The Zionist movement was the vanguard of an invasion force, which disenfranchised the Palestinian people and drove them to the heights of despair, desperation, and terrorism by some extremist groups.  We get a real sense of what was going on through the minds of the major players and what Morris has written is a definitive and thorough history which his detractors can only nit-pick at, but cannot deny his analysis, facts, and conclusions.  Highly recommended for those willing to look at the Israeli-Palestinian conflict with an open mind.	2002-07-18
US	52341491	R1KDXDHB8JO7VT	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Another work that showcases Palahniuk's unique prose	Palahniuk's one of those rare voices who sees what the masses can't or won't.  His vision cuts through the hypocrisy with sharp wit and stark realism that can be, at times, sickening yet strangely compelling.  The main protangonist is a man named Tender Branson, a former cult member with a unique name and something of a nihilistic outlook on life.  What always impresses me when reading Palahniuk's writing is analysis of details about everyday life.  We learn how to maintain an artificial garden and make it look real, we learn about social case workers and how to manipulate them, we learn about the big business known as tele-evangelism, and that's not all.  We also meet Fertility Hollis, a character as strange, if not stranger, than Branson with unexplainable \\"powers\\" of perception.  The plot is sometimes surprising, but the strength of Palahniuk's writing isn't the plot as the ending seemed a bit contrived to me.  This is one of the few times I'll say this, but the plot doesn't matter here.  It's the writing.  Palahniuk writes like Harlan Ellison on acid or Kurt Vonnegut's evil brother and that's what is so mesmerizing.  You can't help but be moved by Palahniuk's observations about society and his observations on the nature of people that sometimes read with a touch of surrealism.  Like the Fight Club, he indicts a harsh world filled with people who are unable or unwilling to see what life is really about and for chasing phantom pleasures that ultimately leave you hollow inside.  Ever wonder why you can't carry on a conversation with most people?  Palahniuk'll give you several reasons and answers to questions you wish you'd thought to ask.  As always, I prefer not to give away story specifics, but if you want to read a moving piece of literature about the human condition, then go get this book.  Go now!	2002-07-18
US	52341491	R2NTETN30BTGMK	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Groundbreaking concepts ahead of its time, but weak story	The concepts about cyberspace are what set this book apart when it first came out.  The characters and plot kind of just plod along though.  I kept expecting the pace to pick up, but instead it just kind of meandered around Case, the usual stereotypical bad boy who isn't really all that bad just mischevious and kind of criminal.  It's the whole cyberpunk story complete with a conspiracy situation and our hero's one final chance for redemption!  Where have you not heard that one before?  Nonetheless, Gibson deserves a great deal of credit for being prophetic though.  Personally, my favorite cyberpunk novel remains the underrated and underappreciated \\"When Gravity Fails\\" by George Alec Effinger, but that's just my taste.  Check out at your library, but paying for it might be asking a bit much.	2002-07-17
US	52341491	R1C8DYK66GJBX1	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Probably the greatest graphic novel ever written	Alan Moore was the first to push the envelope of realism (well as real comicbook superheroes can get anyway) and gave his characters depth that no mainstream characters have ever received.  For example, we have Rorschach, a hero gone mad after dealing with criminals for so many years that he himself uses criminal means to achieve his ends.  We have the Comedian who strikes me as a more realistic Captain America as he is ultranationalistic and very, very Republican and gung-ho about America.  There is Ozymandius, the world's smartest man (or so his p.r. people tell Americans), who has shaped his mind and body and greatly resembles Jay Gatsby from the Great Gatsby because like Jay, Ozymandius is a self-made man, but is also a dreamer who feels linked to two people in history he greatly admires because they sought to \\"unite\\" the world, Alexander the Great and Ramses II (or as he is known in Greek, Ozymandius).  There's Dr. Manhattan, the only superpowered character in Watchmen and for that reason finds himself unable to relate to humanity over time and contemplates things that only gods could comprehend.  Moore injects politics as we see flashbacks of the Comedian in World War II and Vietnam and Dr. Manhattan's origins are explored and we learn why he has an obsession with clocks.<br />The public is not forgotten either and Moore includes well thought out articles about heroes and contemporary events at the end of each issue (Watchmen was originally a 12 issue \\"maxiseries\\").  We get to see old and retired heroes reflect with a touch of sadness at the good old days when they were out saving the world.  We see criminals trying to leave their past behind and deal with everyday worries.  This graphic novel has twists and turns that will surprise you.  Alan Moore, as always, attempts to touch upon every subject and Dave Gibbons is the perfect artist to be teamed with Moore (they also did an excellent Superman story in an annual in 1980s) as the detail in the backgrounds canbe stared at for hours.  It's a vivid and complete world and one that doesn't feel dated like so many comicbook tales do over time.  This one's an immortal classic and worth owning in hardcover format.	2002-07-17
US	52341491	R2Z65VBN6BLIOL	0140446389	97983792	Herodotus: The Histories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Herodotus is the father of history, but tread with caution	Herodotus is a great historian of the ancient world and he'll go off on long tangents about various people.  He was obviously a significant academic who was widely travelled, but some of his insights are no doubt a part of his very active imagination.  He discusses the people we all know existed as contemporaries of the Greeks such as the Phoenician traders who competed with the Greeks in the Mediterranean as well as their main military rivals, the Persians.  We are also treated to what Herodotus refers to as local customs such as how the pecularities of the Babylonian dress and how brides were bought and sold (Herodotus finds this an admirable practice!).  There is a long section on the Egyptians which is often second hand information and it's amusing to read how Herodotus isn't sure where to place Egypt (Asia or Libya).  He also makes parallels between peoples such as the respect shown to the elderly in Egypt and parts of Greece.  This is, however, a history and we get plenty of that, but Herodotus likes to digress into social anthropological observation.  We get the Persian wars, the rise of Alexander, the bizarre behavior of the Persian kings, the conquests of Egypt, and all sorts of other events.  I would agree with the description of Herodotus found on the back cover of this edition as he is indeed both the father of history and the father of lies (albeit perhaps more like the father of hyperbole in my opinion).  Highly recommended for all students of ancient history.  Just don't take everything he claims as fact!	2002-07-16
US	52341491	R3F1UBJT04GLNW	156097432X	700438374	Palestine	Books	5	23	27	N	N	1st rate journalism disguised as a graphic novel	Joe Sacco's collection of stories that he witnessed first-hand while living in Palestine will move you and break your heart.  You're not human if you don't feel moved by the constant fear and humiliation the Palestinians live under.  Joe Sacco presents all the players from Israeli peaceniks who never seem to make an impact to the IDF with its varied ranks from despicably draconian sadists to hesitant Israeli soldiers just following orders and the aggressively antagonist settlers.  The focus is on the Palestinians though.  How they have to check with big brother just to move from city to city and sometimes from block to block in their own country.  How the settlers can do no wrong and can act with impunity against the Palestinians.  How Palestinians can be jailed, abused, and tortured on the slightest pretext.  How children can be detained and tortured for throwing rocks.  Joe Sacco will also make you laugh at times such as how he has to drink tea drowned in sugar for the umpteenth time so as to not offend his hosts.  The Israeli occupiers and settlers aren't the only antagonists involved though.  We also get a look at Hamas and we see how they attempt to enforce Islamic fundamentalism, but find that they cannot.  We also see the struggle within a struggle as the varied landscape of Palestinian women is analyzed.  The stories and accounts are so similar that one can't help but see the truth in them.  Most of the Palestinians are innocent civilians who merely seek to make a living and just exist, but find their every move under scrutiny.  It's nothing short of outrageous to witness a man being jailed without evidence and then kept in prison for months without trial or evidence just because the prosecution is working with the jailors to get a coerced confession through the use of torture, sleep deprivation, and lies.  Joe Sacco's work gives us insights into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in ways that you won't see on tv.  Sacco's work is about the everyday people wholive and die under this brutal occupation.  Sacco makes it clear that sure there are worse places, but those places don't claim to be noble democracies like Israel.  What we get in this graphic report is a multi-layered series of events involving ordinary Palestinians who are not involved in any insidious activity.  We learn a great deal from Sacco's reports about what is going on and how most Americans either don't know or don't care about the facts on the ground.  There are sprinkles of hope though.  We watch as some Palestinians express a desire to share the land with Israelis in some measure of peace and equality and we hear an Israeli wish for a state that is not based upon religion or ethnicity, but is a multi-cultural state like the US.  What moved me most was why the Palestinians don't all just leave because it's obvious that the occupation is designed to coerce into leaving the territories so that the Israelis can implant an artificial majority of Jewish settlers.  It's a testament to their spirit and strength that they don't give in to tyranny and injustice and simply keep holding on in the hopes that the occupation will end some day.  It's not surprising that this book comes from Fantagraphics by the way.  They've been putting out great work since Love and Rockets and this is no exception.  Palestine is a huge book and you won't be able to read it in sitting unless you read all day.  Considering the power of this piece you might end up doing just that though.	2002-07-16
US	52341491	RM9QE1I36X62A	0276420357	670106669	Everyday Life Through the Ages (Reader's Digest)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ever wonder how people lived in the past?	This excellent compendium starts with pre-historic hunter-gatherers and pastoralists and then progresses to the big three ancient civilizations of the Sumerians, Egyptians, and Harrapans and then moves on to the Minoans, Mycenaeans, Greeks, Persians, and Hittites.  What you will marvel at in this book is how people lived, worshipped, fought, and even what sort of career choices people could make!  To be or not to be a scribe or a soldier in ancient Egypt.  We also get insights into Eurasian hordes such as the Scythians, Huns, Vandals, Mongols, and other tribes from the steppes.  There are also great sections on the black plague which ravaged Europe and the life of the Samurai in ancient Japan.  This book spans the globe as it looks in on how people survived in difficult times.  Things we take for granted today such as abundant food, health care, and transportation were sometimes luxuries enjoyed only by elites.  This book is a real eye-opener and well worth checking out.	2002-07-16
US	52341491	R16XNQLK225B1W	0871352974	136880726	Daredevil Legends Vol. II: Born Again	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Oh now this was da proverbial bomb back in the day...	Miller's done great work including Dark Knight, Daredevil, Elektra, Sin City, 300, Ronin, and I could go on, but you get the idea.  Miller teamed up with subtle artist Mazuchelli to come up with what is one hell of a Daredevil tale.  DD's secret identity is blown, he's hounded into poverty and depression, his friends have let him down, and all seems lost as he finds himself in Hell's Kitchen where a mysterious nun shows up like some guardian angel and saves him.  The angst ridden Daredevil we've all seen and appreciate from Miller, but what is really great about this story are the guest stars.  Karen Miller as a former porn star fleeing from her abusive pimp is surprising and compelling to watch as is a ruthless Kingpin who relishes his triumph over his greatest foe (he might have started with Spidey, but the Kingpin is a Daredevil character definitively), but it gets better!  A new player is in town and he's a super soldier called Nuke.  He is a drugged out veteran who's fought in Central American jungles and is sent to take on DD.  He's a mindless nazi with an American flag tattooed on his face!  And it gets even better as we get to see a new Captain America that I actually found interesting.  This Captain America is an ultranationalist who defiantly tells a general who thinks he'll follow orders from the military that he is \\"loyal to nothing except the dream\\" and dramatically touches an American flag as if to hit home this point.  The Avengers show up like gods and that is what they should seem to a normal guy with a radar sense and martial arts skills and this was years before Morrison started depicting the JLA as gods intervening in the lives of men when they deemed it necessary.  Hell, I was a young kid when I read it and I remember wearing out my copies.  So do yourself a favor and get this book!	2002-07-14
US	52341491	R2HVU5DXR7HN4X	078510898X	29722916	Ultimate Spider-Man, Vol. 1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty cool reworking of Spidey's origin story	Since we all know that Spiderman should be pushing sixty by now (alas the opportunity to do a Dark Knight type story with Spidey has been passed up), Marvel decided to start over again with a young Parker re-living his past today.  His hairstyle and clothes are contemporary, but he's the same orphaned nerdy science whiz.  The origin presented in this book is similar to the movie only more outrageous as it is a comicbook.  I gotta say though, that I kind of liked the movie version of Spidey's webshooters growing out of his wrists, but in the comicbook the webshooters have a more plausible origin than in the old 1960s version.  What's more Spidey and the Green Goblin have a lot of a connection than in the past when Gobby showed up somewhat later to menace the webslinger.  Mary Jane's also here from the beginning rather than showing up later on.  Doc Ock makes an appearance as well and the dialogue and plot make for a cool retread that is somewhat unpredictable.  I mean we know that Parker's going to be Spiderman, Uncle Ben's going to die after telling him, \\"that with great power comes great responsibility,\\" yet some of sequence of events is tinkered with and Parker even gets to briefly flirt with being popular at school.  The art by Bagley's above average and wait 'til you see the new Green Goblin.  This book is great for Spidey fans and those who've had their interest re-ignited by the movie, but will annoy purists.  Since nobody gets old in the comicbook world (especially not franchise stars like Spidey), should we expect another retooling in another 40 years?  If it's done this well, sure.	2002-07-13
US	52341491	R1OT7J2LXVRPE5	0871359030	144712124	Secret Wars	Books	1	14	31	N	N	Marvel's weak answer to Crisis on Infinite Earths	The previous reviewer who ridiculed the behind the scenes &quot;brainstorming&quot; of Marvel's editors probably isn't too far from the truth.  I remember when this series came out and how it was put out around the same time as DC's Crisis on Infinite Earths on purpose and I also recall reading a Mile High Futures review that panned Secret Wars as a blatant attempt to compete with Crisis rather than come up with a great story that would bring the Marvel Universe together for some cosmic menace or something equally absurd.  The Beyonder has to be the most contrived &quot;villain&quot; ever and the point of this story is that there is no point other than the strange Beyonder who has infinite power, but doesn't understand humans!  He couldn't just read their minds or absorb a brain or something?  The peripheral stories that took place after the Secret Wars ended were far better such as how Colossus dealt with his &quot;love affair&quot; in the X-Men and how Spidey got his alien costume in Amazing Spiderman.  Mike Zeck's art is kind of weird (what's with the narrow ankles and massive thighs?!) but I thought it was still not bad (his better work was on Captain America where JM DeMattis penned some good stories and on the Punisher miniseries with Steve Grant).  The problem is the dopey story by Jim Shooter.  For 12 issues we get the heroes and villains getting played like chess pieces by the Beyonder and that's it!  Nothing happens of any consequence other than a great deal of pining and whining and sporadic battles as the heroes are led by Captain America as their general versus Dr. Doom and company.  I'm simply amazed that this book has an overall average that is so high!  There's just no justice in this world!  Please don't give Marvel any more money for this stupid series.  Even as a kid I thought it was garbage, but in those days I paid .60 cents and used to buy a bunch of comics so it wasn't a big deal.  No way am I paying for a tradepaperback for this junk now though.  Go buy the far superior Crisis on Infinite Earths.  You'll thank yourself in the morning.ugh.  Go buy the far superior Crisis on Infinite Earths.  You'll thank yourself in the morning.	2002-07-13
US	52341491	RO8WUC9KN39PV	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the best maxiseries ever!  Wolfman & Perez's best!	Crisis on Infinite Earths was originally proposed as a way to simplify the convoluted multiple earths and realities and characters of the DC Universe (which also had to absorb the Charlton Comics characters like Blue Beetle).  Wolfman and Perez were, at the time of this series, putting out great work on the New Teen Titans which crashed and burned when DC made the stupid mistake of turning that series into a prestige format series available only at direct outlets and thus alienating many fans.  With Crisis though, Wolfman and Perez formulated a plan that would make the DC universe coherent and also entertain the socks off of comicbook afficionados.  They suceeded with great style.  Most of the characters who meet with tragic ends are unimportant bit players (obviously killing Batman permanently would make about as much sense as killing Spiderman or Superman) or characters with little appeal.  It can be confusing to many people to see an elderly Superman, Superboy, and Superman or Green Lanterns of various types, but it all made sense in the old DC pre-Crisis universe!  The cosmic battle between the Monitor and Anti-Monitor is interesting as are is the story of the Guardians of Green Lantern fame and how ancient they are in the universe.  Wolfman's script ranging from dealing with cosmic infinity (and done far better than the laughably inept Secret Wars from Marvel) to dealing with regular people's lives.  It's kind of cool when timelines start to overlap and you have dinosaurs and cowboys in one place.  It's no secret that Barry Allen (the Flash before Wally West) and Supergirl die in this series and they die memorably (especially Supergirl).  Perez's art is crisp and detailed and some of his best work.  Wolfman and Perez treated all the characters as if they were legendary greats whether they were 2nd rate heroes or flagship characters and that added to the drama and importance of the story.  I won't give anything away for new readers, but what enhances reading this series is checking out the History of the DC Universe also.  This book is highly recommended for the young and young at heart.	2002-07-13
US	52341491	R32VVGE5CNKD2O	1563896311	864852568	JLA: Earth 2 (JLA (DC Comics Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Pretty cool book and who doesn't love alternate worlds?	The premise is a simple one that folks might remember if you've been alive during the 60s (I wasn't) or if you've seen the Superfriends cartoons as a kid (which I did).  I remember how cool I thought it was in that Superfriends episode when Supes ended up in the anti-matter universe and the cops were blasting him with Kryptonite rays and all heroes were villains, while the bad Supes was beating the [stuff] out of the Superfriends.  Supes promised to come back and help that world, but it never happened.  Until now that is.  In this graphic novel, Luthor is a good guy fighting the successful Crime Syndicate of America comprised of counterparts of Supes, Bats, Wondy, Flash, and GL.  The world is run by dictators, crimebosses, and third world nuclear powers and Benedict Arnold is on American currency!  The concept is made more complicated then the Mirror Mirror Star Trek episode, but I don't want to give away any of the plot or story.  It's a quick read and entertaining as hell.  Nothing that you expect happens and that might annoy some people, but I like to be surprised.  Morrison is one of those writers who you either get and applaud or want to send exploding mail bombs to.  His JLA are like demigods, which works for me and reminds me of Supes in Dark Knight.  The story features some unusual characterizations which I think are kind of cool and more realistic such as the fact that the anti-matter Wonder Woman ...is two-timing the anti-matter Supes by doing the wild thing with Owl Man (or anti-Bats).  I'd be willing to bet somebody else's paycheck that Morrison wants to write the real WW this way, but can't because the heroes have to be perfect model citizens.  Sheesh.  Anyway, I like what he's done with this story and I've been digging Morrison's work since the Animalman days.  Keep 'em comin'!	2002-07-12
US	52341491	RX5X9559U5FU	031286583X	952678908	Song of Kali	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the best horror novels of all time!	Dan Simmons has compiled a wide body of eclectic work yet no major movie deals, which strikes me as odd.  His writing is clear, riveting, and sometimes poetic.  Having written horror, science fiction (Hyperion is just plain awesome), mystery, and other types of fiction, Simmons takes some very interesting chances to create an unusual story.  The main character is an American writer named Kuczak who journeys to Calcutta, India to find the great Indian poet Das.  He decides to take his Indian-born wife and infant daughter with him for reasons which turn out to be both unnecessary and very problematic.  It's a natural story insert though as he believes he'll need a translator, but it turns out that translation is the least of his problems.  Kuczak and his family feel the oppressing poverty and an air of evil the moment that set foot in Calcutta.  It's a city of beggars, misery, class division, and despair that is palpable.  All Kuczak wants to do the moment he arrives is to meet M. Das, get his new manuscript of poetry to be published in the states, and leave.  Instead he is pulled into a series of events beyond his control and imagination.  Along this journey we meet the mysterious Krishna who may or may not be an ally, the elitist Chatterjee who sees nothing wrong with the poverty and violence which he never has to interact with, and then there is the Cult of the goddess Kali with its bizarre and archaic practices and beliefs.  What is reality and what is illusion?  Kuczak is never certain.  There is a great deal of criticism of Indian religion, culture, and beliefs that might be difficult for some Indians to take, but in the book some Indians can't help but despise what Calcutta is and rightly so as the elites have not only allowed the city to become what it is, but actually sustain the poverty and despair.  In addition to being a horror story and mystery, this book also attempts to explore many different themes that third world countries face.  This novel is filledwith unexpected turns, imagery that is sickening to even read about, and is a no holds barred tour de force that will leave the reader drained at the end (and that's the point).  This book is better than King and I won't even mention Koontz and is worth checking out along with Simmons' other great horror story, Carrion Comfort.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-07-12
US	52341491	R38FFE1IV50NDR	0785102175	411433856	Thor: World Engine	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Cool concepts and revisionism by Ellis, but weak story	Warren Ellis has done some really great work with Transmetropolitan, the Authority, and other comics, but this Thor story isn't up to his usual high octane output.  Deodate's art is slightly above average and the concepts Ellis throws in are cool, but he injects this British hard-nosed cop who seems like a bad cockney Tarantino inspired tough guy who chain-smokes and acts really obnoxious in an endearing yet distracting manner.  Possibly Ellis had to throw in a Brit to connect with the story on a personal level, but the character would've made more sense as an American as I don't understand why a British cop would be a tough guy since Britain's crime rate is about as high as Utah's.  The Thor Ellis presents is struggling to survive and starts speaking without his Shakespearean oration and I gotta admit it was a refreshing change as you would think Thor would talk like some Scandanavian immigrant rather than Hamlet.  The Norse Gods as aliens is also a cool idea (I'm not sure if it originates with Ellis though) and the idea of the Norse Gods &quot;magic&quot; being a form of advanced science that even they don't understand sounds interesting and worthy of more exploration.  The new Enchantress with her still evident desire to sleep with the mighty Thor (there's even a joke about Thor's, uh, other hammer) makes sense as they are two immigrants, yet you'd think Thor would've adapted a bit more by now.  The villain is a mediocre mad scientist type and I found Odin's brief appearances more menacing and kind of wish the All-Father was the real villain of the piece.  As far as Thor stories go, this one's up there with some of Walt Simonson's work back in the 80s, but for Ellis it feels like some filler work that he did while killing time.  Ellis probably would've made a bigger splash if he'd kept doing the writing chores, but alas he went on to bigger and better things.  I guess Blondie's gonna have to wait for Simonson to come back or something.	2002-07-10
US	52341491	R3BRQTU6G8ZAHS	0896086011	729088466	Fateful Triangle: The United States, Israel, and the Palestinians (Updated Edition) (South End Press Classics Series)	Books	5	92	107	N	N	Noam Chomsky, as always, brings clarity to this world	Noam Chomsky delves into a delicate subject for many Americans, Israel and the politics surrounding our unwavering support of their regime.  Chomsky, himself a nominal Jewish American, takes an academic and objective approach to examining the \\"special relationship\\" between the US and Israel and the dynamics surrounding the specific exchanges that have gone on for decades.  What is apparent is that Chomsky has learned and given in great detail certain specific information about Israel's actions that make those who support Israel nervous and outraged.  Chomsky doesn't pull any punches when he describes Israel's reasons for invading Lebanon and the illegality of that action.  He discusses the role of American Jewry and their attempt to intertwine the tragedy of the Jewish Holocaust of WWII with the destiny of Israel.  To speak out against Israel, Chomsky argues, is to be dubbed anti-Semitic.  The fear of being called anti-Semitic has stopped many Americans from discussing the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in an objective manner (as they would with other similar situations).  He goes on to discuss the politics of the Arab-Israeli wars, popular perception and myth, and the reasons behind what motivates America to support Israel's actions with little or no criticism (even in the face of worldwide condemnation).  For skeptics and other critics Chomsky includes prodigious notes and primary sources on the subject and leaves room for little doubt as to his reasoning.  The newer updated version has a foreword written by Edward Said that is quite poignant and apt:  \\"There is something profoundly moving about a mind of such noble ideals repeatedly stirred on behalf of human suffering and injustice.\\"  I couldn't have said it better myself.  Far from being \\"anti-Semitic,\\" this book is an honest analysis by a courageous academic crusader, willing to disregard his supposed religious affliation for the greater good and to serve the cause of justice and truth in reporting.  Chomsky isnot for those readers seeking an easy answer to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and is not certainly not for those without an open mind.  Highly recommended.	2002-04-29
US	52341491	RUGIE43JELQWK	0195053265	108023374	Race and Slavery in the Middle East: An Historical Enquiry	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A unique look at the complex racial dynamics of the Mideast	I've read some of Prof. Lewis' other books and they all have a common theme, impartial academic analysis.  This book tackles a difficult subject without prejudice, slavery and racism.  Prof. Lewis knows his subject well.  He ignores common &quot;western&quot; perceptions of the region, employs corroborating primary sources, and a very readable rendition of how race is perceived (and not perceived) in the Middle East, past and present.  <br />The pictures alone are an amazing collection from around the Islamic world and illustrate local perceptions.  Even parallels that seemingly would never occur in most peoples' minds come up such as the fact that many stories in the Arabian Nights depict blacks as slaves, while the Arabs are often &quot;white supremacists&quot; (not to be taken as literally the same as the context in America).  The perception of people in the region greatly varies from place to place and from time to time.  At times, they struggle with their own racist ideas and the eloquence of some blacks (either former slaves or those born from such unions as well as the occasional martial slave) in the Mideast who became prominent poets, writers, and popular figures in-spite of the racial prejudice.  This is an enlightening journey and you'll learn more from this small book then most huge volumes that cannot even grasp what Prof. Lewis has completely understood.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-24
US	52341491	R1F5ECKFNGHQHU	0394494008	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A COMPELLING COMBO OF FACT AND FICTION!!!	I'm not a Michael Crichton fan, however I did find this book to be very interesting in its exploration of the world that existed a thousand years ago.  The unique methodology used by Crichton involves combining elements of actual accounts written, presumably, by Ibn Fadlan (an Arabic-speaking courtier, who travelled far and wide and lived to write about his interesting travels) and creating a continuation that is fictional and speculative, but still very entertaining.  One must be careful not to take such works as actual snapshots of history however.  What is useful to note is that Ibn Fadlan attempts to be a very objective observer, who lapses into cultural display of disgust when confronted by some of the habits of the Norsemen, but he represents what many a modern man's reaction.  At the time, the Arabs had forged a vast empire stretching from southern Europe to the borders of India and China, and they had created a civilization that fused together elements of Greco-Roman hellenism, Persian influences, and various regional contributions to create a universal state that was as inclusive as the Roman Empire (at the end) and Alexander the Great's vision of a single human nation.  The result of such enlightenment was a renaissance that helped shape the more long-lasting European Renaissance as the Arabs preserved Greek learning and imported Indian mathematics and developed theories of their own about astronomy, physics, mathematics, and sociology.  Ibn Fadlan's account gives us a glimpse of the little known civilization of the Norsemen of ancient Scandanavia, who raided as far south as the Caspian and Black Seas and were noted for their ferocity in warfare and their seemingly &quot;uncouthe&quot; mannerisms.  Michael Crichton deserves credit for venturing into somewhat uncharted territory and making it work.	2001-04-06
US	52341491	R7TCOU2A69FF8	0805208984	641548887	The Crusades Through Arab Eyes (Saqi Essentials)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	UNIQUE IN THAT IT COMPILES ARABIC SOURCES	I found this work unique, but coming a little late.  Most &quot;western&quot; scholarship about the Near East is very balanced and objective today (often unintentionally villifying the Crusaders), but still this makes for an interesting comparison.  What was left out were Turkish sources and also keeping in mind that many of the Islamic participants were not Arabs, but instead Kurds (speaking a language more akin to the Crusaders than to Arabic), Armenians (again speakers of an Indoeuropean language and being Christians), and Turks.  Keeping in mind that in the past invasions were a constant as nations constantly struggled to overcome one another, there is some bias here.  I'm of Middle Eastern ancestry, but of Afghan derivation and born here in the states.  I got to spend time in Europe and have been to the Mediterranean region and I think the first mistake made by many modern academics is the attempt to draw lines in terms of civilization or regions.  clearly, the Middle East is very similar culturally and otherwise to Southern Europe.  The Crusades were interesting in that they involved the resurgence of the Christianity albeit in a more militant form.  Also the orientalizing influence upon the Crusaders is an interesting aspect as they were outnumbered by native Christians that spoke Arabic, Armenian, or Syriac.  In turn many returning Crusaders were half-breeds (poulains) and they returned to Europe to sometimes gain control of prominent fiefdoms in France and Belgium (primarily the region whence the Crusaders came).  All in all, this work could've been a bit more expansive, but it is still a unique book that can be read with other books about the Crusades such as one written by P. Holt.	2000-10-24
US	52341491	R218S76YISTIDY	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hands down the most terrorifying novel you can read	This novel was without a doubt truly terrorifying. Read it alone in some place that is inacessible and risk insanity!  Just kidding. It does send chills up your spine and it has vivid descriptions that can't be put into a movie (without turning it into a miniseries!).  What is truly disturbing is how author Blatty makes the impossible seem plausible.  Great writing. If only he'd written more...	2000-09-30
US	52341491	RGLSVVX5IM6VF	0415169526	706876858	Modern South Asia: History, Culture, Political Economy	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Good overview but lacking anything new or revealing	Although this book may serve to guide people through South Asia, it doesn't really explain or go into the complexities of the region.  In the case of Pakistan we do not get a complete picture of its varied past as  western Pakistan isn't South Asia, but is instead more Middle Eastern as it  is populated by speakers of Iranian languages (as opposed to the Indic  tongues spoken in eastern Pakistan) Pashtuns and Baluchis.  Also the  Hindu-Muslim struggles are reduced to religion rather than adding the  linguistic and cultural divisions prevalent to this day.  For being tauted  as revisionist there seems to be little revisionism just different wording.	2000-01-02
US	52341491	R29RGVTWWU5ZFX	0345914740	760372128	Eaters of the Dead: 13th Warrior	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A SUPERLATIVE EXAMPLE OF EARLY ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDY	The riveting exploits of the erudite and refined Arab ambassador are the basis for what is Crichton's best work as it is based upon actual events!  Many of a core of academic Arabic-speakers ranging from Muslim Spain and  Muslim Sicily to Iraq (before the Mongol devastation)were carrying on the  Greco-Roman tradition of exploration and compilation of scientific  knowledge.  Ahmad Ibn-Fadlan gives his honest views of the societies and  tribes he encounters. Many are known to us today through archaeological  evidence found in the Caucasus, Russia, Ukraine, and Scandanavia.  What is  revealing is the universal legacy of Latin (along with Greek and sometimes  Persian) that remained an important language that many in the Muslim world  learned and even the so-called barbarians of the extremities of outside of  the Mediterannean world were exposed to this important language.  The  advanced civilization of the Arabic-speaking world at the time is our only  link both to the Greco-Roman past (as many Greeks and Romans were converted  to Islam and thus &quot;arabized&quot;) and gives us insights into the  little known history of the Vikings.  Ibn-Fadlan is an example an excellent  observor with an open mind and the ability to describe his environment and  indeed the people with superb detail.  There is little hint of derision as  Fadlan is forced to join a band of Vikings and he often marvels them with  his ability to &quot;draw sound&quot; and he in turn comes to admire this  band of stalwart warriors.  The Vikings superstitions are noted by Fadlan,  again with little derision and much skepticism.  Though child-like in their  naivete, the Vikings become Fadlan's comrades as they face various  adversaries together.  This is amongst the most fruitful attempts to  novelize actual historical events and Crichton manages to convey Fadlan's  true feelings about the entire matter, mainly fear of death, while giving  us glimpses of a world we know little about.	1999-03-15
US	52341491	RFTC1J0DCACW7	0345335880	855640887	The Saracen:  Land of the Infidel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	PRETTY GOOD BOOK BASED UPON THE MAMELUKES OF EGYPT	The premise of this book is an interesting one.  An English child is left an orphan in Palestine and is raised as a Muslim soldier in Egypt.  The Mameluke Corps. that is the basis for this book was a real organization of  slave soldiers derived from Christian and pagan boys from Russia, Circassia  (now in southern Russia), as well as from Asia Minor, Greece, and sometimes  Central Asia.  These boys were raised as the Jannisaries were in the  Ottoman armies.  Strictly pious Muslims trained in all the arts of war.   The Crusaders had some similar, and sometimes equally rambunctious,  military weapon in the Military Orders such as the Templars and  Hospitallers.  Mostly of Franco-Belgian ancestry and fervent Catholic  Christians, the Crusades were quickly forgotten in the Middle East until  the return of Europeans in the form of the Israelis (the Ashkenazi) and the  French and English administrators with troops derived from their vast  domains stretching from Indo-China and North Africa to India and the  Americas.  This book was well researched and the character of Baybars is a  menacing supersoldier, albeit somewhat heroically portrayed since the  Mamelukes were ferocious fighters and were the only army to halt the Mongol  advance.  Some historians argue that this Mongol army that the Mamelukes  defeated was not the same as the one Genghis Khan had led, but many in the  Islamic world believe that if Egypt had fallen so too would have Islam.   This unlikely viewpoint is conveyed in this book as we see things from the  point of views of the participants including a French knight, an  English-born Mameluke, and the woman they both love/lust.  Romantized for  effect, the history is interesting and vivid.  The brutal military training  that Daud has to endure matches closely the theories of many historians as  to how the Mamelukes were trained.  It's worth a look as something original  and will entertain without a doubt.	1999-01-16
US	52341491	R44GZ0M9ZTHAJ	0887297366	663849142	Insight Guide Pakistan (Insight Guides)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	MORE INFORMATION CAN ONLY BE GLEANED FROM A PHYSICAL VISIT!	Extensively researched one gets the full impression of the vast nation that is Pakistan.  All the varied regions, races, peoples, and languages come alive in this impressive volume.  With a history as ancient as that of  Mesopotamia and Egypt, modern Pakistan's history isn't merely an extension  of India, but appears as a crossroads between the Mideast and South Asia.   Many fought to gain a foothold in Pakistan including: Persians, Greeks,  Arabs, Turks, Afghans, Sikhs, and lastly the Anglo-Indians of the British  Empire.  The sharp contrasts between rich and poor, old and new, and the  struggles of the varied population to maintain an identity come alive.  All  you need is this excellent guide and you can navigate Pakistan like a  native!	1999-01-10
US	52341491	R1LCXV5PQ1KBPV	0312925883	804599282	Not Without My Daughter: The Harrowing True Story of a Mother's Courage	Books	2	9	15	N	N	A SIMPLISTIC OVERVIEW ATTACHED TO A SINGULAR INCIDENT	Interestingly enough, the Iran that Betty Mahmoudy describes does exist.   The extremists of Iran have indeed taken over and are running things in  their own sometimes repressive and warped interpretation of an essentially  peaceful religion.  The recent rise of the moderate (some would say even  liberal) politician, Muhammad Khattami, is evidence of the feelings of most  Iranians today, who appear to desire a more open and democratic society  with greater leeway to practice or not practice religion.  Betty's  attitudes and views are not very academic or informed.  Iranians are not  another race (a dictionary or encyclopedia describes Iranians as  descendents of Indo-European Aryans and other invaders of primarily  Caucasoid or Europoid stock) and Islam is a Western Semitic religion akin  to Judeo-Christianity and the worship of the god of Abraham.  Betty's  inability to understand the ancient and yes very &quot;western&quot;  origins of Iran are evident from the start.  It's not her descriptions of  her abusive husband that are offensive, it is her lack of knowledge and  gross generalizations that are inaccurate and misleading.  Iran is a vast  nation with many subgroups (Kurds, Azeris, Armenians, Turks, and so on) and  religions (yes there are still Christians and Jews, although most have  left) and it is apparent that the Iranian revolution is and was a reaction  to the repressive rule of the Shah and the anti-American rhetoric (caused  by the belief that the U.S. was aiding the Shah) is not all pervasive in  Iran or amongst ex-patriots from Iran.  Betty's book is a story about her  experiences with a very weak and unkind man, but even here in America there  are abusive relationships that have nothing to do with cultural or  lifestyle differences. Unfortunately, Betty made the mistake of including  broad generalizations that expose her lack of any social or historical  comprehesion of either Iran or of the religion of Islam.  The fact that  many Americans will read this book and watch the film and perhaps adopt her  warped views and never understand Iran or the Near East in general.	1998-10-23
US	52341491	R1DP7EQERLDY9	0815626096	969161613	The Politics of Social Transformation in Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A SUPERB ACADEMIC WORK COVERING THE  NON-ARAB MIDEAST	It is not easy to draw parallels between nations with similar histories or  backgrounds.  The mosaic of mankind creates variations that are not limited  by borders or even categorizations.  The three nations discussed share  things in common:  they all speak Indo-European languages (albeit altered  due to Semitic influences); a common religious background (Islam  predominates, but Iran is predominantly Shi'i or Shi'a); and historical  currents that separate and unite the three nations.  Iran, Afghanistan, and  western Pakistan all belong to a greater Persian civilization (which  expands to include the Kurds in the west) that has adapted to Islamic  conversion in different ways.  All three nations have had to deal with  dismemberment by sea-faring and land-faring expansionist nations from  Europe and herein lies the differences.  Iran has developed the most  literate and socially advanced society of the three, but lacks the social  and political freedom found in British-influenced Pakistan.  Pakistan has  had to adapt as a new nation with an ancient past as a crossroads of  civilization (primarily Indo-Iranian) and contentious neighbors (notably  India).  Afghanistan has been ravaged by wars since ancient times, but  remains a strategically vital country.  Ethnic politics further confuse the  issues both within and without these states.  All share cross-border ethnic  groups such the Pashtuns (the largest group in Afghanistan and 2nd largest  in Pakistan), Farsiwans (Iranian Shi'is found in Afghanistan), Baluchis  (living in Iran and Pakistan as well as Afghanistan), and groups that  border nations outside the area of this collection of monographs (such as  Kurds in Iran, Tajiks and various Turks in Afghanistan, and Panjabis and  Kashmiris in Pakistan).  The attempts to create monolithic societies in  such countries is often futile and difficult to establish.  The issue at  hand in this work is to analyze the societies, politics, and also the  histories of these nations and the divergent paths they have all taken.   This is a prodigious task that is tackled with vigor and the result is a  one of a kind work on a region of the Near East that is not fully  understood by the rest of the world.	1998-10-23
US	52341491	RFL2BJ3AR4M6G	0415149665	9853196	Jinnah, Pakistan and Islamic Identity: The Search for Saladin	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A WELL-BALANCED OVERVIEW OF PAKISTAN'S FOUNDER	Akbar S. Ahmed is a noted author of many literary works whose latest academic effort is this above average examination of the life of Muhammad Jinnah and the formation of Pakistan. Jinnah's life is examined as are the characteristics of Pakistan as a borderland nation straddling South and Central Asia and the Middle East. The assumption of many is to blame Jinnah for not doing enough (i.e. freeing Kashmir from Indian occupation) or for truncating what was British India (which is often confused for a country when the Indian sub-continent has seen a series of empires, but usually various nations and empires existed anyway). Akbar analyzes how Jinnah's role allowed a smoother and less violent transfer of power, which otherwise would have inevitably led to years of civil wars as various regions would've begun insurgencies. The reality is that aside from Islam, Pakistan had various language groups and also western Pakistan, if one is to be fair, should have been returned to Afghanistan if the argument is made that Pakistan should not have been created (usually from those advocating a Greater India).  Islam being the reasoning behind national unity was a misguided notion (as mostly Muslim Bangladesh seceded in 1971 following shabby treatment at the hands of the Western Pakistanis who dictated terms and were siphoning wealth and resources to the west) and does not take into account the varied population of early Pakistan with its eastern and western wings which had little in common as well as its sizeable Pashtun and Baluchi populations (which have agitated with merger with Afghanistan in the past or simply sought secession). Mr. Ahmed examines Jinnah as a very human man (few can survive the scrutiny of so many and emerge unscathed) whose beliefs and political expertise allowed him to forge an identity for millions of people who would otherwise have been either successful after years of bloody wars or would be branded terrorists and \\"Indian\\" rebels just to attain recognition amongst a population that represents one-fifth of mankind.  Jinnah's actions helped to give an identity to the northwest portions of British India which had been dormant, but always there.  Vast multi-ethnic states inevitably end up serving the needs of the majority population or in the case of India the elites claiming to represent the majority population.  A decentralized India with regional identities wasn't a bad idea at all as it is afterall up to the people to decide what sort of orientation they want and what government etc.  Jinnah did what he thought was the best thing for the people he represented and from what I understand there aren't any complaints from the Pakistanis so it would seem that it was a job well done.  Kudos to Ahmed for including the maps of various time periods prior to the creation of Pakistan.  Overall, I'd recommend this book, but there should have been more focus upon Jinnah in my opinion.	1998-10-19
US	52341491	R1N1JV40HCZFDP	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	4	11	17	N	N	A MAJOR LITERARY ROADBLOCK THAT HALTS POLITICAL INCORRECTNES	Here we are half a world away, deciding the histories of other people and  places.  Egyptians (and North Africans of the Maghrib) do not consider  themselves a part of black civilization due to a simple fact: they are  predominantly Caucasian.  Egyptian history has been intertwined with the  Near East and Europe for millenia and only the Nubians played a major role  in Egypt's history.  Only in America can people be labeled black because  they either had or might have some distant black ancestors.  America's  warped racism of the past has now been reversed, but the change in the  source doesn't excuse the stupidity.  Mary Lefkowitz appears to have  decided to tackle a delicate issue and has been branded a racist for simply  trying to stick to facts and not fantasy.  Popular American culture is  already depicting Egypt as a part of Afro-American history.  Cleopatra's  Greek origins are igonored entirely and the spread of ignorance is now  rampant.  Just as a sidenote both Egyptian and Greco-Roman civilization are  Mediterranean and the Greeks had nothing to do with Britain or what would  become the U.S.A. either.  Lefkowitz' main financial supporters are part of  America's conservative political and social right-wing (many of whom are  latent racists), but this should not diminish her accurate message  regarding Egypt's role in the evolution of human history.  Afro-Americans  have honed in on Egypt (and unconsciously seem to feel that the  &quot;closer&quot; to Europe they can be linked the more advanced  &quot;their&quot; history will be appear) and have ignored ancient Ethiopia  and the Horn of Africa, Mali, and even Nubia to a lesser extent.  This  entire historical mess has lead to a focus upon human phenotypes and has  veered from loftier academic pursuits such as languages and social  evolution and the development of technology.  The Mediterranean is indeed  the hub of human civilization (although China seems to have been ignored  entirely in spite of her independent advanced civilization) and it is sad  that skin color is the issue that is being focused upon and not the roots  of our social and political ideas.  Sadly the next generation will suffer  for our mistakes unless more objective people like Mary Lefkowitz emerge to  keep us focused upon reality.	1998-10-10
