US	52353734	R3BUAEFCQ2JP9K	8423319806	611245466	Los Clarines Del Miedo (Colección Destinolibro) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	terror, bulls and ambiance	If you think there's glamour and idealism in bullfight, you will awake in this book.  <br />In a forgotten, delayed village in La Mancha in the decade of 1950, two poor bullfighters go to participate at the local feasts. The first, Aceituno, thirty years old, experienced, considers he has  failed in this profession and is defeated. The other, Raposo, is twenty years old and he aspires to a big triumph, but both have much  fear of the raging bulls. <br />Objectively, possibly there are in the world more dangerous activities that bullfight, but as it were, these fierce bulls inspire when you see them from near, face to face, an unexplainable, telluric horror. <br />The people at the village is, as usual mostly brutal and half drunken, because these feast were the main distraction in the bitter Spain of civil postwar. There also lives in these people a woman very tired of the monotony of the village. She wants to abandon with one of the bullfighters, but she's pretended by a stupid rich man. <br />The bullfight starts, but these art consist mainly in knowing the bulls, his costumes and manias. The young Raposo doesn't know all that very well: experienced Aceituno warns him crying: \\"Al natural no, que no pasa!\\" Or \\"this bull will not pass in natural way!\\" \\"Natural\\" is a very dangerous form of managing the bull as the muleta isn't sustained with the stoke but only with the left hand. But Raposo is nervous and unsure, so he insists and the bull doesn't \\"pass\\" effectively, he horns and kills him. Then, deeply impressed, Aceituno forgets his fears and makes a superb work of bullfight. A journalist from Madrid says to him he has a good future, but he says he has had valor only because he searched death. The woman wants to go with him, but he rejects they because he thinks he has triumphed only for one day and for chance, and that with him and his wandering life, the woman will become a prostitute.    <br />   <br />	2005-09-11
US	52353734	RCKE94YMCY83L	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	4	1	13	N	N	good interpretation	Good book, and I like it as Spain didn't fought in WW II but only for a thin lucky line, as Spain fought his own immediately anterior war.  <br />This said, I only have an objection, and is I at less think the author resembles writers about Stock Market or Economics: all them  explains very well why the things happened in a way or another... but only after the facts have ended, not before. Was Overy with Churchill, Stalin,  Roosevelt or Hitler counselling them? I'm afraid not. So these class of books  have merit, work and wide documentation, and I don't deny the author may have got right in some facts, but also he can have committed mistakes from appreciation in so complex and huge theme as is explaining why WW II, a war by nothing comparable with wars of the past, was won or lost. <br />	2005-05-03
US	52353734	R2JU32WK734UNJ	0375755152	697269178	The Spanish Civil War: Revised Edition (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	FEUERZAUBER	This book is a good classic, but analizes over all politics of tis terrible war, from the distance of a British scholar. <br />We see: Spain, 1936, half a million Km 2, 26 million population. A big proportion of illiterates, some intellectuals and a an army whose dorsal spine is colonial, accustomed to a cruel war in North Africa against the moors. Social inequality is enormous. Communism and anarchism grows up easily in the four bigger cities, Madrid, Barcelona, Sevilla, Valencia, more industrialized. Republic is the legal government but it's unable to stop, fires, murders and disorders against Catholic Church and conservative people.  <br />In the dawn of the 12 July in Madrid, tension and hate explodes: captain Jose Castillo of Republican assault police is murdered by a falangist gunman. Immediately, his comrades kill Calvo Sotelo, main leader of the conservatives: the fire of Spanish Civil War is ignited.  <br />The Republican government has had the caution to separate geographically the most suspicious generals, but these, secretly have done during months his confabulation with encrypted messages.  The rebel army of Africa has to pass the strait of Gibraltar, and they get that by the aid of Italian and German planes, Savoia S- 81, and Junkers Ju- 52. Yes, at first, German minister of foreign affairs denies interest in Spanish demands of rebels nationalists, but Hitler studies the conflict and orders directly aid to Franco together with Mussolini: operation Feuerzauber is on. Republic wants to buy modern weapons from democratic France and Great Britain, but these countries are afraid of Nazi Germany and also fear an communist Spain so, they denies armament to the Republic. Only Stalin envies tanks and aircraft, so during three years in Spain ha to be a confrontation between Italian and German tanks Carro Veloce 1'3, Panzer Pz Kpwz and Panzer I against Russian TB- 26B and BT- 5. In the air, Junker Ju 52, Heinkel He 11, Savoia s- 81, Fiat CR-32, Messerschmit BF 109B, Junker Ju 87 Stuka and Savoia Marchetti will figth against Potez 540, Dewoitine 370, Hispano- Nieuport 52, CASA- Beguet XIX, Polikarpov I-15 and I-16, Tupolev SB-2 and Polikarpov R-Z. Navy is almost all in Republican hands, but high officers are killed by crew as these are prone to the rebels, and simple  soldiers are unable to govern ships and over all, the artillery.   <br />Division into the Republican side between anarchist, communist and another factions drive them to disaster, unable to build an united army. Instead, rebels or nationalists of Franco are hardened troops -\\"Legionarios\\"- accustomed if necessary to face close combat with knife or bayonet in the teeth against the Moors or Rifeos of Morocco. The legacy of this war is truly unknown but is calculated between half or one million killed. Many, foreign idealists, some from the USA in the two sides.     <br />	2005-04-10
US	52353734	R2DTM5OY9ZDGZQ	0465054811	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	4	1	4	N	N	intelligence vs pragmatism	This book demonstrates once more a truth many people doesn't want to admit: too many intelligent people as the author, are frequently invalidated by his own capacity of being aware of problems and shades a more elementary mind is unable to understand, but that paradoxically enables them to act promptly because these people doesn't see the many possible dangers his decisions convey. And a fast decision is necessary many times because although wrong, that can be better than no one decision. <br />  So, no wonder big businessmen, presidents and powerful people use, I think, to have a simple mind in the whole world. Otherwise they should be unable to take action. <br /> And stock market requires instinct and decision perhaps more tan a deep mathematic knowledge. No wonder if Paulos has lost in his investment. His abilities are others. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-01
US	52353734	R2CVWK2GA41FDM	9509779652	591451471	Soldados de Salamina (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	soldiers which redeemed mankind	In 1937, S&aacute;nchez -Mazas a fascist writer and main ideologist of Spanish Falange was living as a refugee in the neutral embassy of Chile at Madrid, as the rebellion has caught him in the capital, ruled by the Republicans. He tempts to escape to France in a truck, but was detected in Barcelona also in the Republican side, and imprisoned. But when troops of Franco won and advanced in 1939, S&aacute;nchez- Mazas with some dozens of less  important prisoners was driven into a forest to be shot before the arrival of the nationalists. Some prisoners attempted to escape. Almost none got to survive, but S&aacute;nchez -Mazas did, because although he was effectively found by a Republican soldier in a hole, it seems that man, feeling that cruel war was over and lost, and tired of killing, refused to shot him and said his mates he hadn't seen nobody. Mazas survived during some weeks hungry and suffering intense cold, aided sometimes by the inhabitants of the rural mas&iacute;as. Later, he joined the Franco's troops and was named a minister, mostly honorary than real.<br /><br />This is the skeleton of this novel, and these facts are true, but the narration includes more. At the beginning, the author, a journalist and writer of dubious talent -truly the own Javier Cercas if you want- hears to tell this story to a son of S&aacute;nchez - Mazas, also a real figure and excellent writer, Rafael S&aacute;nchez Ferlosio. Cercas wants to know more about this strange episode, but Ferlosio, an old man something extravagant, eludes to explain more details, divagates with irony, as he has an ideology frontally opposite to his father, and refers to the soldiers of Salamina, the ancient battle when the Greeks defeated Persian fleet, as he thinks soldiers as these are capable to save mankind from disaster. The search of the identity of that mysterious, perhaps dead man that saved a prominent enemy sixty years ago is the full plot of this novel. Effectively, S&aacute;nchez- Mazas wrote a diary of these terrible days now almost lost in a library. The difficult searching of these possible soldier of Salamina has to end in France, when an eighty old year Spanish man named Miralles, ex combatant of both Spanish Civil and World War II with the Foreign Legion of general Leclerc survives in Dijon with terrible scars, now under French nationality. The author interviews that old soldier, an exceptional creation of the author and perhaps the best part of the novel, but the reader must decide if he was the man which didn't killed his enemy or not. Cercas does a reflection: \\"One doesn't find those things he search, but  only those than life wants to give him\\".brary. The difficult searching of these possible soldier of Salamina has to end in France, when an eighty old year Spanish man named Miralles, ex combatant of both Spanish Civil and World War II with the Foreign Legion of general Leclerc survives in Dijon with terrible scars, now under French nationality. The author interviews that old soldier, an exceptional creation of the author and perhaps the best part of the novel, but the reader must decide if he was the man which didn't killed his enemy or not. Cercas does a reflection: \\"One doesn't find those things he search, but  only those than life wants to give him\\".   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-18
US	52353734	R2DEK7I1S37IM2	1400031524	938118032	The Dogs of Riga	Books	4	6	8	N	N	law, crime and the North	<br />  Novels whose protagonist is inspector Kurt Wallander from a small village of Sweden, contains for me as much sociology and  politics as crimes. This books follows a chronological order, so we can see the aging of the personages and the pass of time in the police station of Ystad, South Sweden. That is fully believable, although it seems not likely that in a  small village it could happen so many terrible, complicate and strange murders that let New York as a quiet hamlet. Sure, that gives to inspector Wallander the opportunity to demonstrate his high ability and intelligence as policeman, philosopher, etc. We, as readers must accept that literary license. <br />     We see, I spite to have to face terrible criminals Wallander very rarely carries his ordnance handgun. He drives too much his old and re - repaired Peugeot, delegates very little the most routine tasks, earns a low salary, sleeps very bad and very little and he's constantly sick and tired after many journeys of almost 24 hours of hard work. He resists all that by drinking a big amount of coffee, doesn't disdain whisky, eats usually cheap tasteless hamburgers and pizzas, all very fast and very bad and so, he suffers some diarrheas, and he's overweigh and prone to diabetes. Summing up, Kurt Wallander isn't Mike Hammer: he's humane, so humane, that if truly necessary he's able to knock out with a powerful punch to an adversary. He's constantly consternated by the cases he has to solve. He's truly a pacific man and doesn't like his profession but he simply doesn't know another thing to do in life.  <br />   And there, it does very well: the reason is Wallander possess an extraordinary sharpened instinct for true or false things and words, a rare ability to relation spare words, declarations apparently unconnected, and a deep knowledge of human being and human situations. That is worth more tahn a revolver. These abilities I think aren't fully innate: you need to have experience of living, looking, and capacity to learning from it. In effect, personal and familiar problems of Swedish society are omnipresent. In this novel Wallander has to solve the murder of two Latvians in a small boat at derive. That goes him to find a love with a Latvian woman. In Spain we have much Swedish and Scandinavian people living here almost permanently with a good standard of life while Russians and Baltic people are economically in poor situation, but the novel reveals truly these Northern people seems very near in character and mood.   <br />	2005-03-07
US	52353734	R1WBURZURRXM6U	8420467286	655554658	Don Quijote de la Mancha (Edicion del IV Centenario) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	a book different for everyone	If you want truly understand D. Quijote, I think you better must forgot it's a satire  about novels of chivalries and some usual topics. That is true but not the main theme or purpose Cervantes attained.<br /><br />The author, considered officially in Spain as the best of Spanish language has the misfortune to carry with these heavy burden, and I say that for many reasons. Cervantes was when he wrote this book a well experienced man as he had been soldier, writer of other minor works, lover, delinquent and many more things. He lived his life in full.  So, he had the idea to expose the crude reality of life toward the vision of a fool, a grotesque madman, and from this point he surpassed the social barriers and conveniences than usually obstruct to tell the truth. At times of Cervantes, Spain was a powerful country ruling many of continental Europe and part of America and Asia after Turks and the Islam were practically defeated, but the genius of the author resides partially in knowing the weakness and injustices subjacent in Spain no matter those facts. He speaks about all these toward D. Quijote.<br /><br />Perhaps Cervantes wrote all that aware of what he was doing or not, I can't say, but these is the privilege of the geniuses. D. Quijote runs much adventures, much of these comical or at less have the appearance of jokes more or less real. Some, of course reflects daily life of Spain in XVI century, but the main merit of this book is in his big amount of pages sure are a situation in what everyone can see reflected his own person, his own soul, but for that you must have a soul. D. Quijote isn't the same novel for a man than for a woman, or if you are young or older. This was the first, or one of the first works considered a novel in the modern sense of the word and formally it's by nothing achieved with total formal perfection. Influenced by oriental and Italian literature, D. Quijote contains some errors of discontinuity and added episodes and adventures that seems to parasite the main corps of the text. Also, the Spanish Cervantes wrote is today not very understandable for many people.parasite the main corps of the text. Also, the Spanish Cervantes wrote is today not very understandable for many people.    <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-10
US	52353734	R2CZYNW5PIVQ22	1565844246	188410681	The White Lioness: A Mystery (Kurt Wallander Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	too ambitious	This novel I find has a distant resemblance with the well known best seller from Frederik Forsyth \\"Day of the Jackal\\", because it deals with the attempt to kill a president. In the book of Forsyth there was De Gaulle, here is Nelson Mandela from South Africa, but all similarity ends in these, as the styles are very different. Yes, Konovalenko, the ex agent of the KGB now converted in a mercenary is as cruel and professional as the Jackal. But the main protagonist, the Swedish inspector Kurt Wallander is no doubt an atypical policeman: he goes usually unarmed, although he's very capable in shooting when truly necessary. He's also a lover of arts and classical music and a very good investigator from the intellectual point of view, but he's terrified by the violence Konovalenko and other hardened criminals can achieve, and so, I think partially unable for a ruthless so usual in dealing with very dangerous people. Still more complex is the personage of the first African murderer, Victor Mabasha, who, for an European reader, has a strange interior life, believer in tribal Gods and ancestors and I think as Wallander, a victim of his own contradictions. Rounding the madness is the figure of the instigator, the Boer leader Jan Kleyn. As a whole, I think the author has attempted a work too ambitious where Forsyth succeeded limiting his pretensions to a novel of pure action, and knowing the limits is good. Henning Mankel I think surpasses that, and the result is unequal, owing to the mixture between a plot of action, a complex psychological study of minds very separated by geographic and ethnical reasons, and a political overview of racism in South Africa. The conjunct is very difficult to achieve fully correct. As a detail, the \\"Astra Constable\\" found after the explosion in the house is a pistol originally designed and made in Spain, as in the novel figures as original of South Africa when no doubt is, or was made under license. That was a good, reliable pistol from medium size although now is a old model, used at the times by the police of Franco. Spanish small arms are very good. South African police seems in this book as hard as those of Spain dictatorship. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-18
US	52353734	R32EMZD3O7TCV8	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	2	8	N	N	born to do business	... but most people doesn't born so. Most people, when looking at land, sea, a mountain, a lake or a building sees only the shape, colour, size... <br />But there exists between us a few people which don't see the same things as the majority of us or  at less  I think so. But don't forget, they are few. One of these rarely clever persons is Mr. Kiyosaki. His book doesn't contains complicate ideas. By the contrary, these are very easy to understand (to put in practice is another thing), but I believe he, when looking at a house or a terrain doesn't see nothing of the anterior qualities: instead he see dollars, or euros if you want, this is cash, and that is a talent that can be perfected if you have a natural ability for business, but not practicable with success by everybody. Mr. Kiyosaki has demonstrated how he's worth in making money between other facts in selling thousands of copies of this book, but how many people has attained to get rich after reading? I think very few.  <br />	2004-11-09
US	52353734	R201G7I0IXDJB4	0385729324	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers: Heroes of Iwo Jima (Youth Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	paradoxes of war	In reading this book, not being American, and 60 years after the battle of Iwo Jima one can extract two- three conclusions: heroism is an accident and can become a dangerous drug if one isn't prepared for it (in the case one attain to survive physically), it has happened also to successful sporstsmen, Hollywood stars, etc. Second, perhaps Iwo Jima could have fallen simply with patience and a blockade that the own Japanese had yet performed, as really they were prisoners into his bunkers. Hunger and disease should have done the rest.  Well, perhaps time was important, over all for the airports necessary for the big bombers B-29 to attack the main land of Japan. It's a curious fact, but brave men in the battle can become weak when returned to common daily life.	2004-10-03
US	52353734	R331TOUF8ESLMK	089875318X	594018030	The Travels of Lao Can	Books	4	1	2	N	N	hazardous travels	China has had few relations with Spain excepting for the Catholic priests, as Spanish Church has reached the whole world. This book remembers to me the stile of storytelling that can be found in  Thousand and One Nights: an Oriental stile that seems infantile if you're accustomed to Occident novels from Sweden to Italy. <BR>The adventures of the Dr. Can, so named as he's a wise and good man even cultivated in the Confucian philosophy and other humanities, has however only a precarious formation in medicine, Chinese or occidental. He travels here and there as an ambulant physician and many times he succeeds as, if no real medicines, he's plenty of common sense. The novel reveals the disastrous and demoralized state of China at the beginning of twentieth  century and his terrible governmental corruption, deplorable state of the roads, river floods, attacks of tigers and wolfs in the country, selling of women as slaves, pirates, and many other catastrophes, and how the doctor must act sometimes as a detective in a case of murder by poisoned cakes, and it's curious, as it's named Sherlock Holmes as an example to follow, a proof that  even in the China of these times this hero was yet translated and known. Also the doctor posses a wristwatch, an object I think no very common by 1903 between Chinese people.	2004-06-22
US	52353734	RCLTQX9MSMULB	0786709405	50589434	Suicide and Attempted Suicide	Books	3	3	19	N	N	please think before write	Just now my neck pains terribly, but as in much other occasions of my life, I don't think in die and I'm yet not very young. It's simply I have ever a wish to win when things go bad (and they are being better as ever). Curiously this doesn't happens to me when what I have are false problems not really very hard.<BR>But well, there are drug addicts, people who drinks, dements... Summing up, life is hard and some persons doesn't know how to fight with all these weigh. I can't condemn  them, at first because I know stupefacients and alcohol are only theoretically fought and forbidden, but, how many politics and businessmen use them, trades with them, enriches with them?<BR>And so, perhaps someone wants to end. Most religions forbids that, but not all, and furthermore, many people isn't religious. It seems to me a sort of aberration a book is dedicated technically in full to this matter, but I find still more grotesque the affirmations of some people saying \\"this handbook is incomplete\\" You can fail, but, truly is correct to say you have dead incompletely? Anybody can die more than once? These observations are absurd, very own of people who truly doesn't know from first hand what terrible thing are non natural death and suicide. People who wants to die I think don't need this book, but here the question is if it's well done, and I think it is, in a strange way and quality.	2004-05-25
US	52353734	R3SW0GB1Y8Q1PC	8489846421	869747550	Una Defensa del Masoquismo (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	feeling no matter the costs	I find a resemblance between the propositions of this book and a novel entitled \\"The piano teacher\\" by E. Jellinek from therefore was made a movie with the same title.<BR>   And this is because basically these are the same questions. Some people -in this two cases are women- have become unable to feel without the aid of strong experiences, so they have to search in masochism what more usual relations can't give. In the case of the Austrian piano teacher all that goes too far in search of a sense for living and she cuts herself with a razor. In the case of Anita Phillips the book is only a series of theories, but at deep are the same idea that for feel alive you must feel  something. Usually this is supossed to be agreable feelings, but if this become impossible, some persons can search that in pain.	2004-05-18
US	52353734	R3VOASR2LPXJ8O	1580622720	786488627	A Beginner's Guide To Day Trading Online	Books	4	4	13	N	N	useful only for a minority	The lessons of this book can be valuable, but will not make of you a wise investor. I have known people who theoretically knew about mathematics, but most of them knew only a poor few tricks to solve roughly some counts without any sense of the logics subjacent. Sometimes simply there are good luck, and the problem solves well, but when not- when real talent is necessary- the results are disastrous.  In extrapolating that, if you belong to that class of professional, no matter if a trader, of lawyer, physician, chemist, etc, etc, this book only will serve you to fall in dire straits because in Stock Market you play for yourself,  with your own money and nobody will protect you, who  must know and understand at less some basic ideas about politics, economics in general and many other factors that go beyond the managing of the some computer graphics.  No book in whole world can teach you common sense nor instinct.	2004-05-07
US	52353734	RY2G5H6XSW2XJ	006009012X	958058061	How to Make War (Fourth Edition): A Comprehensive Guide to Modern Warfare in the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	4	13	N	N	good but out of time	This book is good and complete, but as usual in handbooks about battles and military, it has the sight pointed in yesterday, and usually a war can't be won with past strategies. War, I think together with investing in stock exchange or playing cards is between the most hazardous activities men must have to attempt, but Napoleon,  Gral Lee or Guderian didn't follow dated doctrines. <BR>   And this is the case that just now the world has become very dangerous, but it's clear, nobody goes to deploy enormous divisions of tanks, thousand regular troops or dozens of battleships against the USA: simply nobody can afford these, and it's that delayed class of war what Dunnigan explains, but real war of today is terrorism. Modern compact explosives, electronics and devices permits to execute more easily facts of sabotage and terrorism. World War I needed to begin, a desperado firing a revolver from few meters, to murder the Austrian archduke Francis Ferdinand and his wife Sophie in Sarajevo. Today all that isn't necessary and these it's a big danger for all people in civilized countries.	2004-04-20
US	52353734	R28GP9URNGYISW	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	1	4	N	N	more wide sight needed	I can't agree with usual criteria I see. I think the USA is one of the most clean countries in the world, but to be aware of this, it's necessary to know another places and another times. In Europe, Descartes, Rousseau and many great thinkers and writers worked and lived in rooms plenty of dirt and garbage, rats, mosquitoes etc. Fish were uneatable in interior cities as Paris during centuries excepting salted cod. The custom today can seen even refined as drinking wine with meals come from the infestation of water with typhus. Great King Louis XIV of France had his scarce hair plenty of louses under his powdered wig and used a gold pin to kill someone. <BR>    Not, I ask myself another type of questions, and the first is, why have people to eat so fast?  I think this book has the point of view of the USA, a country very modern, but with a more wide sight, management of hamburgers have as all in life, failures and abuses, but I think nobody can pretend to nourish every day of his life with these. Hamburgers and fried potatoes are a meal very old and by nothing strange in any country of western world. Problems of big corporations dealing with food, electronics, cars, etc are another question. Perhaps the author has made a puzzle with this. As it were, this book is curious and very complete referring to facts and numbers, but minced meat isn't a novelty. Cleanliness is, by first time in history of mankind.	2004-04-19
US	52353734	R37A4O3NWETEHC	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	0	1	N	N	torts without aim	If one has to believe the King of Torts exists, that has to happen in the USA although surely there are more modest versions in another countries, as in USA reside the biggest enterprises and laboratories susceptible of demands. Innovations in industry, pharmacy etc are good but have a dark side if the results are not enough tested. But furthermore, as this novel shows there appears a parasite phenomenon: the pressure groups of lawyers specialized in demands with or without reason against these companies. At first to plead against a factory of defective product can seem good, but when one abuse of this method, all that ends in a useless, vicious practice because the affected people theoretically defended by advocates as the King of Torts  suffer innumerable worries while at last they follow in falling sick or simply doesn't get so much money as thougth, because the big percentages of incomes go invariably to the hands of these attorneys who wins millions of dollars paradoxically without raise any quarrel. Furthermore, all this procedure elevates the price of medicines and other products for common people. This book teaches much about all this. Clay Carter, the protagonist, is at first is an official advocate of criminals without resources and earns a very low salary. He's in a crucial moment of his life because his bride, that he loves, belongs to a rich but insufferable family. She abandons him. Under this condition, an hazard in defending the case of Tequila, a young but non violent thief without future  induced to kill by a defective drug get him in knowing to Patton French, a mature and well experienced King of Torts. Clay is a wise man and soon understands the mechanics behind all that, winning astonishing amounts of money, luxury cars and ever airplanes, but not all the enterprises demanded are guilty of bad practices, and some as the Hanna company, builders of houses, simply are victims of bad times or low sales. This novel has a dubitable moral end.	2004-04-04
US	52353734	R1K0XFWTRHU9EY	0306809974	38104890	The Autobiography Of Joseph Stalin: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	believable biography but unbelievable author	This novel simulates an autobiography  of Stalin, over all centered in his obsessive fight against Trotsky, whose murder he's planning during almost all the chapters because he believed Trotsky was the only one that could snatch him the Soviet power. The book seems to me very  credible although I don't know so many details about the real, historic Stalin, but as it were I think is good, although it has a trap, and that is the author can't pretend and I think he doesn't, that a cruel dictator and a criminal as Stalin, although very intelligent, could have the sensibility and writing abilities to make an autobiography as this. Perhaps truly Stalin could attain to understand all these that happens in this novel including external facts and internal thoughts, but to expose all these in an intelligible, attractive book, ever for his private use only, is another very different thing.	2004-03-17
US	52353734	R1E066BAOQMIG	1590170253	474322786	The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	an author of superb instinct	This novel provokes some questions. For me the first and more important is religion seems to be a unavoidable need for mankind, but as all primary needs is a powerful source of war and division. We have the cruel, never ending wars between Catholics and Reformists in Europe over 100 years, and nowadays this is seen in Middle East, so religion, if not treated carefully is a poisonous drug capable to divide countries. Well, in this novel I dare to say  religion has also the power to divide the brain, the mind, the soul or as you want, of oneself, and these is named today psychopathy, but was believed to be witchcraft at the times of James Hogg. We see: Robert is a Scottish man educated in Calvinism, a branch of Reformism that promises eternal salvation only for God will. In these beliefs the man saves or condemns his soul without that his facts, good or bad, counts for nothing. I was born Catholic and I think there are aberrations in all forms of extreme, fanatic religiosity. Of course all these isn't enough to provoke a disease, but yes if the believer is previously feeble, if he's prone to unbalance his mind. This is the case with Robert: he's is born as an illegitimate son. His family rejects him as they thinks he's bewitched or almost... and effectively he then becomes bewitched, this is, simply, mentally ill. The author shows an exceptional intuition and observation talent for human behaviour in describing what he couldn't know what was, but however telling it superbly: Robert, under an excessive pressure has a breakdown and a vision that seems an encounter with a \\"benefic\\"  stranger which promises him no matter all the crimes he commit, his soul is sure destined to heaven. Objectively, all this translates in a series of unexplainable crimes and murders people doesn't understand, but the hidden reason is found many years later in the private diary of this justified sinner, surely an schizofrenic who had an hallucination. Extraordinary work by a writer whose biography says he lacked education excepting these that nature gives to whose which are geniuses or almost.aphy says he lacked education excepting these that nature gives to whose which are geniuses or almost.	2004-03-02
US	52353734	R2FZ3UM9SYEMRB	8423310132	712143613	Iman (Colección Destinolibro) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Apocalyse now Spanish style	This is The Rif, North Africa 1921. By then, Spanish troops formed mainly by \\"legionarios\\" and \\"regulares\\" are occupying these territory. They were here from XVI century, but at the time of the novel money commands,  although there's only the businesses of few Spanish tycoons, owners of the mines of the Rif. And so, the recruitment being compulsory, common people as the soldier nicknamed Iman knew the army was at service of the rich people. Iman or \\"Magnet\\" owing his good luck is truly a not very literate young man of deep Spain. He's brave and truly hard, has a Mauser rifle, is aided by some machine guns, howitzers, tanks, airplanes and poison gas, but doesn't like his own officers point him with the pistol when things become hard. Perhaps he has to sell his ammunition to his future enemy but the pay is low. Yes these war was terrible as \\"Apocalyse now\\" and no doubt, better written by a master of Spanish language of XX century who knew these war. The main part of the novel counts real facts: the defeat of the Spanish in the disaster of the battle of Annual. Summing up, Gral. Silvestre, favourite of the king Alfonso XIII and ladies of court, fearless but  irresponsible chief of the army traces a foolish plan in order to inflict a definitive defeat to the moors commanded by Abd El Krim, wise Moslem leader. He despises the Moors so, the lines are too advanced in the Sahara virtually without supplies, water, food and ammunition. The moors are masters in fighting battles of ambush in the desert, avoiding open fight, but now this was to be different, they know the Spanish have gone too much far and they attack massively killing 22000 Spanish soldiers by thousands ant pursuing them until Melilla in the coast where the guns of the battleships stops them finally, but before they have to drink his own urine, the ink of the offices and and many survivors became mad. Gral. Silvestre and his staff was suspected killed himself or was turned in pieces by the moors although some corpses were given back intact by the moors as demonstration of strange respect for the Spanish, the well known enemy. Silvestre  was stupid enough to be in first line of front, but it's unknown what happened truly because he was catholic. This novel is superb and so you can know why Spanish people mistrusted his own army and king and why Spanish Civil War exploded 15 years after in such a society.  Ramon J. Sender lived and wrote many years in the USA until arrival of democracy.corpses were given back intact by the moors as demonstration of strange respect for the Spanish, the well known enemy. Silvestre  was stupid enough to be in first line of front, but it's unknown what happened truly because he was catholic. This novel is superb and so you can know why Spanish people mistrusted his own army and king and why Spanish Civil War exploded 15 years after in such a society.  Ramon J. Sender lived and wrote many years in the USA until arrival of democracy.	2004-01-31
US	52353734	R34ZBWPCFHYSYE	0195065778	383423986	Wartime: Understanding and Behavior in the Second World War	Books	4	6	33	N	N	human servitudes	Well, as I think what the author want to say is that in WW II when any soldier of the Allied band confronted with Germans or Japanese he tried to shot the enemy, but a true pity! The uniform is made from onepiece and he can't resist the necessity of urinating and... These things don't happened to John Wayne, we agree, but it's that real war can't be repeated and his scenes essayed as cinema. Moreover, WW II was an entire unknown  unrepeatable class of war form the beginning until the end. So Fussel joints a collection of misadventures very little heroical but I think unavoidable and necessary and over all, humane. At last Hitler perhaps had a private WC all time but he committed the highest mistake. Perhaps he was not humane.	2004-01-20
US	52353734	RG3V6HDUYD36	8427913400	77840215	Gran Sol (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	bloody expensive meal	Spain is a peninsula and from centuries his population has depended greatly of fishing for food, if necessary in high sea. Meat, butter or milk was almost a luxe until a few decades because this is a country of extreme irregular orography. All these facts explains partially the background of this novel. We are in the first years of the decade of the 1950's. Simn Orozco is the skipper of the &quot;Aril&quot;, a modest small veteran ship of fishing of few tons of displacement on the coast of the Basque country, which does a couple with a similar another one, the &quot;Uro&quot;. Orozco is about 50 years old, has a wife and two sons and has worked earning good money in the fleet of USA during the II WW, but he has returned to Spain, country that is depressed in the endless panorama of the sequels of the Civil War. His crew consists of an boatswain, a second, two motorists and approximately six almost illiterate men, also not very young, drinkers and womanizers though very expert fishermen. In the hours of attend they   read laboriously cheap novels of the American Far West written by authors who never saw USA by far. They go to fish to Gran Sol, bad translation to Spanish of the area named in English charts \\"Great Sole\\", an area of the Atlantic Ocean  between the north and the south of the sea of Ireland. There, as Orozco says, &quot;weather can be less bad, but never is good&quot;. Orozco is an experienced wise captain, but his legs hurts as he passes many hours in the bridge and must bandage them secretely to overcome pain. The Aril and the Uro come to Gran Sol and they must manoeuver to handle the fishnet among the two. A strong temporal forces to disembark in the Irish port of Bantry and Orozco remembers to a crew which he knew, all drowned and buried in the cemetery of this locality: the English men in a side, the Spanish to other one, the Frenchmen to other one. When the fishing comes under permanent rain, the men work frantically countless hours without eatingnor sleep, only comforting shortly with cheap wine and tobacco. The management of the fishnet is complicate, demands extreme dexterity and so the tragedy comes to the Aril. Aldecoa writes superbly about a work that was and still is very important for Spanish economy, but very little know as I think in general happens about work in the Seas. This author already deceased knew from first hand all that, since he embarked in similar ships.	2004-01-07
US	52353734	R2UF2Z5JS1QOAD	0156935805	757354521	Virginia Woolf: A Biography	Books	5	11	26	N	N	If she only knew valium	Well, after reading this exhaustive biography I think with more or less reason several things. Virginia Woolf was a woman of great intelligence but unbalanced and at the cost of her instinctive life, I think not homosexual as it's said, but mostly uninterested in the sexual part of life. She  has the drive to justify this and she said a real artist needed to be nor man nor woman in order to avoid prejudices and to possess a clear vision of the real facts of life, a doubtful point of view because there are great artist with strong sexual drive straight or not. I believe she was surely not primarily so ill at the mental sphere, because all these medications as digital, symptoms as palpitations and physical exhaustion, faints, etc, are symptoms of physical or even social diseases, yes, with repercussion in the psychic life, added to the extremely exigent work of writing his works. For all that I believe V. Woolf was no so mad as it's commonly said and could be saved by a more scientific and modern medicine. Certainly, personal and historical contingences as the death of friends and familiars, WWI and over all WWII with the fear to the Nazi invasion of England and repression against Jews as her husband and intellectuals as herself could not be avoided although I believe by 1941 these fears were objectively less probable. I can' avoid a pity for this woman.	2003-06-27
US	52353734	R3INE9C8OYN5HF	9879396804	992090191	Virginia Woolf: La Medida De La Vida (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	interpreted biography	I don't like this book very much. Perhaps I have chosen the wrong biography of Virginia Woolf, but the author seems to me that he interprets, more than tells, the final 10 years of life of this authoress, and well, I suppose he's qualified, but I would prefer another class of story because I don't know very much about the protagonist. <BR>   According Herbert, one can attain some conclusions: Virginia Woolf was a sort of genius of intellect and literature, but poor gifted for current, instinctive or affective life. Common people found her in the streets of London as indefinitely and strangely appealing owing to her manners, her costumes... this isn't clear but it's not rare these things to happen to the geniuses, while in the other hand, his friends were frequently homosexuals, surely by the time usually under suspicion, and people of the very intellectual and artistic elite of those years. Some episodes about diseases of friends and several deaths remember to us the precariousness of current medical practice by 1920 - 1930, and ever more, in the ground of the psychiatric troubles that Virginia had to endure, possessing an excessive sensibility and auto exigency with his writing work. The II World War was too much for her, expecting a German invasion and not being yet young. Her husband appears as a well intentioned man but eternally surpassed and surprised by his outstanding wife. His constant precautions about Virginia's health didn't work at last. As it were it seems she had planned her suicide time ago, in her mind possibly conceived not as an act of full desperation, but of liberation, and you difficult can stop a plan from so wise person.	2003-06-21
US	52353734	R2V0VREM8QRRX6	9505118066	888006407	Tu Rostro Manana (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	you will betray tomorrow	The Spanish protagonist of \\"All Souls\\", other novel by this author,is the same in this novel. He's an experienced translator and interpreter of English- Spanish working in England mainly for the BBC. This condition comes from the circumstances of the life of his father during the Spanish Civil War, because he was betrayed as a dangerous intellectual by his theoretical best friends, and it's true many of these men were in exile from 1939, living mainly in France, South America and Mexico but also in UK, USA and Russia, fighting or working together with the Allies as also was a small force fighting for the Germans in the Russian front.<BR>  An so, an English friend whose real work is suspected but not clearly said, thinks the Spanish has a rare ability: in simplifying, we could say he suspects he's able to foretell future human comportments. This is by nothing supernatural. The two personages feels they have an unspoken agreement about that people usually don't dare to know about future simply because these can be ungrateful, but they believe that if one really wants and give up prejudices and fears, everybody could see deeply in the soul of the others and predict about characters, future conducts, possible treasons or not. These faculty is strangely well developed in the person of the Spanish translator, and the English employs him in an informal way in order to work in the task of supervising some persons. This work is  vaguely insinuated to have a nexus with British government intelligence, but the Spanish is discrete and doesn't make importune questions.  <BR>  This synopsis can deceive readers that expect an usual novel of spies and action, and this isn't so. It's mostly  discursive about the human characters and behaviours.	2003-06-07
US	52353734	R3R2N5WU06FWPP	140004684X	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	4	17	20	N	N	strategical weak points	I think the USA have more than 200 million people. But this is the case -according to the author- that these powerful country have in the most strategic and hot points of the world only one, two or three trained men with the necessary skills for operating on dangerous or potentially enemy countries and grounds. Only these few people know the language and costumes of these areas, indeed particularly strange to the USA way of life as Middle East. This seems truly very dangerous because furthermore, it seems the enemy, though poor armed, surely know the USA much better (simply perhaps owing to the wide expansion of Hollywood cinema). The USA have  no doubt a big war machine but... where to point the guns without reliable information? The potential theatre of war is too much big. The answer is of course for Americans only but the impression from out is the Spanish knew his Moslem enemy much better during the Reconquista of the whole Peninsula, a war that lasted the entire  Middle Age against the Moslems in Spain, or the British had a better intelligence service in India and Middle East by the times of Lawrence of the Arabs or Rudyard Kipling. This is the gross impression an impartial reader gets if one has to believe this book tells the truth.	2003-01-12
US	52353734	R20WHJHSN4JNYQ	0814471188	310816749	eBay the Smart Way: Selling, Buying, and Profiting on the Web's #1 Auction Site, Second Edition	Books	3	5	15	N	N	incomplete	This book is very understandable, but has some weak points. The main one I suppose it's owed to time passed between writing and editing. In general it's strongly conceived for the reader of the USA, but E- bay is a worldwide business and over all, the author has had not the time to include the EURO as the money of almost all Europe, a huge market he seems not to master so well as the USA, and so, he insists in the difficulties of national money change with every European country, a thing is still true practically only in UK which preserves his Sterling Pound, and a little in Switerland with his Swiss Franc or Sweden with his Crown, but in this two countries the Euro or the US dollar are widely accepted. As I'm not familiar with trade methods in the USA, I think these are a little different in Europe. In respect to the languages, because Germany is I think the mean market in Europe, well, I don't know German, but commercial language is very restricted for current transactions and there are translators in Internet between the main idioms, if yes, the trade of a car, an expensive jewel or another high value item must be different.	2002-11-17
US	52353734	R2E882MT6MRRI7	1565846257	264043779	A History of Bombing	Books	3	2	17	N	N	bullfight is easy behind the barrier	This book has, I think, three different parts or points of view; the first is well worth, and these is the good documentation about the theme of aerial bombing, abundant and accurate.<BR>     But the other two parts are very debatable: one is the resource and constant citation of the horrors of aerial bombing... but obtained not from reality, but from rare cheap novels or fiction books of unknow authors or almost, forgotten nowadays; the main of these works are chaotic and terrible dreams about wars between races, a little in the style of the feverish fantasies of the yellow hordes of Fu- Manchu or something else, there's plenty of Death Rays, rare bombs and flying machines never seen in real life.<BR>   And finally, I find another default, and is the accusation for making war, colonial or not, to countries as England, Japan, USA, France, Spain, Italy, etc. This critique I believe, is easy to do from a country as Sweden with an economy and geography that have protected it from the main conflicts of the twentieth century, but not everybody has so much luck, and even the conduct of these country during the II World War with is peculiar neutrality could at last be revised.	2002-09-11
US	52353734	R1XDGF31ZKW57O	0304356794	339698930	Cassell Military Classics: Military Mavericks: Extraordinary Men of Battle	Books	3	2	5	N	N	orthodoxy before victory	The author introduces in this book as many elements of psychology or psychopathology in studying military personalities than about strategy or tactics. Summing up, he says religious, sexual or another suspected peculiarities are compensated by great skills in war. It seems to me these type of judgements are little professional and mostly rough, although if he's right or not it's impossible for me to say but at last he's not a physician, but a military teacher and those matters are delicate. The most objective fact is that war isn't different from any other human activity in what respect for social stereotyped conducts, and so, this results in that great heroes or original military men, also are subject to social critics almost even in the heat of fire. This is specially clear in the case of Orde Wingate or Lawrence of Arabia. The victories achieved by these men no matter how valuable, seems as if his comrades would prefer an orthodox  defeat than an irregular victory. Only personages above the media as Churchill are capable to appreciate the value of uncommon, high capable men.	2002-05-23
US	52353734	R1X77COCK51FM6	8420636290	124782771	Guía arqueológica de españa	Books	5	0	0	N	N	baedeker of archeology	This isn't a book of Archeology: is a practical guide of the archeological sites in Spain form Stone Age to the Arab invasion. As Spain I think still has many unexplored sites, the author indicates those yet known though many times almost abandoned. For that he marks the routes, frequently far from populate cities because the distribution of the demography in Spain now is very irregular so, the interior is almost empty compared with the two big capitals and the Mediterranean coast. So this is as an archaeological Baedeker and no doubt the author has taken a big effort in finding, arriving and be oriented in difficult places, because Spanish ground is frequently very irregular and rough, not as France or Germany, countries much more explored and well indicated with warnings and posters until its minor findings. In Spain the pre or protohistoric places are located surely with full purpose in almost inaccessible locations, caves, etc. which need much further investigation. The period studied are from 3000 BC in the case of Tartessos, yet cited in the Bible, until about 1000 AC.	2002-05-14
US	52353734	R2SVUHAPRGV3Y2	0919813933	731016064	Spain, 1001 Sights: An Archaeological and Historical Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	practical guide to the unknown	This isn't a book of Archeology: is a practical guide of the archeological sites in Spain form Stone Age to the Arab invasion. As Spain I think still has many unexplored sites, the author indicates those yet known though many times almost abandoned because investigation costs big money. For that he marks the routes, frequently far from populate cities because the distribution of the demography in Spain now is very irregular so, the interior is almost empty compared with the two big capitals and the Mediterranean coast. So this is as an archaeological Baedeker and no doubt the author has taken a big effort in finding, arriving and be oriented in difficult places, because Spanish ground is frequently very irregular and rough, not as France or Germany, countries much more explored and well indicated with warnings and posters until its minor findings. In Spain the pre or protohistoric places are located surely with full purpose in almost inaccessible locations, caves, etc. which need much further investigation. The period studied are enormous, from 3000 BC in the case of Tartessos, yet cited in the Bible, until about 1000 AC.	2002-05-12
US	52353734	R25REM7TLNPRWG	052143971X	899384141	Practical Ethics	Books	3	3	15	N	N	dangerous unpractical ethics	The author does in this book an impeccable line of very well reasoned Ethics. The problem resides precisely in the title: \\"practical\\". Everyday ethics isn't precisely an exercise of logics, but part of our daily ordinary living and I'm afraid here the author I think fails. Perhaps I'm wrong, but I think the mankind has his ethic limits as have his physics and mental limitations and if nobody can to run 100 meters in less than 9 seconds, or jump 4 meters high, or be wise beyond an IC of 180, or prevent the future. There are too many examples of war, crimes, hunger for money, etc. Furthermore, the practical ethics of Peter Singer has an unmistakable taste to English or the Ethics in use between British people: this is evident in the chapter about behaviour toward animals. All these could be acceptable, but the problem is -as in the sports- if you force yourself too much you can damage your muscles -in this case the ethic muscle and the final result become an aberration. We have seen yet crimes done in the name of Ethics perhaps because a good person are not equal to ethical people.	2002-04-17
US	52353734	R2XPTRLVFX3JL	0688121578	111289751	How to Make War 3rd Edition	Books	4	1	3	N	N	surprising weak armor	This book seems to be very complete and the author highly qualified in war technology, strategy, logistics... For that one is easily convinced by almost all his affirmations but one: it's about the tanks: he says them are impressive war machines, but you must don't trust very much on his power: these steel monsters have demonstrated to be very vulnerable and his use are best when infantry have destroyed the main opposition, against residual resistence ??. Dunnigan trusts much more in war aircraft. I confess these paragraphs are astonishing for me after the Panzer campaigns, and today, in Middle East. As it were one must expect that also there this book must be read and serve for the ceasefire for once.	2002-04-13
US	52353734	R15RDRC6K3HZK3	046507183X	27193388	P.C., M.D.	Books	2	8	35	N	N	deceiving title	The title suggest a more wide view of Medicine, but really it's a political pamphlet and furthermore I'm afraid plenty with a generous surplus of political correctness shown in a mirror as a counterimage. Perhaps only readers from USA can be sure of this, but we see: Medicine I think  has had an advance  comparable to the learning of a foreign language or any difficult art or science: at first it's slow and difficult (protohistory - 1800), secondly there's a phase when one feel that the advance is fast -roughly 1800-1975-, but today it seems there's a third final phase when each minute piece of knowledge costs terribly, in effort and in money. F. e. many times today, older people feels they, more than live, survives a life plenty of sickliness, and some diseases are invincible for all. But Dr. Satel wants to simplify these big problems only focusing about the difficulties of women ort ethnic minorities. Insistence in the difference of quality between rich or poor people is logical, but this isn't the only problem to solve with Health services but the roots of so huge questions surpasses the limited, politized opinions show in the book.	2002-03-28
US	52353734	R2V2M3MAB345VU	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	3	6	31	N	N	science and voodoo are a matter of taste	The author is surely a good scientist but I think he commits a fundamental error blinded in his zeal for remove the false ideas, superstitions and frauds that are a big fashion today. He attacks with the weapons of pure reason to believances that precisely are unaccessible to reasoning: the UFO, extrasensorial perception, perpetual motors and others. For that I think this book is partially failed  because these war can't be won with this strategy. One can be a great rationalist, buy yet so, few people likes to pass a storming night in a cemetery. Science is one thing manageable with facts and numbers, and beliefs or superstitions are a matter of feeling, two parallel roads that everybody has. Yes, these two ways can crosscut sometimes and science, when false or incomplete, become voodoo. Not forceful superstitious people are illiterates or almost, but there are persons who need more phantasy in his lives than others; they have his way of being and they love, hate or simply live together with his beliefs and they reject books as this that only can persuade these people previously convinced.	2002-02-20
US	52353734	RQLBZ7ITU52SL	8420604046	711835664	Historia General de Las Drogas (Seccion Humanidades) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	debatable apology of drugs	The author is a teacher of humanities, philosophy and literature in the university of Madrid. He's more than sixty years old and has past a part of his youth in the USA between 1960-70 when he knew the pop culture;  he declares in this essay and in other places as the TV that he has been an habitual consumer of all the drugs, legal or not, from his twenties. He's sincere because says he doesn't have the best state of health, but claims that some habits as excessive work, drinking, junk food etc are as dangerous if not more than opiates f. e. And in this way  supports that he is neither a deliquent nor an ill or addict, but that if drugs have undesirable effects these come  by the modern illegalization and the adulteration and affirms that its use has been customary with the humanity from the night of the times and a private matter turned in a public problem by the governments and religious chiefs, and alludes to famous personalities that were private consumers: Julio Cesar, Baudelaire, Von Bismarck, of Quincey, even the general Franco, as he was wounded in the Moroccan Wars. Summing up, a book strongly debatable, and though Escohotado possess a good knowledge on history, literature, philosophy and mythology, his ideas on pharmacology are readings from second hand, since he's a man of letters and not an experimental scientist (if we have exception of his own person). This isn't a simple divulgation handbook as usual today, but an essay of high level for people with criterion where every reader must decide for himself.	2002-02-09
US	52353734	R104JLX09919JM	0748608613	822160919	The Republic Besieged: Civil War in Spain 1936-1939	Books	4	1	2	N	N	debatable opinions	This book is a compilation of several articles about the Spanish Civil War by different authors. Over all I think the most debatable is the chapter about the affair of weapon supplies to both sides. If we have to believe, the Republican side was strongly damaged by the embargo of France and England in order to sell arms to the Republic, but I think the author does excessive stress in this point, no doubt very important, but not the only reason of these defeat. The rebel army of Africa, although well trained by years of real war in Morocco, could be surely  stopped during the  first 72 hours of the insurrection, but the government in Madrid did nothing. There are more than 600 Km between South Andalusia and Madrid and these troops -about 45000- had to traverse firstly the strait of Gibraltar aboard Italian and German planes, an hazardous adventure in 1936. But Azaa, the president of he Spanish Republic and many of his ministers were isolated idealist men without capacity for action. Middle class almost not existed in Spain in 1936, only rich and poor people, and also highly intellectual persons beteween a huge mass of low educated people. Theme of the supplies of petrol and firearms was more crucial later, but at the beginning the defeat I think was a failure in decision and organization of the official government. The rebellion wasn't a surprise but fully expected. Warships were on the Republican side and they didn't nothing. Once in the peninsula the rebel army had to advance a long distance by the Spanish ground, mountainous and rough. Poor unarmed Andalusian peasants certainly couldn't do nothing against expert troops, but  surely a firm counterattack by Extremadura leaded by trained officers and soldiers from Madrid could have stopped the army of Franco so, I believe lack of political and social cohesion was the most important cause of the triumph of the rebels.	2002-01-03
US	52353734	RQL0MEDA0IZOK	0425178986	556294920	The Pledge	Books	5	6	8	N	N	uncommon black novel	This is a novel that Durrenmatt wrote specially as the scheme of an old Spanish- Swiss film from 1959 entitled \\"El cebo\\" (The Lure). Apparently the book is as another police novel although by then the morbid plot was less common than today: a little child is found slaughtered in a Swiss canton. This crime has the pattern of another tree previous sepaparated by several years.  Inspector Mattei, the policeman in charge of the case gets deeply impressed and when he has to say the notice to the parents, the mother demands to him the promise to capture the murderer, but Mattei as attained the age of retirement. In fact he has an employement as police adviser in Jordania and his flight is for the next day. But Mattei develops an obsession in order to get the murderer and he rejects the work in Jordania and begins to work in a petrol station because he thinks the criminal lives near here. I think Mattei in some sense fulfils his pledge but that costs him his health and perhaps more. Durrenmatt is a pessimist writer and this novel ins't for these readers that expects a happy end but a cruel and strange one.	2001-12-25
US	52353734	R1W0VIV2MJUQHT	8485137639	708807288	La forja de un rebelde (v. 1-2: La Novela social española) (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	crude reality  but not very literary	This book isn't a novel: is the true life of the own author, Arturo Barea, written in England and in originally in English because the author died in exile. In these sense this book is an extensive and detailed recording of the life in Spain between about 1900- 1939, a period of bitterness and decadence and all that is told with truthfulness and has great interest if you are interested in that, but lacks of literary professionality and the narration is purely linear withouth any artifice. For that perhaps the story results sometimes a little pedestrian, but in general the strong force of the facts related hiddens a more polished form.	2001-11-06
US	52353734	R1AR77U44PI6BW	8432058394	152619258	Gargoris Y Habidis: Una Historia Magica De Espana/Gargoris and Habidis : A Magical History of Spain (Espejo de España) (Spanish Edition)	Books	1	1	10	N	N	a sum of  silly ideas	This book is supossed to be a ancestral or teluric history of Spain. As England, Europe or Japan have his legends about his origins, Arturic or Nordic sagas etc, Spain also has such a thing. You can taste these genre of histories that truly seems to have gained the favour of today's public. Personally howewer I can't recommend this book. The author has been firstly a communist, later a sort of buddhist, and after much \\"spiritual\\" maduration he ever has arranged to stay with the official cultural authorities and powers of Spain. For me this are simply a fraud with a good selling but all I can say is: don't waste time in these stupidities. I think fantasy can be fantastic, but also &quot;real&quot; in the mind of the writer, not a mere money machine or a rejectable fashion.	2001-10-26
US	52353734	R1W3TXLXBCSM4	8432207713	530777252	Tiempo de silencio (Biblioteca Breve) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	don't  center in the plot	This novel has a recognizable argument: it's the history of Pedro, a young physician inmediately after Spanish Civil War. Spain was blocked then because his tolerance with the Axis powers during WW II. As it were Pedro only wants to investigate about cancer, but at his institute there's lack of all means. One of these is a special class of mice only available from the USA. Howewer Pedro gets to know that some of these mice have been robbed by a beadle of the research institute and maintained under terrible conditions in the suburbs of Madrid. Pedro goes in search of the mice and so, he contacts with a horrorful underworld of degenerate criminals which owns these animals.<BR>  Well, this plot may be more or less appealing, but the real merit of this novel is the form, by nothing realist as XIX century type, but close to &quot;Ulysses&quot; by Joyce or another modern novels. Martin Santos breaks the normal linear discourse of the recit and remakes it with a strong appeal to subsconcious sensations when poverty and impotence predominate. The author dued in a car accident wwhile writing another unfinished novel.	2001-10-01
US	52353734	RQLGEBJNT3S1D	0304355208	926462432	Cassell Military Classics: Death of the Scharnhorst (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	3	0	28	N	N	old fashioned battle	Books as this I find are good and accurate respect to the impersonal details: size of ships, days and hours of the battles, number of men involved, equipment, etc. But they have a touch of jingoism that is very own of British raccounts of war and I think fully gone with World War II. In effect, references to past military glories abounds, the men are all full capable and brave, no one coward is seen. Even the Germans with his dangerous nazi \\"Schnanrhorst\\" and other battleships are seen as nostalgic, noble enemies. A point of view I believe fully innacceptable today as, I repeat, that isn't unusual to read in English war books, but industrial total war has demonstrated by far that today simply can't be fougth. We now know there's no man capable to stand several weeks of modern war withouth serious psychical consequences if no dead of psycally wounded. The sank of the Schnarnhorst is told in this book as a medieval battle and that is a counterfeit of the facts.	2001-08-25
US	52353734	RQCPZJ2IH72KU	8420613029	147540907	Las buenas intenciones / Good Intentions (Sección Literatura) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	the path to hell	Las buenas intenciones (&quot;The good intentions&quot;) is a title surely taken from a popular Spanish proverb: &quot;El camino del infierno esta sembrado de buenas intenciones&quot; or &quot;The path to Hell is sewn with good wills&quot;. Max Aub knew well this. He was a Jewish- Spanish writer but practically unknown in Spain after the Civil War because he was censored by Franco.  I think this novel refers to the many Spanish people that in the previous years of these terrible war, were deeply indifferent to politics and social affairs. If not so, perhaps they could have avoided the war. In effect, there was by then in Spain not only fascists and communists, or very rich and very poor people, but yet some middle class people and this book deal with them. Maux Aub attacks their stupidity. This is personified in many personages, mainly the protagonist, Agustin Alfaro, named as his father -a relatively prosperous merchant- is at the beginning in 1924, wrongly accussed of having made pregnant a young girl. The true father is his own father because people confounds them owing their same name, but the young Agustin is forced to marry with the girl because his father doesn't want to know nothing about his own affairs with women. From these grotesque episode the life of Agustin, otherside a laborious and decent, but indifferent man, is a sucession of bitter episodes sometimes with a comical side. This indifference gets in the beginning of the war in 1936, and the end three years later with the victory of Franco. Agustin, who lives accidentally in the Republican side but never fougth in the war, is shot and killed by the fascists troops while a man named Tellina, delinquent and murderer, burns wisely his documents and becomes a rich man under Franco's rule.	2001-08-19
US	52353734	R1S6EWK5212FJA	8420482684	67933191	Plenilunio (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	uncommon murder story	This is a novel about the now common subject of sexual murders committted by a psychopathic man over some little girls in a city of South Spain. But the author goes much farther. The book takes his time to reach full interest but when this is attained you cannot leave it until the end. The inspector in charge of this case is natural of these city, but really he has been fighting against Basque terrorism in Northern Bilbao during the previous fifteen years. For that, he is in treatment for drinking too much, resource to prostitution, and his wife has suffered a nervous breakdown. This said, the author explains the troubled life of the inspector: son of a father jailed by Franco, he has been educated by Jesuit priests in a very though manner, for that, he says he only joined the police as a mean of life when democracy went to Spain. Once crimes begins, he joins old teachers and mates. One is the forensic, an old leftist oppossitor to Franco. The other is a very old priest. The coroner says today are much methods for knowing the murderer (DNA, etc). But the priest tells to the inspector that he must only see the eyes and  gaze of the people,  \\"Jesus knew Judas was to betray him only by watching at him\\". Furthermore, the appeareance of the inpsctor in the TV news, that he doesn't attain to avoid completely, sets again the terrorists over his track while he starts a love affair with a divorced woman. This novel is too much complex and the author shows extreme skill.	2001-05-09
US	52353734	R2KJOOAIYPYXEG	0862413400	474322786	Confessions of a Justified Sinner (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	beware with inadequate thinking	Much time ago I have thougth religion is a weapon of double edge - perhaps between others-. This is clearly seen in this novel although some other books, but usually posterior, shows a resemblance. From a Catholic point of  view this novel is even more strange: a Calvinist man, undoubtly not very  equilibrated is convinced that he can't commit a sin because his religion  assures him the eternal salvation. From these premise and  if you are stiff  enough, the conclusion is clear: the man arrives to believe he can commit  all classess of crimes withouth punishment. Of course, for me, the  protagonist is simply a mad, and probably many people has been dragged to  such foolishness when they pretend to figth with ideas that surpasses his  capacities as all indiscriminate believers in anything or as a man who  drives a car too fast for his ability. Biographies of great thinkers abound  in mental disequilibrium. James Hogg wrote very well such a case in advance  of his times.	2000-04-05
US	52353734	R3BW2L6E2SD0KK	0688170684	453078745	Dirty Little Secrets of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	1	15	N	N	heavy facts in ligth style	This book reaffirms me in thinking that to be informed isn't listening to news from radio or TV but an active process and for this the anterior means have a low value. If you want to be really informed and no plenty of  dubitous rumours, you must read and perhaps look an screen but not a  commercial one. This book is pleasant and I think informative and fiable in  a ligth style. Of course it deals with so many themes which I can't say if  the author is ever rigth. One at less is false: the average safety razor  blade doesn't fits 20- 40 shavings at less you have to elect between this  or a bayonet under machine gun fire. General point of view is from USA and  in other countries the reader can disagree about some questions but in  general is acceptable and at last America is the country of the  XX century  as Greeks were in 500  B.C.  As it were I think human life and change of  customs can't be measured by administrative periods, centuries, years,  weeks... this only fits for book- keepers. Dunningan seems to be better  informed about war and weapons and really he is not very optimistic about  politics and peace. The author  highligths the falseness of many  concepts  commonly believed by many people but he does these withouth resort to  sophisticated philosophical concepts, a custom very own of  Europe which  frequently becomes a defect because in common life there's not so many time  for abstract thinking but much things to do.	2000-01-20
US	52353734	R19YGQK9VSJBH3	0156005514	527509611	Forbidden Knowledge: From Prometheus to Pornography	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Beware of &quot;Fear of Freedom&quot;	This book has many commentaries and that supposes that it has disquieted to the readers. But, as all in  Internet, the base of these commentaries corresponds overwhelmingly to English  speaking readers of  Protestant  roots.     Therefore, modestly, maybe an opinion from other side can be  opportune: that of a Spanish  man educated in the Catholic culture, 49  years old.        I knew the dictatorship of  general Franco until his  death in 1975. My school, a sort of military service for children governed  by religious priests was full of ignorance  - also known as &quot;Forbidden  Knowledge&quot;- as all Spain then. University was no much better. Ex- Nazi  refugees, altough no  great criminals, were no rare living  in Spain then.                Reading a Bible without censorship was difficult in my youth,   and also the known of the works of almost all authors mentioned in this  book. To explain the Theory of the Evolution from Darwin was virtually  forbidden.           Curiously, Mr. Shattuck mentions Cervantes several  times, but I think he has not well understood  it  because, yet insane, Don  Quijote, says the following phrase: &quot;By  freedom it can, and yet it  should be to risk the life&quot;.           Books as  these, are  attractive, but preoccupates me... because I have known very little  knowledge and many, many prohibitions.  I don't deny the value of the  common sense, and we don't use all  things what are invented: simply we  can't.            And I don't believe me a God neither nothing similar...  this must be clear because -no doubt- the English God writes would be much  better than mine.	1998-12-10
