US	52350147	R24G4W4ZD5KLZ6	0801857074	647051713	Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Read this book.  Now.	This is a very important book.  Gross and Levitt are, respectively, scientists trained in biology and mathematics.  They are also broadly-educated individuals who are able to deal with postmodern (and other) challenges to science on those challenges' terms.  They have done considerable homework in preparing to write this book and some of their analyses of postmodern thought are among the most astute and crisp that I have seen.  Moreover, the book is eminently readable.  The style is firm but graceful.  Reading it is not only a pleasure in itself, but a reaffirmation of the possibilities and benefits of broad liberal arts education.  While the issues are current ones, the authorial voice is one of 'old school' erudition informed by deep humanity.<br /><br />There is a danger that the book could be considered a polemic since its rhetoric is very direct.  Punches are not pulled; euphemisms are not substituted.  Nevertheless, while the book provides the pleasures offered by a great polemic it still enjoys the weight and point of serious argument.  It makes its scholarly case.<br /><br />This is must reading for all who work in the humanities and social sciences and seek to understand the assaults to which science has been subjected as well as those assaults' etiology.  The continual question that haunts everyone confronting postmodern thought is, how can serious people believe such stuff?  This book provides a number of plausible answers to that question.	2005-10-12
US	52350147	R264LU1P3HATF	1566635055	148129111	Life at the Bottom: The Worldview That Makes the Underclass	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Must reading (and a desideratum)	Dalrymple has now given us several books that explore the behavior of the underclass and the manner in which academic theory has stimulated public policy which reinforces rather than reduces that behavior.  The stories that provide living examples of that behavior are compelling and engaging.  The subtexts are equally engaging.  What is the nature of the bureaucracy which feeds on dysfunctionality but does not ameliorate it?  What is the nature of the political 'leadership' which ensures its own success and survival by perpetuating the dysfunctionality?<br /><br />I would love to see Dalrymple do a book in which he explores at length the clash between his Hobbesian take on human nature and the Rousseau/Marx-inspired view that is its contrary.  Why do utopian views persist in a world that has known the gulags and the holocaust?  Why do emotion-laden theories and policies persist in the face of recalcitrant realities?  To what degree are the 'debates' authentic and to what degree are they shams?  Does discredited theory persist in order to keep the 'underclass industry' in place?  How do we walk the line between permissive decadence on the one hand and authoritarian constraint on the other?  How do \\"reasonable people\\" (i.e. those who don't want a world of constant obscenity and irresponsibility on the one hand, nor a world in which we will be whipped for chewing gum on the other) play a greater role in this effort?  How do we give voice to those (are they a silent majority?) who neither desire a return to a bigoted and puritanical past nor a continuation of the crudity, violence, and ignorance of the present?	2005-10-10
US	52350147	RCBAPIOR3HJVC	1566636434	344320630	Our Culture, What's Left of It: The Mandarins and the Masses	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A small caveat emptor	Just a word of warning.  The subtitle of the book suggests that its overarching theme is the relationship between well-meaning theory and disastrous real-world results.  Since this is a collection of discrete essays the 'theme' is much more a leitmotif.  The essays themselves are superb, but they are ultimately freestanding.  What links the pieces and unifies the book is (as always) the personal vision and deep experience of the essayist.  This particular essayist happens also to be very well read and a highly-skilled writer.  Five stars for the essays qua essays, but don't take up the book expecting a rigorous, detailed argument on the relationship between cultural theory and cultural catastrophe (though Dalrymple is doubtless capable of writing such a book).	2005-10-01
US	52350147	RNXO9HXVWPKUZ	0743277198	86157417	Crusader's Cross: A Dave Robicheaux Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	The Reviews Tell the Story	Check out the other Amazon reviews.  The commonalities are clear.  No one is more consistent than Burke.  No one writes with the lush, lyric beauty of this man, who has been called the Faulkner of crime fiction.  It is particularly poignant to read CRUSADER'S CROSS in the wake of Katrina's devastation; the sense of loss--already powerful in Burke's writing--is magnified.  No one can match his sense of place.<br /><br />In this novel Dave's struggles with the past are amplified by the presence of his brother, Jimmie, and--as always, the presence of Clete Purcel adds a further dollop of violence, impulsiveness, and borderline irrationality which somehow simultaneously reinforces our sense of justice achieved.  There is a shortage of courtroom mysteries and reviewers of such novels sometimes indicate to readers and devotees the proportion of the narrative that transpires in the courtroom proper.  With a Burke novel I want to know how many scenes there are featuring Clete Purcel, Burke's Hawk.  There are never enough, of course, but there are enough here to satisfy the most demanding reader.<br /><br />The key to the Robicheaux novels is that it is impossible to rank them in terms of quality and accomplishment.  Their hallmark is their creator's dazzling consistency.	2005-09-13
US	52350147	RZC248M8LJ5GN	0231134177	561609152	Theory's Empire: An Anthology of Dissent	Books	5	36	40	N	Y	A Very Important Book	Theory's Empire is a very important addition to the doorstop-level anthologies dealing with what-in the humanities and soft social sciences-is broadly termed \\"theory.\\"  Subtitled \\"an anthology of dissent\\" its editors seek to challenge the conclusions and highlight the shortcomings of a collection of -isms currently practiced within the academy.<br /><br />The high water mark of Theory is now in the past but this anthology is still very much welcome since there is still life left in the dying dragon and-as in the conclusion of the first book of the Faerie Queene-the young need to be warned to keep a prudent distance lest they be harmed by the beast or the 'dragonettes, his fruitfull seede' that may still linger in some hidden nest within the dragon's womb.<br /><br />The contributions include some classic pieces from prior-generation, distinguished commentators such as Ren&eacute; Wellek and M. H. Abrams as well as very recent ones, some written for this volume.  There is a little shrillness here and there, but by and large these are not so much 'culture war' attacks as they are substantive criticisms of very real issues, such as Derrida's actual knowledge of modern linguistics or the accuracy of his reading of Saussure.  Theory is notorious for its politicization of the academy and it is important to have thoughtful commentators such as Alan Sokal, Russell Jacoby, Todd Gitlin, and Noam Chomsky, whose opposition to aspects of Theory cannot be attributed to their political alignments.  Ad hominem smears are common weapons in the Theory arsenal and the editors have sought to immunize themselves against such attacks by including the works of individuals whose credentials, prior associations, and personal body of work cannot be attacked as easily as, e.g., a noticeably conservative, non-academic such as Roger Kimball.  The price we pay for this is the absence of pieces by such delicious combatants as Camille Paglia, but given the stakes we pay it.<br /><br />Since this is an anthology of dissent there is more emphasis on the sins and shortcomings of the dying tyrant than on constructive plans for the future, but there are some such plans here and they are interesting and suggestive.  For all the talk of popular culture within \\"cultural studies\\" it is often so narrow and formulaic in its approach that one is grateful for a piece like Marjorie Perloff's which discusses, among other things, the robust persistence of interest in traditional writers and traditional methods exhibited in actual popular culture on the internet.<br /><br />Nearly every essay is clear and accessible and some (Crews's, e.g.) rise to the level of masterpieces.  It is too early to predict the ultimate importance of this collection, but the blog buzz is intense at this point.  I do not think it is an overstatement to suggest that it should be read by every practitioner within the humanities and every interested observer who has followed the decline of the humanities and wondered-in the face of the constant contradictions, enormities, self-defeating absurdities and, above all, the endless, dull predictabilities-of Theory how such a collection of ideas and attitudes could ever achieve prominence in the face of evidence, logic, and above all, common sense.  It is very reassuring to hear Chomsky say, in effect, that he is at a similar loss and to point out that Theory has never successfully proposed a workable alternative to what can be termed, in shorthand, rationality and the scientific method.an anthology of dissent there is more emphasis on the sins and shortcomings of the dying tyrant than on constructive plans for the future, but there are some such plans here and they are interesting and suggestive.  For all the talk of popular culture within \\"cultural studies\\" it is often so narrow and formulaic in its approach that one is grateful for a piece like Marjorie Perloff's which discusses, among other things, the robust persistence of interest in traditional writers and traditional methods exhibited in actual popular culture on the internet. <br /> <br />Nearly every essay is clear and accessible and some (Crews's, e.g.) rise to the level of masterpieces.  It is too early to predict the ultimate importance of this collection, but the blog buzz is intense at this point.  I do not think it is an overstatement to suggest that it should be read by every practitioner within the humanities and every interested observer who has followed the decline of the humanities and wondered-in the face of the constant contradictions, enormities, self-defeating absurdities and, above all, the endless, dull predictabilities-of Theory how such a collection of ideas and attitudes could ever achieve prominence in the face of evidence, logic, and above all, common sense.  It is very reassuring to hear Chomsky say, in effect, that he is at a similar loss and to point out that Theory has never successfully proposed a workable alternative to what can be termed, in shorthand, rationality and the scientific method. <br />	2005-08-31
US	52350147	R2FZD5TG1Z5M2S	0399150927	6197678	Double Tap (Paul Madriani Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Worth Waiting For	As all avid readers of Steve Martini know, there was a delay in this book's publication.  It was well worth waiting for, perhaps Martini's best to date.  Readers love courtroom drama and within genre fiction courtroom drama is always in short supply.  Also, Martini's prose is becoming smoother with age, though his editor might have made some pertinent suggestions that would have reduced the (few) clunker lines of dialogue and description.<br /><br />The plot turns on a government computer plot which is both engaging and plausible and--perhaps with a nod to Wilkie Collins and the roots of mystery fiction--Martini includes a piece of art glass whose loss adds a neat mini- subplot.  The legal maneuvering is impeccable and Madriani's thrusts and parries in cross examination are exquisite.  This is Martini's real turf and he is a master of his domain.  I kept thinking of an old line from Scaramouche.  In the midst of a desperate fight his opponent informs him that he is the greatest swordsman in France.  The rejoinder: \\"The Italian masters taught me a thing or two.\\"  Martini is the Italian master.	2005-08-30
US	52350147	R3G6PSG07X3DWO	0743260929	436711866	The Twelfth Card: A  Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Predictably fresh	The trick to all great writing (and especially to great genre writing) is to do old things in fresh ways.  The tried and true, without novelty, is dull and predictable.  The truly 'novel', lacking an anchor in nature and convention, is simply weird.  No one understands this better than Deaver, who characteristically combines fresh material (usually forensic material, but sometimes historical material) with the key elements of thriller/suspense.  In THE TWELFTH CARD he even adds one of the chestnuts of traditional fiction, the appearance of a mysterious stranger, who enjoys a special relationship with one of the central characters.  My only reservation is that he also, characteristically, includes at least two 'unexpected' twists and turns as the narrative moves to its conclusion.  Since he does this consistently, the plot twists lose their impact, at least for his devotees (among whom I count myself), who come to expect them.	2005-08-22
US	52350147	R9N1R26WA8QXE	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Near Classic	This novel has received great acclaim and a succession of awards.  A hard-edged 'village' cozy, it is ambitious in its reach and largely successful in its execution.  Caveat emptor, however.  The first half is very, very slow, while the second half flies.  It tries your patience but then rewards it.  It also meet the full expectations of genre, by being both 'unique' and 'faithful' simultaneously.  However, while it looks very different from most novels of its kind it is, simultaneously, extreme in its conventionality.<br /><br />It is a novel within a novel and, hence, recalls the 18th- and 19th-century antecedents in which a created narrative voice is seen from multiple time levels.  The usual form is one in which an individual has found an earlier document and 'edits' it.  Alternatively, a figure in the present examines a document from the past and the time/past and time/present narratives exist in parallel.  This is a common 20th-century variant on the earlier models.  A PLACE OF EXECUTION builds on this model, successfully, and then offers a 'twist' ending.  The 'twist', however, is also a very conventional one.  Christie readers, e.g., will not be surprised.<br /><br />Thus, in retrospect, the novel is a conventional one, but it does not feel conventional while one is reading it.  In part that is due to its length and the heavy texturing which characterizes the first half.  DO read it, but gird yourself for a 'cozy' conclusion following a near-epic exposition.	2005-08-08
US	52350147	RF625HS389DVS	0399152776	340940705	Appaloosa	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	On the Stretch	As I've written before, it's always good to get Parker off of autopilot, out of Boston and put him on a slight stretch.  Under those conditions you see his real skills as a writer.  In a different time and a different setting he is forced to develop a sense of place, a sense of language and a sense of character and he's always up to the task.  There's no feeling of exaggeration, with heavyhanded indications that he's now in his 'western mode'.  The people, places, language, and attentiveness to nuance are all spot on.  As in all good genre writing there is a faithfulness to expectation.  The plot is traditional--the nasty, tyrannical, lawless rancher vs. the hapless townfolk, who bring in the hired guns--and there are nice set pieces (a tracking scene across great distances, ruminations on gender relationships in the old west, some local color and historical authenticity with a Kiowa brave counting coup).  My only reservation concerns the ending, which comes a little too quickly, a little too neatly, and is a tad short on blood, gore, and justice/vengeance.  Nevertheless, this is a strong western, at least the equal of its predecessor  and top summer reading.	2005-07-01
US	52350147	R2FOV3RUE6SVQY	0385336683	516019731	One Shot (Jack Reacher, No. 9)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Always Dependable	Lee Child may be the most dependable writer working the mystery/suspense scene.  While ONE SHOT may not be his best, it is very, very good, and remember--Lee Child's next best is way ahead of the rest of the pack.  I am always impressed by this native of Cumbria's ability to nail the American landscape.  He can do the desert southwest or coastal Maine.  This time out Jack is in Indiana.<br /><br />The 'mystery' is not deep or convoluted and the plot is not complex and deeply imagined, but the story is crisp, the characters are interesting, and there are no wasted words.  As always, one simply cannot stop reading once one has started.  Lee Child owes his entire readership a good night's sleep and we all owe him our thanks for delivering so dependably.	2005-06-29
US	52350147	R3DBA3BN8B5WTY	0670034061	634172560	The Right Madness	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	Don't be like CW	Do not try to read this book if you are under the control of any substances, including a full meal.  It requires your utter and complete attention.  For various reasons I was forced to read it in fits and starts, mostly late at night.  The plot is more like one of CW's nightmares than a linear narrative.  But here's the Crumley magic--once in, even if you're totally confused, you can't stop reading.  CW's voice remains as unique as the circumstances in which he finds himself and, ironically, even when you're lost within the plot you re-discover that Crumley is the master at rendering a sense of place.  He knows the west and the northern plains and here takes you on a trip that would curl the most experienced tour director's locks.	2005-06-19
US	52350147	R1NDE5IWZCLVJF	006076340X	92756786	The Final Solution: A Story of Detection	Books	2	8	22	N	Y	Sorry folks, PW got it right	Publishers Weekly said it all: \\"Neither a proper mystery nor particularly fine literature, this haunting novella, for all its strengths, lies uneasily between the two and will fully please few fans of each. \\"  Readers of art novels may find a respite here, but devotees of mystery, suspense, and crime are unlikely to do so.  The characters are not very interesting and there is inadequate space to develop them.  I can't decide whether the book is missing a third act or a first and third act, but it's missing something with regard to plot.  The texture is OK, but a far cry from the atmospherics of, e.g., a James Lee Burke.  The saddest thing is that the question being posed--what is the parrot talking about?--is given more prominence than the characters, the plot, the mystery or criminality at the heart and (WARNING--SPOILER ALERT) the answer to the question is telegraphed in the jacket design.  It was the old man himself who said that when you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, is the truth.  The book is not like, e.g., PRESUMED INNOCENT--in which the reader anticipates the ending from the beginning, hoping against hope that he or she is wrong, and then discovers (ouch!) that he or she is unfortunately right.  Instead, the book poses the question--could the parrot be talking about a?  b?  c?  d?  You look at the cover, guess \\"e\\" and discover at the end that you are right.  The deflated response is particularly unfortunate, given the historical enormity at the center of the answer.	2004-12-03
US	52350147	R396022NOEQGAP	0375422498	309584716	The Wake-Up: A Novel	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	The New Master	Great crime writing is not easily accomplished, but the key to it is easily stated--the feel of total freshness accompanied by absolute fidelity to the genre.  The new master of this activity is Robert Ferrigno and THE WAKE-UP solidifies his position.  The characters are quirky and engaging, the plot unexpected and clever, the one-liners classic.  One line in particular sets a new standard.  Unfortunately, it cannot be quoted here.  It is a world-weary musing on the degree to which every job becomes just that, something you do because you're paid to do it.  The line concerns a service-industry worker for the King of Siam.  Check it out and then try to forget it.  You won't be able to do so.	2004-08-25
US	52350147	R3S1ZCRYL60Z7H	0939767384	903384680	Deliver Me from Dallas	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Thank you, Dennis McMillan	Once again, we are all in debt to Dennis McMillan for reprinting this Charles Willeford gem.  Jesse Sublett discusses the Gold Medal original and the recovered manuscript and speculates on the parts written by Willeford vs. the parts written by his co-author.  The overall feel is pure Willeford and many of the chapters are unmistakably his.  This is a delicious piece of pulp fiction, beautifully conceived and beautifully plotted.  The ending is very satisfying, though a bit unexpected.  They don't write 'em like this any more because they can't.  We're all overdue for a Willeford revival of the sort Jim Thompson experienced a few years back.  This guy can do it all, from the pulpiest confection such as this to a masterful art novel/sendup like THE BURNT ORANGE HERESY.  And his two-volume autobiography?  Unforgettable.  If you don't know Willeford you've got a huge treat in store.  Enjoy.  Kick back, find yourself a nice comfy chair in a decorous surrounding, hold up your trade paperback copy of KISS YOUR ASS GOODBYE and watch the civilians gawk.	2004-07-09
US	52350147	R2GT47T43C20CH	0399151885	102390096	Double Play	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	At the top of his form	This is Parker on the stretch, away from his favorite characters, away from his Boston setting, plunged into the past.  When he's stretched he's at the top of his form and demonstrates his moves on every page.<br />Most of all, the Jackie Robinson story is a story about a time and the first third of the book is background.  Parker does the postwar period masterfully and the interspersed personal chapters are a nice, innovative touch.  They've drawn some criticism, unwarranted in my opinion.<br />The characters are fresh, the plotting and dialogue as economical as the best Parker, the resolution touching.  I read it straight through, disrupting all of my prior plans for the day, and not regretting a moment of it.	2004-07-07
US	52350147	R3IVND7TCK60A5	0060198303	120943125	The Burglar on the Prowl (Block, Lawrence)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Why I prefer Matt Scudder	Everything Block writes is worth reading, but this is more for the cozy reader.  It's a little talky.  The plot appears to meander.  Only at the end do we see how complex it all is.  There are bows to genre which are conventional to the point of spoofy irony--locked room problems, mystification, misdirection, McGuffins, and a resolution before the assembled dramatis personae.  That resolution is complex to the point of tedium.  It's all done with a great light touch and fully displays Block's skills and powers, but readers whose tastes run to the harder boiled should be warned that this may not be to their liking.	2004-07-07
US	52350147	R2K07JFOKUI19X	0385336675	649745987	The Enemy (Jack Reacher, No. 8)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Pitch Perfect	What is more gratifying and stimulating than observing the work of an absolute master?  In what has become an unparalleled series Lee Child offers us a prequel, with fascinating personal elements, plus all the usual--brilliant plotting, skilled characterization, an attractive protagonist, and a wonderful sense of place, the latter all the more impressive considering that Child is an Englishman who characteristically depicts rural as well as urban America.  Only one quibble--this time his Englishness peeks through on a couple occasions.  Very few Americans would use the word 'greengrocer' and in the U.S. Army we would speak of Armor officers and Armor branch, not Armored.  Having said that, the Reacher books remain the standard against which all mystery/thriller writing should be measured.  I had a fresh delivery of new books that included THE ENEMY, all books by such masters as Parker, Block, Connelly, Kellerman, and a fugitive title by Charles Willeford.  I opened the Amazon box and ripped out THE ENEMY.  Dessert first.	2004-06-07
US	52350147	R323CNI5O0O1SN	0399151451	786542099	Bad Business (Spenser Mystery)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Predictably good	It is hard to conceive of a bad Parker novel.  By now his skills are so honed, his characters so familiar, his dialogue so effortless, his sense of place so assured and his plots so polished that he is the safest buy in crime fiction.<br />This is good, average Parker, with very deft depiction of the accounting scams motivating the crime.  As others have noted, the Enron parallels are explicit, there is too much Susan and too little action.  Still, we buy the books and enjoy them.<br />We all continue to wonder, however, what Parker could do if he really put his mind to it, sent Susan and Pearl, incommunicado, to the farthest reaches of the globe, and focused on Hawk and Vinnie in a good old fashioned bloodfest.  That might be his gift to his faithful readers for enduring the kissy face, dainty eating, cutesy-poo talk and dog slobber all these years.	2004-05-10
US	52350147	R2SM445GJXOS8V	0060083956	843453239	Mr. Paradise	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Master's Touch	Don't miss this one.  EL is doing his full-tilt boogie and he's doing it in Detroit.  Great, Runyonesque thickie characters, unlikely but delicious romantic subplots and a plot that is tighter than a drumskin in July.  The Master is back and he's in his comic mode.  GET SHORTY remains his masterpiece but this comes very close.  Buy.  Read.  Enjoy.	2004-03-11
US	52350147	R1ZEVPCEDSA1PP	0345452577	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Wait for the paperback	There is no such thing as a bad Jonathan Kellerman novel, but some are better than others.  This standalone presents a number of problems.  The protagonist is a close approximation of Dr. D, but with few of his more attractive traits.  Dr. C is too tentative, too young, too soft.  The plot is interesting and complex, a nice variant on an old theme, but with no interesting twists and turns.  Finally, the setting is fictitious, so we lose some of the texture and local color associated with Kellerman's best work (e.g. BILLY STRAIGHT).  Having said that, the narrative is lean, the story interesting, the writing always expert.  I didn't devour the book, but I returned to it whenever I got the chance.  This would be a top book if Kellerman were not a top talent who always raises our expectations.  Read it, but wait for the paperback.	2003-12-29
US	52350147	R24TFQJXXW2PYI	0743251466	681520534	Something's Down There: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Maybe it's me?	I'm not sure that this is a novel for diehard fans, since it lacks the clear, lean narrative that usually characterizes this master's works.  There are too many characters, too many vague plot lines, too much texture, too much technical detail.  There is not enough grit, not enough action, not enough memorable one-liners.<br />In short, it's not your usual Mickey Spillane book.  Here, he's doing things that others do much better rather than doing the things that no one can do like him.  For a weathered, government operative with old values and old expressions, go for a Donald Hamilton, who can also do boats and action at sea.<br />Maybe it's just me.  This is a guy who always deserves the benefit of the doubt.  Keep writing, Mickey.	2003-12-19
US	52350147	R24IHG65BFHHXO	037575864X	195458576	Hollowpoint: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Caveat Emptor	This is a well-written novel about crime, but not a novel that meets the expectations of those seeking 'crime fiction.'  This is art fiction, short on incident, long on characterization.  While it held my attention it was not in any way suspenseful.  Nor was it comic.  Something bad has happened to a good man.  We eventually learn the mundane but still shattering details.  In the meantime he is working on another case which ultimately elucidates his own situation.  That's about it, along with some reflections on Brooklyn which are nicely done.  This is not, however, a heavily textured reflection on place of the sort associated with a master like James Lee Burke.  While the Brooklyn portrayed is darker than Jonathan Lethem's it is not so fully realized as to be a central presence in its own right.  My guess is that readers of art fiction are generally not readers of crime fiction and the former may have taken this novel to be the sort of thing read by the latter.  It isn't, but it's well done.	2003-11-28
US	52350147	R32ZSWODKPP8BN	1400061563	942724151	Death by Hollywood: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	A Nice Dessert	DEATH BY HOLLYWOOD is a nice confection served up by a writer who knows his way around the kitchen.  The plot works, the characters are stereotypical (we'd be disappointed if they weren't) and the narrative is laced with jokes and anecdotes.  There is something about Hollywood that leads to spicy anecdotes and off-center quotes.  Part of it is the get-rich-quick/get-poor-quick ethos; part of it is the argot of Jewish moguls from the east who ran an industry that was unfamiliar but which they came to understand in their own way; part of it is the trove of stories that undergird every new story.  Whatever it is, Bochco understands it and taps into it.  This is a quick read and good fun.	2003-11-28
US	52350147	R2I16GWQZWONMQ	0399149910	734300010	Wolf Pass	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Old Reliable	I always look forward to a new book by Steve Thayer and I'm never disappointed.  He characteristically mixes time levels in interesting and creative ways and manages to write period pieces from a contemporary perspective without sacrificing period detail.  In WOLF PASS he's back in Kickapoo Falls, WI with trips to such local mainstays as Devil's Lake and the Wisconsin Dells.  I spent 12 years of my life in those environs and Thayer has nailed them.  As usual, there's the perfect mix of plot, setting, and character with appropriate dollops of sex and, in this case, nazis.  Who could ask for more?<br />Steve Thayer is also highly skilled at depicting real people and real events in ways that demonstrate the fiction writer's art.  In this book, for example, there is a plot line involving an assassination attempt that targets President Kennedy.  Hey, you know it's not going to happen, because JFK didn't die in St. Paul, but you're still worried.  You're in the hands of a pro and he's making you squirm.<br />Very nice work.	2003-09-02
US	52350147	R2RQ7ZVK5O0E6Z	1893554120	824181499	The Killing of History: How Literary Critics and Social Theorists Are Murdering Our Past	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	A decisive critique	This is a superb book, one that not only deflates the arguments of postmodern theory, but gets down to cases, demonstrating the flaws of postmodernism's pomps and works in treating discrete episodes of human history.  This is not a screed, but a carefully and meticulously argued case.  Armed with common sense and hard facts Windschuttle demonstrates the emptiness of those methods which proceed without them.  The book is weighty and detailed, but Windschuttle writes with a light touch and a sure hand.  The writing is exceptional and the results decisive.	2003-07-25
US	52350147	R37XKAF0MLFI6N	0767913744	543858044	Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod	Books	4	1	5	N	Y	The snake in the garden	This is a book that has received criticism of various kinds.  The most valid concerns the absence of photographs.  The book could be categorized as unresolved true crime.  It reminded me of a failed book--the early true crime account of Bob Crane which built to a crescendo only to leave the reader hanging.  Who did it?  We don't know.  Maria Flook is too accomplished a writer to fall into that trap.  She assures us from the outset that the murderer of Christa Worthington remains at large, unidentified.  What she then gives us is a portrait of a community, the arc of a life, and the manner in which the two intersected.  It is all very well done.  I doubt that the residents appreciate the gritty treatment to which their community is subjected and apparently the family has not appreciated the gritty treatment of the victim.  The portraiture is very plausible, however, and quite compelling.  Expos&eacute;s of towns are not particularly original, but the portrayal of a protagonist whose behavior and personality are generally unattractive is a real challenge, one to which the author rises successfully.  Giving us such portraiture without photographs, however, does leave us feeling incomplete and frustrated.  Thank God for the internet.	2003-07-18
US	52350147	R1143JH1P8ATXA	0300075790	10029602	Literature Lost: Social Agendas and the Corruption of the Humanities	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Excellent, but ultimately very sad	This is an excellent book, but ultimately a very sad one.  The shortcomings of contemporary 'literary' fads and fashions are identified and effectively countered, but that is likely to make very little difference in practice.<br />Issues of Race, Class, and Gender are of enormous importance in our society and they should be addressed using the most sophisticated professional means at our disposal.  Literature departments, however, do not utilize the methods of analysis of the social and natural sciences and these issues are significantly elucidated through such methods.  Instead, we have something much more akin to passionate advocacy than dispassionate analysis.<br />For example, the fact that Ellis successfully demonstrates such things as palpable errors in logic will make no difference to advocates.  They will respond by claiming that logic is a tool of oppression rather than an independent check on sloppy thinking.  They have, in effect, so structured the 'debate' that objections to their positions will not be met with counter arguments or counter evidence, but by ad hominem attacks and allegations of racism, sexism, and so on.<br />Rather than bring the full strengths of the academy to bear on issues of great importance, the discussion is politicized in ways that are quite familiar.  What could be a reasoned discussion of an important issue becomes a shouting match between a James Carville and an Ann Coulter.  Meetings which might be convened for the exchange of scholarly information become support sessions in which prejudices are confirmed and dissenting voices silenced.  Rather than marshalling intellectual support, advocates marshal political support.<br />This is very sad, not just because it undercuts the position and purposes of the academy, but because it precludes any analysis of important issues that might challenge prevailing orthodoxy.  It is also sad because the viable alternatives to such practices (outliving the proponents, waiting for or even attempting to hasten the eventual exodus of students, deploring this state of affairs before the general public and funding sources) do damage to an enterprise that is inherently good and worthy.attempting to hasten the eventual exodus of students, deploring this state of affairs before the general public and funding sources) do damage to an enterprise that is inherently good and worthy.	2003-07-07
US	52350147	R2M9GWASPWH3WD	0385336667	530810768	Persuader (Jack Reacher, No. 7)	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Some people wait for the next Harry Potter	Some people wait for the next Harry Potter, devouring it the moment it appears and then waiting, impatiently, for the next.  I wait for the next Jack Reacher.  Lee Child does so many things well that I would need many more words than the 1,000 permitted to do them justice, but suffice to say that he is the absolute master of tension and suspense (with or without car chases), he has one of the most interesting protagonists currently in the game, he has a better knowledge of ordnance than Q and he has a highly skilled sense of place, particularly for an Englishman from Cumbria concentrating on the nooks and crannies of gothic, backroads America.<br />PERSUADER finds Jack in a chance encounter with an old enemy.  The thrust of the novel then becomes the neutralizing of this enemy through a relationship with an intermediary.  Child quick-cuts between the horror of the past and the impending justice of the present, so that we travel two roads, the first appalling in its evil, the second delicious in its payback.  The timing is perfect, the execution precise.<br />I wouldn't rank one of Child's books above the others because they are all uniformly strong.  He had it right from the beginning and he never disappoints.	2003-07-06
US	52350147	RQKXPBK84RKJZ	1559706643	918070082	Black Dahlia Avenger	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Buy, read, and enjoy	By all means buy, read, and enjoy this book.  The cultural history alone is worth the price.  Steve Hodel's father George, the perp according to Steve, lived in a famous house on Franklin in Hollywood, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright's son.  Steve believes this famous house to be the likely site of the murder of Elizabeth Short.  One of George Hodel's friends was the photographer and famed artist, Man Ray, some of whose work (Steve believes) bears directly on the case.  Steve's mother's first husband was John Huston; in going to Huston for money Steve and his brothers meet Gregory Peck.  Perhaps most interesting of all is the suggestion that George Hodel's killing partner, a man named Sexton, might well be the 'swarthy man' responsible for the murder of Geneva Ellroy, James Ellroy's mother.<br />As a former member of the LAPD, Steve offers stories about Parker, Thad Brown, and other worthies at the top of the command chain, some of whom are accused here of perpetrating a mass coverup to protect the identity of George Hodel.<br />The result is a great historical read, whether Steve's argument for his father's guilt is accurate or not.  The strongest point in his favor appears to be the handwriting evidence which he adduces.  The most curious part of the case concerns the impetus behind the investigation.  After his father's death Steve saw his father's prized photo album, which contained a number of pictures of women with whom his father was involved.  Lo and behold, smack dab in the middle of the album, there are two pictures of Elizabeth Short!  The only problem is that they don't look like her.  At all.  The high cheek bones are the most notable feature of Elizabeth Short and they're just not there.  Nevertheless, Steve (and a DA he enlists to examine his evidence) talk as if there's no doubt about the fact that the pictures are of Elizabeth Short.  That doesn't mean that George Hodel didn't kill her, but his son's radically different reading of this bit of evidence raises questions in my mind  (it has raised questions in the minds of others as well).nce raises questions in my mind  (it has raised questions in the minds of others as well).	2003-07-02
US	52350147	R1FANFT3NEKBVC	1400031192	658150268	The Getaway Man	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Let's hope this starts a trend	The reason this book appears to be so retro is that most of the current crime writers are trying to follow the editorial rules and transcend the genre.  The notion is that you have to reach a broader audience: noir with suspense, noir with horror, noir with psychological thrills, noir with . . . whatever.  How about noir straight up and in a dirty glass?  Here it is.  The REAL THING doesn't have to feel like a guilty pleasure.  It's the REAL THING.  So join Eddie and Vonda and J.C. and company on that dark road.  You know right where it's going but you still can't stop reading.<br />Let's hope this starts a trend.  What we need is a stable of solid writers of paperback originals.  The world hasn't felt right since Donald Hamilton stopped writing.  Thanks, Andrew, for reminding us how sweet it can be.	2003-06-22
US	52350147	RFX6DRZ3QHWHO	0316098736	415963045	The Last Good Day	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Move over Cheever and Updike	Welcome to the suburbs, crime-fiction style.  This is Peter Blauner's best since SLOW MOTION RIOT.  Thoreau says that most men lead lives of quiet desperation.  Here's exhibit A.  Except that the women are just as desperate.  And the police may or may not be of much help.  The Irish/Jewish interplay is honest and effective, the plotting superb, the middle-class tragic ending satisfying.  Considering the fact that most of the violence is psychological and the frightening atmospherics result largely from mundane suburban situations, this is impressive work indeed.  Blauner delivers all of the suspenseful un-put-downableness of a Lee Child, but with very different materials and in a quite different ethos.  Bravo.	2003-06-01
US	52350147	R2NRSI0EOU1SG8	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Top of the world, Ma	Robert Crais is there.  This is his best Elvis Cole novel to date and it's just about perfect.  I like a little more retribution when it's called for and I would have added another dab or two of the old ultra-violence, but that's a small cavil.  The plotting is exquisite, the characterization touching, and the themes resonant and pulsating.  I don't want to spoil anything, but the rearrangement of part of Elvis' life with a look ahead to future plots is wonderfully clever.<br />I am one who thought (as he himself feared) that Crais revealed too much about Joe in the previous novel but the revelations about Elvis here are apt.  They work very well, as do further revelations about Joe.<br />Reader warning: this is not the joking, wisecracking Elvis of yore.  Things are far more serious this time and the unrelenting plot and dark, driving tone are sustained throughout.<br />Powerful stuff.  Bravo, Mr. C.	2003-05-01
US	52350147	R2IZUYPDJISBTB	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The one to read.	While 'The Lovely Bones' deserves a wide audience, this is the one to read.  A true crime autobiography, this account of Alice Sebold's rape, identification of her assailant, and depiction of his trial and conviction is a moving and exceptional read.  It is a heroic tale, presenting both the heroism of her testimony and the heroism of her tenacity in committing herself to ultimate victory.  Painfully honest in its details (principally with regard to the members of her family and their reactions) there is a final sense of collective redemption that parallels that of 'The Lovely Bones.'  A powerful debut.  Violence enters a sweet and fragile world and ends up wishing it hadn't.  Read this book.  Bonus: no political correctness here.	2003-01-07
US	52350147	R1BKSQI279ARDB	0425184234	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nostromo (slightly lite)	It would be impertinent to call this novel 'Nostromo lite' because it is much more than that.  Basically this is an account of the effects of war upon a continent and the manner in which smaller murders link with larger ones.  It recalls Conrad's masterpiece, 'Nostromo' in the breadth of its canvas, the mixing of its time levels and the deft matching of historical sweep with personal detail.  With the exception of a few howler purple passages, the writing is effective (though not at Conrad's level) and the period detail, geography, and plot architectonics are very impressive.  This is a serious and significant piece of crime fiction.  And with Nazis!  If it is not quite up to the level of a master like Conrad it still manages to transcend genre in important ways.  At the same time it is faithful to genre in lovely ways, from the delineation of a lonely, tenacious protagonist to the depiction of a nearly-hollow universe.  Also a must read for anyone interested in Portugal and post-war history.	2003-01-07
US	52350147	R5JI9R3V9ZD77	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Fantastic Voyage	Michael Connelly's standalones are always exceptional.  CHASING THE DIME is in the same class as THE POET, a must read.  The subject is right out of today's headlines, headlines in SCIENCE or NATURE, that is.  Connelly's protagonist is in the midst of the nanotechnology revolution and, as usual, the money on the table leads to blood on the floor.  And on the bed.  And in a storage locker.<br />This is very close to perfect, with a few key exceptions.  The plot turns on two expectations: that an inventor/scientist named Henry can be a crime fiction hero and that he will have a sense of curiosity so hypertrophied that it will lead him to take unconscionable risks at just those points in his life when he has everything--both romantic and financial--to lose.  Both of these expectations are a stretch.<br />The plotting, however, is superb, the subject fascinating, the pacing state-of-the-art.  Suspend your disbelief and come along for the ride.	2002-11-05
US	52350147	R28Y4AOC7QHB50	0399149244	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Tighter story, fewer laughs	Readers expecting as many laughs as Dave Barry provided in this novel's predecessor are likely to be disappointed.  The good news is that the story is tighter.  Essentially, a collection of wacky characters travel from different directions, ending at a single plot point from whence a succession of conclusions (all mostly satisfying) follow.  We are still very much in Carl Hiaasen's Florida, depicted with Dave Barry's rhetorical techniques.  The problem is that the vehicle chosen--converging plot lines with quick-cuts between them just at the moments of maximum tension--requires that we care about the characters in order to be effective.  When the characters are stereotypical (or identified by minimal, sometimes scatological, details) we tend to lose that necessary interest and the whole house of cards collapses.  Bottom line: wait for the paperback.	2002-10-28
US	52350147	R2QS04W66UMO2M	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Hits Just Keep Comin'	They're all there--the heavy atmospherics, the weight of the past,  the good man who finally explodes in a rush of violence, the larger-than-life but plausible antagonist, prime southern gothic and the foods of the bayou.  I'd set it one position behind what for me is now Burke's masterpiece, PURPLE CANE ROAD, because the plot meanders a bit in the second act, but it's a very close second and the bar which Burke has set remains out of reach for all but a handful of contemporary writers.  Ladies and Gentlemen, this IS the state of the art.	2002-06-18
US	52350147	R2AP9NFKYEHFY0	0399148612	531181286	Without Fail (Jack Reacher)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Welcome to the School of Suspense	The ancients believed that writers should begin modestly and then work their way through the genres until they attained the skill to attempt the epic form.  Lee Child started at the top and he's not coming down from the mountain.<br />His books are marked by a very high and very even level of quality; each can be recommended with equal enthusiasm.  He is also one of the hardest working writers in the game, chasing down elusive facts and playing out exotic threads of detail.  Check out his riff on the U.S. constitution in WITHOUT FAIL (and the Holmesian homage as Jack explains its importance).<br />And yes, he is an Englishman (from Cumbria), though his subjects, ethos, and protagonist are all American.  Like Tim Willocks he is an Atlantic crime novelist, equally at home on either side of the water.<br />For those who may be concerned: relax, they love him in the U.K.  WITHOUT FAIL is disappearing from the shelves of British bookstores and Child is commanding major media attention in his homeland.  He is big, big, big.	2002-06-18
US	52350147	R9ZZCGW9YZAEL	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	4	6	8	N	N	the touch of  the master	This is not Elmore Leonard's best novel, but it has some of his best<br />lines ever and in Robert Taylor we may have found Leonard's best<br />character since Chili Palmer.<br />A civil war reprised, with the Detroit outfit taking over the drug<br />turf of the Dixie mafia, it culminates--exquisitely--in a reenactment<br />of a real civil war battle. Who but Elmore Leonard would come up with<br />that and who but Elmore Leonard would people his comic drama with<br />such a rich array of characters with thick heads and overactive<br />glands?<br />The master loses points for the convolutions of the plot and the<br />occasional difficulty the reader has in distinguishing the many<br />characters. Leonard knows right where he's going, but we have to hold<br />on very tight to stay with him.<br />Nevertheless, this is where the writers go to school--to hear a<br />character's snores described as 'zoo' sounds, and to see the details<br />of professional diving and the technicalities of civil war uniforms<br />and ordnance described with perfect accuracy.<br />N.B.: not for airplane reading; this one requires your full attention<br />(and repays it).	2002-04-15
US	52350147	R7WZG3C0UX3JD	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Look out, Lee Child	Crais's L.A. REQUIEM was well-received, though I had reservations about his decision to show a side of Joe Pike which ultimately weakened his force as Elvis' nearly invincible, shadowy partner, a character I call the avenging angel and compare with figures such as Parker's Hawk and Lehane's Bubba.<br />Since then Crais has written two freestanding novels, DEMOLITION ANGEL (which had a huge movie sale and of which we're likely to hear more) and HOSTAGE.  HOSTAGE is pure power plot.  The elements are thrown into the cauldron (SWAT burnout, vulnerable family, drifter defectives, the mob) and the relentless chemical reaction follows.<br />HOSTAGE gives new meaning to the term 'page-turner'; it's a page ripper.  Its only competition is every book by Lee Child.  I would give Child the nod at this point, since HOSTAGE is so light on character and setting.  The dramatis personae are all very familiar and there is relatively little narrative texture to impede (but also enrich) the plot.<br />Child is the master of this form and Jack Reacher is a more interesting and unusual (without being weird) character than Jeff Talley.  He also takes us to a host of interesting places.  But thank the lord;  you can read both of these skilled writers, each of whom is at the top of his game.	2002-01-13
US	52350147	R1QVGNLG3MQ3TV	1582341400	86601151	A Cook's Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Spotty Road Trip	First caveat: this is not a search for the perfect meal.  Tony admits that such a concept is ludicrous (p. 272).  Actually, a delightful search for the elements of such a meal is the subject of WHO IS KILLING THE GREAT CHEFS OF EUROPE? (1978), with George Segal, Jacqueline Bisset, and the great Robert Morley, a tale that is structured far more effectively than A COOK'S TOUR.<br />This tour is reminiscent (beyond homage) of one of Michael Palin's, in which the world's garden spots are bypassed in favor of treks up foetid rivers in uncertain vehicles.  Tony gushes over Vietnam, drags us to Cambodia, and skips Italy. He expresses his love of haggis and manages to stomach a still-beating cobra heart, but then joins the throng of obeisant admirers of the French Laundry in Yountville.  He blisters his body in an overheated Russian sauna, then jumps into frozen waters.  Sorry, Tony; include me out.<br />Of course, none of this matters.  The book is not about food; it is about the ethos of food and Tony's reaction to that ethos.  That reaction is always interesting.  How many people can write a book this uneven and yet consistently sustain the reader's attention?  Tony's take on food and the people who create and enjoy it has not changed substantially from KITCHEN CONFIDENTIAL, though A COOK'S TOUR pays more attention to the diner's perspective than that of the cook.  For a cinematic representation of the New York kitchen of KITCHEN CONFIDENTIAL, see the excellent film, DINNER RUSH.  (And when you make your pilgrimage to the notoriously noisy Les Halles, simply skip lunch, eat an early, quiet dinner, and enjoy.  Yes, the wait staff all love Tony and yes, the frites are fabulous.)<br />In short, this is a book for those who can't get enough of Tony and his take on things.  Their number is large and growing.  That take is more or less libertarian, the point (as was often said in the 60's) where the far right and the far left meet. The result is a point of view that is politically incorrect, gonzo, but also commonsensical.  It is a welcome voice in many ways, but Tony--forget the haggis and the still-beating cobra hearts.  Take us to Vina del Mar for some pisco sours or to any of the restaurants in Cortona.  Let Michael Palin get eaten by bugs.  Take us to the Dordogne.ally incorrect, gonzo, but also commonsensical.  It is a welcome voice in many ways, but Tony--forget the haggis and the still-beating cobra hearts.  Take us to Vina del Mar for some pisco sours or to any of the restaurants in Cortona.  Let Michael Palin get eaten by bugs.  Take us to the Dordogne.	2001-12-30
US	52350147	RBHZMGOV0M0EN	0375401253	285859776	Flinch	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Ferrigno's Best Since THE HORSE LATITUDES	THE HORSE LATITUDES (with the accompanying explanation) was one of the best crime titles since THE BIG SLEEP and I, THE JURY.  FLINCH is Ferrigno's best novel since his smash debut.  A brother vs. brother book, the setting is Babylon, California-style and Babylon is crowded.  In addition to the brothers Gage there is a rich mix of subsidiary characters--nearly an ensemble cast--and the narration cuts between individuals and individual time levels, first revealing enormities and then depicting them in detail.<br />The texture is dense and neatly-layered, the plot rhythms are perfect and the triple-climax conclusion is pure genre gold--all in all a lovely mix of pain and pleasure, tears and laughter, instruction and entertainment.  This is the Sodom and Gomorrah Express, with all the right stops along the way and a satisfying conclusion.<br />Like Ellroy, the farther Ferrigno gets from Southern California, the greater his capacity for nailing it.  This is an up to date cultural tour as well as prime crime fiction.	2001-12-26
US	52350147	R1YQE2GP7ZIHAZ	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Classic Block With a Twist	Lawrence Block has always been able to demonstrate the possibility of writing complex mysteries in crystal-clear prose.  He is the master of the difficult task of making things look easy.<br />In HOPE TO DIE Matt Scudder is 62 and while the book does not dwell on it unnecessarily, it does take a more personal turn.  His ex-wife dies; we learn more about his two sons, and we see him in domestic circumstances with Elaine.  We also see more of T.J., the figure who might normally serve as the black buddy in the wilderness but in the Scudder novels also figures as the cool kid brother or surrogate son, hip to computer technology, the possible uses of cell phones and other information age devices.<br />This is a nice touch.  It enables Block to bring these cultural devices into his fiction without turning Matt (who resists them) into an implausible Mr. Wizard.<br />There are nice views of the upper west side and several trips to Brooklyn, with recurring riffs on the curious nature of its streets and their naming.<br />The twist in the story is its conclusion, which opens the door to sequels.  In sum, this is classic Block--smooth as the seat of an accountant's pants.  The perp is interesting enough and Matt and T.J. serve up handsome slices of weltschmerz.  If you're tithing like Matt, save some money for this book.	2001-12-22
US	52350147	R8GUVIT1LC763	0312202296	397556684	At Home in the World: A Memoir	Books	5	48	54	N	Y	Spot the Phony	This is a don't miss, one of the best autobiographies of the last decade.  Joyce Maynard's subject, here and elsewhere, is Joyce Maynard.  It is a subject she knows better than any other and, like the high Romantics, her study of the self (at its best) ripples out to encompass and illuminate a larger world.  Here she is definitely at her best.<br />The experiences with Salinger add subsidiary interest and a touch of scandal, though her experiences within her family are also instructive.  The hissy fits thrown by some reviewers demonstrate their preference for ignorance and secretiveness when one of their icons is in the dock.  In an age of unending self-indulgence and self-reflection, not to mention the near total politicization of letters, one can hardly exaggerate the degree of hollowness in the claims that one should consider the art alone and leave the private activities of the artist behind closed doors.<br />As one of Amazon's astute reviewers noted, if you don't want your activities to end up in print, don't be so foolish as to seduce and abandon a journalist.<br />The most delicious dimension of the book is its subtext. What Joyce Maynard is, of course, doing, is rewriting CATCHER and recording the details of the discovery of the biggest phony of them all, the landsman as virtual child molester.<br />The blame-the-female-victim response of reviewers one might expect more from serves as a kind of coda, one that Joyce Maynard was surely shrewd enough to anticipate.  They went for the bait like hungry trout, demonstrating their own phoniness and complicity in a literary culture obsessed with victimology but unable to stomach its realities when it hits just a little too close to home.  Joyce didn't even have to turn on the lights which revealed their convenient forgetting of their own ideologies; they grabbed at the switch all by themselves.<br />One doesn't often see the joining of high Romantic practice with the techniques of the modern journalist.  Here one sees them in ways so expert and so exquisite that all one can do is urge others to share the view.  Get out your lamb patties and your homeopathic nostrums and watch one very cool customer play Spot the Phony.ees them in ways so expert and so exquisite that all one can do is urge others to share the view.  Get out your lamb patties and your homeopathic nostrums and watch one very cool customer play Spot the Phony.	2001-12-21
US	52350147	R32T26NPP0X5UV	0312203322	450798880	The Lecturer's Tale: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	David Lodge meets Carl Hiaasen	First, this is an important book, a book that should be pressed into the palm of every academic in the Humanities. It is, by turns, hilarious and yet very sad.  As with the novels of David Lodge, what looks like satire to the average reader looks more like documentary to those who inhabit the enclosed world under examination.  There are also allegoric elements and touches of the roman &agrave; clef.  Many of the characters in this novel have specific real-world counterparts and they are not difficult to identify.  The sadness comes when one realizes the accuracy of the delineation and its proximity to actual circumstances.  As the commentary of other reviewers makes clear, the ending is problematic.  Although it can be explained, the elements from separable genres which Hynes assembles and the dose of magic realism he adds to the mixture never quite coalesce.  The result is that our response to the novel's conclusion is intellectual, while earlier sections of the novel bring on both tears and stomach pains (from laughing). A putatively academic book that is actually very visceral and deeply human ends on a more academic note. Blatant errors of fact (e.g., with regard to the actual governance of universities and the lines of legal authority therein) are unfortunate, since Hynes's knowledge of literature is broad and deep and his understanding of current fads and intellectual enormities is stunningly accurate and precise. The book is still a must-read and some of the portraits (Lester Antilles listening to Kenny G.) are unforgettable.  Buy this book.	2001-12-13
US	52350147	R2YOKRVAZB7POM	0786867345	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Carter beats his demon(s)	This is a lovely book with something for every reader--romance, mystery, suspense, period detail, and some grounding in historical fact.  Above all, however, it is a story about a man and his public triumph over personal demons--loneliness, quirkiness, abuse and abandonment (a tad, at least), and the need to follow his own lights rather than his father's expectations.  It is a sweet and touching book, a tale of an awkward and innocent genius.  There are a lot of allegorical subtext things going on about the nature and magic of writing too, but save that for the academicians.  This is a pleasant, leisurely read with a few passages of breathless suspense and a kicker ending, also some wholesome sex and not too grisly violence--the perfect book for long fall afternoons.	2001-10-18
