US	52362742	R2O6BKCKU71HFU	1594200637	246291978	On Beauty	Books	5	12	20	N	N	The easy, 3rd novel - brilliant!	\\"On Beauty\\" is Zadie Smith's glorious third novel. Howard Belsey is having a difficult time. He is still in the doghouse after a one-night stand. Then he learns that his academic adversary, Monty Kipps, is joining the staff at Wellington, the Bostonian university at which Howard teaches (which seems to be based on the Harvard Zadie Smith knew as a Radcliffe fellow). Howard, whose unfinished magnum opus is entitled \\"Against Rembrandt: Interrogating a Master\\", ironically casts Monty as an iconoclast: although Monty's targets are political, rather than artistic. It is Howard who is the direct opposite of a Simon Schama or a Harold Bloom. Howard and his liberal colleagues fear that the conservative Monty will argue against Affirmative Action and the unqualified discretionaries that they allow on their courses. It doesn't help that Howard's son, Jerome, has previously engaged in a brief connection with Victoria, Monty Kipps' exceedingly beautiful daughter. Howard's daughter Zora (whom Zadie Smith has named after literary heroine Zora Neale Hurston) jealously regards Victoria as a vacuous beauty. However, not all of the Belseys' are at war against the Kipps': Kiki, Howard's wife, finds a common shelter with Carlene, Monty's friendly but sometimes distant wife. Meanwhile, Levi, the other Belsey child, embarks on a quest to assert his black identity, and falls in with a crowd of deprived Haitian immigrants. Along the way, they encounter Carl Thomas, a young black poet with conscious hip-hop lyrics, who strives to make something better of himself.<br /><br />  Carl is the Leonard Bast, Carlene is Ruth Wilcox, and Kiki is Margaret Schlegel, in Zadie Smith's reworking of E. M. Forster's \\"Howard's End\\". In this, Zadie Smith seems to be taking her cue from Elaine Scarry's essay, \\"On Beauty and Being Just\\" (which Zadie does acknowledge to be one inspiration for the title of this novel). Scarry's thesis starts out with the observation that Beauty leads to replication - the artist sees a beautiful bird, which leads artist to paint the beautiful bird beautifully. Thus does Zadie Smith embark on a seemingly perilous voyage to reproduce a book she loves. It would appear that it's okay for a beautiful boy band to reproduce the millionth version of \\"Unchained Melody\\", because we don't expect much of the poor darlings: it is not okay for a respected literary novelist to do the same, because we expect so much more from them. That, at least, is the initial perception. But if one thinks of the origins of storytelling - bard on rock embellishing the already fantastic tales of his predecessors - then what Zadie Smith is attempting to do here does not seem so strange. However, it just seems more acceptable nowadays for the oral culture (boy bands) to do it, rather than the set-in-stone literary culture. At times though, it does seem as though Smith is following E. M. Forster's line too far - the aborted rail trip to Amherst reads uncomfortably due to this - Carlene's terminal spontaneity could have been revealed in a more original way. Yet, the final analysis must be that she uses her source material very intelligently and subtly. Although Zadie Smith seems to regard Roland Barthes as being very dry (no doubt due to the utility of his prose), \\"On Beauty\\" could be seen in some ways as indicative of \\"The Birth of the Reader\\", with the reader going so far as to create their own version of the text (although I prefer to see the relationship between author and reader as a dialogue, which is a whole lot less dramatic than this birthing and dying and circle of life kind of thing). For instance, Leonard Bast pursued Beauty in \\"Howards End\\" through books and impromptu midnight walks. Although \\"On Beauty\\" is in some ways a love letter to \\"Howards End\\",  in its wit and vitality, the love goes both ways, resulting in a novel that is very much Zadie Smith's own. On a mundane level, there are scenes set in Zadie's homeland, Willesden, just like \\"White Teeth\\". On a more sublime level, Zadie Smith's voice in this novel seems liberated, exuberant, and confident: she is a novelist who is in full command of her literary powers. \\"On Beauty\\" is very much her book, full of her character, her twists and turns, rather than E. M. Forster's. To paraphrase a popular film of the 70s, it's she who is the master now.<br /><br />  There is another more practical reason for Zadie Smith's employment of \\"Howard's End\\", other than her love for the novel. Current day America is analogous with Great Britain at the end of the Victorian era. Zadie Smith does know that there are many Leonard Basts out there in America: in pursuit of beauty, but angry and resentful because they have been deprived of it, or because it has been literally robbed from them. Just as the liberal women debate how to save the Leonard Basts of this world from their fate in \\"Howards End\\", so too do Howard and his liberal colleagues battle to save the discretionaries. Can Beauty ever be reached in an inherently unjust society? Zadie Smith has produced a very timely novel, as the truth in her novel has been made self-evident by the ugly catastrophe of Katrina.<br /><br />  It would also be a pleasing irony if a Great American Novel, (as \\"On Beauty\\" is), were to win the Man Booker Prize. Zadie Smith should walk off with the prize in my view, because this outstanding novel deserves nothing less.<br /><br /> I have created a comprehensive reading guide for \\"On Beauty\\" on the internet - interested readers can contact me for the hyperlink.ore sublime level, Zadie Smith's voice in this novel seems liberated, exuberant, and confident: she is a novelist who is in full command of her literary powers. \\"On Beauty\\" is very much her book, full of her character, her twists and turns, rather than E. M. Forster's. To paraphrase a popular film of the 70s, it's she who is the master now. <br /> <br />  There is another more practical reason for Zadie Smith's employment of \\"Howard's End\\", other than her love for the novel. Current day America is analogous with Great Britain at the end of the Victorian era. Zadie Smith does know that there are many Leonard Basts out there in America: in pursuit of beauty, but angry and resentful because they have been deprived of it, or because it has been literally robbed from them. Just as the liberal women debate how to save the Leonard Basts of this world from their fate in \\"Howards End\\", so too do Howard and his liberal colleagues battle to save the discretionaries. Can Beauty ever be reached in an inherently unjust society? Zadie Smith has produced a very timely novel, as the truth in her novel has been made self-evident by the ugly catastrophe of Katrina.  <br />  <br />  It would also be a pleasing irony if a Great American Novel, (as \\"On Beauty\\" is), were to win the Man Booker Prize. Zadie Smith should walk off with the prize in my view, because this outstanding novel deserves nothing less.  <br /> <br /> I have created a comprehensive reading guide for \\"On Beauty\\" on the internet - interested readers can contact me for the hyperlink.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-20
US	52362742	RZ2L3EL006IUW	0060787112	611609151	Sleep, Pale Sister	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Joanne Harris' best book - better even than Chocolat	This is a consuming Gothic novel by the author of Chocolat. What lies hidden in that later novel is brought to the fore here. Whilst Vianne Rocher has a love/hate relationship with the Tarot in Chocolat, the cards here form the divisions of the text, the stepping-stones we take to reach the conclusion. And it is possible to make a reading from these cards, unlike those of T. S. Elliot's Madame Sosostris.<br /><br />Henry Paul Chester is a Victorian artist, the owner of a deadly secret, which goes to the very depth of his heart and art. Here we seem to be on traditional Gothic turf: that of James Hogg and his 'Confessions of a Justified Sinner', for Chester postulates that he may well have a secret double. Joanne Harris obeys the literary conventions of the early Gothic here by making Chester a Catholic - Matthew 'Monk' Lewis' Ambrosio removed from his Abbey and placed into the art world. He is just as repressed and far back in denial as Father Reynaud is in Chocolat. Then there's a touch of Sheridan Le Fanu too, with the distressed maiden taking liberal doses of laudanum. However, 'Sleep, Pale Sister' is not just homage to old fictions. Joanne Harris is an excellent storyteller, with a quite distinctive style. The tales of Le Fanu and Stoker may have had their powerful, exciting moments, but Harris outshines them all with her excellent technique.<br /><br />Chester is obsessed with painting young, 'innocent' girls. Which leads him to spot the nine-year-old Effie in a park. For the price of a few shillings, Chester gets his perfect model. Effie becomes the star of a series of portraits of young, distressed children, such as 'The Little Beggar Girl'. After ten years, Chester marries his 'perfect' model, and this is precisely the moment when their relationship sours. She turns to one of Chester's rivals, the unscrupulous Moses Zachary Harper, for solace. But he is not about to lead her to the Promised Land. It is at a carnival that Effie finally heeds her calling, summoned by Fanny Miller, a brothel keeper who sees something of her dead daughter in Effie. With Effie under her spell, Fanny finally unlocks Henry Chester's dark secret. Together with Mose, she devises a deadly plan to expose and ruin Chester. But with the use of magic, there is always the danger of the unseen...<br /><br />In Chocolat, there's a delicious scene in which Harris refers to 'Alice in Wonderland', and it seems as though she could be hinting to Charles Dodgsons' suspected paedophilia. But there is also the example of the Pre-Raphaelite John Ruskin, whose name is often mentioned in this novel, as Chester seeks the art critic's approbation. Ruskin too married an Effie, Euphemia Gray. Ruskin's marriage was annulled after six years due to it being unconsummated, leaving Effie free to marry another Pre-Raphaelite artist. It's possible that Joanne Harris got part of her story from this source, from Ruskin's repressed sexuality. One also has to take note of the fact that Kate Atkinson has taken the name of Euphemia as the heroine of her latest novel, 'Emotionally Weird'. Now that Harris and Atkinson are both published by Doubleday, it would seem prudent to investigate such links between these two writers. However, Atkinson's use of Effie may well be coincidental, since this name seems to be beloved of the Scots and 'Emotionally Weird' is very celebratory of all things Scottish. Besides, 'Euphemia' means 'to speak well', and since Effie is not the most articulate of narrators (in her narrative which knows it is prose), this is probably another sign of Atkinson's wordplay at work.<br /><br />However, as mentioned before, Harris' 'Sleep, Pale Sister' can be linked to a number of other Victorian and Pre-Victorian Gothic fictions. Also running through the novel is the figure of Scheherazade, the heroine of 'A Thousand and One Nights', who, to prevent her execution by the king, her husband, cleverly told him so many fabulous tales that the time of her execution had tobe constantly stayed, because he was so eager to hear their resolution. Of course, the Arabian Nights do have a happy conclusion, and it's intriguing to see Joanne Harris playing with the rules of convention here.<br /><br />'Sleep, Pale Sister' is then a quite complex work, but combined with Harris' typically strong plot, any reader will be compelled to race to the end. It's a very rewarding novel, operating on many levels. Take, for instance, Harris' employment of 'My Sister's Sleep', the poem which forms the basis for one of Effie's portraits - it does have a great deal of relevance to the plot. One of Harris' main themes is that of Childhood, as excelled in her latest novel, 'Blackberry Wine'. It is entirely appropriate then, that she should attempt to tackle the Victorians, who are widely credited with having created 'childhood'. However, Harris is quite clear as to how some Victorians set out to [...] their creation. This is a narrative conceived from the same pen as that of Chocolat, and therefore deserves to be read by a much wider audience. At its heart lies the same battle between the supposed rational man and the 'hysterical' woman, as defined here by the fictional psychoanalyst Dr. Francis Russell. Like 'Chocolat', an equal balance of male and female antagonists narrates the novel. You'll not be disappointed by this rare and bloody fiction.e he was so eager to hear their resolution. Of course, the Arabian Nights do have a happy conclusion, and it's intriguing to see Joanne Harris playing with the rules of convention here.     'Sleep, Pale Sister' is then a quite complex work, but combined with Harris' typically strong plot, any reader will be compelled to race to the end. It's a very rewarding novel, operating on many levels. Take, for instance, Harris' employment of 'My Sister's Sleep', the poem which forms the basis for one of Effie's portraits - it does have a great deal of relevance to the plot. One of Harris' main themes is that of Childhood, as excelled in her latest novel, 'Blackberry Wine'. It is entirely appropriate then, that she should attempt to tackle the Victorians, who are widely credited with having created 'childhood'. However, Harris is quite clear as to how some Victorians set out to [...] their creation. This is a narrative conceived from the same pen as that of Chocolat, and therefore deserves to be read by a much wider audience. At its heart lies the same battle between the supposed rational man and the 'hysterical' woman, as defined here by the fictional psychoanalyst Dr. Francis Russell. Like 'Chocolat', an equal balance of male and female antagonists narrates the novel. You'll not be disappointed by this rare and bloody fiction.	2005-08-30
US	52362742	R15GNCOP4W2HHF	0060559128	904974670	Holy Fools: A Novel (Harris, Joanne)	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A Triumph	Holy Fools marks a return to the Gothic theme of Joanne Harris' best novels, 'Chocolat' and 'Sleep Pale Sister'. It is also a triumphant return to form. Holy Fools is so richly Gothic that it must have Matthew 'Monk' Lewis cooing with pleasure in his grave.<br />Juliette is a former travelling player who has sought refuge at the Abbey of St. Marie-de-la-mer with her daughter Fleur (and this novel makes you understand why theatre troupes were sometimes feared as well as clapped, as they could be bearers of disease, or just common thieves). Under Mere Marie, the regime at the Abbey is rather relaxed, helped by her skill in the nurturing of potatoes. However, after several years, the ageing Mere Marie suddenly passes away, and a new abbess arrives. Everyone is rather taken aback by the youth of the new mother superior, but more so by her prudish nature (she has led a very sheltered life, and thinks that the birds and the bees are mere fauna). Juliette is even more shocked to see the Abbess accompanied by an old adversary, LeMerle, the 'blackbird' that had been her first love, and who had betrayed her and left her for dead. LeMerle is obviously up to no good by posing as a cleric, for Juliette knows him to be a charlatan, and it's not long before he has kidnapped Fleur.<br />Joanne Harris skilfully portrays Juliette's life prior to meeting LeMerle, and her adventures on the road with his theatrical troupe. As well as performing, LeMerle writes and directs. Unfortunately, his plays and ballets have more than a little satirical edge to them, as LeMerle delights in parodying the rich and famous (which is probably why the performances are so popular with the mob). Unfortunately, he goes too far, and he and his troupe are effectively thrown out of Paris at the height of their fame. But LeMerle does not seem to be downcast by his change in fortunes, as he takes to the road with something approaching glee. Juliette, for her part, reaches the apex of her skills by performing the rope walk, and it amuses LeMerle to see the men in the audience lusting after her. But trouble always seems to be LeMerle's constant companion: some of their caravans are burnt, and one of their troupe is murdered... They fetch up in Epinal and the plague breaks out, and LeMerle is arrested. Fortunately, Judge Remy, the infamous witch persecutor, is away on business, and LeMerle wins the crowd over by selling them an elixir against the plague. But such practices could be seen as diabolical, especially when the infamous pyromaniac judge returns home. LeMerle flees in the ensuing chaos, murdering one of the troupe in the process, and leaves Juliette his lover to capture and almost certain death.<br />Joanne Harris has chosen her setting well: the Renaissance is full of tales of famous people who risked charges of heresy for their beliefs and actions from the thumbscrews of the Inquisition. One such person was Bruno Giordano, who was burnt at the stake, and whose surname Harris utlises for one of her characters. Although she does twist some of the historic facts to suit her own purposes, such as having a French character quote from the King James Bible in 1610, when the English only published it in 1611. Jean Bodin seems to have a very lively afterlife, and Toussaint Dubreuil's portrait of Isabelle must have been painted when she was very young, as he died in 1602. LeMerle's description of Juliette as 'Hell's catamite' seems perverse even for his standards. Apart from this, the portrait of the time following Henry IV's assassination smacks of authenticity, as does the theme of commedia dell'arte, that really forms the backbone of the novel, leading to the fantastic resolution. By making her Machiavellian villain an actor, Joanne Harris has come out trumps, and LeMerle produces a gloriously over the top performance that does not disappoint. If we're talking Hollywood here (&quot;and why not?&quot;, as Barry Norman might say), then I would see LeMerle played by Kevin Spacey (possibly too short) or by John Malkovich, who does that Valmont thing so well (although he would have to get a wig). Juliette, a 'maypole' with red hair, could no doubt be played by Juliet Roberts or 'Juliette' Binoche perhaps? The visuals and gloriously bawdy drama of this fantastic novel are well suited to film, especially when so much of the novel is concerned with the dramatic arts. I enjoyed this novel so much that I read it in almost one sitting, and I could not wait to find out what happened in the end. When I heard that the American publishers had wanted to change the ending, I had thought that they would have gone the other way, but maybe I am confusing their sensibilities with those of Hollywood's love of sequels... This is a very rich and exciting novel, and is just the kind of book that I have longed for Joanne Harris to produce (was a bit concerned to think that she might be forced along the Mary Wesley/Catherine Cookson path). Anyone trying to follow any of Juliette's recipes in this book would indeed be a fool, as most of this food has unpleasant side effects. Hopefully Joanne Harris can make the break away from France in her next novel, as it must be worrying that the covers of Peter Mayle's books are beginning to echo the splendid jacket designs by Stuart Haygarth. Although, having written that, I would love for Joanne Harris to do a French 'Western', as I am pretty sure that this has not been done before. After all, 'New France' covered all of the Americas between Quebec and New Orleans. But Holy Fools is more than enough to sustain me for now.Spacey (possibly too short) or by John Malkovich, who does that Valmont thing so well (although he would have to get a wig). Juliette, a 'maypole' with red hair, could no doubt be played by Juliet Roberts or 'Juliette' Binoche perhaps? The visuals and gloriously bawdy drama of this fantastic novel are well suited to film, especially when so much of the novel is concerned with the dramatic arts. I enjoyed this novel so much that I read it in almost one sitting, and I could not wait to find out what happened in the end. When I heard that the American publishers had wanted to change the ending, I had thought that they would have gone the other way, but maybe I am confusing their sensibilities with those of Hollywood's love of sequels... This is a very rich and exciting novel, and is just the kind of book that I have longed for Joanne Harris to produce (was a bit concerned to think that she might be forced along the Mary Wesley/Catherine Cookson path). Anyone trying to follow any of Juliette's recipes in this book would indeed be a fool, as most of this food has unpleasant side effects. Hopefully Joanne Harris can make the break away from France in her next novel, as it must be worrying that the covers of Peter Mayle's books are beginning to echo the splendid jacket designs by Stuart Haygarth. Although, having written that, I would love for Joanne Harris to do a French 'Western', as I am pretty sure that this has not been done before. After all, 'New France' covered all of the Americas between Quebec and New Orleans. But Holy Fools is more than enough to sustain me for now.	2004-02-05
US	52362742	R2152N09MFO8VX	0060958014	454921185	Coastliners: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dark Chocolat	I found myself skimming my way through 'Coastliners' with the exact same speed that I had devoured Holy Fools.  The island in question, Le Devin, was of course, mentioned in Holy Fools, and it's not long before our heroine, Mado, has bumped into a couple of Carmelite nuns on her first visit home in ten years.  The mother who took her away from Le Devin has passed away, and Mado's only immediate family is her father, GrosJean Prasteau, and her sister, Adrienne.  Whilst Mado is not exactly loquacious, GrosJean is even more silent and barely says anything, even when he is around.  Adrienne is also away, living in Tangiers, but Mado and she have never got on.  Adrienne was the eldest child who was so beloved that she even got a present on Mado's birthday, not that she repays such spoiling in later years by attending, say, her own mother's funeral.  Adrienne also married outside Les Salants, the little settlement on Le Devin where the Prasteaus have always lived.  Her union with Marin Brismand, the nephew and heir of the richest man on Le Devin, is seen as a good match, despite the fact that the Brismands have always come from La Houssiniere, the other village on Le Devin, whose inhabitants sometimes take on those of Les Salants in war.  However, Les Salants looks to be losing this war of attrition, as their land is subject to flooding from the sea, whilst La Houssiniere is protected by its sandbanks.  It also helps that Claude Brismand is so wealthy, that he can afford to build a jetty and run a ferry to bring the tourists in.  Despite the periodic invasions of day-trippers, both Les Salants and La Houssiniere are threatened by the loss of the young people, who go off to the mainland seeking a more exciting and stable life.  Les Salants and its inhabitants have been literally decaying, as Mado discovers when she returns.  Very few of the cottages in Les Salants are being maintained, due to the continual incursions from the sea, and it is evident that the little village is losing in its war of attrition.  However, despite this, there are still a few young people around, such as the enigmatic Flynn, who has been helping Mado's father...<br />  It's probably not a good omen that practically the first thing Mado does when she arrives is to surprise her father so much that he drops the beloved statue of  St. Marine-de-la-mer into the sea (the villagers are carrying the statue as they are celebrating the saint's festival).  Seeing that everything has so stagnated since she has left, Mado embarks on an attempt to save the village, although none of the inhabitants are much interested as they are too busy fighting each other from decades' old feuds.  Mado thinks that she has found a way to protect the village from the perennial floods from the sea, but only Flynn aids her, and he reluctantly.  However, he does throw himself into impersonating St. Marine-de-la-mer with a great deal of relish, in a scene that is reminiscent of Holy Fools, which I believe was written much earlier than this novel.  There is also the possibility that she could go to Claude Brismand for help - after all, he did send her gifts whilst she was away on the mainland, and he has been trying to help the stubborn GrosJean.  Yet something keeps Mado away from pursuing this route - most likely the traditional rivalry between the Salannais and the Houssins.  Despite this hostility with their close neighbours, everyone seems to embrace and like the Englishman Flynn, who has made himself useful by his seeming ability to fix almost anything.  As he and Mado work with the villagers to build an artificial reef to protect Les Salants, Mado feels herself drawing closer to him (perhaps helped by her abilities as an artist!), but notwithstanding his friendliness, he seems determined to push her away from building a more substantial relationship.<br />  Despite her heroic efforts for Les Salants, Mado still feels like an outsider.  Les Salants is after all, a fishing community, whose people wage a daily battle against the sea.  There is also the spectre of her withdrawn father, who can only acknowledge his love for her accidentally.  Then there is the visit from Adrienne, the favoured child to contend with, even more so since her two young children are boys, and it has always been evident that GrosJean would much rather have had a son for a second child than a girl, no matter how tomboyish Mado ever became.  Yet life for Les Salants is looking up.  Old feuds are buried as the village graveyard is recovered from the sea, and the inhabitants begin to think more of the 'deserters' on the mainland than the deceased, like GrosJean's brother.  The Salannais are also being coming under attack from the more malicious elements of the Houssins, such is their success.  The Salannais even dream of stealing the tourists from La Houssiniere.<br />  'Coastliners' has been criticised in some quarters for being too dark, yet not even Chocolat was all that light and frothy.  If Joanne Harris ever goes for Romance, then it tends to be of the Gothic variety, as Holy Fools proves.  The theme of painting was also explored in the excellent Sleep Pale Sister, and Joanne Harris's first novel Evil Seed, and with the French setting, 'Coastliners' can be seen to fit very well into the Joanne Harris canon, despite the welcome respite from the gastronomic theme that got a little too risible in Five Quarters of the Orange.  However, what really keeps you turning the pages here is the dense and intriguing plot, which generates quite a few surprises for our little Mado.  She's no Vianne, but you really do feel for her by the end of this extraordinary novel.  This book gave me some much-needed entertainment, and I can safely that I really enjoyed the voyage.whose people wage a daily battle against the sea.  There is also the spectre of her withdrawn father, who can only acknowledge his love for her accidentally.  Then there is the visit from Adrienne, the favoured child to contend with, even more so since her two young children are boys, and it has always been evident that GrosJean would much rather have had a son for a second child than a girl, no matter how tomboyish Mado ever became.  Yet life for Les Salants is looking up.  Old feuds are buried as the village graveyard is recovered from the sea, and the inhabitants begin to think more of the 'deserters' on the mainland than the deceased, like GrosJean's brother.  The Salannais are also being coming under attack from the more malicious elements of the Houssins, such is their success.  The Salannais even dream of stealing the tourists from La Houssiniere.  <br />    'Coastliners' has been criticised in some quarters for being too dark, yet not even Chocolat was all that light and frothy.  If Joanne Harris ever goes for Romance, then it tends to be of the Gothic variety, as Holy Fools proves.  The theme of painting was also explored in the excellent Sleep Pale Sister, and Joanne Harris's first novel Evil Seed, and with the French setting, 'Coastliners' can be seen to fit very well into the Joanne Harris canon, despite the welcome respite from the gastronomic theme that got a little too risible in Five Quarters of the Orange.  However, what really keeps you turning the pages here is the dense and intriguing plot, which generates quite a few surprises for our little Mado.  She's no Vianne, but you really do feel for her by the end of this extraordinary novel.  This book gave me some much-needed entertainment, and I can safely that I really enjoyed the voyage.	2003-10-27
US	52362742	R32AS8TEC52EEH	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	You can have your Crake and eat it	At first, I was dubious about Oryx and Crake.  Margaret Atwood's Booker prize winning novel, The Blind Assassin, despite its honours, did have a few imperfections here and there.  Oryx and Crake has also been compared with Margaret Atwood's other dystopian masterpiece, The Handmaid's Tale, and whilst the futuristic locale is similar, the tone is completely different.  Would Margaret Atwood be able to create convincing and 'trendy' roadmap for peas?<br /><br />There are always dangers when an older writer takes on 'yoof' culture as one of their themes, and authors such as P D James have recently been lambasted for their 'ageing' prose.  A great deal of Oryx and Crake is devoted to 'maturing' of Jimmy and Crake, and the kind of entertainment that they consume.  Naturally enough for early teens, they gravitate to internet porn (no matter how secure your adult passwords and keys, your genius progeny is likely to work out how to bypass them).  It helps greatly that Margaret Atwood is never judgemental, and could even be said to indulge Jimmy's appetites.  Margaret Atwood's main weapon of mass destruction here is her piercing wit, which is exactly the right tone for a successful depiction of the future at the moment, I feel.  It's certainly the tone that I have adopted myself in similar fictions (my recollection of The Handmaid's Tale is that it took itself a lot more seriously).  The future of reality TV here is displayed in all its gory detail here, and I think that Margaret Atwood is very much correct in having most of this 'TV' be disseminated via the internet.  She also skilfully deals with 'yoof' culture and language, opting for the safety of Jimmy and Crake getting their buzzwords from old DVDs.  The only foot she puts wrong is when she writes that most libraries have got rid of their books and replaced them with CD-ROMs in the future: this medium is actually on the way out and is being replaced by DVD-ROMs (although I have myself been a recent convert to the CD-Rom).  One of the most stunning things about Oryx and Crake is the number of new names that Margaret Atwood comes up with, most of them brand names (a reflection of the linguistic innovations that the naming of internet websites has forced upon us, 'Authortrek' being no exception).  I wonder, if like 'A Clockwork Orange', Oryx and Crake's nomenclature will be taken up by pop artists and their ilk?  Although one 'Amanda Payne' looks to have successfully bid to have her name included in this novel, and I'm sure that she will be better pleased with the results than whoever bid to be included in Zadie Smith's The Autograph Man.<br />  I admit that it did take a hundred pages before I really fell in love with this novel (the depiction of Oryx's upbringing being the turning point).  Not that Oryx's story is without its complications: just how much of it is 'real' (an important question always in this novel), and how much of it is fiction invented by Jimmy?  Margaret Atwood takes no sides here, with even the exploitative Uncle En and Jack being treated with a great deal of compassion, along of course, with the greatest killer that mankind has never known.  She discusses the current paranoia regarding paedophilia with a great deal of intelligence.  It is not only Jimmy who promulgates such fictions: the 'Crakers' seemingly having 'innocence' imprinted into them, something of which the hypocritical Victorians would no doubt approve.  Margaret Atwood's creation of Crake is truly authentic, and his fate is the most logical consequence of his actions (although whether he has been getting enough or too much REM sleep is a moot point).  From the middle of the novel to its resolution, Oryx and Crake becomes one of the most compelling thrillers that I have ever read.  No doubt the clever, authentic and yet subtle (UK) cover will put off the average thriller reader, but those who do discover it will be greatly entertained.  Oryx and Crake is still brain candy, but it's an exciting andvital brand of brain candy.<br /><br /> Although Jimmy is a marketeer or a spin merchant, I was not too convinced by his desire to save antiquated words: I think this is more Margaret Atwood's concern.  Some of the words she chooses to promote in italics are not all that antiquated... yet (remember that Jimmy is writing some thirtyish years into the future, if the reference to the dot.com bubble is anything to go by).  But at times of troubles, these old words do express Jimmy's troubled state of mind much better than anything else (for definitions of many of these old words, please see below).  At first, I was not truly convinced by Jimmy's efforts to survive: he's not exactly in Piscine Molitor Patel's class when it comes down to the reading of survival manuals and the lengths that he goes to survive.  However, the fact that Jimmy has survived at all is due to some artificial means, and unlike Pi, he is not truly 'alone'.  Besides, the satire of self-help books is necessary and inevitable, with Margaret Atwood anticipating one of my own future fictions.  The depiction of Snowman/Jimmy as an incompetent survivalist becomes more appealing as the novel proceeds, for here Jimmy is the epitome of 'everyman' in such an extreme situation.  The ending has the lack of closure that is bound to incur lengthy debates in reading groups, and is much more satisfactory than the rather more artificial hook that Margaret Atwood left hanging in The Blind Assassin.  Much more importantly, the critical endorsement of this previous novel has produced a bolder and a 'devil-may-care' attitude from Margaret Atwood.  More than anything else, 'Oryx and Crake' proves how readable, accessible, vital, and innovative the modern literary novel can be.and vital brand of brain candy.<BR>   <br /> Although Jimmy is a marketeer or a spin merchant, I was not too convinced by his desire to save antiquated words: I think this is more Margaret Atwood's concern.  Some of the words she chooses to promote in italics are not all that antiquated... yet (remember that Jimmy is writing some thirtyish years into the future, if the reference to the dot.com bubble is anything to go by).  But at times of troubles, these old words do express Jimmy's troubled state of mind much better than anything else (for definitions of many of these old words, please see below).  At first, I was not truly convinced by Jimmy's efforts to survive: he's not exactly in Piscine Molitor Patel's class when it comes down to the reading of survival manuals and the lengths that he goes to survive.  However, the fact that Jimmy has survived at all is due to some artificial means, and unlike Pi, he is not truly 'alone'.  Besides, the satire of self-help books is necessary and inevitable, with Margaret Atwood anticipating one of my own future fictions.  The depiction of Snowman/Jimmy as an incompetent survivalist becomes more appealing as the novel proceeds, for here Jimmy is the epitome of 'everyman' in such an extreme situation.  The ending has the lack of closure that is bound to incur lengthy debates in reading groups, and is much more satisfactory than the rather more artificial hook that Margaret Atwood left hanging in The Blind Assassin.  Much more importantly, the critical endorsement of this previous novel has produced a bolder and a 'devil-may-care' attitude from Margaret Atwood.  More than anything else, 'Oryx and Crake' proves how readable, accessible, vital, and innovative the modern literary novel can be.	2003-08-04
US	52362742	R3KFXXIM5ZSYIX	0765307359	158972074	Gridlinked (Ian Cormac, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Exceptional debut from brilliant writer	At first, it may seem that the pace is maybe a little too quick, and that Asher has so much story that he has to squeeze it in.  But that's probably just me - it does take me a little while to get to grips with a new book, even if it does feature a universe with which I'm quite familiar.  Angelina Pelter may be swiftly dispatched by the fast moving Ian Cormac at the very beginning of this novel, but Cormac's master does allow us to catch up by ordering the removal of his gridlink.  Cormac is warned that staying gridlinked for so long may well have dehumanised him.  Horace Blegg, Cormac's legendary boss, decides to interrupt Cormac's current mission involving the Separatists on Cheyne III to dispatch him to Samarkand, which has unfortunately been devastated by the destruction of a runcible gate.  Thus Asher cleverly gets us to identify with Cormac, since the secret agent seeks to regain his own identity.  There's a quote in the novel which says that Neal Asher is just as good as John Meaney.  However, where Asher supersedes John Meaney is in the strength of his characterisation (to such an extent that Cormac's strong line on crime and punishment could be jeopardized).<br />  Neal Asher's science is also good.  The Runcible mode of transport seems much in line with the recent discovery of black holes at the centre of galaxies (and Asher has been writing about Runcible technology for quite a while).  Where Neal Asher has always seemed strongest is in his creation of biological entities - mycelium and pseudopods are real science.  However, Gridlinked has also finally revealed that Asher does have quite a whimsical tone.  It's a delight to finally discover that the Polity's mode of transport was named after the runcible spoon in Edward Lear's nonsense rhyme 'The Owl and the Pussycat'.  Some readers may think that the Polity is a bit like Iain M. Banks' Culture.  However, Neal Asher is a bit of an expert in the martial arts, so he's far more knowledgeable about flying shuriken than other writers in this field.  Besides, Banks didn't invent AI, as Asher reminds us by nicknaming Earth Central 'Hal'.  There's a bit of Arthur C. Clarke in other ways - Dragon is a mysterious godlike being.  But Asher also seems to have gone to the very depths of Science Fiction, by utilizing Prometheus in a way that Mary Shelley would have approved of (Dragon turns up in Frankenstein Monster mode, with exceedingly uncharitable thoughts towards its creator).  The fantastic Golem android Mr Crane also gets to do his Bela Lugosi impersonation.  Asher might have also been reading some literary studies on science fiction - note the term he uses when Dragon produces the first Dracoman on Aster Colora.  Although Dragon doesn't have teeth like Spielberg's Jaws, he still has a considerable bite with the help of his pseudopods.<br />  The mention of a creature called 'Dragon' jars at first.  But Asher has given his leviathan a character which can be greatly appreciated.  Certainly, this seems to be the closest that Asher has ever come to replicating the fantasy narrative that he employed in his first (unpublished) novel.  The wolverine substance of adamantium seems to be a marvel too, but Asher's use comes from the fall of Mordor in The Lord of the Rings.  Like the great Victorian Gothic novels, today's 'Western' fiction still seems alternatively fascinated and appalled by the East, most notably here in the `presence' of Horace Blegg.  Although the concept of the 'dinosauroid' may have entered the realm of the players of fantasy games, it does have an actual basis in fact: Dr. Dale Russell is a real palaeontologist.  I was also delighted to see that Asher named Samarkand after the city on the Great Silk Road.  Movie makers looking for the next 'Matrix' or 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' would do well to come knocking on Neal Asher's door.<br />  I suppose I was a bit concerned that Anti-Grav Cars modelled on the Ford Cortina might date this novel, along with thepop tune (more Culture Club than Culture is 'Melting Pot'), but the longevity of Edward Lear's nonsense rhyme can be a powerful excuse - we just don't know what part of popular culture will survive in the years to come.  Gridlinked deserves to live on, and there is much left in the Asher universe to explore (I was very happy to see mention of the gruesome leeches from 'Spatterjay' again).  It turns out the retro Anti-Grav cars are also staple of the Asher universe - they were first mentioned in the Runcible Tale Blue Holes and Bloody Waters. Oh, and did I mention that Neal Asher also has great wit?  The novel explicitly compares Cormac with James Bond - the book Bond, rather than the movie Bond, I'd say - Cormac is hard, but fair.  The baddies may die in gruesome ways, but Cormac doesn't stand round trying to think of dismissive quips or pointless eulogies.  Much of the humour comes from the excellent intros to each chapter (it's the best guide I've read to Asher's Universe).  Gridlinked is a fast-paced action cyber-thriller which could beat the sushi out of The Matrix on any day of the week.  And the good news is that Neal Asher's novel The Skinner is even better.th the pop tune (more Culture Club than Culture is 'Melting Pot'), but the longevity of Edward Lear's nonsense rhyme can be a powerful excuse - we just don't know what part of popular culture will survive in the years to come.  Gridlinked deserves to live on, and there is much left in the Asher universe to explore (I was very happy to see mention of the gruesome leeches from 'Spatterjay' again).  It turns out the retro Anti-Grav cars are also staple of the Asher universe - they were first mentioned in the Runcible Tale Blue Holes and Bloody Waters. Oh, and did I mention that Neal Asher also has great wit?  The novel explicitly compares Cormac with James Bond - the book Bond, rather than the movie Bond, I'd say - Cormac is hard, but fair.  The baddies may die in gruesome ways, but Cormac doesn't stand round trying to think of dismissive quips or pointless eulogies.  Much of the humour comes from the excellent intros to each chapter (it's the best guide I've read to Asher's Universe).  Gridlinked is a fast-paced action cyber-thriller which could beat the sushi out of The Matrix on any day of the week.  And the good news is that Neal Asher's novel The Skinner is even better.	2003-08-01
US	52362742	R36ER0894XYDFG	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Artemis Foul indeed - dreadful book	The comparisons with J. K. Rowling's creation may be seen as a lack of imagination, but have only been helped by the news that Artemis Fowl's life is to be portrayed in a movie.  The Potter phenomenon grew quite rapidly, but Artemis Fowl seems to have leaped to the top with just one jump.  True, Artemis Fowl has yet to reach Potter's sales figures, but when you do a deal with the faeries, what do you expect?  No doubt the movie will also leapfrog Artemis Fowl's earnings, just as long as there are no flatulent dwarves around.  But does Artemis Fowl really need the money?  When we first meet him, we learn that he has been jetting all over the world in his bid to find a copy of the Book that lays down the laws for Fairies.  With a huge manservant called Butler by his side, armed with a vast array of expensive weaponry, Artemis finds his prey in Ho Chi Minh City.  It is here that Artemis first demonstrates his guile and his great knowledge of chemistry.  With the whole resources of Fowl Manor behind him, Artemis Fowl is one privileged boy.  He is, after all, only twelve.  There is no Hogwarts to distract him from the travails of life at home (namely a mad mother in an attic - is Colfer trying to appeal to Gilbert and Gubar?), but his comfortable lifestyle has created a certain boredom that needs to be quashed.  A degree of isolation has meant that Artemis has had to teach himself, and he's as original as only a self-teacher can be.  It doesn't help that he has come from a long paternal line of thieving Fowls.  Artemis's father got mixed up with the Russian Mafia and has vanished, and his mother, Angeline Fowl, has not been the same since.<br />  Butler is more of a companion to Artemis than a substitute father, but the presence of his sister Juliet means that there is quite a family atmosphere in Fowl Manor.  But to what extent will Artemis's plan place them all in danger?  For Artemis desires no less than to kidnap a fairy...  Into his path buzzes Captain Holly Short of the LEPrecon unit, his legendary nemesis (or so we're told - there are a few hints of future adventures).  Since Artemis has managed to decrypt the Fairy Book, he is able to keep one step ahead of the LEPrecon unit sent to rescue Holly.  Commander Julius Root, although always the most critical of the experimental female attachment to the squad, shows an admirable  sense of loyalty to her when he decides to lead the rescue from the front, even although he was far more active five hundred years ago.  Assisted and hindered by a techno centaur called Foaly, Root leaps into action.  But will his ties with the captured agent compromise the operation?<br />  Dysfunctional families seem to be an integral part of children's fiction at the moment.  Harry Potter's parents were blasted by Voldemort, and Artemis has seemingly also lost his mother and father.  Artemis's mother seems to spend most of the novel drugged on sleeping pills, whilst Natalie's father in Katherine Roberts' 'Spellfall' spends most of his time drunk.  Angeline Fowl's drugged state forms an integral part of the plot, and Natalie is also kidnapped and fed sleeping pills in 'Spellfall'.  Away from his parents though, Artemis doesn't muck around with spells like Harry Potter or Natalie, he mixes chemicals together.  There is something very unsightly about a hero who uses drugs to get his way.  He poisons the drunken fairy at the beginning of the book, and tranquilizes Holly Short with curare and succinylcholine chloride.  Curare has been used by South American Indians as a poison to dip their darts into while hunting, whilst succinylcholine chloride too has been used to murder.  It's just as well that these chemicals aren't very easy for your average kid to get hold of.  Perhaps Artemis's self education on the net is not such a good idea after all.<br /><br />  Artemis's moral ambiguity does not make him an easy hero.  Harry Potter is not a paragon of virtue either, but his character works much better.  You spend more of the novel rooting for Holly and Root than Artemis, because you don't really want Artemis to get away with his villainy.  Eoin Colfer may think that villains are more interesting than heroes, but that's a clich&eacute; for actors, not authors.  Who out there ultimately ends up rooting for Iago?  Someone who's prepared to risk the lives of his friends and cross species war that could engulf the entire planet?  So Artemis may not like whaling ships, but Katherine Roberts' critique of the same practice was a lot more powerful in Song Quest, and a lot more imaginative to boot.  Eoin Colfer's knowledge of myth is very good however, and he's not afraid to make his own adaptations and inventions, like Mulch Diggums, the aforementioned flatulent dwarf.  But you can't help thinking that the movie is going to be released during the Yuletide season.  No matter how reminiscent Artemis's representation of Santa Claus is, you can hardly wave off the sprig of cynicism induced by ending the novel on Christmas Day.  Artemis Fowl is ultimately more 'Temple of Doom' than 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', with its sporadic, gruesome action.  It just as well that trolls have the patience to wait for dramatic interludes whilst they bloodthirstily hunt down their prey.  There are plenty of hints for sequels to come - we can only hope that Colfer will produce an 'Empire Strikes Back' rather than a 'Return of a Jedi'.spend more of the novel rooting for Holly and Root than Artemis, because you don't really want Artemis to get away with his villainy.  Eoin Colfer may think that villains are more interesting than heroes, but that's a cliché for actors, not authors.   Who out there ultimately ends up rooting for Iago?  Someone who's prepared to risk the lives of his friends and cross species war that could engulf the entire planet?  So Artemis may not like whaling ships, but Katherine Roberts' critique of the same practice was a lot more powerful in Song Quest, and a lot more imaginative to boot.  Eoin Colfer's knowledge of myth is very good however, and he's not afraid to make his own adaptations and inventions, like Mulch Diggums, the aforementioned flatulent dwarf.  But you can't help thinking that the movie is going to be released during the Yuletide season.  No matter how reminiscent Artemis's representation of Santa Claus is, you can hardly wave off the sprig of cynicism induced by ending the novel on Christmas Day.   Artemis Fowl is ultimately more 'Temple of Doom' than 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', with its sporadic, gruesome action.  It just as well that trolls have the patience to wait for dramatic interludes whilst they bloodthirstily hunt down their prey.  There are plenty of hints for sequels to come - we can only hope that Colfer will produce an 'Empire Strikes Back' rather than a 'Return of a Jedi'.	2003-05-16
US	52362742	R2OZXL2VYBWH68	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	49	58	N	N	It's the Pi of the Tiger!	The winner of the 2002 Man Booker Prize is an extraordinary book. A boy, with a name that sounds like an obscenity, is the sole (soul) survivor of a shipwreck - along with a hyena, a zebra, an orang-utan, and a Royal Bengal Tiger called Richard Parker.<br />  However, it takes about a hundred pages before Piscine Molitor Patel (he was named after a swimming pool), is cast adrift in the swells of the Pacific Ocean, after Mrs Gandhi has invaded his family's comfort zone and forced them to flee to Canada.  Before that happens, we learn a bit more about Pi's extraordinary childhood.  He's lucky in that he has a mother who reads widely, and Pi is allowed to dip into her library, with only the ruder bits of literature being censored.  In short, Pi would appear to be on a perpetual quest, always discovering new things.  In comparison with his brother Ravi, who is the captain of the local cricket team, Pi is a bit of a loner, but a series of serendipities ensure his survival.  The Patel family is secular, but Pi finds glory in religious practice(s).  An encounter on the esplanade with three wise men leads to the discovery that Pi is a devout Hindu, Christian, and Muslim.  As his brother Ravi observes, if Pi converted to the Jewish faith, then he would need only find three other religions to have a day of rest for every day of the week in perpetuity.  Along the way, he finds two Mr Kumars, one a devout Muslim, and the other a devout atheist science teacher.  Pi only reserves his scorn for Agnostics, the eternal doubters.  It would appear important that Pi has such an abundance of faith.  What else could get you through living with a ferocious tiger called Richard Parker on a small lifeboat?<br />  Mamaji says that Pi's story could make you believe in God.  There's no doubting the power of Yann Martel's novel, but I cannot say that it gets me to believe in God.  No, the importance of Life of Pi for me was the insistence on choosing a \\"better story\\".  I'm sure this, more than anything else, must have helped sway the Man Booker judges to plump for this book.  Even the Man Booker webpage accidentally plumped for this book when it erroneously announced Yann Martel as the winner the week before.  It's the way a story is told, true or not, that earns its immortality.  True, there are some improbable moments in Life of Pi, where our faith is tested, but Yann Martel is an excellent fisher of readers: we are on his hook, we may try to fight back with all our might, but in the end, all of us will have to admit that it is he who is in control throughout.<br />  At first sight, we seem to learn more about psychology rather than religious faith or God in this book.  We see very little of Pi being sustained by religious faith - we are told about it, but we do not see it actually feeding him, except maybe in that bizarre anti-Eden of algae.  No, this book seems more like an impassioned plea for the values of fiction itself.  As the author of Life of Pi himself writes, \\"If we, citizens, do not support our artists, then we sacrifice our imagination on the altar of crude reality and we end up believing in nothing and having worthless dreams\\".  This sounds like a call to arms, and it's a call that I take up willingly (even if the narrator, like Holly in Rider Haggard's Gothic Romance She, would appear to be a fictional device, he does have an authentic tone).<br /><br />But if you do happen to dive beneath the surface, you will find that there are quite a few religious concepts alluded to in the course of this novel.  \\"Tsimtsum\\", for instance, is a term derived from Jewish mysticism, related to God's withdrawal or sinking from the universe... There are references to the various flood myths (like Zadie Smith's The Autograph Man, this novel delves in Jewish mysticism from the Kabbalistic Zohar branch). I believe that the concept of Tsimtsum also plays a major role in how Yann Martel has structured Life of Pi.  There is something very circular in telling Pi's story in exactly 100 chapters.  Also, when Pi uses pi to work out the circumference of that strange anti-Eden he lands on, you can't help but acknowledge that there is some great deal of thought in Yann Martel's naming of Pi, since pi is synonymous with circles.  When God creates his vacuum, one can only imagine a circular shaped hole.  Galaxies certainly resolve around black holes.  Markandeya is also mentioned - he, like Pi, was also 16 when he was saved by his faith. When Pi is on the phone ordering Pizza, he says that his name is 'I am who I am' (in the same manner that God answers Moses' question about his identity).<br />Yann Martel has set this novel in a series of real locations that add a great deal of authenticity to this far out tale.  I have created an in-depth web page that goes `behind the scenes' of the Life of Pi, explaining all the references.  Interested readers can contact me for details of this webpage - go armed to your readers group armed with all the facts!  You can ever hear how `prusten' sounds like, or just how unlucky it is to travel with someone called `Richard Parker' (there was even a `Clifford Richard Parker' on the Titanic!)'s story in exactly 100 chapters.  Also, when Pi uses pi to work out the circumference of that strange anti-Eden he lands on, you can't help but acknowledge that there is some great deal of thought in Yann Martel's naming of Pi, since pi is synonymous with circles.  When God creates his vacuum, one can only imagine a circular shaped hole.  Galaxies certainly resolve around black holes.  Markandeya is also mentioned - he, like Pi, was also 16 when he was saved by his faith. When Pi is on the phone ordering Pizza, he says that his name is 'I am who I am' (in the same manner that God answers Moses' question about his identity).  <BR>Yann Martel has set this novel in a series of real locations that add a great deal of authenticity to this far out tale.  I have created an in-depth web page that goes `behind the scenes' of the Life of Pi, explaining all the references.  Interested readers can contact me for details of this webpage - go armed to your readers group armed with all the facts!  You can ever hear how `prusten' sounds like, or just how unlucky it is to travel with someone called `Richard Parker' (there was even a `Clifford Richard Parker' on the Titanic!)	2003-05-16
US	52362742	R1YP5PRE3XO4CN	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Men - read this book!	Although the story of Jacob and his sons is familiar from the Bible, Anita Diamant has presented this story in a very distinctive way. Most notable is the manner in which the God of Jacob, Isaac, and Abraham is presented: as being just one god amongst many, and a fit enough consort for the Queen of Heaven, rather than just a single old man with a white beard. Most of the other gods involved would appear to be either Sumerian or Egyptian, and were gods that were genuinely worshipped at the time (Anita Diamant has done her research well). There would appear to be a division between the way that women and men worship gods here: although Jacob does cry out the names of other gods when suffering from a sick stomach, he does increasingly come to rely on the God of Isaac his father, and Abraham his grandfather. The women worship a whole variety of gods, such as the god of beer, and the goddess of victory and fertility. Laban also has a whole teraphim of little gods, until Rachel famously steals them from him, so that her detested father may be cursed by their absence. Leah, for her part, declares that they do not need gods, only each other, but even she upholds the traditions of the red tent, to which the women retreat whilst menstruating. Having departed from Laban, Jacob and his family set out and make their way in the world. Leah and her sisters find that the traditions of the red tent are not upheld by the women of the different tribes that their sons have married into, and the integrity of the red tent itself becomes threatened.<br />What does not seem to be important here is what gods are worshipped, or how many, but that the roles of men and women are changing. There have previously been matriarchs as powerful as the patriarchs - Sarah, wife of Abraham, and Rebecca, wife of Isaac. Yet Leah and Rachel are not given as much prominence in Jacob's tribe.  Not that the lot of women, such as Laban's slave wife Ruti, is all that fantastic. But with the loss of their traditions, the potency of these women seems to diminish. Although the four wives of Jacob add to his richness with their skills, there is a danger that those women who are not enslaved, will be even more reduced in their roles as they become mere bargaining chips in transactions amongst men. Rebecca sadly concludes that Dinah will not be her heir at Mamre. Jacob, shamed to have discovered that Rachel did actually steal Laban's teraphim, destroys these icons of household gods that have been used to welcome Dinah into adulthood. And from there, things do really start to go wrong. But is this due to a curse of their gods, or because Jacob has grown suspicious of his wives and their ways, and now relies instead on his avaricious sons Simon and Levi for advice?<br />There are some differences from the Biblical account of the same events. In the Bible, Laban welcomes Jacob with open arms. Jacob also wrestles with the Lord God himself before reuniting with Esau, but Anita Diamant suggests that his broken leg and fever were caused by an encounter with a wild boar instead (although, since Dinah is accompanied with Joseph when she encounters the boar, we are never quite certain that it is real, since Joseph has a tendency of seeing visions, just like his father). In the Bible, it's Jacob who gives Joseph his famous technicolour dreamcoat, but in The Red Tent, Rachel is the more likely tailor of this garment that Joseph's brothers sneer at. There is not much mention of a famine in Egypt, even although Zafenat Paneh-ah is in power there. A few of Jacob's sons would have appeared to die earlier than they do in the Bible, and Judah and Reuben are not as squeaky clean in the Bible as Anita Diamant presents them. And the last mention of Dinah in the Bible is \\"Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?\\", which does not forebode well... Anita Diamant accounts for these differences by relating that these are the forms of the tales as carried down by the women, whilst Jacob's accountof the same events is quite different. Since Jacob has only the one daughter, it would not appear that the women's stories will survive, but maybe the story of Dinah is too terrible to be forgotten...<br />Some of the most compelling passages are the birth scenes: like Rachel before her, Dinah becomes a successful and much sought-after midwife, and Diamant has researched the herbs and the methods they would have used at that time very well. This is most of all, a highly compassionate novel - when Dinah leaves us, her audience, we are truly sorry to see her go, and that it a sign that Diamant has created a vibrant and powerful character. The minor characters also make a great impact - although her scenes are few, if ever there is a film of The Red Tent, I would suggest that the role of Werenro be played by Julia Roberts. If you know the Biblical story well, then you will know that there are quite a few horrors in store for our Dinah, and Anita Diamant has handled these well. But as equally important as the horrors are the delights of this book, and they are as numerous as the tribe of Israel of which they tell.  Although this novel has been mainly marketed at women, male readers will be equally enthralled by Anita Diamant's splendid narrative.  I have done an online reading guide - interested readers can contact me for this.nt of the same events is quite different. Since Jacob has only the one daughter, it would not appear that the women's stories will survive, but maybe the story of Dinah is too terrible to be forgotten... <br />Some of the most compelling passages are the birth scenes: like Rachel before her, Dinah becomes a successful and much sought-after midwife, and Diamant has researched the herbs and the methods they would have used at that time very well. This is most of all, a highly compassionate novel - when Dinah leaves us, her audience, we are truly sorry to see her go, and that it a sign that Diamant has created a vibrant and powerful character. The minor characters also make a great impact - although her scenes are few, if ever there is a film of The Red Tent, I would suggest that the role of Werenro be played by Julia Roberts. If you know the Biblical story well, then you will know that there are quite a few horrors in store for our Dinah, and Anita Diamant has handled these well. But as equally important as the horrors are the delights of this book, and they are as numerous as the tribe of Israel of which they tell.  Although this novel has been mainly marketed at women, male readers will be equally enthralled by Anita Diamant's splendid narrative.  I have done an online reading guide - interested readers can contact me for this.	2003-04-11
US	52362742	R9UIG8QPMF5A7	1589820517	808639961	The Otherhood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Blues in the time of Regression	Vic Jones wakes up in another man's body in 2084, and finds that the world has moved on in radical ways.  The elite live and die in the terramyd, a living structure on the banks of the Colorado.  The dregs of society roam the wastes outside, drip-fed on the mac, genetically engineered food grown and processed by the terramyd.  As the year 2084 suggests, this novel presents Zammana's dystopia of this century in the style of George Orwell.  Instead of a Smith, we have a couple of Jones's, but Big Brother's still here, and up to his sneaky tricks as usual.<br /> This is a novel that portrays Globalisation at its most extreme and vicious: Robert Jones is seen as the unethical head of corporate America by his brother, Victor, who vows that he will do anything to stop him.  Genetic technology forms a great part of the novel, and is indeed instrumental in the construction of the terramyd.  The terramyd certainly has more than its fair share of enemies: those outside the Ark either will do anything to get in it, or will do anything to destroy it.  Although the living skin of the terramyd naturally repels and destroys any organic intrusion, its inhabitants are still vulnerable to coalitions formed by the few remaining global power bases.  However, the terramyd is also the only sustainable source of vblu, the so-called \\"fifth state\\" of matter that promises to provide the next stage in human evolution, if only Bob Jones' Trycor can work out how to make more.<br />  This organic artificial intelligence, the myd, provides the inspiration, the means, and the economic bubble necessary for the development of a whole range of technological advances.  Zammana may have been influenced by the internet and telecommunications bubble here - the title of the novel does recall to mind the phrase \\"the digital divide\\".  Instrumental to the novel is Dr. Isaac's creation of Virtual Genetic Regression (VGR).  This is the means by which Victor Jones is transported forward to 2084.  Victor is the victim here of an obsessed scientist's vision, but it seems that he has been unwittingly provided with a great source of power in this depraved new world.  The genetic regression has only been made possible by Dr. Isaac's development of a sophisticated interface with the myd.  This interface is in the form of a ring, and Victor does seem to have a few Tolkien reactions to wearing it.  Although he does not literally go invisible when wearing it, he does virtually do so, and in this world of artificial intelligence, that could almost be the same thing.  There's no Gandalf to guide Victor on his hero's journey, instead, Victor seems guided by his own genetic inheritance and dreams of \\"a fiery machine\\" that have haunted his line and that of another over two centuries.  However, like Frodo's jewellery, Victor's ring does seem to possess a will of its own, despite the general impression that the myd is inert and guided solely by man.<br />  The Machiavellian heads of Trycor always seem to provoke resistance, and the same is true for Chairman Bob Jones' son, Viceroy.  In his attempt to pull off a complex and sophisticated coup, it's Viceroy who turns to Dr. Isaac and VGR.  However, he finds that instead of being genetically regressed to the body of Robert Jones in the three minutes that he's alone with Trycor's charter, Viceroy discovers that he possesses the body of Victor Jones instead, a predecessor of whom he knows nothing.  Viceroy finds himself in the middle of a vast civil disturbance, unrest that seems provoked by the building of the terramyd.  Allied with Terrell, a man with a destiny, Viceroy unwittingly finds himself at the very roots of the terramyd's development. Along the way, he discovers much that Robert Jones has later deleted from history...  Viceroy and Victor fight their battles for liberty in parallel.  Yet how can they fight against manifest destiny?<br /><br />By producing a novel with such a vast scope, with events running over two centuries, Lytchcov Zammana, like Robert Jones, could be accused of being over ambitious.  This novel is so complex that it does take several readings to really attempt to grip what it is all about, and so Zammana could be asking too much from most readers.  Interstellar travel and cloning are two more themes of the novel that I have not really been able to touch upon here, and Virtual Genetic Regression could sustain a novel on its own.  In such a crowded world though, characterisation can very much suffer.  Julie and Jewel play a crucial role in the plot, but a longer book would have exploited them better - we are told that Victor really loves Julie, but we never really get to see it.  Better editing may well have removed some of the typos towards the end of The Otherhood, and although Zammana reveals an extraordinary depth of imagination, some of the names of his characters and concepts seem too homegrown and could have been sexier. With such a complex plot, it would seem inevitable that Zammana would have trouble keeping up with it all, and there is one scene where Viceroy manages to run a considerable distance out of a cave complex whilst still apparently tied to a chair (p. 306-307).  However, Zammana does display an extraordinary imagination.  I did begin to appreciate the novel far more at the second reading, and more of the jigsaw pieces do fall into place if you read this novel with the patience and attention it deserves.  If, like me, you enjoy fiction that challenges you and makes you work hard, then you will appreciate The Otherhood.  Lytchcov Zammana's fertile imagination is certainly one to be watched, and there is much within The Otherhood to be explored further.cov Zammana, like Robert Jones, could be accused of being over ambitious.  This novel is so complex that it does take several readings to really attempt to grip what it is all about, and so Zammana could be asking too much from most readers.  Interstellar travel and cloning are two more themes of the novel that I have not really been able to touch upon here, and Virtual Genetic Regression could sustain a novel on its own.  In such a crowded world though, characterisation can very much suffer.  Julie and Jewel play a crucial role in the plot, but a longer book would have exploited them better - we are told that Victor really loves Julie, but we never really get to see it.  Better editing may well have removed some of the typos towards the end of The Otherhood, and although Zammana reveals an extraordinary depth of imagination, some of the names of his characters and concepts seem too homegrown and could have been sexier. With such a complex plot, it would seem inevitable that Zammana would have trouble keeping up with it all, and there is one scene where Viceroy manages to run a considerable distance out of a cave complex whilst still apparently tied to a chair (p. 306-307).  However, Zammana does display an extraordinary imagination.  I did begin to appreciate the novel far more at the second reading, and more of the jigsaw pieces do fall into place if you read this novel with the patience and attention it deserves.  If, like me, you enjoy fiction that challenges you and makes you work hard, then you will appreciate The Otherhood.  Lytchcov Zammana's fertile imagination is certainly one to be watched, and there is much within The Otherhood to be explored further.	2002-08-10
US	52362742	R8I7Z1HB1M8ZY	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Full Steam Ahead...	Bellis Coldwine has decided to abscond from New Crobuzon after she gets into a spot of bother. Since she is adept at learning languages, Bellis has decided to hire herself out as a translator on a New Crobuzon ship headed for the colony of Nova Esperium. But Bellis has resolutely decided not to get her hopes too high, and regards her destination with something more akin to Nova Tedium. She is determined that her escape will only last for a little time, since like Dorothy, she still believes that there is no place like home. Unlike Dorothy, Bellis is determined that she will not pick up any stragglers along the way. But she is headed for a storm, whether she likes it or not.<br />Like a character in a Robert Louis Stevenson novel, Bellis finds herself kidnapped by pirates. Not just any pirates though, these are the denizens of Armada: not one ship, but a multitude, comprising an entire city. Bellis's fellow passengers were looking for life in a new place, and although land is a bit more difficult to claim here, those who are willing to accept their fate are allotted their own berth. The Remade (the human/slave cargo of the New Crobuzon ship Bellis was travelling on), are positively welcomed and liberated. Punished for unknown crimes, labelled as criminals by genetic and mechanical brandings, the Remade are released into the community. However, even some of these find that their shackles to New Crobuzon are not quite so easily shattered. Bellis, as her name would suggest, is quite hostile to her abductors, and yet, unlike so many other unwilling passengers, she is left to roam the streets of Armada freely. Some parts of Armada are perplexingly like home: there is still bureaucracy and red tape, nightclubs, and trendy wine bars. However, these pirates are like Robert Louis Stevenson pirates in other ways: for they are after a huge treasure - almost an 'X' marks the spot... And there is a character as immortal as Long John Silver (although not quite as jolly): Uther Doul. Though he is called 'Uther', the sword he wields is not Excalibur: it Might be so much more.<br />Like a scar, this novel criss-crosses many genres. I suppose it could be labelled 'Steam Punk': there are certainly quite a few steam engines in the novel, some redundant, others endlessly famished. In some respects, this is a good example of the British post-colonial science fiction novel. No other nation ever really quite ruled the waves as good old Britannia, and there is something quite eighteenth century about the New Crobuzon navy, with its officers and press ganged crew. Mieville does a Melville, although the motives for hunting the whale are not exactly the same as Ahab's (but there are a fair few cannibals/bloodsuckers on board). China Mieville skilfully bends space to even let some popular science in. Treasure Island itself proves to be a bit more bloody than usual, and Captain Nemo cannot be swayed from his dangerous quest. Mieville does not quote from other texts or even covertly allude to them, but such archetypes do spring to mind nonetheless. Armada is fashioned from the coupling of many different boats, after all, and I am sure that Mieville would agree that no writer can be truly original. Having said that, there is vibrancy in the text, a beating pulse, that China Mieville has fashioned all himself with clinical skill. This may be a science fiction novel, but it is very much a work of its times. An old naval nation that's unsure of its future direction, whose leaders are those who can spin the best lie, and whose taxes are really goring... This novel surveys the rise and fall of Communism - hidden spies abound, all kinds are people are embraced behind the Iron Curtains of the ships, but if you dare cross the wall, you may well be shot. More than just Armada revolves in The Scar (one of the main protagonists has a truly apt name). In his depiction of the Lovers, the rulers of Armada, China Mieville scratches at the pus of modern love in a most discomforting way. The nuclear family has been blown away; Romance is truly doomed in this dystopia.<br />It would have been nice if Mieville had presented more of what it was like for Uther to live in High Cromlech's caste society, but then Uther is meant to be inscrutable, and I am not sure that Mieville completely believes that we are the products of our environment. The Lovers and The Hanged Man seem to be Tarot symbols of fate, but Bellis strongly believes in the exertion of her free will (although perhaps she should have listened to Captain Myzovic more attentively). When you're mining for possibilities, anything can happen... The resolution of this novel will no doubt have some reader's baying for China Mieville's blood. Yet Margaret Atwood won the Booker Prize recently using similar thaumaturgy, and China Mieville's new novel is the more convincing and ship tight of the two vessels in question. If you go back over the novel, you'll see just how expertly China Mieville has laid the foundations for The Scar. Mieville is no cheat - there are no hidden cards up his sleeve - he is an expert player and only his poker face is hard to read. After he has gently settled you into the narrative in the first fifty pages, the rest of the novel makes for compulsive, addictive reading. The pages are certainly easier to turn than Armada, and nothing can stop the prose. Something akin to G-force will compel you to sit tight and see this journey through.mforting way. The nuclear family has been blown away; Romance is truly doomed in this dystopia.<br />It would have been nice if Mieville had presented more of what it was like for Uther to live in High Cromlech's caste society, but then Uther is meant to be inscrutable, and I am not sure that Mieville completely believes that we are the products of our environment. The Lovers and The Hanged Man seem to be Tarot symbols of fate, but Bellis strongly believes in the exertion of her free will (although perhaps she should have listened to Captain Myzovic more attentively). When you're mining for possibilities, anything can happen... The resolution of this novel will no doubt have some reader's baying for China Mieville's blood. Yet Margaret Atwood won the Booker Prize recently using similar thaumaturgy, and China Mieville's new novel is the more convincing and ship tight of the two vessels in question. If you go back over the novel, you'll see just how expertly China Mieville has laid the foundations for The Scar. Mieville is no cheat - there are no hidden cards up his sleeve - he is an expert player and only his poker face is hard to read. After he has gently settled you into the narrative in the first fifty pages, the rest of the novel makes for compulsive, addictive reading. The pages are certainly easier to turn than Armada, and nothing can stop the prose. Something akin to G-force will compel you to sit tight and see this journey through.	2002-08-10
US	52362742	R3BLMQW0G4951Q	0553583778	312593398	Empire of Bones	Books	5	6	10	N	N	The Post-colonial Prometheus...	Empire of Bones is an extrapolation of my favourite Liz Williams short story, The Unthinkables.  This short story, published in Interzone a couple of years ago, told the tale of an alien race that had a strict caste hierarchy, with the Unthinkables on the lowest rung.  This had obvious overtones of the Untouchable caste in India, and in Empire of Bones, Liz Williams has made this comparison explicit, since her novel involves both the Unthinkables (or 'The Naturals') and the Untouchables.<br />  Elements of the earlier story resound.  The Khaithoi caste is insectile, while Sirru's caste is birdlike.  Readers of The Unthinkables will immediately identify with the likeable Sirru, and like him, will distrust the aloof and mysterious Khaithoi.  The Khaithoi are far more educated than the Desqusai (Sirru's people), and exclude the lower caste by employing their higher concepts in a secret and exclusive language in Sirru's presence.  Jaya Nihalani, on the other hand, exploits her membership of the Untouchable caste to feign ignorance of English whilst she is poked and prodded at in a UN hospital.  She may be the object under examination by the English doctors, but she still strives towards subjectivity and empowerment by eavesdropping on their discussion of her.<br />  Despite the fact that this novel is published in America, and will presumably have a largely American audience, this is primarily a British post-colonial Science Fiction novel.  This distinction is important: the aliens here have no interest in sullying the White House Lawn by landing there, as they might conceivably do in the archetypal American imperial popular science fiction narrative.  My view is that the Americans are now producing popular science fictions that are the equivalent of those the British produced a hundred years ago, at a similar juncture: the imminent fear of the fall of empire.<br />  As is to be expected in a novel written by a woman, there is no misogyny directed at women.  Indeed, the world's oldest profession is presented in a sympathetic light and has a valuable role to play.  Having said that, although Anarres the courtesan is not threatened with death as punishment due to the open broadcasting of her allure, she and Ir Yth are employed very much as tools.  Sirru and Ir Yth are the stereotypical 'dysfunctional' parents - it's no wonder that their young 'uns have gone so wrong (although these are not Ir Yth's progeny - she's more of the wicked step mum).  Like many of the wives in the novel except Jaya, Ir Yth is unfaithful, and thus Sirru, like all the husbands, are cuckolded - although this must be even more humiliating if you do actually look like a cockerel.  Unlike the American popular science fiction narrative, Sirru the alien is not presented as a threat.  True enough, Jaya misunderstands his intentions, and like a vampire, Sirru can transform his body to hide from the gaze of humans so he can infiltrate his neighbours and surroundings with ease; but we know that he is also a hero, since he is presented in a sympathetic light.  Sirru is the very antithesis of a vampire: he gives his own blood and bodily fluids to save life (although his method of giving blood can still be quite violent).  His naivet&eacute; of human affairs is presented in a humorous light, but he is ultimately more knowledgeable than he appears...<br />  Liz Williams has spent a great deal of time in Asia, and has no doubt observed the Indian caste system in action, but this actually turns out to be that very British thing - a novel about class.  Perhaps one thing that the British colonisers (that Liz Williams mentions so often), found so appealing about India was the complementarity of the caste system to the class system.  Amir is certainly Anglo-Indian, so his predecessors must have embraced the British in more ways than one.  Sirru and Jaya do have a couple of dialogues about free will, but it is the explicit comparison between Amir and Sirru that best expresses it.  Unlike Sirru, Amir has already lost his ancestral lands to the Japanese businessman Tokhai.  Like the rural English, Amir finds himself priced out of his local area and his palace is sold off to become a country cottage/second or third home.  Amir exerts his free will by trying to cling on and enforce the old order, but unlike Sirru and Jaya, he does not realise that the wheel will go round and round, no matter what he does.  Nowhere One and the Naturals, despite their revolt against the caste system, still have an inherent hierarchy.<br />  I have written far more than I had intended to about The Empire of Bones, which in itself is indicative of its appeal (interested readers can contact me to read the rest of the essay online).  In an interview with Liz Williams, she told me that she tries to make every word count in her fiction.  This is certainly true in The Empire of Bones.  The novel has an intricate plotline, such a sound and compelling structure, that there is a twist and turn with almost every page.  Unlike Jaya's audience when she's a conjuror's assistant, there will be few hecklers to detract from Liz Williams' conjuring tricks.  In the character of Tokhai, Liz Williams seems to have returned to the theme of her PhD, that of the philosophy of science.  She's interested in just how far scientists will go in undermining ethical boundaries.  Tokhai may need a cane for his stereotypical mad scientist disability (although the disability is novel and pertinent to the novel), but boy, can he run and run!  Tokhai has far less angst than Mary Shelley's most famous creation though; rather it is Sirru who has the stress of playing the Promethean father.  If you've a sensitive and discerning nose, you should find Liz Williams' fiction to be far more spicy and appealing.t.  Unlike Sirru, Amir has already lost his ancestral lands to the Japanese businessman Tokhai.  Like the rural English, Amir finds himself priced out of his local area and his palace is sold off to become a country cottage/second or third home.  Amir exerts his free will by trying to cling on and enforce the old order, but unlike Sirru and Jaya, he does not realise that the wheel will go round and round, no matter what he does.  Nowhere One and the Naturals, despite their revolt against the caste system, still have an inherent hierarchy. <br />   I have written far more than I had intended to about The Empire of Bones, which in itself is indicative of its appeal (interested readers can contact me to read the rest of the essay online).  In an interview with Liz Williams, she told me that she tries to make every word count in her fiction.  This is certainly true in The Empire of Bones.  The novel has an intricate plotline, such a sound and compelling structure, that there is a twist and turn with almost every page.  Unlike Jaya's audience when she's a conjuror's assistant, there will be few hecklers to detract from Liz Williams' conjuring tricks.  In the character of Tokhai, Liz Williams seems to have returned to the theme of her PhD, that of the philosophy of science.  She's interested in just how far scientists will go in undermining ethical boundaries.  Tokhai may need a cane for his stereotypical mad scientist disability (although the disability is novel and pertinent to the novel), but boy, can he run and run!  Tokhai has far less angst than Mary Shelley's most famous creation though; rather it is Sirru who has the stress of playing the Promethean father.  If you've a sensitive and discerning nose, you should find Liz Williams' fiction to be far more spicy and appealing.	2002-04-18
US	52362742	RSXHJF1UT598N	052594642X	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Good Impression	Out of a biblical flood, Pran Nath Razdan is conceived. This deluge has brought a British colonial and a young Indian bride together for a brief union. For a while only, we are allowed to see Pran as an exuberant and naughty boy, with a stirring in his loins that will ultimately bring about his downfall. With the death of his wild mother in childbirth, there has only been Pran's father to bring him up. His father is rather distant, mostly concerned with his court pleadings and great notions of hygiene, rather than his son. Spoiled by his relatives, who are rather pleased with the whiteness of Pran's skin (a sure sign of a noble Kashmiri heritage), nobody is there to stop Pran from becoming a wild brat. True enough, the astrologer called upon at the time of Pran's birth has seen something of his troubled future, but has settled on presenting a more orthodox reading for the boy to save his own headaches and to earn himself a good tip. Unknown to Pran, it is not the planets that are keeping a watch over him, but Anjali, the maidservant who knows all about Pran's dubious conception. Unfortunately, as Pran eyes Anjali's daughter Gita, he fails to see what will be the real consequences of his actions.<br /> <br />Hari Kunzru's depiction of the 1918 `Spanish' flu is truly authentic and resonates greatly. This biggest killer of mankind proved to be a great leveller, as Pran finds out to his cost. Following the advice of a tramp, Pran finds shelter, food, and abuse. Not for the last time in his life, Pran is dosed up with drugs to numb him against his new degrading profession. In flies Enza and two eunuchs to rescue him from this predicament, and Pran find himself thrust into the dubious court intrigues of Fatehpur. Hari Kunzru has stated that he wanted Pran to find various father figures in his journeys, and the first he comes across is the obese Major Augustus Privett-Clampe, who has rather a fondness for young boys. As an unwilling political officer, he is a ripe target for blackmail. Pran escapes from this farce on his own two feet with his sexuality intact, and wanders into the hell caused by Dyer's decision to fire at unarmed protestors at Amritsar. From there he makes it to the Falkland Road in Bombay, home to the oldest profession and the Independent Scottish Mission Among the Heathen. It's not long before Pran has met, and then becomes Jonathan Bridgeman: his last and most eventful incarnation...<br /> <br />One of the great themes in the discipline of Cultural Studies is that of barriers, and how one can transgress them. Pran, with the lightness of his skin, finds that he can cross bridges in all sorts of directions, being seen as both Indian and English at various times. As the Khwaja-sara tells Pran, there are a multiplicity of sexualities, and in this way, there also seems to be a multitude of identities. I know that one of the great themes of literature is the search for identity, but it does seem a great pity that Pran loses his own identity so early on. The precocious little boy rarely reappears; such is Pran's desire to conform, to fit. As figures such as Reverend Macfarlane are introduced, they also take a great deal of the narrative away from Pran. Macfarlane seems to be a hybrid of Reverend Wilson and Doctor Potter from Matthew Kneale's English Passengers, but in contrast, you never really care what happens to Macfarlane. Wilson and Potter may be odious creations, but they have vitality that most of the characters in The Impressionist lack. There is also a passage where Kunzru writes: \\"Delicacy suggests that this juncture might be suitable for a survey of the history... of Fatehpur\\". This sounds very much like an essay that I've read about Toni Morrison's Beloved, which said that slave narratives would often say \\"Now let us draw a veil over proceedings too terrible to relate\\" - we never really get to see Pran's suffering, since the \\"objective observers\\" are \\"sadly lacking\\", and Pran himself is drugged to the eyeballs and never gets to relate anything. In short, Hari Kunzru could have produced a much more powerful narrative than he has done here. The ever-present present tense seems to hark back to Hari Kunzru's travel journalism, and does not allow much variety of pace.<br /> <br />Privett-Clampe calls Pran \\"Clive\\" and Pran later adopts the name of \\"Robert\\" in two implicit references to Sir Robert Clive, who like Pran, was an Anglo-Indian. In the early days of the empire, it was perfectly acceptable for British men to take Indian wives, and Hari Kunzru reels off an impressive list of sons conceived from such unions: Lord Roberts, Lord Liverpool, and Skinner, founder of the Bengal Lancers. However, I think that it would have made for a more powerful book if Hari Kunzru had concentrated on presenting the stories of a few more Anglo-Indians like Harry Begg, rather than launching Pran on a huge picaresque journey, with so many twists and turns that Pran is left high and dry, and often abandoned for whole sections. True enough, there are juicy scenes, such as Pran's encounter with Lily Parry, but these do not last long. In the later stages of the novel, Pran ends up in Oxford. Yet the threat of his imminent \\"debagging\\" never seems quite as savage nor as comic as that inflicted upon the hero of Evelyn Waugh's \\"Decline and Fall\\", and Hari Kunzru's narrative is nowhere near as pacy and witty as Waugh. But then there is that delicious scene where Pran trying to grab at Gita is presented in the form of a mathematical formula, as intractable as anything found in \\"Fermat's Last Theorem\\". Despite some shortcomings, Hari Kunzru's debut does finally leave a good impression.lls and never gets to relate anything. In short, Hari Kunzru could have produced a much more powerful narrative than he has done here. The ever-present present tense seems to hark back to Hari Kunzru's travel journalism, and does not allow much variety of pace.<br /> <br />Privett-Clampe calls Pran \\"Clive\\" and Pran later adopts the name of \\"Robert\\" in two implicit references to Sir Robert Clive, who like Pran, was an Anglo-Indian. In the early days of the empire, it was perfectly acceptable for British men to take Indian wives, and Hari Kunzru reels off an impressive list of sons conceived from such unions: Lord Roberts, Lord Liverpool, and Skinner, founder of the Bengal Lancers. However, I think that it would have made for a more powerful book if Hari Kunzru had concentrated on presenting the stories of a few more Anglo-Indians like Harry Begg, rather than launching Pran on a huge picaresque journey, with so many twists and turns that Pran is left high and dry, and often abandoned for whole sections. True enough, there are juicy scenes, such as Pran's encounter with Lily Parry, but these do not last long. In the later stages of the novel, Pran ends up in Oxford. Yet the threat of his imminent \\"debagging\\" never seems quite as savage nor as comic as that inflicted upon the hero of Evelyn Waugh's \\"Decline and Fall\\", and Hari Kunzru's narrative is nowhere near as pacy and witty as Waugh. But then there is that delicious scene where Pran trying to grab at Gita is presented in the form of a mathematical formula, as intractable as anything found in \\"Fermat's Last Theorem\\". Despite some shortcomings, Hari Kunzru's debut does finally leave a good impression.	2002-03-29
US	52362742	R3GYP11VXBYZSQ	0385722109	660348741	Hotel World	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Rebegotten	Ali Smith's voice (to borrow a phrase from her companion in Internet search engine results) will rumble in the jungle for a very long time.ere is every indication that Else could be 'reborn'. This is a world, after all, where the birds sing cheerful TV ads in Lise's dreams.<br />There's a whole range of other, minor characters too, such as the girl in the watch shop, the learner driver and his amorous teacher, Duncan, the guy with whom Sara Wilby had the bet that led to her death. Even Princess Di and Dusty Springfield make fleeting appearances towards the end, and perhaps they and the Millennium could date the novel. But Ali Smith carries off her prose with such poetry and style that I am sure that it will always remain fresh. I don't think of Virginia Woolf when I read this novel - I laughed at the joke about the dog who walked into the Western saloon looking for the guy who shot his paw - James Joyce's The Dead seems a much more apt comparison. Now and again, the Booker prize panel does nominate really good books on its shortlist from powerful new writers. Ali Smith's voice (to borrow a phrase from her companion in Internet search engine results) will rumble in the jungle for a very long time.	2002-03-14
US	52362742	R5TLRJG5XNY73	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Has McEwan reinvented the novel?	Okay, so now we know that Atonement hasn't won the Booker Prize, but Atonement has won the popular vote. Atonement is a far better novel than McEwan's own Booker winning Amsterdam, and so the publishers must have thought that they had a very good chance of winning (although the bookies correctly opted for Peter Carey's The True History of the Kelly Gang). The Booker Prize panel does have a tendency of awarding the gong to writers they feel should win (and not necessarily for the best book). Margaret Atwood has written some fantastic novels, and although The Blind Assassin is very good, it is definitely not her best. The same could be said for Ian McEwan's Amsterdam: Enduring Love was much better, but McEwan won the Booker for his paltry follow-up. Maybe McEwan has been trying to atone since then? Atonement has received a great deal of praise, if only \\"because it's the kind of novel that wins the Booker Prize\\", but other critics have suggested that he has done no less than reinvent the novel. But can you really make the 'new' more 'new'?<br />The novel kicks off with a passage from Northanger Abbey (for which I recommend the Everyman paperback edition, edited by my cousin, Elisabeth Mahoney), although Ian McEwan omits the scenes that prove incontrovertibly that Jane Austen created baseball. You immediately get the sense that this could be a novel about a young girl on the cusp of womanhood who goes around in a state of near paranoia, so vivid is her imagination. It helps Atonement very much that Briony Tallis, the young girl in question, is a wannabe novelist. She has migrated from fairy tales to plays, although her playwrighting career is not destined to last very long (and there may be a few playwrights out there gnashing their teeth at McEwan's apparent denigration of their art, the screenplays he has written notwithstanding). One immediately notices how polished the text is: McEwan has worked very hard on Atonement, and it shows. Amsterdam closely followed Enduring Love and was poorer in comparison. Although the novel starts off in 1935, McEwan seems to be aiming for the timeless, classic touch, rather than just period detail.<br />Since it's 1935, most of the characters know that something ominous is on the horizon. Jack Tallis is doing his best to prepare for it; Emily Tallis doesn't want it to happen, and Paul Marshall, true to his name, is bellicose and seeks to profit from it, by selling his Amo chocolate bars to the Army. The name of Amo, of course, is derived from the Latin for 'I love', but it sounds like Ammo and looks good in khaki. Briony has her mind totally set on the play she's writing - The Trials of Arabella - and in this, she seems just as opportunistic as Paul Marshall, as she seizes upon the arrival of her cousins to stage her play, never mind that they are distraught by the rather public divorce of their parents. It's here that Briony first encounters the haughty Lola, the older sister of twin brothers Jackson and Pierrot. The twins, it turns out, can't act for fake chocolate, and Lola is indifferent. Also in the house is Cecilia, Briony's sister, and Robbie Turner, the son of the family help, and both these young adults have just graduated from studying literature at Cambridge. Cecilia has always been a bit patronising towards her younger sister's literary talents, but is unaware of how potent Briony's dramatic skills really have become...<br />Atonement is a novel about 'meaning', in all the perambulations of the word, especially since novels are always supposed to mean something. This is where Ian McEwan is very clever, especially in the way he shows how perceptions change over time, as we grow up. If I do read Atonement again, then I'm sure that I will see new things in it, is an obvious observation. But central to the plot is how limited and personal perception is. There's the young Briony standing at the window, seeing the extraordinary scene of her sister Cecilia stripping down into her undies infront of Robbie Turner, and diving into the fountain. And there's yet another and another scene where Briony observes, but does not see. That our perceptions can be so human, so inaccurate, does tend to throw doubt on the whole nature of reality, and on the very basis of human communication. A literary novel is evident of the human desire to communicate at the highest level. Yet McEwan guides us very carefully - he lets us see what Briony does not. However, there's an unsettling \\"B.T.\\" within this book, and we're not talking about telecommunications. As Cyril Connolly might have put it, Ian McEwan has put a lot into the narrative concerning the development of the novel in the twentieth century. A lot of critics have read this, and because they like logical conclusions, they believe and state that Ian McEwan has reinvented the novel, and that he's finally found a new valid model to replace that magic realism and 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf' stuff. The Author is not dead, since he was God all along, and had a neat line in resurrection, is what they seem to be saying. Yet I would contend that Ian McEwan has ended with a parlour trick along with a parlour entertainment. If critics really believe that what McEwan is doing is all that particularly novel, then they'll get a nasty shock if they ever come across the similar resolution to James Hoggs' 'The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner'. Atonement is a fantastic, highly stylised read, with a potent erotic charge, and highly ambitious - but McEwan has not reinvented the novel - he's just written a fantastic book.front of Robbie Turner, and diving into the fountain. And there's yet another and another scene where Briony observes, but does not see. That our perceptions can be so human, so inaccurate, does tend to throw doubt on the whole nature of reality, and on the very basis of human communication. A literary novel is evident of the human desire to communicate at the highest level. Yet McEwan guides us very carefully - he lets us see what Briony does not. However, there's an unsettling \\"B.T.\\" within this book, and we're not talking about telecommunications. As Cyril Connolly might have put it, Ian McEwan has put a lot into the narrative concerning the development of the novel in the twentieth century. A lot of critics have read this, and because they like logical conclusions, they believe and state that Ian McEwan has reinvented the novel, and that he's finally found a new valid model to replace that magic realism and 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf' stuff. The Author is not dead, since he was God all along, and had a neat line in resurrection, is what they seem to be saying. Yet I would contend that Ian McEwan has ended with a parlour trick along with a parlour entertainment. If critics really believe that what McEwan is doing is all that particularly novel, then they'll get a nasty shock if they ever come across the similar resolution to James Hoggs' 'The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner'. Atonement is a fantastic, highly stylised read, with a potent erotic charge, and highly ambitious - but McEwan has not reinvented the novel - he's just written a fantastic book.	2002-03-14
US	52362742	R283I92QXBLN9B	0786708239	155843737	Miss Garnet's Angel: A Novel	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The Grateful Living	This novel follows approximately eleven months in the life of Miss Julia Garnet, from the Feast of Epiphany to the Feast of Raphael.  Her friend, Harriet, has just died suddenly.  With her habits already shaken up by the death of her companion, Julia decides to rattle them even further by jetting off to Venice, to enjoy the kind of holiday that Harriet had been planning for their joint retirement from teaching.  Miss Julia Garnet is a Communist who's never been kissed, so it's something of a surprise to see her falling in love, and to learn of her abounding interest in an angel.<br />  At first glance, this is a Death in Venice/Don't Look Now kind of book.  Carlo, the man for whom Julia falls for big time, turns out to be quite an apocryphal<br />character, in the modern meaning of the word.  Thankfully, Harriet wasn't in the habit of wearing lurid red anoraks, and Salley Vickers' new novel, The Instances of<br />the Number 3 also opens with a death.  However, Julia does encounter the twins who are restoring the Chapel-of-the-Plague (which Salley Vickers seems to have invented for the novel), similar to the sort of work carried out by Donald Sutherland's character in Don't Look Now.  However, there is the scene where Julia abandons her guidebook by  the Reverend Crystal in St. Mark's Basilica (a reference to A Room with a View perhaps?), and this is where she meets Carlo for the first time.  St. Mark's Basilica is very beautiful, but as Carlo tells Julia, all the art has been nicked from other cultures and appropriated by the victorious Venetians of past history.  One could say that Salley Vickers has gone about doing the same thing (especially with regards to her new novel), yet there is a more apt simile to describe what she is doing here.  Like Gianantonio Guardi, Salley Vickers could be said to be borrowing poses or motifs from other artists, but she recasts them in her own vivid manner (to paraphrase Emil Kren and Daniel Marx's description of Guardi's painting  'The Angel Appears to Tobias').  The quotes that Salley Vickers uses in this novel always seem appropriate, and always seem to be leading somewhere, whereas the quotations in The Instances of the Number 3 seem forced and appropriated.  Although I thought there could be more behind Salley Vickers' naming Julia's school as 'St Barnabas and St James'.  There's a thread throughout the novel concerning St Mark, who let down St Barnabas and St Paul by returning home early from one of their first journeys, and I couldn't see a link between St Barnabas and St James. Towards the end of the novel, Julia traces Tobias's journey on a map.  In so doing, she's conveying the importance of such journeys, to our  common history and our own personal development.  For interested readers, I've created a page concerning the cultural context of this novel.<br />We are invited to see Julia as several archetypal figures.  She could be Saint Ursula, watched over by the Angel Raphael as in the cover picture of the book, cropped from a painting by Carpaccio (although it's hard to see her pupils following her anywhere willingly, especially not to a massacre, since they tend to regard her as a joke and sing rude songs about her).  She could be the legendary traveller of the folk story of the Grateful Dead, as embodied by the dramatisation of the Book of Tobit within the novel.  Or she could even be the embodiment of the Angel Raphael himself ('You must be my guardian angel,' Toby says at one point).  Although, to see Miss Garnet as the Angel is to play the tricks with the title of the book that don't work in the same way that 'Finnegans Wake' could mean any number of things.  Certainly, Julia feels that the Angel Raphael is watching over her, if only in the form of a statue. To some, the ending of the book may come as something of a surprise.  It did to me the first time, I'm afraid to admit.  But when you dig deeper into Salley Vickers' research, you cannot avoid a deep sense of foreboding.<br /><br />  Salley Vickers has managed to whip up everything she can think of about Venice into this book.  John Ruskin invites Julia out to consume some prosecco (if nothing else), Tintoretto pops in for tea, the House of the Camel really lights up to illuminate William Blake, Vivaldi lectures, and Shakespeare puts on some plays.  However the Venice ghetto does not really provide a refuge for Julia, but may have done some time in the past for the sparkling Monsignore and his pug dog.  Whilst reading Tucker Malarkey's An Obvious Enchantment recently, I did kind of wonder what the links between Christianity, Judaism and Islam were, and Malarkey missed the (now) obvious source of monotheism: Zoroaster was the first prophet to call for the worship of one true God (rather than Akhenaten).  This isn't hacked onto the text by Vickers: it's a natural growth throughout the novel, from the gifts of the three Magi celebrated in the Epiphany, to the Feast of the Apocryphal Raphael.  Just as Venice seems to be in peril, so do the Zoroastrians, with ever declining numbers predicted.  One gets an indication of how intricately plotted this novel is by the revelation that there was a Fair Maiden on the Zoroastrian Bridge of Separation.  Salley Vickers magnificently bridges Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Zoroastrianism via her dramatisation of the Book of Tobit (and her translation of the tale is a tad bit more successful than Saint Jerome's, despite all it's tail wagging).  And what better place to build bridges than Venice?<BR>  Salley Vickers has managed to whip up everything she can think of about Venice into this book.  John Ruskin invites Julia out to consume some prosecco (if nothing else), Tintoretto pops in for tea, the House of the Camel really lights up to illuminate William Blake, Vivaldi lectures, and Shakespeare puts on some plays.  However the Venice ghetto does not really provide a refuge for Julia, but may have done some time in the past for the sparkling Monsignore and his pug dog.  Whilst reading Tucker Malarkey's An Obvious Enchantment recently, I did kind of wonder what the links between Christianity, Judaism and Islam were, and Malarkey missed the (now) obvious source of monotheism: Zoroaster was the first prophet to call for the worship of one true God (rather than Akhenaten).   This isn't hacked onto the text by Vickers: it's a natural growth throughout the novel, from the gifts of the three Magi celebrated in the Epiphany, to the Feast of the Apocryphal Raphael.  Just as Venice seems to be in peril, so do the Zoroastrians, with ever declining numbers predicted.  One gets an indication of how intricately plotted this novel is by the revelation that there was a Fair Maiden on the Zoroastrian Bridge of Separation.  Salley Vickers magnificently bridges Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Zoroastrianism via her dramatisation of the Book of Tobit (and her translation of the tale is a tad bit more successful than Saint Jerome's, despite all it's tail wagging).  And what better place to build bridges than Venice?	2001-10-31
US	52362742	R2VW0EUSF6TXL	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Naughty Noughties in the music hall tradition	Falling Angels is Tracy Chevalier's third novel. It tells of how radically societies can change within the space of just a decade. The novel starts off with the death of Victoria. Unlike the death of Diana, a mere 90 or so years later, the Victorians had no trouble knowing how they were expected to behave in the face of death, since the rules of mourning were well-known to everyone. Kitty Coleman, however, hasn't read the script, since she wears a dress of dark blue, which is not quite dark enough, so it is sorely noticeable amongst the other mourners. Curiously, everyone decides that the best thing to do in the face of the Empress's passing is to visit their own family plots in their local cemetery. With mortality being so much higher than it is today, visits to the cemetery were far more frequent. However, this is the first time that the Colemans meet their neighbours in death (literally): the Waterhouses. More specifically, this is the first time that the two young daughters of the family meet: Maud Coleman, and Lavinia Waterhouse (she complains about her name being shortened to 'Livy', and ironically, she's obsessed with death). Despite their preference for calling their daughter after a Roman writer, the Waterhouses have chosen to adorn their family plot with a massive Angel (hence the title &quot;Falling Angels&quot;), whilst the more modern, progressive Colemans have chosen a large urn (Roman in origin).<br />However, it is Kitty who points out to her husband that the practice of putting ashes into urns is a rather Pagan tradition. But then again, a lot of the graves in Highgate Cemetery also have Egyptian symbolism. This is a Cemetery of Empire, and with the steady abandonment of its rules and customs over the next decade, Chevalier conveys a little of how this Empire itself may have fallen. But Chevalier is mainly concerned with the gradual change in the role of women, the Fall of the Victorian Angel in the House. In truth, Richard Coleman has very little grounds for criticising his wife's behaviour, since the novel opens with a bout of wife swapping, instigated by him. This is, in the face of it, rather improbable: if Kitty has refused Richard access to her bed since the birth of Maud, then why does she consent to this early trial of swinging? More effective is Tracy Chevalier's depiction of how women have turned their sexuality to their advantage in the twentieth century. Kitty usurps the power of Richard's mother by judicial employment of her sexual wiles. Although, if Richard's mother is anything to go by, there never was an Angel in the House: but then again, I suppose that Mother-in-laws have always been demons, especially in the music hall tradition.<br />It's Simon Fields, the gravedigger's son, who sings the songs of the music hall. Many of these songs and singers had a transatlantic following. 1910, the year the book ends, was the year of the first film made in California, when popular culture first began to flow from West to East, rather than vice versa. Simon sings of &quot;'Appy 'Ampstead&quot; on p. 55, and one begins to suspect Tracy Chevalier's own transatlantic origins when one learns that the composer of this song and its singer were no other than Albert Chevalier (a distant relation perhaps, as strange as that which exists between Camilla and Mrs. Keppel?). Tracy Chevalier's knowledge of the local history of Hampstead is superb: we have the opening of Highgate Library and the Hampstead Scientific Society's Observatory, and much lore, such as that concerning Guy Fawkes and Parliament Hill. Although I had envisioned a much more modern, open plan cemetery, Highgate's various nooks and crannies and the shenanigans that go on within, do suit the plot of the book rather well (I've created a page about the cultural context of Fallen Angels for interested readers, which contains photos of the rather dark Highgate Cemetery).<br />Halfway through the novel, Kitty Coleman is regenerated somewhat incredulouslyby an encounter with a Suffragette, the comic Caroline Black. Much more powerful than Black's cowardly plotting is the rather darker back alleys of Victorian sexuality that took half a decade of female enfranchisement before being properly regulated. As Kitty Coleman strives to assert her own individuality, she leaves the role of Angel far behind. Lavinia, who professes that the old customs must be defended and performed faithfully, is artless in her delicious attempt at blackmail. The suffragette Captain with whom Kitty places Lavinia, Maud and Ivy May at the Hyde Park rally is just as devoid of maternal instinct as she. With the rise of radicalism in the suffragettes, there is more than a hint that just as women are behaving differently, so they are being treated differently. There's the underused, but the delightful Albert Waterhouse, who has a couple of honest Freudian slips here and there (was Chevalier thinking of a different suitor for Kitty originally?). I also liked the voices of Mrs. Baker and Jenny Whitby, who although they don't have much, can afford to be more honest and less self-deceiving. Highgate Cemetery is supposed to be where Bram Stoker got the inspiration for a rather infamous scene from Dracula, and perhaps 'Whitby' is a reference to that novel. Whilst Stoker had the fall of the Angel in the House down as something to be feared with horror, Tracy Chevalier sees it more as a black comedy, because the Angel was always rather too ephemeral to be real. The novel ends with the visit of Halley's Comet during King Edward's death, an omen that was also sighted at the death of Edward the Confessor in 1066...by an encounter with a Suffragette, the comic Caroline Black. Much more powerful than Black's cowardly plotting is the rather darker back alleys of Victorian sexuality that took half a decade of female enfranchisement before being properly regulated. As Kitty Coleman strives to assert her own individuality, she leaves the role of Angel far behind. Lavinia, who professes that the old customs must be defended and performed faithfully, is artless in her delicious attempt at blackmail. The suffragette Captain with whom Kitty places Lavinia, Maud and Ivy May at the Hyde Park rally is just as devoid of maternal instinct as she. With the rise of radicalism in the suffragettes, there is more than a hint that just as women are behaving differently, so they are being treated differently. There's the underused, but the delightful Albert Waterhouse, who has a couple of honest Freudian slips here and there (was Chevalier thinking of a different suitor for Kitty originally?). I also liked the voices of Mrs. Baker and Jenny Whitby, who although they don't have much, can afford to be more honest and less self-deceiving. Highgate Cemetery is supposed to be where Bram Stoker got the inspiration for a rather infamous scene from Dracula, and perhaps 'Whitby' is a reference to that novel. Whilst Stoker had the fall of the Angel in the House down as something to be feared with horror, Tracy Chevalier sees it more as a black comedy, because the Angel was always rather too ephemeral to be real. The novel ends with the visit of Halley's Comet during King Edward's death, an omen that was also sighted at the death of Edward the Confessor in 1066...	2001-10-19
US	52362742	RYPTW04J7IHFJ	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Daft Sidis error, more engaging than Carpworld	This is a difficult, playful novel.  Sibylla is the mother of Ludo, a precociously intelligent child.  An American expat who fibbed her way into Oxford, Sibylla now lives in London and single motherhood.  She has to earn a living, so she works at home typing endless pages of Carpworld.  However, having a ferociously intelligent young son in the same room as she works is more than a little distracting.  One of the delights of The Last Samurai is the technique DeWitt uses to place you in the same room as Ludo and Sibylla.  Ludo is not introduced as such into the text, he barges his way through like the headstrong and loud toddler that he is.  The free style of the text is only natural following the typing of so many copies of Carpworld.<br />  Sibylla is a quite unconventional mother.  Despite her love for London, England (the only place in the world that you can buy Alaska Fried Chicken), Sibylla is still very much an alien.  She makes an elementary error when she takes Ludo to the local school at the age of six, and discovers that schooling begins at five in Britain.  Although she has had friends in the past, to whom she alludes via pseudonyms, her life with Ludo is all time-consuming and isolated.  Ludo is the result of a drunken fumble, and Sibylla cannot bring herself to get back in contact with Ludo's father, who's more a frog intellectually than a prince.  Thus Ludo is beset by the mystery of his father's identity.  To make up for the lack of male role figures in Ludo's life, Sibylla takes to watching Akira Kurosawa's The Seven Samurai with her son repeatedly.  Although Ludo gets to learn a lot of Japanese from it, he stills feels a hole in his life and so embarks on a search for his father.  Like Oedipus, Ludo has to work out his father's identity by striving to interpret his mother's riddles.  But Ludo is only too aware that there is a gulf at the centre of Sibylla's life, for she has tried to kill herself before...<br />  No doubt many readers will be put off by the amount of intellectual activity within this novel.  Sibylla is shocked when she reads a schoolbook on Samurai and finds that it's full of errors.  Yet Helen DeWitt does make one singular mistake that hasn't been picked up by her editors.  On page 29, she refers to the American child prodigy Boris Sidis.  However, the child prodigy's father was the famous psychologist &quot;Boris Sidis&quot;, and the child prodigy's name was &quot;William James Sidis&quot;.  This mistake is unfortunate since one of the big themes of the book is child prodigies and hothousing.  DeWitt offers the Sidis tale as an example of the horror story for all parents who embark on hothousing: the child prodigy who burns out at an early age.  Yet this is the popular view of Sidis as presented by the US press, and does not comprise the whole story.  Dan Mahony has done a great deal of research on William James Sidis and discovered that he did a whole load of very important work at the same time that the public viewed him as burnt out.  The reason why this work remains largely unknown was because Sidis went to great lengths to hide himself from the unwanted attention of the Press, and published anonymously.  One of the downsides of hothousing and self-education is that you can be quite ignorant of some basic things, as Ludo later discovers in the book.  Going round in rhomboids on the Circle Line has done nothing for Ludo's knowledge of geography.<br /><br />  There is something balladic about The Last Samurai's structure.  What goes around does come around.  It is very pleasing to see strands from the earlier part of the novel coming to fruition towards the end.  However, one might suspect that Helen DeWitt has cobbled lots of good stories together (her bio on the dustjacket does say that she's worked on loads of novels before this one).  It helps her plot that Sibylla went to Oxford, a pivot around which a few of the men in the novel dance.  Although she had to fake her way into Oxford, Sibylla does fit in there, as she is rich in cultural capital - perhaps richer than she ought to be, given her motel background.  The flitting around from place to place in her childhood would seem to reflect DeWitt's background as the daughter of an American diplomat who had assignments in various Latin American countries.  I don't think it's a coincidence that Ludo prefers The Odyssey to The Iliad, with its epic quest for home.<br />  Helen DeWitt certainly lives up to her name.  The humour is brilliant and quite vital.  I loved Ludo's scenes in school.  For the most part, I admired the narration of Ludo very much.  The novel does really come alive when we see the world from his point of view for the first time.  As there is wit, so there is darkness and poignancy, which seemed to be combined during the scenes where Ludo's father keeps interrupting the boy's consciousness (much as Ludo the toddler kept barging in on Sibylla's typing of Carpworld).  I've written a play with themes similar to the Red Devlin sequence, but Helen DeWitt's writing here is sublime.  For those readers who feel guilty about just scanning over the more difficult bits, I've done a page on the cultural context of The Last Samurai, and they are welcome to contact me about it.  The book could definitely have done with more editing, but overall, there are sections of this novel that are quite perfect.ibylla does fit in there, as she is rich in cultural capital - perhaps richer than she ought to be, given her motel background.  The flitting around from place to place in her childhood would seem to reflect DeWitt's background as the daughter of an American diplomat who had assignments in various Latin American countries.  I don't think it's a coincidence that Ludo prefers The Odyssey to The Iliad, with its epic quest for home.<br />  Helen DeWitt certainly lives up to her name.  The humour is brilliant and quite vital.  I loved Ludo's scenes in school.  For the most part, I admired the narration of Ludo very much.  The novel does really come alive when we see the world from his point of view for the first time.  As there is wit, so there is darkness and poignancy, which seemed to be combined during the scenes where Ludo's father keeps interrupting the boy's consciousness (much as Ludo the toddler kept barging in on Sibylla's typing of Carpworld).  I've written a play with themes similar to the Red Devlin sequence, but Helen DeWitt's writing here is sublime.  For those readers who feel guilty about just scanning over the more difficult bits, I've done a page on the cultural context of The Last Samurai, and they are welcome to contact me about it.  The book could definitely have done with more editing, but overall, there are sections of this novel that are quite perfect.	2001-09-15
US	52362742	R2OJA9B6NE20FL	0395986591	672150818	Properties of Light: A Novel of Love, Betrayal, and Quantum Physics	Books	3	7	8	N	N	menage a trois	Salley Vickers' new book is called 'The Instances of Number 3'.  Rebecca Goldstein seems to subscribe to the same philosophy, as tragedy comes in threes in 'Properties of Light', which features more car crashes than John Irving or J. G. Ballard can usually manage.  'Properties of Light' steers an uneasy course between literature and melodrama.<br />  The beginning is poetic enough, with the references to Yeats and Blake that will resound throughout the novel.  Unfortunately, these literary interjections, although very skilfully placed by Goldstein, are a reflection of the very American campus 'Physics for Poets' courses that make me want to smirk uncontrollably.  Samuel Mallach has been reduced to teaching such a course.  Once a brilliant physicist, whom Einstein regarded as his successor, Mallach regards himself as \\"destroyed\\" by the reception his work on \\"hidden variables\\" received.  Thus does Rebecca Goldstein strive to fight the cause for reality, a curious thing for a novelist to do.  Justin Childs is also summoned to the cause.  The product of an unconventional childhood, and a brilliant mathematician, Justin comes across Mallach's seminal work and is duly inspired.  There are a few coincidences that bring Justin Childs and Samuel Mallach together, mainly through Mallach's beautiful daughter, Dana.  It's the Kevin Bacon game and the Six Degrees of Separation all over again.  Certainly, the physicist with whom Justin also works seems to have got his name cobbled together from the film poster for 'Judgement at Nuremberg', starring Spencer Tracey and Marlene Dietrich.  'Spencer Dietrich', you come to think, may not be the best pseudonym for a ... on the run.<br />  The language of 'Properties of Light' seems quite modern.  There appears to be an essence of timelessness about the novel.  We know that it's probably set in the early 70's, but no one's smoking dope or saying \\"Peace Man!\\"  'Properties of Light' is nowhere near as humourous as 'Boogie Nights'.  It's also rather dark and heavy, more akin to strange matter than a solar flare.  The physics is quite hard going, so it's something of a relief to discover that Mallach is somewhat of an eccentric in his ... habits.  Justin is disgusted to discover that the otherwise rational Dana fully believes in the Kundalini mumbo jumbo that spouts forth from the Self-help books of her late mother.  Justin is very willing to help Samuel Mallach complete his work, to produce the mathematical proof for his contentious physics, but the way that Mallach believes that the knowledge will be drawn out of Dana and Justin is most unusual.<br />  Both Justin's parents were killed in a car crash, leaving him an orphan.  Dana's eccentric mother was also killed in a car crash.  Part of Mallach's work is that apparently distant particles can have an effect on each other.  So it is that an announcement from Stockholm sends Mallach into a mad frenzy that threatens to undo all their work...<br />  Rebecca Goldstein has mentioned elsewhere that only she could have written 'Properties of Light', and I would agree with that.  Certainly, her husband, Sheldon Goldstein, a mathematician at Rutgers, has written a great deal about David Bohm, upon whom Samuel Mallach is based.  Maybe Sheldon Goldstein has his own biases, since David Bohm certainly dated the author of 'The Feminine Mystique', Betty Goldstein (a relative perhaps?).  Like Mallach, David Bohm did find complementarity with certain Eastern beliefs (along with Schrodinger).  Mallach's name is taken from the Hebrew for \\"Angel\\", and maybe Goldstein's referring to Lucifer rather than Gabriel.  Dana is also described as \\"this Pharaoh's girl\\".  Maybe there is a tyrant hiding beneath Mallach's seemingly placid nature?  Justin certainly regards him as a king of Physics.  David Bohm himself seems to have been closer to Philosophy than Physics, and Goldstein has a philosophical basis herself.  To a certain extent, Bohm mistrusted mathematical proofs, so it'snot entirely realistic that he would have sought out a mathematician like Justin Childs to validate his work once and for all.<br />  'Properties of Light' has been described as a Gothic novel, and I believe that this is where it falls down.  The gothic melodrama is more akin to the risible antics of 'The Castle of Otranto' rather than the racy excitement of Matthew Lewis's 'The Monk'.  The drama of 'Properties of Light' is simply light years away from Hamlet, and the book is only occasionally rewarding.  The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy's approach to life, the universe, and everything is so much more fun, and you can always stick a Babel Fish in your ear to comprehend the more difficult parts.  Rebecca Goldstein tries to do too much in 'Properties of Light': you can admire her bravery, but you wouldn't want to go there yourself.not entirely realistic that he would have sought out a mathematician like Justin Childs to validate his work once and for all.<br />  'Properties of Light' has been described as a Gothic novel, and I believe that this is where it falls down.  The gothic melodrama is more akin to the risible antics of 'The Castle of Otranto' rather than the racy excitement of Matthew Lewis's 'The Monk'.  The drama of 'Properties of Light' is simply light years away from Hamlet, and the book is only occasionally rewarding.  The Hitch Hikers Guide to the Galaxy's approach to life, the universe, and everything is so much more fun, and you can always stick a Babel Fish in your ear to comprehend the more difficult parts.  Rebecca Goldstein tries to do too much in 'Properties of Light': you can admire her bravery, but you wouldn't want to go there yourself.	2001-09-08
US	52362742	R2BNQ27Y0B8LYL	0575068973	444382294	Salt	Books	4	3	10	N	N	May day English Patient be with you...	The novel starts off with the voyage to 'Salt'. The planet is so-named because the main element on the planet is a preponderance of sodium chloride. Not the most hospitable environment for a human; but as someone points out to Petja, if there was no supply of salt, then all the colonists would die (although the colonists' recycling process seems to cover all their needs). Petja is the opening narrator of the novel. He belongs to a community of anarchists called the 'Alsists'. Adam Roberts openly acknowledges that there is an element of intertextuality involved in the novel, referring to Ursula Le Guin's 'The Dispossessed', Nabokov's 'Bend Sinister'. There are various other religious groups making the same journey, all strung out like pearls attached to a comet (an inevitably risky form of transport, especially considering the cabin fever inside the various ships, but a speedy one at that). One of the Alsists commits suicide and threatens the whole mission. This causes concern in the Senaar ship, who bid to avoid a repeat performance. They ask the Alsists to send a delegate to discuss the issue, and Petja is sent. Not that Petja is any kind of leader: like all the Alsists, he's against any form of hierarchy. Thus begins the troubled relationship between Senaar and the Alsists, which is exacerbated by the fact that Senaar men have fathered children on the Alsist ship. The undisciplined Alsists then break ranks by deciding to land on Salt first, angering the Senaarians further without even realising it. Not that the Senaarians want to grab the best land for themselves, or anything. The Senaarians have a patriarchal, hierarchical culture. They're named after the place in Genesis where the Tower of Babel was built. Babel later became Babylon, and there is a settlement named 'Babulonis' in the novel, complete with water flowing uphill, just like the famous Hanging Gardens. Barlei, the Senaar leader, would have preferred the planet Salt to be called 'Kepesh', after the Hebrew word for 'silver', which most often seems discussed within the Book of Exodus. Indeed, Barlei later builds a 'Great Dyke', which he describes as a 'Pharaonic feat', without any hint of hypocrisy. It's debatable as to whether the Alsists or the Senaar are representative of 'The Chosen People', and it's Petja who seems most like Moses, despite Barlei's use of language from the Book of Exodus. When the debate is held on how the future Senaar should be built, there is the suggestion that it should be constructed in the shape of 'The Eagle of St. John', which may be a sign of freemasonry in Senaarian society. One of the Senaarians who has fathered Alsist children is called Beltane: perhaps by referring to the Pagan May Day, Adam Roberts intends to remind us of modern anarchists who now wander forth and protest on May 1? The anarchists are well drawn by Roberts, and he is quite topical in including them. Roberts' dystopia is just as biting. All those scenes where Alsists threatens to punch one another's lights out does reflect how an anarchist society would settle disputes (or so I've read). This contrasts with Petja's use of force, which is violently opposed by some members of the Alsists later on (although Alsist society has been more or less smashed by then). Although they have talked their way onto a religious exodus, only a minority of Alsists have faith in a divine being. Most of them reject religion as just another hierarchical structure. This probably explains why some of them are so found of the atheist Roman philosopher Lucretius, together with his ideas on the 'free movement' of atoms. Thus it's quite a spiritual novel, in tune with recent fictions like John Meaney's 'Paradox' or Mary Doria Russell's 'The Sparrow'. Adam Roberts also claims that 'Salt' is intertextually related to Frank Herbert's 'Dune', but I couldn't really see much of a similarity, except that both worlds obviously have dunes. There are rather more factions involved in Frank Herbert's epic. There is no feudal empire or choam company (no minerals worthwhile exploiting), no fabulous sandworms, no Mentats, and no Bene Gesserit here. One of the disappointments of 'Salt' is that it doesn't really throw up any of the gender issues embodied in anarchism. Okay, so Senaarian women are obliged to do their duty by staying at home, and Rhoda Titus has the most irritatingly girly middle name ('Blossom'), and Barlei misogynistically calls Alsist women 'Maenads' whilst viewing Alsist society as matriarchal. Maybe it's a fault of characterisation, but all the narrators seem a little bland and lifeless. None of them seem to have worthwhile aspirations, but then I suppose they are living in a dystopia. At times, it does seem at times as though 'Salt' has far more in common with 'The English Patient' than 'Dune'... For instance, there are dunes in 'The English Patient' also. A bit of a tenuous link, I'll admit. But what about this? If you look at the movie soundtrack listing to 'The English Patient' by Gabriel Yared, you might be able to guess what music Adam Roberts was listening to when he first started writing 'Salt', and why the Alsists all seem to have Hungarian names. First off, there's a settlement called Yared, Pteja seems to have got his surname from the Song &quot;Szerelem&quot; (meaning &quot;Love&quot; in Hungarian), Marta Cserepes is possibly related to Marta 'Sebestyen' (name of the mountains in 'Salt'), or maybe Karoly Cserepes, who arranged the song 'Szerelem'. Is it &quot;As Far as Florence&quot; or 'New Florence', 'Convento' or &quot;Convento di Sant' Anna&quot;? Hamar, Sipos, and Csooris also seem to belong to the Hungarian band 'Musikas', featured in 'The English Patient'. Swapsies Herodotus for Lucretius? Compare with pages 18 and 63 of 'Salt' and weep. I reckon that Adam Roberts should utlise Gabriel Yared's soundtrack for 'Betty Blue' next time - I've always thought that 'Zorg' would be a great name for an alien!c. There is no feudal empire or choam company (no minerals worthwhile exploiting), no fabulous sandworms, no Mentats, and no Bene Gesserit here. One of the disappointments of 'Salt' is that it doesn't really throw up any of the gender issues embodied in anarchism. Okay, so Senaarian women are obliged to do their duty by staying at home, and Rhoda Titus has the most irritatingly girly middle name ('Blossom'), and Barlei misogynistically calls Alsist women 'Maenads' whilst viewing Alsist society as matriarchal. Maybe it's a fault of characterisation, but all the narrators seem a little bland and lifeless. None of them seem to have worthwhile aspirations, but then I suppose they are living in a dystopia. At times, it does seem at times as though 'Salt' has far more in common with 'The English Patient' than 'Dune'... For instance, there are dunes in 'The English Patient' also. A bit of a tenuous link, I'll admit. But what about this? If you look at the movie soundtrack listing to 'The English Patient' by Gabriel Yared, you might be able to guess what music Adam Roberts was listening to when he first started writing 'Salt', and why the Alsists all seem to have Hungarian names. First off, there's a settlement called Yared, Pteja seems to have got his surname from the Song &quot;Szerelem&quot; (meaning &quot;Love&quot; in Hungarian), Marta Cserepes is possibly related to Marta 'Sebestyen' (name of the mountains in 'Salt'), or maybe Karoly Cserepes, who arranged the song 'Szerelem'. Is it &quot;As Far as Florence&quot; or 'New Florence', 'Convento' or &quot;Convento di Sant' Anna&quot;? Hamar, Sipos, and Csooris also seem to belong to the Hungarian band 'Musikas', featured in 'The English Patient'. Swapsies Herodotus for Lucretius? Compare with pages 18 and 63 of 'Salt' and weep. I reckon that Adam Roberts should utlise Gabriel Yared's soundtrack for 'Betty Blue' next time - I've always thought that 'Zorg' would be a great name for an alien!	2001-08-25
US	52362742	R24I7AZLI3UQZN	0375504095	515705274	An Obvious Enchantment: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wishing Well	This novel starts off in Egypt.  Ingrid Holtz is on the trail of the Pharaoh Hatshepsut, one of the most intriguing kings in Egyptian history, mainly because she was in fact a woman.  Ingrid seems to be prone to impulse and boredom - she had originally begun her research on Akhenaten, the Pharaoh who abolished all the Egyptian gods and introduced monotheism and worship of the sun, paving the way for Egypt's acceptance of Christianity.  Her mentor, Professor Nick Templeton, is working on similar lines, but has disappeared whilst researching on the Swahili coast.  Rather improbably, Ingrid persuades her faculty to let her go to Pelat Island too.  As the board notices, Ingrid's quest seems to be for Templeton himself, rather than research into monotheism.  Templeton believes that an African King brought Islam to the Swahili coast, three centuries before Persian traders supposedly did so.  Ingrid is interested in drawing links between this African King and Akhenaten.<br />  However, Templeton has a tendency to lose himself in his work, and no one can be sure of the validity of his claims for such an African King.  His research methods, although often brilliant, are quite unconventional.  Ingrid arrives on Pelat, but there is no sign of Templeton.  Neither is Finn Bergmann visible, with whom she has already had a brief fumble.  Finn is the son of the founder of the Salama Hotel, the main point of Western civilization on the island.  It's not long before Ingrid finds that the island has been divided into two communities by the arrival of the hotel.  There's the community that supports and works in the hotel, and the community that abhors it.  Like many of the inhabitants, Finn spends his time emptying a perpetual glass.  This is one place where Islam and alcohol mix uneasily.  There are also other, less Western drugs, that are consumed upon the island - Miraa is a kind of amphetamine.  There are hints that Ingrid may be in love with Templeton to some degree.  She certainly finds out where he has been staying soon enough, but discovers only his papers.  Her search is also hindered by the fact that Finn seems indifferent to her now.  There's also Danny, but he's even more drunk than Finn.  Ingrid stays in Abdul's house, where she is intrigued by glimpses of Abdul's new wife.  Ali permanently attends her to, whether she likes it or not.<br />  On the far side of the island, Stanley Wicks is also building a hotel.  Stanley has a troubled relationship with his wife, and suspects her of sleeping with her personal trainer, who's called Adolpho.  None of the English characters in the book are particularly savory.  Stanley is likeable enough, but he seems to have been drawn from quite a stereotypical American view of the English - one of the stumbling blocks to his marriage, we are told, is that he and his wife come from different classes.  By the end of the book, you cannot help but feel more than a little sorry for Stanley, even although a misdeed of his forms the catalyst of the book.  Less sympathetic is Templeton, who's only seen briefly throughout.  Ingrid seems to represent a bumbling, naive America, fresh and new when compared to a decayed and crumbling Europe.  The Anglo-Africans seem to have lost their sense of identity, unsure of whether they are European or African.  Although colonialism also runs through Ingrid's blood, she puts on a much brasher front, because she's part of the majority in the US.<br />  Ingrid treads carefully, which is just as well, because she is always limping for one reason or another.  She picks up clues here and there, both concerning Templeton's African King, and Templeton himself.  Finn observes that like many academics, she seems to pull facts from the air.  At the beginning of the novel, Louis asserts that the famous Egyptian pyramids were built in the pattern of the Belt of Orion.  Yet one feels uneasy about this, because such ideas are still in the realm of Graham Hancock's pseudo-science, and havenot been accepted by serious academics, to my knowledge.  But then Templeton questions the very foundation of truth and facts in the book, since his truth seems more dependent on faith.  Extracts from the Koran abound in the book, and another mystery emerges: why is there such a schism between the faiths when many of them share the same tales?  This is an intriguing book, often difficult to get to grips with, and far more rewarding on the second or third reading.  It's not perfect - perhaps some more of the book could have been excised, and it does lead to quite an unusual conclusion.  Perhaps Tucker Malarkey's writing is a bit too subtle at times, and a tad over-ambitious.  I couldn't help thinking of Patricia Highsmith's 'The Tremor of Forgery' as a comparison, and Highsmith's is the more compelling book and much more satisfying.  The delights of An Obvious Enchantment are much harder to dig for, despite the title - but please do it read it again.ve not been accepted by serious academics, to my knowledge.  But then Templeton questions the very foundation of truth and facts in the book, since his truth seems more dependent on faith.  Extracts from the Koran abound in the book, and another mystery emerges: why is there such a schism between the faiths when many of them share the same tales?  This is an intriguing book, often difficult to get to grips with, and far more rewarding on the second or third reading.  It's not perfect - perhaps some more of the book could have been excised, and it does lead to quite an unusual conclusion.  Perhaps Tucker Malarkey's writing is a bit too subtle at times, and a tad over-ambitious.  I couldn't help thinking of Patricia Highsmith's 'The Tremor of Forgery' as a comparison, and Highsmith's is the more compelling book and much more satisfying.  The delights of An Obvious Enchantment are much harder to dig for, despite the title - but please do it read it again.	2001-08-18
US	52362742	R3F54O6GD7F060	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I am not a Muggle, I am a free Wizard!	The Prisoner of Azkaban starts off in quite the same way as The Chamber of Secrets with Harry's birthday.  Harry is 13, and like Kevin the teenager, he seems to have transfigured into something quite unruly overnight.  Harry Potter has become an adolescent, with all its incipient furies and lustiness (see his reaction to meeting Cho Chang for the first time!).  It's the summer, so Harry has been imprisoned with the Dursleys once more.  If there's one thing worse than the Dursleys, it's Harry's Aunt Madge.  It's not long before Aunt Madge is blown into a bigger balloon than Violet in Roald Dahl's 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'.<br />  Harry escapes, sure that the Ministry of Magic will be on to him in no time, and that he will be expelled from Hogwarts.  He's picked up by the Knight Bus, and deposited at the Leaky Cauldron, where Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, is waiting for him.  But instead of admonishing Harry, Fudge makes sure that he gets everything he needs, and waves his misdemeanours away.  This is the first sign Harry has that something is very wrong.  Still, the only obstacle Harry has to overcome is the biting book that Hagrid has sent him for his birthday.  It's not long before Harry's meeting Ron and Hermione in Diagon Alley.  Unfortunately, Hermione chooses to buy herself a cat as an early birthday present, and inevitably, Ron and Hermione bicker as the cat, Crookshanks, sets about hunting Ron's pet rat, Scabbers.  All Harry has eyes for is the Firebolt: the most sophisticated broomstick ever produced.  The Wealseys seem somewhat overprotective of Harry, and then Harry finds out why: Sirius Black is out to murder him.  Sirius Black is considered to be so dangerous that Fudge has even alerted the Muggle Prime Minister, and the Ministry of Magic has provided the Weasleys with a fleet of cars to transport them to King's Cross.  Sirius Black, Voldemort's faithful servant, killed thirteen people before he was apprehended, including one wizard...<br />  Whilst on the Hogwarts Express, Harry and friends encounter the dishevelled Professor Lupin, their new teacher of Defence against the Dark Arts.  They also have a visitation from a Dementor, one of the sinister Azkaban guards (the wizard prison we learnt about in The Chamber of Secrets).  Sirius Black has escaped from Azkaban, which no one else has ever done before, so the fear is that he may well try to break into Hogwarts.  The Dementors, however, seem far more interested in Harry than looking for Black.  Harry fervently hopes that Gryffindor will win the Quidditch Cup, but then the Dementors attack him during a game.  Harry hears his mother's dying words in a dream, and believes he may have even seen his father...  But what is that mysterious dog that is stalking him?  Will he really die, as Professor Trelawney believes?  And why is Hermione appearing and disappearing, and acting so strangely?  Dumbledore's choice of teachers seems suspect when a Hippogriff attacks Malfoy in Hagrid's first lesson.  However, Harry seems to have found an ally against the Dementors in the form of Professor Lupin.  But the post of Defence against Dark Arts is not one to be taken lightly...<br />  There are the usual encounters with the sinister Professor Snape, and we learn a bit more about his background (surely Alan Rickman's too old to play him?).  Rowling seems to have been delving into Thomas Bulfinch's The Age of Fable again, with her depiction of Salamanders as fire lovers.  Perhaps she's been also reading some Susan Cooper, as a Boggart makes a handy plot device.  The plot itself is as tight as usual, with the Prisoner of Azkaban being the most thrilling and disturbing in the series so far.r />  Whilst on the Hogwarts Express, Harry and friends encounter the dishevelled Professor Lupin, their new teacher of Defence against the Dark Arts.  They also have a visitation from a Dementor, one of the sinister Azkaban guards (the wizard prison we learnt about in The Chamber of Secrets).  Sirius Black has escaped from Azkaban, which no one else has ever done before, so the fear is that he may well try to break into Hogwarts.  The Dementors, however, seem far more interested in Harry than looking for Black.  Harry fervently hopes that Gryffindor will win the Quidditch Cup, but then the Dementors attack him during a game.  Harry hears his mother's dying words in a dream, and believes he may have even seen his father...  But what is that mysterious dog that is stalking him?  Will he really die, as Professor Trelawney believes?  And why is Hermione appearing and disappearing, and acting so strangely?  Dumbledore's choice of teachers seems suspect when a Hippogriff attacks Malfoy in Hagrid's first lesson.  However, Harry seems to have found an ally against the Dementors in the form of Professor Lupin.  But the post of Defence against Dark Arts is not one to be taken lightly...<br />  There are the usual encounters with the sinister Professor Snape, and we learn a bit more about his background (surely Alan Rickman's too old to play him?).  Rowling seems to have been delving into Thomas Bulfinch's The Age of Fable again, with her depiction of Salamanders as fire lovers.  Perhaps she's been also reading some Susan Cooper, as a Boggart makes a handy plot device.  The plot itself is as tight as usual, with the Prisoner of Azkaban being the most thrilling and disturbing in the series so far.	2001-07-07
US	52362742	RG19I96P0QKTY	0375704558	437002233	Charlotte Gray	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Poetic Ciphers	There seems to be a great deal of fiction and films being produced about the Second World War at the moment, and the one challenge in such fictions is how to be distinctive from the rest.  `Pearl Harbour', like some other Hollywood films, seems to make it up as it goes along, and appears quite inauthentic, no matter how entertaining.  The Second World War is a subject matter that seems far better handled by literary novelists who have a vested interest in getting the historical details right, if Charlotte Gray and Captain Corelli's Mandolin are anything to go by.  Indeed, Charlotte Gray is being made into a film as I write, and will hopefully be just as authentic in celluloid.<br />  Charlotte Gray is a young Scottish woman who sets off to do her bit by working in a London surgery.  On the train, she encounters English golfers Cannerley and Morris.  Cannerley seems a bit smitten by Charlotte and decides to chat to her, even giving her his phone number.  Events are set in motion when Charlotte reveals that she's fluent in French, and it becomes obvious that Cannerley and Morris are involved in work of a somewhat secretive nature.  When Charlotte is out socialising at a literary party in London, she meets RAF pilot Peter Gregory.  Unbeknownst to each other, they fall in love.  For Charlotte, this isn't a source of great happiness, and Gregory is a little unsure of himself too.  Charlotte just knows that she has an inconsolable yearning for Gregory.  He is assigned to RAF duties in France, and so needs to brush up on his appalling French.  Unfortunately, he does not really take this opportunity to get even closer to Charlotte.  Instead, he takes to learning French from the books of Antoine de Saint-Exupery.  Faulks is using the benefit of hindsight here, as most readers will know that Saint-Exupery was a French pilot who later died in a crash.  The literary party at which Charlotte and Gregory meet is likened to an illustration of Dante's Inferno by Gustav Dore (you know - big demons with wings kind of thing).  The otherwise vacuous Daisy is a bit of a poetry reader, and compares Charlotte with a &quot;woman wailing&quot; for her &quot;demon lover&quot; from Coleridge's Kubla Khan.  It seems that Gregory is doomed.<br />  Sure enough, Gregory doesn't make his way back from France.  Charlotte immediately assumes that he's been killed, but his commanders presume he's missing in action, until they hear otherwise.  Too many late nights and parties ensures that Charlotte loses her job, but anyway, she has been planning to resign and takes up Cannerley's offer to join the FANY.  From there she's drafted into SOE's Section G (in real life, this was Section F).  Major Selwyn Jepson seems to have been Faulks' model for the character of Jackson.  Charlotte herself is possibly based on Violette Szabo, the most famous FANY recruit, whose story was turned into the film &quot;Carve her Name with Pride&quot;.  I'm thinking here mainly of Charlotte's romantic motivations to go to France, in a naive bid to try to find Gregory and bring him back.  Szabo was involved in the later liberation of France, and ran against the norm of the FANY by not being upper class.  Charlotte is sent to France because of her linguistic abilities rather than her fighting skills, and her personal mission seems as deluded as that of the detective in Ishiguro's 'When we were Orphans'.<br />  Charlotte learned French when visiting France with her family, with the wounded father who has so mysteriously injured her.  The world she saw through the words of Proust has inevitably changed.  The occupying German forces have made their mark, most noticeably in a changing of attitudes.  There are some of those in Lavaurette who are for the Vichy regime, and some of those who are against.  Charlotte is attached to a small resistance cell headed by an architect called Julien in the so-called Free Zone.  To her surprise, Charlotte finds that there is not a great deal of support for the British, and it's just as well that SOE has gone to some lengths to disguise her.  But there are those who suspect her secret...  Charlotte, when she refuses to return to Blightly, lives in the household of Julien's father, the artist Levade.  Whilst Charlotte and Julien retrieve parachutes, SOE decides to brutally exploit Charlotte's love for Gregory.  Julien has two little secrets to hide himself as Vichy collaborates with the Nazis a little too far.  Into the village come the Germans and the Milice, the French SS.  Soon there will be departures to Drancy, last stop before Auschwitz.<br />  Faulks' historical accuracy is conveyed by the direct quotation of the disgusting Milice oath.  He makes his fiction distinctive by looking at life behind the Vichy regime and in the French concentration camps, and explores the concept of what it was like to have the French policed by the French.  Meanwhile the Nazis steal everything from the Jews, even Yiddish proverbs like &quot;As happy as God in France&quot;.  Faulks reveals the kinds of truths that France itself has only started admitting in the nineties (and this is maybe what the subplot with Charlotte's father is all about).  As Faulks writes, Pichon is a fictional character, but there were Pichons out there.  Inevitably in this kind of book though, Charlotte and Julien become ciphers towards the end as Faulks bids to include all the horrors, but they work for SOE, so they're used to poetic ciphers.  Most compelling of all is Faulks' use of hindsight - we know what's going to happen to Andre and Jacob, even if Charlotte proclaims that she does not.he British, and it's just as well that SOE has gone to some lengths to disguise her.  But there are those who suspect her secret...  Charlotte, when she refuses to return to Blightly, lives in the household of Julien's father, the artist Levade.  Whilst Charlotte and Julien retrieve parachutes, SOE decides to brutally exploit Charlotte's love for Gregory.  Julien has two little secrets to hide himself as Vichy collaborates with the Nazis a little too far.  Into the village come the Germans and the Milice, the French SS.  Soon there will be departures to Drancy, last stop before Auschwitz.<br />  Faulks' historical accuracy is conveyed by the direct quotation of the disgusting Milice oath.  He makes his fiction distinctive by looking at life behind the Vichy regime and in the French concentration camps, and explores the concept of what it was like to have the French policed by the French.  Meanwhile the Nazis steal everything from the Jews, even Yiddish proverbs like &quot;As happy as God in France&quot;.  Faulks reveals the kinds of truths that France itself has only started admitting in the nineties (and this is maybe what the subplot with Charlotte's father is all about).  As Faulks writes, Pichon is a fictional character, but there were Pichons out there.  Inevitably in this kind of book though, Charlotte and Julien become ciphers towards the end as Faulks bids to include all the horrors, but they work for SOE, so they're used to poetic ciphers.  Most compelling of all is Faulks' use of hindsight - we know what's going to happen to Andre and Jacob, even if Charlotte proclaims that she does not.	2001-06-01
US	52362742	RXIRP066F266L	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The North, South, East, and West line	This is David Mitchell's debut novel, and it has received some lively reviews.  It's an ambitious book, which goes from East to West.  Ghostwritten seems to follow an Edward Rutherfurd format: nine individual stories that are subtly linked.  It's like the Six Degrees of Separation or the Kevin Bacon game, whereby everybody on the planet is linked much more closely to each other than we would have ever imagined.  Half the fun of Ghostwritten is trying to spot references from all the other stories.  Despite having such seemingly random stories, Ghostwritten does follow quite a strict chronology.  There's also a slight element of the ballad in these pleasing repetitions and hooks.<br />  Ghostwritten is very much a book of the nineties.  It starts of as a thriller, with a story based on the Japanese Aum cult that released Sarin gas in the underground....<br />  We then whisk off to the plains of outer Mongolia, and inhabit the gers along with parasitic backpackers and a restless, disembodied, spiritual entity, who hops from body to body.  This kind of device is very tempting for a first time novelist, but Mitchell acquits himself well in this story of a wandering spirit.  Mitchell is very subtle here as he explores what it might be like to be a Tibetan Lama's spirit, ceaselessly trying to identity itself as it strives to find a final home.  Then we're off to St. Petersburg, for a tale of art fraud and gangsters.  The next destination is London, and the next host is a ghostwriter.  ....<br />  The ghostwriter himself is an engaging chap, and the actual ghost story is quite compelling.  The ghostwriter's observations about the various characters of the London tube systems are very witty and ring true.  His band is called 'The Music of Chance', and this fits in very well with the themes of the novel.  To what extent is life dependent on fate or chance?  'The Music of Chance' is also the title of a novel and film by Paul Auster, and indicates Mitchell's subtle employment of intertextuality, as the Ghostwriter is involved in a night of gambling, just like the characters in Auster's novel.  David Mitchell has also created a very believable womaniser in the shape of the ghostwriter.  Then we're shipped further westward, to Clear Island off Eire.  This is the story of Mo, a scientist who knows a little too much about quantum cognition for her own good....The final section concerns the birth of an SF AI; its intriguing debate with another disembodied spirit, and its confessions to a shock jock who loves jazz.  I loved the bit about Freddie Mercury, and David Mitchell does have great wit.  David Mitchell's prose is also quite lyrical, and is a delight to read.  However, the final question about this sparkling debut is this: does it really go round in a circle like a certain London tube line?of intertextuality, as the Ghostwriter is involved in a night of gambling, just like the characters in Auster's novel.  David Mitchell has also created a very believable womaniser in the shape of the ghostwriter.  Then we're shipped further westward, to Clear Island off Eire.  This is the story of Mo, a scientist who knows a little too much about quantum cognition for her own good....The final section concerns the birth of an SF AI; its intriguing debate with another disembodied spirit, and its confessions to a shock jock who loves jazz.  I loved the bit about Freddie Mercury, and David Mitchell does have great wit.  David Mitchell's prose is also quite lyrical, and is a delight to read.  However, the final question about this sparkling debut is this: does it really go round in a circle like a certain London tube line?	2001-05-19
US	52362742	R12TXYB8NRR24Z	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Don't Look Back	Dr. Iannis lives on the Greek isle of Cephallonia with his daughter, Pelagia.  Iannis is a self-taught man who has never lost his desire for learning.  In turn, Pelagia also picks up things from her father, and seems to be the most highly educated woman on the island.  The death of Pelagia's mother at an early age has also added to her unconventional childhood.  Pelagia falls in love with Mandras, a local fisherman.  Mandras has an excellent physique, which Pelagia likens to a male nymph, as she secretly observes him swimming naked in the sea with his dolphin companions.  Unfortunately, Benito Mussolini has decided to invade Greece without telling anybody (including his own generals).  Bernieres allows Mussolini to take centre stage with a cameo appearance.  This passage is a piece of quite excellent comic wit: only Mussolini's own speeches are more humourous, in an unknowing and grotesque way.  Carlo is a young Italian soldier fighting in Mussolini's Balkans campaign, where &quot;friendly fire&quot; from other parts of the Italian forces, persistent attacks by Greek guerrillas, and most of all, the perishing cold in the mountains threatens their lives.  Any team spirit has already been ruined for Carlo by the fact that he and the fellow soldier he admires, have been sent on a suicide mission in some bizarre attempt to justify the war.<br />  Meanwhile, Mandras continues to woo Pelagia.  Unfortunately, it becomes clear to both lovers that theirs' would be an unconventional match.  Dr. Iannis, for one thing, refuses to garnish Pelagia with a dowry.  Mandras is acutely aware that his illiteracy and poor education prevents him from communicating with Pelagia on the same level.  Mandras decides that the best thing to do would be to ask for Pelagia's hand in marriage, and then make a man of himself by fighting against the Italians.  Dr. Iannis meanwhile battles with his history of Cephallonia and omnivorous goats, whilst watering the herbs in the garden in his own particular way.  With the Italians nearly defeated, Mussolini decides to call on the help of Hitler.  The only consequence can be that Dr. Iannis will be forced to add yet more names to the invaders of Cephallonia.  When they finally do arrive, it is a certain Captain Corelli who is billeted at Dr. Iannis's house.  Whilst Pelagia struggles to complete her bed sheet for Mandras, Corelli keeps catching her eye.  It helps that he's an expert musician:  soon the Cephallonian nights are filled with the harmonious songs of the mandolin.<br />  Running throughout the novel is a Homeric theme.  Cephalus, after whom the island was named, was a forebear of Odysseus (with some dispute over whether Odysseus's home was the nearby isle of Ithaca or Cephallonia).  Certainly the wanderings of Mandras in his first flight from home resemble the voyages of Odysseus.  He's even seduced by an old hag called Circe in a poetic narration that seems to be a little bit too literary to have come from such an illiterate man, but we can forgive Bernieres for writing too well.  It is very possible that Mandras could have had such a literary education even if he cannot read: no doubt his dreams are inspired by half forgotten tales from Cephallonia's oral culture.  Mandras even has a Penelope waiting for him in the form of Pelagia, and Mandras's boss in ELAS takes the pseudonym of 'Hector' from Homer.  But Bernieres is never completely true to the fabled myths, for he has own torturous trail to weave.  Father Arsenios is a joy to behold as he turns from being a drunk and the worst priest Cephallonia has ever had, into a prophet who startles the occupying forces by quoting the psalms at them.  Even if you think you know your history, the events on Cephallonia will still come as a big shock to you too.<br />  When I first read Captain Corelli's Mandolin, I was quite critical of the ending and the character of the 'good Nazi', Gunter Weber.  Gunter doesn't irritate at all on the second reading, and I thinkthat David Morrissey is an excellent choice of actor to play him in the film.  Where the novel has come most under fire, however, is in Bernieres' portrayal of the andartes, and the Communist ELAS in particular.  Bernieres' bias against them seems to have descended all the way down from SOE's Brigadier Myers and Winston Churchill.  It's very hard to find any documents written in English that depict ELAS in a favourable light.  No doubt they were guilty of committing atrocities, and weren't exactly cooperative with the British, but they did play a far more positive role in the war than Bernieres allows.  This seems to be indicative of a slight, reactionary streak in Bernieres' work.  As Corelli asks himself, would he have had the courage to disobey a direct order that would have involved committing an atrocity?<br />  But Mandras is not only based on Odysseus.  Pelagia, after all, is not a wife like Penelope, and she has only one other suitor.  It's here that Mandras seems to take on the role of Aristaeus returning home from the war...  Earlier in the novel, Corelli asks Gunter Weber whether he's related to the famous composer of the same name.  He's slightly disappointed that Weber has never heard of Arcangelo Corelli, his own famous musical namesake.  Now, going back as far as 1682 and Georg Muffat, Corelli has been referred to as the &quot;Orpheus of the Violin&quot;.  I was very excited when I discovered this, since the resolution of the novel has only ever made satisfactory sense to me when mindful of the tale of Orpheus.  Having investigated this myth further, I'm convinced that this is why Bernieres chose 'Corelli' as the name of his hero.  The way Bernieres twists and deviates myth is the best indication of the intricate way in which his mind works.  Such is his genius, that Corelli and Pelagia have become archetypal lovers, just like Orpheus and Eurydice before them.hink that David Morrissey is an excellent choice of actor to play him in the film.  Where the novel has come most under fire, however, is in Bernieres' portrayal of the andartes, and the Communist ELAS in particular.  Bernieres' bias against them seems to have descended all the way down from SOE's Brigadier Myers and Winston Churchill.  It's very hard to find any documents written in English that depict ELAS in a favourable light.  No doubt they were guilty of committing atrocities, and weren't exactly cooperative with the British, but they did play a far more positive role in the war than Bernieres allows.  This seems to be indicative of a slight, reactionary streak in Bernieres' work.  As Corelli asks himself, would he have had the courage to disobey a direct order that would have involved committing an atrocity?<br />    But Mandras is not only based on Odysseus.  Pelagia, after all, is not a wife like Penelope, and she has only one other suitor.  It's here that Mandras seems to take on the role of Aristaeus returning home from the war...  Earlier in the novel, Corelli asks Gunter Weber whether he's related to the famous composer of the same name.  He's slightly disappointed that Weber has never heard of Arcangelo Corelli, his own famous musical namesake.  Now, going back as far as 1682 and Georg Muffat, Corelli has been referred to as the &quot;Orpheus of the Violin&quot;.  I was very excited when I discovered this, since the resolution of the novel has only ever made satisfactory sense to me when mindful of the tale of Orpheus.  Having investigated this myth further, I'm convinced that this is why Bernieres chose 'Corelli' as the name of his hero.  The way Bernieres twists and deviates myth is the best indication of the intricate way in which his mind works.  Such is his genius, that Corelli and Pelagia have become archetypal lovers, just like Orpheus and Eurydice before them.	2001-05-13
US	52362742	R2SDLLN8GMZ6Q7	0879517298	927793754	Ark Baby	Books	5	1	1	N	N	People say we monkey around...	You only have to look at Matthew Kneale's Whitbread prize winning novel English Passengers to see that evolutionary theory combined with genetics is a hot topic for English writers at the moment.  As Kneale proved, it is a subject ripe for wit and farce.  Such is the tone of Liz Jensen's social satire, Ark Baby.  Liz Jensen even mentions Gregor Mendel, the Czech Monk whose games with peas have recently been resurrected by Robin Marantz Henig in A Monk and Two Peas.<br />  Bobby Sullivan is a vet who lives in a Britain where no babies have been born since the Millennium.  He himself was born on the day Elvis died; a memorable date in history if ever there was one.  Unbeknownst to him, Bobby Sullivan is going to play a quite considerable role in evolution.  Trouble is, he has to get out of town first, since his mercy killing of a marriage has got him into a wee bit of trouble.  Here, you begin to see the evolution of Liz Jensen's own creations: 'Giselle' previously appeared as a short story all of its own, and concerned the disposal of a dog, rather than a Macaque monkey.  There's also an early sight of Jensen's next novel 'The Paper Eater' on page 102, when Bobby Sullivan muses that the fate of Britain may be to become a nuclear waste dumping ground (since there would be no one living there, due to the fertility crisis).  The story also moves back in time, to the discovery of a curious small baby, abandoned in the church of Parson Phelps.  The good priest, after giving what he thinks is a pig a good kick on the bottom, repents by taking the child in.  The care given by the Parson and his wife means that Tobias Phelps (as they christen him), can recover from his injuries.  But who is the strange, illiterate woman whose narrative interrupts the text?  Who has been conducting far more ambitious experiments than Gregor Mendel?<br />  Thus Buck de Savile (Bobby Sullivan's new identity) arrives in the ancient Viking settlement of Thunder Spit.  He believes that he has successfully escaped the town practice where monkey pets have replaced children, and is looking forward to inserting his arm into a cow's bottom.  But it's not long before Buck is dragged off to look at some examples of Victorian taxidermy stuffed into a Thunder Spit attic inhabited by a comic ghost known as 'the Laudanum Empress', an avid fan of the crystal box which spews forth 'The Young and the Restless'.  We jump back another 150 years and watch from a balloon as the mortal Laudanum Empress and her eminent taxidermist husband Ivanhoe Scrapie conceive their last child, Violet.  Thus begins the chain of events which brings Horace Trapp's bloodstained Ark home, along with chef extraordinaire, Jacques-Yves Cabillaud, exponent of 'Cuisine Zoologique', a recipe book which he developed whilst acting as cook on board the Beagle.  Meanwhile, Buck gets to grips with beautiful twin sisters Rose and Blanche and their peculiarly shaped feet.  The twins participate in the mass pregnancy hoax following the bombing of the National Egg Bank and the death of Albion.  As Rose and Blanche research their family history, Buck begins to wonder about his stamina and the stuffed 'Gentleman Monkey':  could it be valuable evidence of a missing link?<br />  Parson Phelps tells Tobias that fossils are just God's little joke, but he takes the publication of Charles Darwin's work very seriously, to the extent of ripping pages of it from the pulpit.  Ivanhoe Scrapie, frustrated zoologist, also despairs that his fame has been eclipsed by that of Darwin.  But just as Tobias discovers a strange and tantalising new fruit, so Scrapie thinks that he has found a missing piece of the puzzle.  Violet, who has positively ballooned under the influence of cuisine zoologique, has a chance encounter with Henry Salt, the Victorian Vegetarianism activist.  Soon, everybody's writing cookbooks...<br />  Liz Jensen's social satire is as vibrant and readable as ever.  Ark Baby has jokes trotting out of it two by two.  She's also quick to point out that Darwinism and evolution theory still resound today, especially with the mapping of the human genome.  Also buried within these pages are hints of the real life stories and tragedies: the difficult relationship between Captain FitzRoy of the Beagle and Darwin (echoed in Matthew Kneale's English Passengers), the interbreeding of the inhabitants of Thunder Spit recalls Darwin's infertile marriage to his first cousin, mentions of fossil hunting in Lyme Regis revivifies Mary Anning.  But I think the most successful resurrection of all is that of Henry Salt.  Suet the dog's instinctive reaction is to bite him, but even he sheds a tear as Henry Salt expounds on the Rights of Animals.  Henry Salt's writings are still as powerful today, and extremely topical as Foot and Mouth runs on.  I've created a page on the context of this novel for interested readers.  Liz Jensen's brilliantly entertaining satire should also be as powerful many years from now.  Liz Jensen is nothing less than George Orwell with wit.o.  She's also quick to point out that Darwinism and evolution theory still resound today, especially with the mapping of the human genome.  Also buried within these pages are hints of the real life stories and tragedies: the difficult relationship between Captain FitzRoy of the Beagle and Darwin (echoed in Matthew Kneale's English Passengers), the interbreeding of the inhabitants of Thunder Spit recalls Darwin's infertile marriage to his first cousin, mentions of fossil hunting in Lyme Regis revivifies Mary Anning.  But I think the most successful resurrection of all is that of Henry Salt.  Suet the dog's instinctive reaction is to bite him, but even he sheds a tear as Henry Salt expounds on the Rights of Animals.  Henry Salt's writings are still as powerful today, and extremely topical as Foot and Mouth runs on.  I've created a page on the context of this novel for interested readers.  Liz Jensen's brilliantly entertaining satire should also be as powerful many years from now.  Liz Jensen is nothing less than George Orwell with wit.	2001-04-21
US	52362742	RZT0NIAHPY525	1902618947	988752341	Song Quest	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Way better than Harry Potter	Katherine Roberts is one of my favourite writers.  She's one of that select brand of authors who have proved their worth by repeatedly winning prizes in the small press, in magazines such as Story Cellar.  In 1996, she won the Broadsword Fiction of the Year Award.  She also wrote several novels that went unpublished.  Like Neal L. Asher and Liz Williams, her hard work has now resulted in a professional publishing contract.  'Song Quest' has continued her long record of success, winning the BRANFORD BOASE AWARD 2000.<br />  I had always considered Katherine Roberts to be a writer for adults.  Therefore I was surprised when her first novel turned out to be a book for children.  However, 'Song Quest' is such a thrilling, timeless narrative that it doesn't really matter what age you are.  Adults quite comfortably tuck into J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter books, but they should love Katherine Roberts' work more.  Quite simply, Katherine Roberts is a far better writer than J.K. Rowling.  Her prose is far more stimulating and composed with seemingly effortless skill.  It seems to me that by far the most interesting character in the Harry Potter books is Voldemort, quite simply for the fact that he's so evil, and things only start happening when he's around.  The characters in Katherine Roberts' 'Song Quest' are far more realistic as human beings, even though they are brought to life in a setting way more fantastic than that of Hogwarts.  Rialle and her friends are on the cusp of adolescence, but Katherine Roberts' subtle prose means that much younger readers can also enjoy `Song Quest'.  Harry Potter might also be on the edge of becoming a teenager, but you suspect that he'll never amount to much more than a 'Kevin' (thank you Harry Enfield!).<br />  I suppose that it's inevitable that Katherine Roberts' work should be compared with that of J.K. Rowling.  Rowling's fantasy is far more mundane than that of Katherine Roberts'.  However, I believe the author with whom Katherine Roberts should most be compared with is C.S. Lewis.  The world of the Echorium is every bit as vivid as Narnia.  Certainly the illustrations in the book remind me of 'The Voyage of the Dawn Treader', and Kherron recalls the character of Edmund to me.  Yet 'Song Quest' seems far more environmental in tone than C.S. Lewis' biblical prose, and far less 'beastly' than Narnia.  There are fantastic creatures in 'Song Quest', such as the Merlee and the Quetzal, around whom much of the action revolves.  Yet Katherine Roberts' prose is set to date far better than Lewis' - &quot;beastly&quot; has always sounded quaint and old fashioned to me.  Katherine Roberts doesn't need a magical wardrobe to let contemporary children visit her fantastic world - she has created such empathic characters that she doesn't need deus ex machina.  Like Tolkien, Katherine Roberts has been able to create her own fantastic universe(s).<br />  Katherine Roberts is also a thrilling writer.  'Song Quest' works almost like a whodunit.  Indeed, the very question that Rialle sets out to resolve is: who would dare to hunt the Merlee?  These creatures, half human/half fish, can only be heard by the very youngest of the Singers, and then only those most skilled at farlistening.  Rialle and her friends are on the brink of becoming full Singers when a shipwreck occurs off the coast of the Echorium.  The ambitious Kherron abandons his peers to look for treasure, and finds more than he bargained for.  Since she can communicate with the Merlee, Rialle is dispatched with the Second Singer to find out why they are placing the seas in such turmoil.  Meanwhile, a stowaway creeps on board the ship of the Singers, the Wavesong.  What follows is a most harmonious fiction.  Are Merlee the only prey of the vicious hunters?  The answer's to be found in Silvertown.<br />  There are some pleasantly nasty and chilling aspects to 'Song Quest' that should make its narrative unforgettable.  Katherine Roberts is not afraid of getting her characters' hands dirty.  There's also a pleasing moral ambiguity about her creations that make them most human.  In Katherine Roberts' short story 'Death Singer', the Echorium was a place of evil, after all...  As the old saying goes, children of all ages will love 'Song Quest'.  I'm really glad that Katherine Roberts is such a prolific writer too, since more of her fiction is on its way.  An adult edition of 'Song Quest' would also be a welcome sight.ting her characters' hands dirty.  There's also a pleasing moral ambiguity about her creations that make them most human.  In Katherine Roberts' short story 'Death Singer', the Echorium was a place of evil, after all...  As the old saying goes, children of all ages will love 'Song Quest'.  I'm really glad that Katherine Roberts is such a prolific writer too, since more of her fiction is on its way.  An adult edition of 'Song Quest' would also be a welcome sight.	2001-03-30
US	52362742	R11OC0MDH61IN3	0375411143	930101336	The Biographer's Tale	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Destry Rides Again	Phineas G. Nanson is fed up with studying theory - he wants to do something more concrete.  One of his tutors introduces him to the biography of Sir Elmer Bole by Scholes Destry-Scholes - little known, but a masterpiece of its field.  So enthused is Phineas by Scholes's passion, and by his obscure life and death, that he decides to embark on a biography of his own.  Scholes Destry-Scholes is to be his subject.<br />  Phineas goes to Pontefract to see where Scholes was brought up.  A disappointing experience, since he really learns nothing about Scholes the man, and staring at his house all day just makes the woman who lives there think that he's a stalker.  But then someone finally replies to Phineas's ad in the TLS, and he has a bit more luck tracking down correspondence between Scholes and his publisher.  Three documents are brought to light, and a chest full of Scholes' things (including underwear and marbles), are opened for Phineas's inspection.  The three documents are biographical accounts of Linnaeus, Sir Francis Galton, and Henrik Ibsen.  Did Scholes's supposed death in the Maelstrom interrupt these projects?  On his quest, Phineas meets two very beautiful, but very different women:  Fulla, the Bee taxonomist, and Vera, the radiographer.  Whilst working in Puck's Girdle, a literary travel agency, Phineas also meets a dragon in the form of Maurice Bossey...<br />  I wasn't sure of The Biographer's Tale at first.  I thought that it was a very good account of the life of the researcher, all those coincidences which seem to gather to compose an answer.  All those jigsaw pieces which you and you alone can put together.  The Biographer's Tale is such a learned piece that it is quite daunting.  There are a huge variety of references to names and places which aren't crucial to the plot, they're just part of the vista.  For me, this was difficult at first, since I like to look everything up.  I had to adapt, to just investigate things that I really didn't know anything about, and to ignore those references that I recognised.  In short, you do need a researcher's skill to get something from this novel, to know where to look.  Scholes's card index system will be very familiar to most researchers.  However, I think that you have to be engrossed by the actual subjects in order to put all the pieces together.  Someone else's research is never as stimulating as your own.  Having said that, Linnaeus, Galton, and Ibsen are very interesting subjects, so it's worthwhile doing some background reading.  There were also aspects of the plot that I was unhappy with.  From being almost an asexual man, Phineas has not one, but two lovely ladies thrust upon him - or maybe that's just my jealousy.  There's also that dreadful scene where Phineas waves a penknife around in Puck's Girdle with hysterical abandon, although Fulla valiantly rescues him.  Or maybe Phineas has been afflicted by 'The Feminization of Nature', that admirable treatise put forward by Deborah Cadbury.<br />  A. S. Byatt's own research is impeccable.  There really is a dearth of bee taxonomists in the world, as Fulla states, and the Stag Beetle is very much in danger of extinction.  I delighted in reading up on the alkali bees and the pollination of Alfalfa.  It's also great to read what abominable snowman lies behind Linnaeus's homo nocturnes idea, and it's true that the great taxonomist thought swallows spent their winter under sea.  Galton really did push Nangoro's niece out of his tent in Ovampo, in the fear that she would ruin his white linen garments.  The Ibsen fan who wrote 'Brand's Daughters' was Laura Petersen, and she may have been an inspiration for 'A Doll's House'.  Phineas seems to think that Galton was not all that well known, but there is a great deal of information out there on the Father of Eugenics.  A. S. Byatt seems to have captured the mood of the current times admirably: Galton thought the Australian Aborigines were the lowest form of human life, something which is echoed in the attitudes towards the Tasmanian Aborigines, in Matthew Kneale's admirable 'English Passengers'.  Having said that, Galton did believe that Victorian gentlemen were two rungs below the Athenians (but, on the negative side, the Athenians owned slaves).  Phineas is much at a loss as to how to compose the story of a man's life, since there are so many ways at looking at man, and at a man.  Now the human genome has been mapped, and Galton's genetics is experimented upon in our fields.  Fulla believes in the interdepence of life, Vera the radiographer can see cancer weave its web across a patient's body.  The Strange Passenger in Ibsen's Peer Gynt asks Peer to donate his body to science; Galton puzzles over what is real and what is imaginary.  Given his name, Phineas can't but help be an explorer as well, although not quite in the Jules Verne style of Phileas Fogg.  I believe A. S. Byatt chose the rather silly name 'Phineas G. Nanson', because it's very close to 'Phaeogenes nanus', the mite that preys on the beetle that causes Dutch elm disease.  Since I haven't found out anything about this small mite, I'm unsure of what relevance it is to Phineas's character.  However, just as American hospitals are overwhelmed with people queuing up to have their bodies scanned in 3D, so Phineas finds out a great deal about a person other than Scholes Destry-Scholes.<br />  After the third or fourth reading, and a bit of studying, The Biographer's Tale does emerge as a worthwhile endeavour.ng which is echoed in the attitudes towards the Tasmanian Aborigines, in Matthew Kneale's admirable 'English Passengers'.  Having said that, Galton did believe that Victorian gentlemen were two rungs below the Athenians (but, on the negative side, the Athenians owned slaves).  Phineas is much at a loss as to how to compose the story of a man's life, since there are so many ways at looking at man, and at a man.  Now the human genome has been mapped, and Galton's genetics is experimented upon in our fields.  Fulla believes in the interdepence of life, Vera the radiographer can see cancer weave its web across a patient's body.  The Strange Passenger in Ibsen's Peer Gynt asks Peer to donate his body to science; Galton puzzles over what is real and what is imaginary.  Given his name, Phineas can't but help be an explorer as well, although not quite in the Jules Verne style of Phileas Fogg.  I believe A. S. Byatt chose the rather silly name 'Phineas G. Nanson', because it's very close to 'Phaeogenes nanus', the mite that preys on the beetle that causes Dutch elm disease.  Since I haven't found out anything about this small mite, I'm unsure of what relevance it is to Phineas's character.  However, just as American hospitals are overwhelmed with people queuing up to have their bodies scanned in 3D, so Phineas finds out a great deal about a person other than Scholes Destry-Scholes.<br />  After the third or fourth reading, and a bit of studying, The Biographer's Tale does emerge as a worthwhile endeavour.	2001-02-17
US	52362742	R2VZ9IM566OOUQ	0385501536	271797931	Aiding and Abetting: A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Enigmatic novella	Twenty-five years after the murder of nanny Sandra Rivett, two Lord Lucans consult Parisian psychiatrist Dr. Hildegard Wolf.  The anniversary is also the catalyst for a new investigation into Lucan's disappearance, conducted by the daughter of one of Lucan's former friends.  Hildegard is initially shocked by having to treat two Lucans, but then takes it in her stride.  One of the Lucans, obviously, has to be fake, but which one?  However, both Lucans know about Hildegard's subversive past, and have got a hold on her, forcing her to flee.  If it's one thing Lucan knows well, it's how to run...<br />  Resumes of this novel can't help but sound fantastic and more than a little distasteful.  After all, those who suffered from Lucan's crime are still living.  However, the disappearance of Lucan remains as enigmatic today as it ever was.  The rumours of what happened to him, and what actually happened on the night he killed Sandra Rivett are numerous.  All these are discussed in Spark's novel, although the common belief amongst Lucan's former friends that he must have killed himself is arbitrarily dismissed.  The question is how could such a dull man ever have evaded capture for so long?  One of the most improbable stories about Lucan, printed in the Guardian at the time of the murder, was that he was once considered for the film role of James Bond.<br />  It seems that Muriel Spark has borrowed the name of Robert Walker (the alias of one of the Lucans), from Hitchcock's film 'Strangers on a Train'.  This fits her story since both Lucans are presumed to be in collusion with one another for some reason.  In Hitchcock's film, Robert Walker kills Farley Granger's wife, and then blackmails Granger to murder his business tycoon father.  Both Lucans blackmail Hildegard about her shady past.  I couldn't find any reference to the fake stigmatic Spark based this part of her story upon, but there is another stigmatic of Bavaria in history, who was called Teresa Neumann.  All in all, the magic of Spark's prose and characterisation draws you in.  The only moment that you may have trouble trying to believe is when the young Lacey and the aged Joseph Murray fall in love when searching for Lucan.  Maybe this will draw the attentions of Hollywood to this novel!  This intriguing story is composed in a tasteful, elegant way, and there are moments when you can't help but burst into laughter, such is Muriel Spark's great wit.  I haven't given this novella full marks though, because it does have quite limited ambitions.  I think it could also have gone straight into paperback - it doesn't seem good value at a hardcover price., the magic of Spark's prose and characterisation draws you in.  The only moment that you may have trouble trying to believe is when the young Lacey and the aged Joseph Murray fall in love when searching for Lucan.  Maybe this will draw the attentions of Hollywood to this novel!  This intriguing story is composed in a tasteful, elegant way, and there are moments when you can't help but burst into laughter, such is Muriel Spark's great wit.  I haven't given this novella full marks though, because it does have quite limited ambitions.  I think it could also have gone straight into paperback - it doesn't seem good value at a hardcover price.	2001-02-15
US	52362742	R8TNFUV00TQ9A	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Giant rollercoaster of a novel, full of sizzling harpies...	You're in your late twenties, you're married to one of the most powerful industrialists/politicians in post-war Canada (although you're now living apart), and your beautiful Harpy sister has just died in a mysterious road accident.  So what do you do?  You publish your sister's first and only novel, and watch as the vultures descend...<br />  Margaret Atwood's Booker prize-winning novel is long and difficult to digest, a veritable seven-course meal.  It's taken me a long time of reading and rereading to get my angle upon it.  From the start, everything seems relatively straightforward.  You know what happens to whom, and where and when they died.  The rest of the novel explores have they got there.  However, what's most interesting about this narrative is that it does stray from the path, and ventures into the Wild Woods. When Atwood won the Booker, she poignantly praised the work of Angela Carter, which resounds in a small paragraph in the novel: &quot;All stories are about wolves&quot;.  The Blind Assassin is very much a work of magic realism.  You need to have some background reading, starting off with Dante's Inferno, especially Canto XIII.  The Wood of the Suicides features the Harpies, and I believe these are symbolic of Laura's supposed 'hysteria'.  Harpies are also known as 'The Robbers', and Laura is a notorious klepto.  Iris (the name of our narrator) was also sister to the Harpies in myth.  The two young heroes in the pulp novel have to enter a wood that supposedly has terrifying dead women in it.  Laura is symbolised by the suicide of Dido from the Aeneid.  There's also the glorious Book of Daniel, which recounts how Babylon fell overnight (which resounds in the pulp novel too, including the victorious Assyrians' Code of Hammurabi).  Allied to this is the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, translated by Edward Fitzgerald: &quot;The Moving Finger writes&quot; quote is a direct link to the Book of Daniel and the Fall of Babylon.  Add to these ingredients a generous helping of the Pre-Raphaelites and Alfred Lord Tennyson, and you've got the kind of novel that I love.<br />  No doubt this will sound pretty daunting for your average reader (I've compiled a page concerning the context of this novel for interested readers).  However, I think most people will be able to enjoy this novel without all these references.  On the other hand, Margaret Atwood makes a big assumption that lots of people will know what the Depression was like in Canada.  Unfortunately, Roosevelt and his New Deal are far more famous internationally than the ruthless 'Iron Heel' of Canadian Prime Minister Richard Bennett.  Canada had a devastating Depression in the &quot;Hungry Thirties&quot;, which was only fuelled by Bennett's policy of setting up forced work camps.  This suffering made more people rally to the Communist Party of Canada under the leadership of Tim Buck, and led to organised protests, such as the Ottawa Trek.  This was also the time of the 'Red Scare', the violent repression of 'pinkos' in North America.  It's worthwhile looking up the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti, and the deportation of Emma Goldman in order to really appreciate Alex's flight.  Alex symbolises the many Canadian Communists who fought in the Spanish Civil War.  However, Iris and Laura are cocooned in Avilion, and you don't really get to see anyone starving in The Blind Assassin to get any sense of this context, so probably Alex's cause is lost on a lot of readers.<br /> The only fault of the novel is openly acknowledged within Laura's narration: &quot;I've failed to convey Richard, in any rounded sense.  He remains a cardboard cutout.&quot;  Due to the plot of the novel, Richard's most significant actions are always clandestine, off-camera.  The only factual error I can find in the novel also revolves around him: &quot;He was a frequent participant in the Pugwash conferences,\\" we're told in his obituary at the beginning of the novel.  Yet Richard died in 1947, and the Pugwash Conferences started in 1957 - the only way that Richard could have attended would have been as a manifestation of Banquo.  Since the Pugwash Conferences were devised to bring around world peace, Richard (who's profited so much from his pugilistic attitude and the Second World War) seems a most unlikely candidate for membership.  Margaret Atwood can't have too much of a liking for the legendary King Arthur on this evidence, but it's poetic justice that Richard's Excalibur is thrown away, never again to see the light of day.<br />  All in all, this is a very enjoyable novel, and Atwood deserves the Booker prize (even if I think Matthew Kneale's English Passengers is slightly better).  John Buchan, author of The Thirty-nine Steps, makes a cameo appearance towards the end in his more formal role as Lord Tweedsmuir, Governor General of Canada at the start of the fall of the British Empire.  The narrative also concerns the Fall of the House of Chase.  Norval Chase commits an unforgivable act of patriarchy when he sees the writing on the wall, and submits his daughter to the veil.  Just like Belshazzar, he cannot avoid his fate, especially when faced with the mercurial Richard Griffen as adversary.  Laura finally finds her voice after years of numbness, but at what price?  The house of the Patriarch is falling (which is only just), but Margaret Atwood is courageous enough to question what has taken its placeonferences started in 1957 - the only way that Richard could have attended would have been as a manifestation of Banquo.  Since the Pugwash Conferences were devised to bring around world peace, Richard (who's profited so much from his pugilistic attitude and the Second World War) seems a most unlikely candidate for membership.  Margaret Atwood can't have too much of a liking for the legendary King Arthur on this evidence, but it's poetic justice that Richard's Excalibur is thrown away, never again to see the light of day.<br />  All in all, this is a very enjoyable novel, and Atwood deserves the Booker prize (even if I think Matthew Kneale's English Passengers is slightly better).  John Buchan, author of The Thirty-nine Steps, makes a cameo appearance towards the end in his more formal role as Lord Tweedsmuir, Governor General of Canada at the start of the fall of the British Empire.  The narrative also concerns the Fall of the House of Chase.  Norval Chase commits an unforgivable act of patriarchy when he sees the writing on the wall, and submits his daughter to the veil.  Just like Belshazzar, he cannot avoid his fate, especially when faced with the mercurial Richard Griffen as adversary.  Laura finally finds her voice after years of numbness, but at what price?  The house of the Patriarch is falling (which is only just), but Margaret Atwood is courageous enough to question what has taken its place	2001-02-14
US	52362742	R2C0608HGQW4JF	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Devilishly good	This novel was by far the most readable on the Booker 2000 shortlist, but sadly, as we all know, such books often don't win the prize.  It was also the best-written and most consistent book: thankfully, justice has now prevailed and Matthew Kneale has deservedly walked off with the Whitbread.<br />Captain Illiam Quillian Kewley starts off this magnificent, polyphonic novel.  He's the leader of a crew of Manx smugglers.  This is where you get the first hint of the authenticity and complexity that Matthew Kneale has worked into this tome.  Kewley's a brilliant, lively character along with his fellow Manx shipmates.  If you bother to look at the census returns for the Isle Of Man for the nineteenth century, you'll see that there are Kneales mixed up with the Kewleys and the Mylchreests (indeed, the Arts and Books section of the Telegraph recently divulged that Matthew Kneale was born on the Isle of Man).  So, Kneale, with his glossary of the Anglo-Manx dialect, seems to start off writing about characters that are fairly close to home.  However, historical sources do relate that Manx smugglers did wander widely and that some were forcibly transported to the New World, where they endured the experimental hospitality of Port Arthur prison in Tasmania.  This is an interesting story in itself, and very amusing as Kewley and crew try to offload their ill-gotten gains.  But then their ship, the Sincerity, attracts the attention of the Customs, and Kewley is forced to consider the indignity of taking on board paying passengers.<br />  This is divine timing on the part of the Reverend Geoffrey Wilson, who needs a ship to go to Tasmania to prove his theory of Divine Refrigeration.  His discourse offers the rather surprising argument that the Garden of Eden is to be found within Van Diemen's Land.  Wilson has been fired up by the writings of Darwinists, who believe that the Bible is not to be taken literally when it comes to the question of Genesis and the Origins of Species.  Unfortunately, Wilson's sponsor is the infantile entrepreneur Jonah Childs whose notion of a good idea would be to use wallabies as pack animals.  Childs' judgement seems lacking when he chooses a rather lacklustre botanist for the trip, and a rather too eager volunteer as ship's surgeon in the shape of the odious Doctor Potter.  It doesn't take long for Wilson and Potter to realise that they are natural enemies, and it seems that we could be in for a battle of the survival of the fittest, as each take turns to try to convert Kewley's crew.  Try as he might, Kewley is unable to dump his passengers, so off into the New World they sail.<br />  The book also goes back in time to the 1820s to present Peevay's narration.  Peevay is a Tasmanian Aborigine who relates how the 'ghosts' take over the land of his people, and drive them to extinction.  He is the product of a rape: his mother was snatched by a white seal hunter and imprisoned on his island.  She escaped, but is forever haunted by the seething hatred she feels for the man who did that to her.  Much of Peevay's early life has been without both his mother and his father.  When his mother rejects him due to his mixed blood, Peevay cannot help but yearn for his father.  Peevay's jealousy is roused when Mother lavishes affection on his weakly half-brother Tayaleah.  Soon the ghosts launch the notorious Black Line.  In the event of its ludicrous failure, the Tasmanian Aborigines are dispatched to Flinders Island under the protection of an Angel of Death: Robson.  To the casual observer, a novel full of individual narrators might be a nightmare to navigate, but Kneale is a superb Captain.  It helps that his characters are so vital, so engaging to read, even if they do write the vilest of polemics, as Potter does.  It could seem that this is an awful mishmash to put into one novel.  However, Kneale's thinking is always quite stimulating and naturalistic.  From my background reading, it looks as though Kneale's not the first author to have approached Tasmania from the perspective of the Garden of Eden:  Brian Castro's novel 'Drift' had the 'Intercostals' sealer McGann stealing Pallawah women, utilizing the analogy of Adam and Eve.<br />  Although Kneale employs locations and institutions exceptionally well, I was a bit disappointed that he didn't use the real names of the historical figures.  Governor George Alder was possibly the historic Governor George Arthur; Robson was based on 'bricklayer' George Augustus Robinson.  However, this gives Kneale a necessary dramatic license: this is a very entertaining book after all.  In his epilogue Kneale mentions that the odious Doctor Potter was based on the real life 'disgraced' surgeon Robert Knox (who, whilst in Edinburgh, employed the notoriously work-shy Burke and Hare - why then didn't Channel 4's Booker prize pundit Ian Rankin choose this novel as his favourite?!!).  It's shocking that the notions of such a vile man should ever have been taken seriously after that disreputable scandal.  However, although the genocide of the Tasmanian Aborigines is shocking in 'English Passengers', the real life stories of Truganini and William Lanney are even more so.  As it is also sickening to see Darwin quote from Knox in 'The Descent of Man' and Darwin's own thoughts on the Tasmanian Aborigines.  Yet Kneale is such a skilful novelist that you cannot help but feel some pity towards the deluded Wilson and Potter.  Matthew Kneale comes from the Evelyn Waugh school of black comedy, with the added bonus that he's merciless to the evils of racism.  Unlike many other literary novelists this year, Matthew Kneale hasn't put a foot wrong in his travails.irst author to have approached Tasmania from the perspective of the Garden of Eden:  Brian Castro's novel 'Drift' had the 'Intercostals' sealer McGann stealing Pallawah women, utilizing the analogy of Adam and Eve.<br />  Although Kneale employs locations and institutions exceptionally well, I was a bit disappointed that he didn't use the real names of the historical figures.  Governor George Alder was possibly the historic Governor George Arthur; Robson was based on 'bricklayer' George Augustus Robinson.  However, this gives Kneale a necessary dramatic license: this is a very entertaining book after all.  In his epilogue Kneale mentions that the odious Doctor Potter was based on the real life 'disgraced' surgeon Robert Knox (who, whilst in Edinburgh, employed the notoriously work-shy Burke and Hare - why then didn't Channel 4's Booker prize pundit Ian Rankin choose this novel as his favourite?!!).  It's shocking that the notions of such a vile man should ever have been taken seriously after that disreputable scandal.  However, although the genocide of the Tasmanian Aborigines is shocking in 'English Passengers', the real life stories of Truganini and William Lanney are even more so.  As it is also sickening to see Darwin quote from Knox in 'The Descent of Man' and Darwin's own thoughts on the Tasmanian Aborigines.  Yet Kneale is such a skilful novelist that you cannot help but feel some pity towards the deluded Wilson and Potter.  Matthew Kneale comes from the Evelyn Waugh school of black comedy, with the added bonus that he's merciless to the evils of racism.  Unlike many other literary novelists this year, Matthew Kneale hasn't put a foot wrong in his travails.	2001-02-13
US	52362742	R4W7G97R3REPT	0312206097	461702204	Set in Darkness: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Mysteries)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Where snakes in the ground go absolutely free	Farmer Watson has decided to keep Detective Inspector John Rebus out of trouble by assigning him to a committee concerned with the new Scottish Parliament's security.  Rebus inspects the building work at Queensbury House with his colleagues, including fast-tracker Derek Linford.  However, Rebus seems to attract trouble, and it's not long before a body is discovered...<br />  I've only read the one Rebus novel before, The Hanging Garden, and in that earlier composition, Rebus seemed to work much more on his own.  Set in Darkness is a more of an ensemble piece, and seems to hail from the tradition of the police procedural.  Rebus's colleagues are very much in the limelight, featuring Linford's flirtation with Siobhan Clarke, and the 'Time Team' of Wylie and Hood.  There are just as many coincidences as you'd find in three editions of TV's 'The Bill' (where the two crimes per episode are always inextricably linked).  This is probably related to the Kevin Bacon game, the `six degrees of separation' (where everyone on the planet has links with everyone else), mentioned in the novel.  Rankin concentrates on the smaller universe that consists of Edinburgh, and this is more than enough.  Indeed, so flourished is this novel with characters, that if you put the narrative down, you're bound to be really confused when you come back to it.<br />  Not long after 'Skelly' is discovered in Queensbury House, the corpse of the prospective MSP Roddy Grieve is also found there.  Siobhan Clarke witnesses the suicide of a tramp who had half a million in the bank.  Meanwhile, two men are assaulting women from singles' clubs.  Rebus's investigation brings him to Rosslyn Chapel, the cryptic home of cranks and the Knights Templar, the secretive movement that was the first police force, invented banking, that fought at Bannockburn, and laid the foundations of Scotland's Masonic tradition.  However, Rebus is far more interested in the Edinburgh masons of the last twenty years, since the previous devolution referendum.  Just whose is the body in the fireplace at Queensbury House?  Early on in the novel, a historian relates a tale about the lunatic son of the Duke of Queensbury, who ate a servant on the night of the Act of Union, and left him on a spit in the fireplace.  This is where Rankin is at his best - he employs the real Edinburgh to great effect.  The Oxford Bar, Rebus's local, is a real hostelry.  This adds a note of authenticity to Rankin's work, and it's quite stimulating trying to track down all the locations mentioned in this novel.  It's also amusing to see Rebus's scepticism about devolution - rogues will always be rogues, no matter where they're housed.  Ian Rankin also seems to be warming to his new career as literary critic.  There's quite a bit of Hugh MacDiarmid in this book, fairly appropriately, as he was a founder of the Scottish Nationalist party.  MacDiarmid also joined the Communist party at a quite inappropriate time.  The Grieve family have been in politics for generations, starting from the Liberal Party, from Old to New Labour, with also a flirtation with the Tories.  An artistic as well as a political family, they have an 'unknown' MacDiarmid poem hanging on the walls of their family home.  MacDiarmid's real name was Christopher Murray Grieve (although he's no relation of the Grieve family here).  He's not the only one to use a pseudonym in the novel: so does the mysterious suicide victim, 'Chris Mackie', but for less artistic reasons.<br />  You don't have to have read all the other novels in this series to appreciate Set in Darkness.  I can compare this with The Hanging Garden and see that Rankin still maintains his obsession with popular music (but then Rebus is an aficionado too, so that's alright - although this does mean that the inevitable recording session makes its way into the book).  This might seem a bit tiresome, but then again I guess detectives do have to have some small talk to relax their subjects.  Rebus says he's been reading up on his Edinburgh history recently, but so has Rankin too.  Indeed, the city seems almost more alive than the inspector himself, even though most of its tales concern death.  The mortality of someone very close to Rebus is brought into question, someone who seems larger than life, and someone with a lot more vitality than Rebus, say...  I think one of the problems with Rebus is that he's so hard to picture, and as the TV producers have probably found, so very hard to cast.  Rebus seems more thing than man, hard to make out from the shadows (not a pop reference).  I see that Rankin's new novel is called 'The Falls' - will Rebus ride the Reichenbach, locked in mortal combat with his Moriarty, in the city where Doyle learnt from Bell?  Has Ian Rankin grown tired of his creation? Or has he just developed a new obsession for the music of Mark E. Smith?ys he's been reading up on his Edinburgh history recently, but so has Rankin too.  Indeed, the city seems almost more alive than the inspector himself, even though most of its tales concern death.  The mortality of someone very close to Rebus is brought into question, someone who seems larger than life, and someone with a lot more vitality than Rebus, say...  I think one of the problems with Rebus is that he's so hard to picture, and as the TV producers have probably found, so very hard to cast.  Rebus seems more thing than man, hard to make out from the shadows (not a pop reference).  I see that Rankin's new novel is called 'The Falls' - will Rebus ride the Reichenbach, locked in mortal combat with his Moriarty, in the city where Doyle learnt from Bell?  Has Ian Rankin grown tired of his creation? Or has he just developed a new obsession for the music of Mark E. Smith?	2001-02-10
US	52362742	RJK6H5KX0KB0Q	0871138166	401606557	What Are You Like?: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Like, like	At first, I didn't like Anne Enright's novel at all.  I found it very hard to identify with any of the characters.  Anne Enright's style of writing is quite singular, and takes some time getting used to.  It took about a hundred pages before I really started to enjoy this composition.<br />  Enright's narrative jumps forwards and backwards through time, leaping from one perspective to another.  The restless nature of this novel makes it very hard prey to track down.  Anne Enright's prose is very subtle too.  Incidents flash by, but the gun kicks very little.  I admittedly found myself lost in the early part of the novel, especially when minor characters came to the forefront, and then disappeared.  This novel either seems as though it has been culled too well or not enough.  There's quite a lot of extraneous material that hints at a broader narrative, with good ideas dispatched all too soon, so that you almost never get a handle on them in the first place.  This novel stands comparison with Trezza Azzopardi's Booker nominated 'The Hiding Place'.  Azzopardi also has a quite developed and unique style, and her narrative also flits through time, and from person to person.  Yet, even although Azzopardi doesn't give a time and date for each chapter as Enright does, you're never ever lost in 'The Hiding Place' as you are in 'What are you Like?'.  Enright's novel is mostly the tale of two identical twin sisters divided at birth: Maria and Marie.  One gets the impression that maybe Enright thought about keeping these two very similar names for her main protagonists: thankfully, Marie is also called Rose.  When their mother dies during labour, Berts, their father, decides that he can only cope with one of the twins.  It doesn't seem to matter particularly which one.  Thus are the twins divided.  Rose is adopted, and brought up in an English middle class home.  Maria, brought up by Berts and new wife Evelyn, rebels and runs off to New York and goes a little mad.  We seem to get more of her childhood than Rose's.  Maria falls in love with the wrong man, and comes across a photograph of herself in his wallet when 12 - but the background and the &quot;parents&quot; are completely unfamiliar.  Rose contemplates marriage with a Yuppie, and has an urge to find the mother who gave her up.  Her quest brings treasures she never quite expected...<br />  This novel is mostly viewed through the eyes of women, with Berts the only strong male character.  It's almost as if Enright has to remind you of his presence towards the end, by his having a drunken kiss with a female co-worker at a Christmas party.  It's a well-told incident, but I've a suspicion that it's only been included to add a bit of melodrama.  Evelyn, Berts' wife, is considering leaving him, and then she finds a letter from a strange woman...  There are so many perspectives from the women characters that you can often put the book down, and forget where you were when you start to read again.  Towards the end, the twins' mother, Anna, speaks from the dead in the first person.  This is done so matter of factly that no hint of the supernatural is ever allowed to shine through.  Anna tells the story of her life, but her privileged voice doesn't ever really seem to say anything significant.  Although the divide between the generations of these women is done very well indeed:  Evelyn and Anna spent their youth in a very different world from Maria and Rose.  Berts notices that women's behaviour has changed a lot over his lifetime, and has to get used to the idea that women are drinking a lot more nowadays and that the term 'typing pool' is no longer politically correct or even employable.<br />  Enright's prose is so subtle that it does take a long time for you to feel anything for the characters.  Indeed, there are glimpses of the Kennedy family background, of the boy Valentine gone mad which hints at the cause of Maria's mental distress and of her mother's eccentricity.  The resolution is also a quite trite and maybe a little too concise.  However, Enright's prose is still a joy to read.  She has a lot of wit, and there are great one-liners.  She's also incredibly good at capturing the consciousness of her protagonists.  There's a delicious passage where Maria's mind's eye sees a lamp and a coat in a window across the road as a hanging body.  Even though she knows that the delusion is not real, her imagination still gets her incredibly worked up.  Overall, this is a bitsy book, which doesn't quite fulfil all its ambitions.  However, if you stick with it as I did, then you'll find Anne Enright's novel hugely rewarding towards the end.s also a quite trite and maybe a little too concise.  However, Enright's prose is still a joy to read.  She has a lot of wit, and there are great one-liners.  She's also incredibly good at capturing the consciousness of her protagonists.  There's a delicious passage where Maria's mind's eye sees a lamp and a coat in a window across the road as a hanging body.  Even though she knows that the delusion is not real, her imagination still gets her incredibly worked up.  Overall, this is a bitsy book, which doesn't quite fulfil all its ambitions.  However, if you stick with it as I did, then you'll find Anne Enright's novel hugely rewarding towards the end.	2001-01-27
US	52362742	R2WSWC34EB6SW9	1885983395	873523784	The Deposition of Father McGreevy	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Aisling Community	The catalyst of this novel is a wild goose by the name of William Maginn, an &eacute;migr&eacute; Irish Literary editor who resides in 1950s London.  A visit to The Antelope pub has him hear mention of his hometown, and an intriguing story besides.  Since Maginn is a professional literary editor, he has no option but to follow the story by doing his own research.  A little digging reveals that he's related to the main star of the show, a certain Father Hugh McGreevy.  And a wee bit of thievery reveals Father McGreevy's deposition.<br />  From the start, we know what's going to happen in the end - we know what will become of Father McGreevy.  Yet, once we become embroiled in Father McGreevy's narrative, we forget all that and concentrate on his story.  Father McGreevy is a priest of a mountain community in County Kerry that is always cut off by the snows of winter.  However, this winter has been particularly bad, and a disaster sucks the life out of the community, as one by one, all the women die.  The men of the village are also afflicted by the same mystery illness, but recover.  Due to the hardness of the frozen land, none of the men can bury their wives until the thaw comes.  No one from the town below can reach them, and there isn't any way of communicating their plight.  It's just as well that the one woman who remains, Biddy McGurk, is well used to tending to the dead.  The thaw brings some relief and some grief also, for it is decided by a county doctor that the women's bodies must be disinterred for an inquest.  The medical authorities are fearful of a virus that kills only women, and memories are still haunted by the 1918 flu epidemic.  Father McGreevy intervenes on the behalf of his small community, for he knows only too well how the men would react.  So it is that Father McGreevy first assumes the role of protector.  It's not long before he's called upon his duty once more, as the Bishop desires to avoid a repetition of the last winter by having Father McGreevy's community broken up and brought down to the town.  So it is that Father McGreevy pleas a stay of execution for just one year, and sets in motion a dramatic series of events.  But is Father McGreevy really the best guardian of his community?<br />  One of the things that have whittled away McGreevy's community is the disease of the diaspora.  The young people have an overwhelming desire to leave.  The opportunities for long-range travel have been drastically reduced by the coincidence of the Second World War.  The good Father listens to his radio hoping that the English will win, but also that they will have a good beating.  He would be justified in thinking that his own community has had its share of misery.  But then he witnesses a beastly sin which sickens him to the core, and which he cannot ignore.  Here I think is where O'Doherty is at his bravest, since the novel could have descended into some cheap sheep joke (indeed, Doctor McKenna cannot help but chuckle when Father McGreevy goes to him for advice).  This is where O'Doherty's choice of priest as narrator/protagonist really shines, since it allows a very controversial subject to be dealt with in all its ramifications without ever becoming crude.<br />  It would also seem of a necessity that William Maginn and Father McGreevy be related, since both are greatly interested in the traditions of Irish literature - it is just as well that Maginn is a literary editor.  This poetic theme has retreats as well as victorious advances however.  Maginn, who remarks that the policeman who has the patience to jot down the priest's tale must be very green indeed, openly admits the artifice of Father McGreevy's deposition.  O'Doherty seems conscious of this flaw, which is no doubt why he invented Maginn in the first place.  I have to admire O'Doherty for doing this, and I suspect it's just the kind of thing that I would do in his place - to have any criticisms of the novel already articulated within the text.  Maginn does describe his footnotes in the text as &quot;intrusions&quot;, and it does seem very much at times as though the literary editor is trespassing.  I had a personal reason for disliking the footnotes, since I tend to see myself as a proactive reader who likes to look up references for myself.  I'm not one of the &quot;slothful and careless readers&quot; that Maginn has expected to read Father McGreevy's narration.<br />  Yet without the footnotes, you probably wouldn't appreciate the poetic theme that culminates in Muiris' dream.  The aisling form runs throughout this carefully constructed novel: the vision of Ireland as woman visiting the poet, offering a message of hope.  Father McGreevy seems determined to hold onto the old world, but recognises a superior storyteller in Muruis.  Muruis, for his part, whilst still keeping the stories of the past, cannot but help adapting them in the face of stony reality.<br />  Until now, I was convinced that O'Doherty, whilst providing a most poetic narrative, hadn't yet produced that vital spark to really get me drawn into his tale.  But then I began to wonder about William Maginn.  I discovered that Maginn was an Irish writer who had contributed to the legendary Blackwood's magazine.  That made me curious, so I did some further research on Fraser's Magazine.  I found the connection in an article about a writer who I've studied much recently, the Reverend Francis Sylvester O'Mahony, the one and only 'Father Prout' - it turns out that William Maginn founded Fraser's Magazine in 1830.  And considering that he must he 150 years old by the time that he stumbles upon Father McGreevy's deposition, William Maginn's not that bad as a narrator at all.  He certainly got me hooked by the end.describe his footnotes in the text as &quot;intrusions&quot;, and it does seem very much at times as though the literary editor is trespassing.  I had a personal reason for disliking the footnotes, since I tend to see myself as a proactive reader who likes to look up references for myself.  I'm not one of the &quot;slothful and careless readers&quot; that Maginn has expected to read Father McGreevy's narration. <br />  Yet without the footnotes, you probably wouldn't appreciate the poetic theme that culminates in Muiris' dream.  The aisling form runs throughout this carefully constructed novel: the vision of Ireland as woman visiting the poet, offering a message of hope.  Father McGreevy seems determined to hold onto the old world, but recognises a superior storyteller in Muruis.   Muruis, for his part, whilst still keeping the stories of the past, cannot but help adapting them in the face of stony reality.  <br />  Until now, I was convinced that O'Doherty, whilst providing a most poetic narrative, hadn't yet produced that vital spark to really get me drawn into his tale.  But then I began to wonder about William Maginn.  I discovered that Maginn was an Irish writer who had contributed to the legendary Blackwood's magazine.  That made me curious, so I did some further research on Fraser's Magazine.  I found the connection in an article about a writer who I've studied much recently, the Reverend Francis Sylvester O'Mahony, the one and only 'Father Prout' - it turns out that William Maginn founded Fraser's Magazine in 1830.   And considering that he must he 150 years old by the time that he stumbles upon Father McGreevy's deposition, William Maginn's not that bad as a narrator at all.  He certainly got me hooked by the end.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	R2M15N6CN44HI8	0689713274	445040682	Dawn of Fear	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Slough's war	What first drew me to this novel was the fact that Susan Cooper is from my hometown of Slough. When I was growing up in Shaggy Calf Lane in the Seventies, the bottom of our garden still had a rusting Anderson shelter that my siblings and I never really bothered to explore. Along with the coal cellar, it seemed a part of everyday life. But times change. I still remember having a coal boiler, which went out of use as the years passed. The Anderson shelter was just a very familiar object. Much more vivid were the stories told by my great grandmother of having to dive under a kitchen table as she heard a bomb whistle to earth. Our Anderson shelter was guarded by brambles, impossible to enter, and quite uninviting.<br />I hadn't thought of that Anderson shelter for years until I read 'Dawn of Fear'. Very early on in the book, Cooper also introduces to us the Morrison shelter, which was designed to live under your kitchen table. However, Derek's family has use of the more famous, external Anderson shelter. Very vivid are the scenes where Derek and his family take to its cover. In one telling moment, Derek's mother says that they should stop talking lest they wake up Derek's baby brother - the little boy has already learnt to take as normal the sound of air raid sirens and bombs. During the less frantic cold war, I seem to recall hearing those chilling notes being tested once or twice. At first, it seems as though Cooper is writing this novel very much for a younger audience than her 'Dark is Rising' sequence. However, there is also much to interest the more mature reader. Particularly significant is the adults' agonising over the upbringing of their children during a war. They want their children to act with caution, but they don't want them to live in fear. But the war has already changed their lives, whether it is in the collection of shrapnel, or the playing of imaginary wargames.<br />However, Derek and his friends seem to be far more interested in the act of creating their own camp. Their inspiration is drawn from the ancient fortifications of the Chilterns and the Thames Valley. To Derek and his friends, it's just going to be a secret camp. But the role of such forts in the past comes to haunt them as everything they have built is threatened. Together, Derek and his friends decide to retaliate and embark on nothing less than a territorial war with a rival gang. Cooper cleverly juxtaposes this conflict against the real war. How easy it is to take up arms against your 'neighbours'. Like the real war, the rival gang seems to have way more resources and bodies to call upon, and in the shocking demise of the cat, they show early signs of psychopathic tendencies. If you're able and willing to harm an animal, current thinking goes, then you're not far from harming people.<br />Derek's gang has a hero of sorts in Tom Hicks. He's an older boy who's just signed up in the Merchant Navy just because they can take people younger. Here, Susan Cooper's historical research shines subtly through. Tom Hicks signs up even though he knows that the Merchant Navy is by far the most hazardous service, and where fatalities are high. Cooper is also subtle in her suggestion that all the boys will be touched by death: Geoffrey proudly mentions that his uncle is serving on the destroyer, HMS Hood, little knowing, as we do, that this ship and most of her crew are doomed. Tom also talks a great deal about Churchill's Dunkirk speech. But there's also a quote from Queen Victoria: &quot;We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They do not speak.&quot; The Empress, of course, was referring to a far less noble British cause: the war for Boer gold in South Africa, where we unfortunately invented the concentration camp. Both sides, Cooper seems to be suggesting, have blood on their hands.<br />To me, it seems as though a part of this world has vanished for good. When nettles sting Derek, Peter suggests that he rubs a dock leaf on the rash to alleviate the pain. That sort of knowledge about the natural world was practically lost to my generation. If I'd known about dock leaves, I might have saved myself a great deal of pain as a kid. It's hard to say where exactly in Slough Cooper has set her story. I can't help but think of Elliman Avenue. Then again, that was fairly close to my own childhood home. So to me, the world of Susan Cooper's novel is a familiar place, but there are a number of extraordinary revelations. This may be a children's novel, but the conclusion shows signs of a more adult view of the world all too soon.ate the pain. That sort of knowledge about the natural world was practically lost to my generation. If I'd known about dock leaves, I might have saved myself a great deal of pain as a kid. It's hard to say where exactly in Slough Cooper has set her story. I can't help but think of Elliman Avenue. Then again, that was fairly close to my own childhood home. So to me, the world of Susan Cooper's novel is a familiar place, but there are a number of extraordinary revelations. This may be a children's novel, but the conclusion shows signs of a more adult view of the world all too soon.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	R13STVGPV6ND0W	0563555785	182380346	Divided Loyalties (Dr. Who Series)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Continuity ad nauseum	This novel starts off quite encouragingly.  Russell seems to have captured the Fifth Doctor perfectly, including much of his sarcasm.  The initial glimpses of the Celestial Toymaker are also very reminiscent of Michael Gough's performance.  'Divided Loyalties' is also quite short, running to only 252 pages, which makes you think that someone has finally seen sense, and restricted the page numbers to fit the story.  But Gary Russell's afterword rings all too true.  He seems to have been originally planning a meeting between the 6th and 8th Doctors. Two Doctors feature in this novel too, with an episode from the First Doctor's life to explain why he'd been expelled by the Academy.  This is quite enjoyable, although the presence of a large furry animal gives the lie to the thought that Russell might have dropped some of his more irritating habits.  The monsters in Doctor Who were never supposed to be cute: only the budget restrictions made them that way (like the giant rat in The Talons of Weng Chiang).  If any era deserved a Russell novel, then it would have to be Davison's.  Doctor Who's producer at the time, John-Nathan Turner, loved continuity even more than Russell seems to do: 'With an exaggerated sigh Tegan straightened up and smoothed down her uniform.  (Nyssa had promised to go through the TARDIS wardrobe... so that they could both choose something new to wear instead of forever getting the TARDIS to work its overnight magic on her lilac air hostess outfit.)  His grammar could do with some work too!  Well, at least there's only one villain.  Koschei does feature, but he's still in angelic mode.  The Toymaker does have a nasty henchman, but we can hardly take him seriously, because he's called 'Gaylord'.  In like manner, and as an internal continuity to recent Eighth Doctor novels, Russell speculates on the nature of the Guardians - 'The Great Old Ones'.  Could these be Lawrence Miles' Time Lords from another universe invading our own?  Unfortunately, Russell chooses to spoil their majesty by giving them some very silly names: 'Raah, Nah and Rok, who together would one day cause the end of this Universe'.  Although this might just be another reference, this time to the televised adventure 'The Greatest Show in the Galaxy'.  But Russell is such a slave to continuity that he spoils his own book.  It appears that he became too concerned about the portrayal of the Toymaker in Graham Williams' 'The Nightmare Fair'.  In this unrealized script, the Toymaker was rather less fun than he'd been in his debut in the 1960s, so Russell dully contrives to explain this (I mean 'dully').  By the end of 'Divided Loyalties', the Toymaker is thus transformed into a 'Nuthink in this world can stop me now!' type caricature.  In order to explain this transformation, Russell feels obliged to disrupt continuity by introducing new characters and events (I don't think William Hartnell's Doctor knew of the Toymaker beforehand).  The 'divided loyalties' of the story refers to the Fifth Doctor's companions, and Russell here uses the word 'divided' to its fullest extent.  Nyssa, in particular, has a reason to be aggrieved with the Doctor, but Russell chooses to dwell rather too long on her dilemma.  The Toymaker's games are also quite banal.  Gary Russell could have done with the helping hand of Christopher Bulis here, in devising some really devious puzzles, just as he could learn from Lawrence Miles the way to write a complex plot which grips you all the way.chooses to spoil their majesty by giving them some very silly names: 'Raah, Nah and Rok, who together would one day cause the end of this Universe'.  Although this might just be another reference, this time to the televised adventure 'The Greatest Show in the Galaxy'.   But Russell is such a slave to continuity that he spoils his own book.  It appears that he became too concerned about the portrayal of the Toymaker in Graham Williams' 'The Nightmare Fair'.  In this unrealized script, the Toymaker was rather less fun than he'd been in his debut in the 1960s, so Russell dully contrives to explain this (I mean 'dully').  By the end of 'Divided Loyalties', the Toymaker is thus transformed into a 'Nuthink in this world can stop me now!' type caricature.  In order to explain this transformation, Russell feels obliged to disrupt continuity by introducing new characters and events (I don't think William Hartnell's Doctor knew of the Toymaker beforehand).  The 'divided loyalties' of the story refers to the Fifth Doctor's companions, and Russell here uses the word 'divided' to its fullest extent.  Nyssa, in particular, has a reason to be aggrieved with the Doctor, but Russell chooses to dwell rather too long on her dilemma.   The Toymaker's games are also quite banal.  Gary Russell could have done with the helping hand of Christopher Bulis here, in devising some really devious puzzles, just as he could learn from Lawrence Miles the way to write a complex plot which grips you all the way.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	R2JWDEV10L7G81	0426204840	878107707	So Vile a Sin (Doctor Who : The New Adventures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Packs a punch	This is the last novel in the 'Psi Powers' series in the New Adventures. Due to Ben Aaronovitch's hard drive crashing, it also proved to be the last NA, since publication was delayed. And what an ending! In many ways, although rescued by Kate Orman, 'So Vile a Sin' is typical Aaronovitch Doctor Who. The story is vast and huge, involving elements left behind from the Time Lord war with the Great Vampires, to the 30th century conflict between various factions in the Terran empire (home to Roz and Cwej). Manipulating everyone is a particularly nasty bunch... Because this novel comprises so many elements (from previous NAs too), it can get a bit confusing in places. Especially when the Doctor fills the ill-effects of a 'probability intercession' . This involves thousands of Doctors being created throughout time and space, each one having made a different decision than the current incumbent (i.e. like one who took Salamander's place as dictator of Earth). A multitude of Doctors is confusing enough, but the action also takes place over what seems to be a vast number of places. But the novel is never less than very entertaining. You read on, confident that these puzzles will be resolved. There are nice touches, like the inclusion of the Unitatus soldiers, but there are also irritations. The Doctor kills the Empress of the Galaxy just because she asks him to. This killing, which is later, absurdly, swept under the carpet - the Doctor could have been accused of 'treason' for not doing so - is quite reminiscent of the destruction of Skaro, but without the big guilt trip. If there's one reason for preferring Terrance Dicks, it's that his version of the Doctor doesn't do this sort of thing. A large part of the novel is also quite derivative, stealing a lot of the style of Frank Herbert's work. 'Dune' had Dukes and the Landsraad, 'So Vile a Sin' has Dukes and the Landsknetche. Still, 'Dune' could hardly be described as 'original', as it also derives from a great number of other texts, knowingly employed. The 'Dune' element seems to be continuing in the current strand of novels (i.e. 'Dead Romance'), where Chris seems to be turning into another Duncan Idaho, and maybe Babylon 5 has influenced too. This is the novel where Roz snuffs it. This may be one huge spoiler (it certainly ruined Roz's day), but the book has been out for two years, and is now out of print. This does make the end a bit mawkish though. Bernice Summerfield seems to lose all character in her diary entries, and the Doctor has a rather embarrassing heart attack at the funeral (all leading to 'Lungbarrow', I suppose). All in all, it's a glorious piece of space opera , in the style of Iain M. Banks (yes, another influence!). But it still proves that great fiction can be crafted from the deviations of derivations. In this, 'So Vile a Sin' is typically Doctor Who at its (his) best.texts, knowingly employed. The 'Dune' element seems to be continuing in the current strand of novels (i.e. 'Dead Romance'), where Chris seems to be turning into another Duncan Idaho, and maybe Babylon 5 has influenced too. This is the novel where Roz snuffs it. This may be one huge spoiler (it certainly ruined Roz's day), but the book has been out for two years, and is now out of print. This does make the end a bit mawkish though. Bernice Summerfield seems to lose all character in her diary entries, and the Doctor has a rather embarrassing heart attack at the funeral (all leading to 'Lungbarrow', I suppose). All in all, it's a glorious piece of space opera , in the style of Iain M. Banks (yes, another influence!). But it still proves that great fiction can be crafted from the deviations of derivations. In this, 'So Vile a Sin' is typically Doctor Who at its (his) best.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	R3GZXZK2W53XKO	0786706546	266316509	April Rising: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	The Chaos Family	There used to be something called the 'nuclear family': a mom, a dad, and the legendary 2.4 children.  In Britain, such familial constructs were on the wane even before the dismantling of the Berlin Wall.  Ellen, however, still has such a family, even down to the stay at home mom.  Yet the novel begins with Ellen returning home from her Grand Tramp around Europe.  Deep down she must know something is wrong since she has stayed away from her family for several years.<br />  The prose of this intro is the stuff of which classics are made.  You are enthralled as Ellen steals into her home, as she describes the pacified denizens of Philmont, and as she encounters the Goldilocks in her bed.  Lemaitre has a real ear for familial conversation and drama.  It could be you eavesdropping on your parents' less than enthusiastic response to your surprise visit home from college, their annoyance at your showing up after months of being incommunicado.  Ellen is a spoilt rich college girl, and she knows it.  Part of the reason for her less than successful trip around Europe was to avoid the adult world of work, and that's something that I can certainly identify with.  Thrown into this mixture is the lowly outsider Ellen, poor white redneck superstitious trash in comparison with the rich and irreligious Kaplans.  However, Ellen has been away so long that she is also the outsider.  She's able to see the changes that April's presence has wrought far more clearly for having been away, for it she who can see the junk diet food stashed away in the larder.<br />  Ellen feels that her place has been usurped by April, that April is the enemy in a Cold War in which there can be only one victor.  April's influence seems to have turned everything upside down.  She seems to have influenced James, Ellen's beloved brother, into leaving Berkeley.  Even worse, April laughs at Ellen's father's dated jokes.  She seems to get on the best side of everyone.  Ellen is not used to being the victim, the one forced to sit on the broken chair in the kitchen because all the others are taken.  She has a perverse desire to be both at the centre of attention and away from it, especially in regards to her relationship with her mother.  Ever since Ellen has returned, her mother has fussed far more around April than her.  To make things even worse, her father has decided to be far more difficult in the usual money bartering - Ellen has to actually do something about getting a job before she can get the cash.  But the worst offense seems to be the fact that April has gotten in the way of Ellen's unusual relationship with her brother James.  This disturbing relationship is one of the first things that set the alarm bells a-ringing.  Ellen also seems to have quite a disturbing passion for the alluring Frederick, of Germanic origins in contrast to Ellen's Jewishness.<br />  Unwittingly perhaps, April decides that to confide in Ellen that she is with child.  To make matters worse, she has persuaded James to take a job, and he chooses the vocation of garbage man, an insult to his privileged life and education.  So, Ellen decides to set up James with gorgeous man-eater Courtney.  The only trouble is that April keeps doing nice things for Ellen.  As Ellen sets her trap in motion, she begins to feel more for her adversary.  Wouldn't having Courtney as a sister-in-law be far worse?<br />  The setting of the novel is quite evocative.  Philmont is fairly close to Philadelphia, much improved, as Ellen's mother notes, by the removal of the Rocky statue (by a bizarre coincidence, the BBC decided to run the Rocky films as I was reading this novel).  However, the town is under threat by the ominously named LandLevel Inc., and this is the story that Ellen has been sent to cover by the local newspaper, The Philmont Organ.  The motto of this journal is a great example of Lemaitre's humour: 'Think of the Organ as your Organ'.  Along with all the wit however, is a healthy dose of blackness, almostWaughian in depth, especially the way that James behaves later in the novel.  Yet there are also scenes of quite tortured, surreal fantasy, like the episode in the library.  This is where Lemaitre has gotten her reputation for being 'strange' from, and I must admit that I don't quite think that it works.<br />  Just as James is into Plato, so I think that Lemaitre is into Euripides.  There's a great scene in Murakami's 'Norwegian Wood' where Toru explains Euripides' methods to Midori's bedridden father: &quot;it's basically impossible for everybody's justice to prevail or everybody's happiness to triumph, so chaos takes over.  And then what do you think happens?  Simple - a god appears at the end and starts directing the traffic&quot;.  This seems to very much the pattern that Lemaitre follows in her resolution of 'April's Rising'.  There is a deus ex machina, with the machina part being Ellen's kid brother's computer, and as Toru notes, such conclusions can be unsatisfying, too easy.  Ellen certainly smells more of roses than she should.  Or it could be that this novel is the first to depict the Chaos Family.  One of my favourite characters is Zero, Courtney's brother, who suddenly starts spouting chaos theory in a diner, a seemingly off the wall interjection.  Yet the more Ellen tries to control events, the more entropy spreads, leading to a quite unwholesome disaster.  There's quite a bit of the ying and the yang in this observation by Ellen: &quot;Now I know why we can hear each other's thoughts.  We're two halves of the same person.  Creator.  And destroyer.&quot;  You just can't predict what's going to happen at the quantum level.  Such is the folly of those who would play God like Ellen.st Waughian in depth, especially the way that James behaves later in the novel.  Yet there are also scenes of quite tortured, surreal fantasy, like the episode in the library.  This is where Lemaitre has gotten her reputation for being 'strange' from, and I must admit that I don't quite think that it works.<br />  Just as James is into Plato, so I think that Lemaitre is into Euripides.  There's a great scene in Murakami's 'Norwegian Wood' where Toru explains Euripides' methods to Midori's bedridden father: &quot;it's basically impossible for everybody's justice to prevail or everybody's happiness to triumph, so chaos takes over.  And then what do you think happens?  Simple - a god appears at the end and starts directing the traffic&quot;.  This seems to very much the pattern that Lemaitre follows in her resolution of 'April's Rising'.  There is a deus ex machina, with the machina part being Ellen's kid brother's computer, and as Toru notes, such conclusions can be unsatisfying, too easy.  Ellen certainly smells more of roses than she should.  Or it could be that this novel is the first to depict the Chaos Family.  One of my favourite characters is Zero, Courtney's brother, who suddenly starts spouting chaos theory in a diner, a seemingly off the wall interjection.  Yet the more Ellen tries to control events, the more entropy spreads, leading to a quite unwholesome disaster.  There's quite a bit of the ying and the yang in this observation by Ellen: &quot;Now I know why we can hear each other's thoughts.  We're two halves of the same person.  Creator.  And destroyer.&quot;   You just can't predict what's going to happen at the quantum level.  Such is the folly of those who would play God like Ellen.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	RVAGHFCWEI6OM	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Voidful?	is a kind of literary joke that Ravelstein might have appreciated.  The fact that I have placed a question mark beside it reflects the transition of views that I have had with this novel.  At first reading, 'Ravelstein' is quite irritating.  There are all those repetitions with jar on the nerves.  They look as though Bellow's editor was too nervous of his literary reputation to indulge on a necessary cull.  They jar, unlike the repetitions in Alistair MacLeod's 'No Great Mischief', which are as comfortable as a chorus and are reflective of that latter novel's grounding in oral history.<br />  But there is an oral element to 'Ravelstein' too.  Here, however, the storyteller is all too human, the lapses in memory forming part of his story.  At times, it seems as though the anecdotes which the narrator relates or refers to are more fascinating than the stated purpose of the novel: to provide a portrait of the political philosopher Ravelstein.  The novel begins with a reference to the Scopes Monkey Trial.  Unless you're well up on your American legal history, the significance of this humorous episode may well pass you by.  Yet this novel cannot help but be about ideas, given the nature of its subject.  The State of Tennessee objected to the teaching of Darwinism on religious grounds, a decision that now seems risible.  As Ravelstein lies dying however, his thoughts turn more to Jerusalem and the Holocaust.  Darwinism had no more twisted a disciple than Adolph Hitler.  No wonder Ravelstein laments the priority given to technical education in the States over and above the Arts.  Not that the Arts were free of Nazi propagandists, as the narrator conveys by discussing Celine.<br />  The narrator is Chick, one of Ravelstein's few confidants (although Ravelstein does have a whole troupe of ex-students with whom he can gossip).  Ravelstein asks Chick to write a memoir of his life after he has gone.  In this regard, 'Ravelstein' could be seen as a failure.  If Ravelstein really is meant to be a portrait of Bellow's late friend, Allan Bloom, then surely the whole purpose of the exercise is defeated if Bellow can only compose it as fiction?  It seems that all the effort has gone to waste.  But then critical commentators have had no difficulty identifying the hero as Bloom, so maybe the decision to fictionalise his life was correct.  Perhaps it is most fitting that Bloom's life should be reflected in a work of art.  Unfortunately, I have never studied Bloom's ideas, so I might well have missed out on Bellow's memoir if it had not been presented as a work of fiction.<br />  Sometimes, it does seem as though this novel is more about Chick than Ravelstein.  There are long sections where Ravelstein is not physically present, most obviously when he has died.  You do wonder why Chick continues his account, covering his own life threatening illness, where the links to Ravelstein seem tenuous to say the least.  Okay, so both Chick and his young wife knew Ravelstein, but do we really need to see the aftermath of their tropical holiday?  At times, it seems as though Chick's voice is held in check by theory: you know, the impossibility of objectively giving an account of another human being's life, the sort of approach which so stilts A. S. Byatt's 'The Biographer's Tale'.  However, there is a telling moment where Chick relates that he could only approach the life of someone like Ravelstein piecemeal, with hints of pictures and tippets of conversation.  And that's how I came to like this novel, by reading it piecemeal; by dividing the book up into the bits I liked best (of which there were surprisingly many, considering my initial reservations about this novel).  Ravelstein liked the vaudeville tradition, the revelation of bawdy truths, the snappiness of critical insight rather than the Freudian liberal soul-searching that I'm admittedly more comfortable with.<br />  Ravelstein seems most comfortable with the Greek theorists.  Chick discusses Ravelstein's ideas with reference to Plato's Symposium, the notion that to &quot;be human was to be severed, mutilated...  The work of humankind in its severed state is to seek to missing half&quot;, with the coital embrace as just a temporary relief from this severed state.  However, the way in which the body is mutilated affects its state of mind, Chick seems to be saying.  It could be that the repetitions that seem to mar this novel are simply reflections of a mind ravaged by disease.  Certainly one symptom of the cigua toxin which Chick ingests is for the patient to become circumlocutory in speech.  This may also be why Chick is forced to recount his own illness, since his state of mind is very much reflected in his narrative.  His own close call with death also provides the catalyst, the creative spark he needs to infuse his memoir of Ravelstein.<br />  There are moments when Bellow seems obsessed with the vulgarities of fame.  Ravelstein seems drawn to cod celebrities like a magnet.  Ravelstein seems both fascinated and appalled by popular culture.  'Ravelstein' the novel does not make easy reading at first, but it does become more rewarding when you return to it.  Bellow's 'pictures' certainly tend to stay in the mind a long while, and certain phrases resound.  If his portrait of Ravelstein does seem a little fuzzy at the edges, then it's because Bellow's left room for the reader's own imagination to fill in the gaps.  Maybe Ravelstein the fiction will outlive both Bloom and Bellow after all.n's ideas with reference to Plato's Symposium, the notion that to &quot;be human was to be severed, mutilated...  The work of humankind in its severed state is to seek to missing half&quot;, with the coital embrace as just a temporary relief from this severed state.  However, the way in which the body is mutilated affects its state of mind, Chick seems to be saying.  It could be that the repetitions that seem to mar this novel are simply reflections of a mind ravaged by disease.  Certainly one symptom of the cigua toxin which Chick ingests is for the patient to become circumlocutory in speech.  This may also be why Chick is forced to recount his own illness, since his state of mind is very much reflected in his narrative.  His own close call with death also provides the catalyst, the creative spark he needs to infuse his memoir of Ravelstein.<br />  There are moments when Bellow seems obsessed with the vulgarities of fame.  Ravelstein seems drawn to cod celebrities like a magnet.  Ravelstein seems both fascinated and appalled by popular culture.  'Ravelstein' the novel does not make easy reading at first, but it does become more rewarding when you return to it.  Bellow's 'pictures' certainly tend to stay in the mind a long while, and certain phrases resound.  If his portrait of Ravelstein does seem a little fuzzy at the edges, then it's because Bellow's left room for the reader's own imagination to fill in the gaps.  Maybe Ravelstein the fiction will outlive both Bloom and Bellow after all.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	RII5OC4RBI25N	0375410554	350966058	The Abomination	Books	3	11	24	N	N	Generous with his words	This novel takes a very long time to get going.  Paul Golding, it seems, is a novelist who prefers to use twenty words when one would do.  At the risk of sounding like an ignoramus or a buffoon, there are just too many notes.  Near the end of the novel, the narrator addresses the reader, and suggests that the reader may well have forgotten the beginning of the book.  This is one instance where Golding's view of his novel is very well judged.  Just as the narrator goes to quite absurd lengths to collect enough petals to create effective confetti, so he could have pruned his own work a little more.<br />  The confetti could well fall as an apt metaphor for this book.  Very colourful, and very much appreciated by the bride, but detested by his choir master and sometime consort, Dr Fox.  There are passages here which do really stand out.  However, their colour could very well be blinded out by the multitude of other, less memorable passages.  'The Abomination' starts off in the modern day, and then heads back to tell the story of Santiago Moore Zamora's life up to maturity.  This begins with a dwelling in the young Iago's consciousness, which goes on far too long to be effective or stimulating.  Another personal irritation for me is the wealth of the protagonist's family, and the hint that as he writes his story, our narrator remains a trustafarian.  This wealth does seem to hold back the drama somewhat, and prolongs the agony we have to wait for anything significant to happen.  Anglicised as 'James' Moore, Iago goes to an English Catholic public school, his father's Alma Mater.  This is where the novel really takes off, where Golding deigns to surprise us with a narrative that reeks of honesty and truth.  Iago tells his story, and doesn't care what you think - he tells us not to be shocked.  For him, public school is discovered to be far more sordid than that attended by any erstwhile Harry Potter, but no less dangerous for that.  Even though Iago's narrative is hugely condensed compared with Rowling's sprawling prose of late, it still seems too much, even if Iago's Summer holidays are much more condensed than that of the boy wizard's.<br /> Perhaps this novel would not be as long if Golding did not have so much time upon his hands.  Maybe certain passages would not have been written if Golding had had tighter deadlines, and an editor who was a wee bit more forceful.  There's one very memorable moment when our narrator is accused of thinking too much, and I can wholeheartedly agree with that condemnation.  However, I felt a wee bit cheated for the amount of money I had to pay for Golding's cogitation, since the quality of the prose did not seem to match the length of time devoted to its composition.  Golding's narrator isn't all that good at math either.  Unfortunately, it seems as though Iago's memory is almost too good at times.  Golding's literary yearnings seem to force him to excise  all names from popular culture, in case, perhaps, that they go out of date.  Yet there are some pop icons here, no matter what their individual merits, which will not be forgotten for a long time.  I wanted Golding to be more direct, to write 'Abba', 'Jesus Christ Superstar', 'Bob Dylan', and 'Death in Venice'.  Okay, so it's pretty clear from the descriptions what he's writing about, and subtlety is usually something which I admire, but here it seems maddening.  There's always the sense that Golding is somehow out of focus.  Just as his narrator bows his head in the annual school photo, so Golding deigns to move in his author photograph, no doubt in collusion with the jacket designers.  This is just so much artifice that it is hard to take.  The seriousness with which the blurred photograph is exposed is quite preposterous, and suggests a personality with a quite individual approach to life, simultaneously seeking and ducking out of the limelight.<br />What's really frustrating is that there is a powerful narrative in this novel, which does succeed in being revelatory and shocking.  However, surrounded as it is with so much turquoise prose, it could quite well be lost to less determined readers than I.  This may indeed be the real tragedy of this novel.succeed in being revelatory and shocking.  However, surrounded as it is with so much turquoise prose, it could quite well be lost to less determined readers than I.  This may indeed be the real tragedy of this novel.	2000-12-16
US	52362742	R2G1E2359KXWFC	0563555904	244707639	Parallel 59 (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Doctor and Compassion get their kit off!	Escaping from a doomed space station, the Doctor and Compassion splash down in the waters of the planet Skale. Fitz, as per usual, has gone his own way, and arrives on the pleasant world of Mechta. Compassion and the Doctor are not so lucky, as they are captured by Parallel 59, owners of the orbital station. The Skalens are a paranoid, competitive bunch who have divided their planet into seemingly arbitrary power blocs. In contrast, the Mechtans are chilled, relaxing in convalescence. Fitz literally becomes immersed in their culture. So Fitz once more acts the playboy, where his only anxiety is keeping each of his lovers unaware of the others. But is there really something sinister in Central, as Fitz's circle would have him believe? And what's happening to the people who leave Mechta?<br />Convinced that they're from another planet, Haltiel, the Skalens set about interrogating the Doctor and Compassion. But the denizens of Parallel 59 are very politically charged, and some of them don't want the Doctor to repair the damage to the space station (which had unwittingly been caused by the Doctor and friends). Compassion escapes, and finds the obligatory band of rebels. However, she and the Doctor are marooned, forced to leave the TARDIS behind in the space station. Not only must the Doctor recover his beloved time machine, but he must also save Fitz from the true nightmare of Mechta...<br />This is the first novel by the editor of the BBC books, Stephen Cole, and it looks as though it could have been a real disaster, a case of too many chefs (Peter Anghelides is acknowledged to have helped out also). But Anghelides seems to have carried on with the most effective device of the previous novel (his own 'Frontier Worlds'), by having Fitz narrate his time in Mechta. This again brings us closer to Fitz, a character who had previously seemed lifeless. There's nowhere near the same level of wit as in Frontier Worlds, and Parallel 59 appears to be quite formulaic (how many cultures has Fitz lived in now?), and Compassion seems to bear a gun as unthinkingly as any Ace (but without the same gung-ho). The opening's also quite dull, as we're told about the dramatic escape from the space station, rather than being shown it. This adventure is also the first to feature an unclothed Doctor, but this sight doesn't seem to faze his cell companion, Compassion, so we must assume that the Doctor is fully humanoid in appearance (no hidden appendages like the Centauri in B5). But then it's hard to see Compassion reacting to anything much.<br />There is a point in the novel where all the plots and counterplots seem facile, but there's an even bigger twist towards the end. And this novel's conclusion is it's real saviour, for it is genuinely pulsating. If you go and reread the opening pages, you do realise that there are subtle signposts to what's going to happen. With three authors contributing, Parallel 59 could have been a disaster. It's a triumph that a clear narrative emerges, and the authors certainly couldn't be faulted for the use of their imaginations. There are duff parts certainly, but the final drama, I think, makes up for it. Parallel 59 certainly gave me that always desired DW buzz.ltures has Fitz lived in now?), and Compassion seems to bear a gun as unthinkingly as any Ace (but without the same gung-ho). The opening's also quite dull, as we're told about the dramatic escape from the space station, rather than being shown it. This adventure is also the first to feature an unclothed Doctor, but this sight doesn't seem to faze his cell companion, Compassion, so we must assume that the Doctor is fully humanoid in appearance (no hidden appendages like the Centauri in B5). But then it's hard to see Compassion reacting to anything much.<br />There is a point in the novel where all the plots and counterplots seem facile, but there's an even bigger twist towards the end. And this novel's conclusion is it's real saviour, for it is genuinely pulsating. If you go and reread the opening pages, you do realise that there are subtle signposts to what's going to happen. With three authors contributing, Parallel 59 could have been a disaster. It's a triumph that a clear narrative emerges, and the authors certainly couldn't be faulted for the use of their imaginations. There are duff parts certainly, but the final drama, I think, makes up for it. Parallel 59 certainly gave me that always desired DW buzz.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R377FGU3I3DDFM	0563555742	486417986	Dominion (Doctor Who Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good start	This is a bright beginning for Nick Walters. The TARDIS has landed in Sweden in 1999, near the epicentre of a wormhole which has already invaded the ship, taking Sam with it. But Sam is not the only missing person who has disappeared in mysterious circumstances. The Doctor and Fitz help the Swedish police, who puzzle over the equally strange appearance of alien bodies.<br />Who on Earth has created the wormhole? What has happened to Sam? These are the challenges facing the Doctor. However, with the absence of the TARDIS' telepathic circuits, the Doctor is incomplete, unprepared to face the reappearance of a familiar force... In creating the world of the Dominion, Nick Walters has certainly been creative, as this is one of the most fascinating arenas in any Doctor Who story. Despite such innovative elements, the novel does seem a bit too long, as it forces Walters to rely on a lot of clich&eacute;s. At times, the plot is quite reminiscent of 'Terminus' and 'Alien', and he could have been a bit more original with the naming of the 'Dominion', and the way characters constantly change their minds is quite irritating. But Walters proves that he does have the scope to create powerful new worlds.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R365RQFWGPDSJQ	056355570X	216132053	Revolution Man (Doctor Who Series)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Hardly revolutionary	This novel is spread out over three years in the late '60s. The Doctor's foe is this novel is the 'Revolution man', an international graffiti artist (whose most threatening act is to leave his mark in public places). He is enabled to do this by abusing Om-Tsor, a drug with the capability of really distorting reality. Paul Leonard does some nice philosophising about the TARDIS' telepathic circuit, but then everyone in this book seems to be a philosopher. While this may be true of the age, it actually makes for a truly dull book. Paul Leonard should have called it 'Doctor Who in an exciting adventure with the Dialectics!', since he uses the latter word a little bit too often. Now, I'm all for using high theory in contemporary fiction, as long as it's done in an entertaining way. Paul Leonard could learn a lot from Lawrence Miles here.<br />The characterisation is also flat and colourless. New companion Fitz goes through the Himalayas and back, but it's hard to feel anything for him. Uncle Sam is shown to be absurdly trigger happy. The resolution is quite silly, never mind the new excuse for a guilt trip. All in all, 'Revolution Man' is competently written, but lacks both excitement and stimulation.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R1W899ZWC5O5R0	0563555882	425108755	Doctor Who: The Shadows of Avalon	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The Great Escape!	At first, I thought I wasn't going to like this book. Its initial premise seemed too much like the 1989 television adventure, Battlefield. It certainly has similar elements: the Arthurian legend (although Avalon is pre-Arthur), a missing nuclear missile, the Brigadier, and Doris. A homage to Battlefield is not an image which conjures much hope for this as a piece of fiction, since Ben Aaronovitch's story was a disappointment after his excellent Rememberance of the Daleks. However, I've discovered that this novel doesn't leave you after you've finished reading.<br />The Brigadier here is quite different from the character of the same name in Mark Gatiss' Last of the Gaderene. This is not to say that either of these authors have got him wrong. In Gatiss' book, the Brigadier is the character that we knew and loved from thirty years ago. The Shadows of Avalon presents the Brigadier as he is now (well, now as in the future - it's a temporal thing). For one thing, Lethbridge-Stewart has been promoted to General. However, everyone still calls him 'Brigadier'. For a moment, you can imagine that Paul Cornell has been delving into the files of Police Squad, ready to reveal that Lethbridge-Stewart was christened 'Brigadier' (like Frank Drebin's (sic) first name was always 'Lieutenant'), but he resists this. Due to events in past novels ('Happy Endings'), the Brigadier has also been rejuvenated, and there are some interesting scenes with him and an aged Munro. But although the Brigadier is youthful, he is far from happy, for his wife has died. This is on the back cover blurb, so it's not a spoiler.<br />So, the Brigadier finds himself in the mythical land of Avalon, along with the Doctor. Avalon's home to the Catuvelauni, a Celtic tribe who fled there from the Romans. Also living there are the Faeries - don't groan - who are the original inhabitants. These Fair Folk bear little resemblance to popular images of fairies, and are more familiar in a malignant sort of way. With their presence, it would certainly seem that Avalon is a good bolt-holt for people running away from things, and it's as good an explanation of dragons as you're likely to find in the Doctor Who universe. It's not long before the Brigadier is caught in the midst of a civil war between these two peoples. Shadows of Avalon retains the contemporary political feel of recent EDAs, since this does resemble Kosovo at times.<br />There was a great deal of fuss prior to the publication of the Shadows of Avalon due to Cornell's decision to portray a black Time Lord. In this aspect, it also resounds with Battlefield, since that story had a black woman as Brigadier. Initially, I thought Paul Cornell had failed in his good intentions, since the only explicit reference to Gandar's skin tone is one character describing him as a 'darkie'. However, this comes from a character whose perceptions have been affected by his living in our society. No one refers to Gandar as 'black' on Gallifrey, because his skin tone isn't an issue there. Most of the time he and his fellow agent, Cavis, dress up in disguises to perform their duties as agents, whether that means wearing monsters suits or the full Celtic look. Like every other character in this book however, Gandar isn't static - like the Brigadier, he develops and evolves with a great deal of compassion. Paul Cornell deals with racial conflict within these pages with a high degree of sophistication.<br />So, like a lot of Doctor Who books nowadays, Shadows of Avalon opens at a relatively gentle, some might even say dull, pace. As usual, we're introduced to a lot of new characters who require some time to empathize with. But if you leave your copy of Shadows on the 08:47 from London Bridge to Hastings after scanning just a few opening pages, then you'd be missing the point. Doctor Who has graduated from the regular twenty five minute cliffhanger. Now the books tend to build up to a barnstorming end - and this is where Shadows of Avalon excels.The ending is a bungee jump into oblivion, with adrenaline even approaching excess.<br />There are a few things which jar - one of the greatest elements of Doctor Who disappears with a whimper rather than a bang, and maybe the two Gallifreyan agents are a little too groovy to be taken seriously, like something out of Buffy. But then again, one of the agents is preordained Cavis, which I think must derive from Latin (what was that mosaic in Pompeii? 'Cave Canem'?). When you think about the Latin elements of the story, it soon becomes clear that there couldn't be a more appropriate setting for this story. There are ironies within ironies, until they alchemise into gold. Judging by the reaction of one of the characters, the Enemy has to be feared. This is a most stimulating novel, one which will stay with me for a long time. It's part of the ongoing story, stopping off here and there, like The Armageddon Factor of twenty year ago, and resounds with such quality as Edge of Darkness. These two aren't name-checked by Cornel, but I think I can see them. The Great Escape is certainly referred to, but given the nature of this novel, it's hardly gratuitous. Shadows of Avalon seems to resemble a classical work: there's a justification for every idea here. And combined with elements from Lawrence Miles' story arc? Sweeter than eye of newt.<br />Of course, one can only imagine the Doctor's reaction to seeing Ian Chesterton in a German POW camp, but that's another story. Maybe it's the beginning. Whatever. I think that we can certainly let Paul Cornell get away with this one.The ending is a bungee jump into oblivion, with adrenaline even approaching excess.<br />There are a few things which jar - one of the greatest elements of Doctor Who disappears with a whimper rather than a bang, and maybe the two Gallifreyan agents are a little too groovy to be taken seriously, like something out of Buffy. But then again, one of the agents is preordained Cavis, which I think must derive from Latin (what was that mosaic in Pompeii? 'Cave Canem'?). When you think about the Latin elements of the story, it soon becomes clear that there couldn't be a more appropriate setting for this story. There are ironies within ironies, until they alchemise into gold. Judging by the reaction of one of the characters, the Enemy has to be feared. This is a most stimulating novel, one which will stay with me for a long time. It's part of the ongoing story, stopping off here and there, like The Armageddon Factor of twenty year ago, and resounds with such quality as Edge of Darkness. These two aren't name-checked by Cornel, but I think I can see them. The Great Escape is certainly referred to, but given the nature of this novel, it's hardly gratuitous. Shadows of Avalon seems to resemble a classical work: there's a justification for every idea here. And combined with elements from Lawrence Miles' story arc? Sweeter than eye of newt.<br />Of course, one can only imagine the Doctor's reaction to seeing Ian Chesterton in a German POW camp, but that's another story. Maybe it's the beginning. Whatever. I think that we can certainly let Paul Cornell get away with this one.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R1RQIFYP3TLZZC	0563555890	24215146	Doctor Who: Frontier Worlds (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The universe is not enough!	This Doctor Who novel starts off in the manner of a Bond movie - the Doctor performing daredevil stunts whilst pursued by hired grunts on skis. There are even blood-red fisheyes. The only thing missing is the theme music, although the adrenaline of the prose more than makes up for it.<br />The TARDIS has been drawn to the planet Drebnar, home of the Frontier Worlds Corporation. The Doctor is determined to find out why, and so Compassion and Fitz become employees of Frontier Worlds. Whilst Compassion dedicates her time to spying on the company, Fitz dedicates his to spying on and seducing his female coworkers. But the TARDIS crew are not the only aliens to have landed on Drebnar. Before he knows it, the Doctor has become embroiled within a corporate plot of Frankenstein proportions, which even involves Frank Sinatra, seemingly back from the dead. Unless he succeeds, an entire system could be wiped out by human folly...<br />Following in the wake of Lawrence Miles' Interference, this is another very topical Doctor Who novel. The debate about what we eat and how it is produced is currently at the heart of our culture. Anghelides has displaced the debate by setting it on an alien planet. However, Drebnar is not exactly unlike Earth, and it could be possible to argue that the author has revealed a great lack of imagination by not bothering to provide much of an alien environment. Possible, but futile. Much of Drebnar's fun derives from the fact that it is so much like Earth. Okay, so this scenario is quite improbable, but since when has that been a handicap to Doctor Who? Especially when the Doctor has foes that delight in such paradoxes...<br />I suppose the television story which most resembles this is The Seeds of Doom. There's certainly the same amount of vegetation involved, and the Doctor's just as ready with his fists as Tom Baker was in that story (always a surprising scene, but then Seeds was written by Robert Banks Stewart, who later created Bergerac). To his credit, Anghelides makes no reference to The Seeds of Doom, and instead concentrates on telling his own story, which is highly compelling and very witty. This book is a joy to read. The characterisation is superb. Before Frontier Worlds, I've hated the very mention of Fitz Kreiner, because he was so flat and insipid. Why would I want to transport myself into adventure with such a wet blanket? A towel may be crucial to your average intergalactic hitchhiker, but a wet blanket is such a drag. But what Anghelides has managed to do seems impossible: he has breathed life into Fitz, given him new vibrancy. Anghelides does this by having much of the novel narrated by Fitz in the first person, and in doing so performs miracles. It's a device that works incredibly well here, and harks back to the very first Doctor Who book, when David Whitaker presented the Doctor's exciting adventure with the Daleks through the eyes of Ian Chesterton. It also helps that Fitz and Compassion are given jobs with Frontier Worlds: many readers will readily identify with the TARDIS crew's workplace experiences. Peter Anghelides too has developed his style considerably from Kursaal, and I shall be awaiting the next installment from his pen with a great deal of impatience.redit, Anghelides makes no reference to The Seeds of Doom, and instead concentrates on telling his own story, which is highly compelling and very witty. This book is a joy to read. The characterisation is superb. Before Frontier Worlds, I've hated the very mention of Fitz Kreiner, because he was so flat and insipid. Why would I want to transport myself into adventure with such a wet blanket? A towel may be crucial to your average intergalactic hitchhiker, but a wet blanket is such a drag. But what Anghelides has managed to do seems impossible: he has breathed life into Fitz, given him new vibrancy. Anghelides does this by having much of the novel narrated by Fitz in the first person, and in doing so performs miracles. It's a device that works incredibly well here, and harks back to the very first Doctor Who book, when David Whitaker presented the Doctor's exciting adventure with the Daleks through the eyes of Ian Chesterton. It also helps that Fitz and Compassion are given jobs with Frontier Worlds: many readers will readily identify with the TARDIS crew's workplace experiences. Peter Anghelides too has developed his style considerably from Kursaal, and I shall be awaiting the next installment from his pen with a great deal of impatience.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R3G8NMEQQZRFLH	0563555866	452136884	Millennium Shock (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Millennium bore	'By moving he had spoiled her grasp, and instead of clamping his windpipe, she succeeded only in tearing a chunk of flesh out of his neck. It hurt like hell, and Harry cried out. He could feel the blood already oozing out of the ragged wound. And now she was between him and the door...'<br />This the Doctor Who response to the Millennium. Not the first, I might add, since the Paul McGann TV movie also partly partied on this night of festivities. Justin Richards takes his starting point from the Millennium Bug, something which really might cause catastrophe on the night of 1 January 2000. Condef, a British electronics company, has developed a chip to counter the bug. But the British Government is also preparing to bring out the troops to help people when the crisis hits. But some people are determined to take advantage of the chaos. Could there really be a coup? And just who is trying to steal Russian nuclear weapons? What does it have to do with a pen given to Harry Sullivan by Sarah? The Doctor and Harry (now of MI5), must battle to expel a snake from netparadise...<br />'Millennium Shock' starts slowly, and the Fourth Doctor is a bit of a disappointment here. Richards gets his mannerisms right, but what's left is merely a cipher. Once the action does get going, the book is quite exciting. However, there is something iffy about the resolution. And as for the millennium? Well, even Ian McEwan's Booker Prize winning Amsterdam mentions that.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R1QVYK8FUW3BKM	0563555734	781538083	Players (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better work from Dicks	This is Terrance Dicks' best novel for some time. As usual, the author has returned to some of his favourite stomping grounds, including a flashback for the Second Doctor in World War One. The Sixth Doctor and Peri arrive in South Africa just an assassin takes a pot shot at the young Winston Churchill. Having saved Churchill's life, the Doctor believes that more sinister forces are at work, manipulating the actions of the Boers. Hindsight is the Doctor's greatest ally and his greatest fear: how much must he interfere to insure Churchill's future? Events come to the fore in the 1930s, spurred on by the intrigues of the Nazis, accompanied by the mysterious assassin... This is an excellent adventure story, very much in the mould of Indiana Jones or even Colonel Blimp. Familiar faces from the past reappear to aid the Doctor,and the 'Players' may turn out to be very old enemies indeed... Despite believing the Doctor to be an archetypal character, Dicks has got the Sixth Doctor exactly right here. This may even be the Sixth Doctor at his best, and it's a pity that it's never going to be on TV, for Dicks allows the Doctor to ditch that dreadful coat, to be replaced by a costume that Colin Baker might have preferred. 'Players' surpasses 'Exodus': although it employs real life characters from the same period, its overall slant is contrary to the earlier book and far more tasteful. I gave this a high mark because I didn't expect to enjoy it, but I did. However, Terrance Dicks could win higher marks if only he tried to do something a bit more original.	2000-12-15
US	52362742	R28AR8WBN2EBBF	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	23	27	N	N	One of the best of this year	This new book by Barbara Kingsolver has a definite place in my list of the top 5 novels of this year. It consists of three interlocked tales set in the Appalachians. However, there are consistent themes running throughout all the stories, as tricky and cunning as the coyotes that roam invisibly into each of these character's lives. The community of Zebulon County is very closely knit, with each protagonist distantly related to the others. It is also, in a sense, a community that is dying. Farming has thrived for generations in the locale, but now sons are having a much harder time than ever their fathers had on the same land. Migration to outlying prosperous towns and cities seems ever more attractive to the local population. As one species seems to pause and move on, however, another is quick to move in.<br />Deanna Wolfe lives in the forest, a biologist by training. She is quick to spot that a small troupe of coyotes has moved into the area. This reflects an unusual trend: despite the coyote being the most hunted animal in the United States, its population has increased. However, Deanna falls prey to the handsome Eddie Bondo, a real hunter. Her attraction to him is at odds with her desire to protect the coyote. Eddie comes from the sheep ranches of Wyoming, and he regards the coyote as his enemy. Almost despite herself, Deanna feels the necessity to act on her own animal needs. Lusa Maluf Landowski is also a biologist. She has been brought to Zebulon by her marriage to one of the local farmers. Her life is not exactly idyllic, but it's soon to be shattered. She's left with the choice of having to stay on her land or go. Although both her parents were brought up on farms, Lusa knows very little about the practicalities of running her own. However, Lusa has a Jewish and Arab bloodline, and at one telling moment, she reveals how both her families had been run off their farms in the past: once because they were Jewish, and once because they were not. She has to struggle to make a living, guided greatly by a young nephew who's flushed with adolescent hormones. Garnett Walker conducts a daily battle to restore the American Chestnut, commonly thought of as dead due to the blight. He wants to restore the landscape to the one that his father and grandfather knew and built. However, God has given him a cross to bear by granting him Nannie Crawley as a neighbour. Nannie is the local champion of organic farming, and her bid to avoid any drop of herbicide or insecticide touching her apples drives Garnett mad. These neighbours are also fiercely divided in their respective attitudes towards God, but there's always the most implacable of snapping turtles there that seems destined to clamp these two old folk together.<br />In her depiction of forest life, Barbara Kingsolver reminds you of Edward Rutherfurd's glorious novel of this year, 'The Forest', especially in the portrait of a community where everyone seems distantly related to each other. The last section is also reminiscent of Rutherfurd's passages concerning the New Forest's other inhabitants. There's also a great love of apples and bees, something that Joanne Harris dwells on at depth in her novel 'Blackberry Wine'. However, I suspect that Kingsolver would not share Harries' dislike of wasps. For her, the predator is king. A spider is not something to be stepped upon lightly; sharks and wolves should not be hunted to extinction, since this reckless slaughter mucks up the whole ecosystem. Kingsolver throws into the debate contemporary thinking on keystone predators, parasitic hymenoptera, and reveals old truths, like the pituitary gland that used to make women fertile as they slept under the full moon in the ancient depths of time. I found Kingsolver's introduction to be compelling reading. It's also great that you can access Kingsolver's source materials. I was thrilled to find Mike Finkel's article about the coyote. To my mind, this makes 'Prodigal Summer' ones of those ideal novels where you learn a great deal, but are also gripped by the various narrative twists and turns. Some of the fiction that has involved me recently has featured the natural world, whether it be the bugs of Neal Asher's science fiction, or the contemporary human stories that is Kingsolver's fodder. Kingsolver is a natural storyteller in more ways than one.<br />Kingsolver follows the general advice of writing what she knows. She lives in the Appalachians, and is a biologist by training. She also has a very liberal outlook, which I find especially affirming. However, this novel could be quite controversial. The genetic versus organic farming debate hasn't really hit the States as yet, but this popular novel could quite well spark it off. It's also a theme that is hugely topical in my native Britain at the moment. What makes Kingsolver so compelling, however, is her research and knowledge. Although I'm pretty much converted to eating organic, Kingsolver has much that is new to say to me too. She's certainly made me look at spiders in a whole new perspective and respect. Barbara Kingsolver could cure your phobias too. Certainly, if the world were run her way, I suspect we'd all have fewer allergies. We'd certainly build more bridges between each other. At the very least, this is an incredible life-affirming novel that deserves to become the keystone predator of any current book chart.s where you learn a great deal, but are also gripped by the various narrative twists and turns. Some of the fiction that has involved me recently has featured the natural world, whether it be the bugs of Neal Asher's science fiction, or the contemporary human stories that is Kingsolver's fodder. Kingsolver is a natural storyteller in more ways than one.<br />Kingsolver follows the general advice of writing what she knows. She lives in the Appalachians, and is a biologist by training. She also has a very liberal outlook, which I find especially affirming. However, this novel could be quite controversial. The genetic versus organic farming debate hasn't really hit the States as yet, but this popular novel could quite well spark it off. It's also a theme that is hugely topical in my native Britain at the moment. What makes Kingsolver so compelling, however, is her research and knowledge. Although I'm pretty much converted to eating organic, Kingsolver has much that is new to say to me too. She's certainly made me look at spiders in a whole new perspective and respect. Barbara Kingsolver could cure your phobias too. Certainly, if the world were run her way, I suspect we'd all have fewer allergies. We'd certainly build more bridges between each other. At the very least, this is an incredible life-affirming novel that deserves to become the keystone predator of any current book chart.	2000-12-09
US	52362742	R5WJH0IASC9HG	0871138158	706565889	The Hiding Place	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Azzopardi's Ashes	This is a fairly grim debut novel about a family's deprivation in 1960s Cardiff.  Frank Gauci has emigrated from Malta in the late 1940s, and gets a very real culture shock when he sees snow for the first time.  However, Frank soon gets over his malaise, helped by his friendship with Joe Medora and his marriage to the runaway Mary.  With his friend Salvatore, Frank is soon in business running The Moonlight.  However, Maltese tradition stresses the importance of having a son.  After 5 daughters, when Mary is pregnant for the sixth time, Frank just knows that his luck must be in.  And Frank is very experienced as a gambling man...  So sets off a chain of events that it will haunt the family and neighbourhood for forty years.<br />  I suppose if you were to put this novel into any genre, then it would be 'Angela's Ashes'.  Although Azzopardi herself was born and brought up in Cardiff, and seems to be from a Maltese background, this is a work of fiction.  The setting is Tiger Bay, 'Britain's Valletta', home to many races and mixed marriages, and Shirley Bassey.  Frank seems to have bought his way into the more unsettling regions of Maltese culture.  The story of the Gaucis is quite grim - there's a pivotal scene where Dolores, sometime narrator, the hoped for boy who turned out to be a girl, is caught in a fire whilst still a baby.  The fire has left her mutilated for life: &quot;that soft skin is petrol, those bones are tinder&quot;.  The preceding excerpt gives you an indication of what Azzopardi's subtle, lyrical prose is like.  Azzopardi's words are understated, true, and original, without ever straining at the leash of credibility.  The narrative moves forwards and backwards in time, and jumps from narrator to narrator, yet Azzopardi's technique is so simple and supreme, that you never find yourself lost.<br />  One of the scenes that really ring true is the funeral.  Azzopardi's observations are spot on, and make you think that you really are standing in Dolores' shoes.  Time has separated and divided the sisters, only death, it seems, can bring them together.  Dolores can't help but wonder about the missing details of her life.  Although she was very young when the family was divided, Dolores seems to have seen everything.  But there are some things, it seems, which have been blocked from her memory.  Like the true physical nature of the hiding place...  There's also the internal hiding place, where Dolores has closely guarded her memories, the funeral as catalyst to spark them once more.  There's also a funeral atmosphere about the Cardiff streets in which she grew up.  Most of the houses have been discarded, knocked down to make way for the call of rejuvenation.  Memories and places destroyed.  Only a few ghosts from the past are recognisable.<br />  It is Dolores' misfortune that she had a superstitious father.  Ugly subplots about disease, children's homes, and debt collectors, boil subtly under the surface.  Poverty exists even when you own a TV set in the early sixties.  Yet despite all this grimness, you sense that there is still a reason for living, for holding on.  The resolution is neither uplifting nor particularly downbeat.  Life just is, Azzopardi seems to be saying.  Dolores doesn't have a friend like Shug Avery in this novel, but she seems to have found her own way, even though the details of her current life in Nottingham are absent.  Dolores cannot think of anything but the past.  Life is difficult, suicide even more so.  Azzopardi does not dwell on the misery.  Dolores cannot but help going back to the bad memories of her childhood, to be nostalgic despite the pain.  And people do live with the pain.  We all have our own hiding place, as Azzopardi readily acknowledges.shoes.  Time has separated and divided the sisters, only death, it seems, can bring them together.  Dolores can't help but wonder about the missing details of her life.  Although she was very young when the family was divided, Dolores seems to have seen everything.  But there are some things, it seems, which have been blocked from her memory.  Like the true physical nature of the hiding place...  There's also the internal hiding place, where Dolores has closely guarded her memories, the funeral as catalyst to spark them once more.  There's also a funeral atmosphere about the Cardiff streets in which she grew up.  Most of the houses have been discarded, knocked down to make way for the call of rejuvenation.  Memories and places destroyed.  Only a few ghosts from the past are recognisable.<br />  It is Dolores' misfortune that she had a superstitious father.  Ugly subplots about disease, children's homes, and debt collectors, boil subtly under the surface.  Poverty exists even when you own a TV set in the early sixties.  Yet despite all this grimness, you sense that there is still a reason for living, for holding on.  The resolution is neither uplifting nor particularly downbeat.  Life just is, Azzopardi seems to be saying.  Dolores doesn't have a friend like Shug Avery in this novel, but she seems to have found her own way, even though the details of her current life in Nottingham are absent.  Dolores cannot think of anything but the past.  Life is difficult, suicide even more so.  Azzopardi does not dwell on the misery.  Dolores cannot but help going back to the bad memories of her childhood, to be nostalgic despite the pain.  And people do live with the pain.  We all have our own hiding place, as Azzopardi readily acknowledges.	2000-11-25
US	52362742	R2ZB7B0ETI6VJQ	0871137755	149812887	Rhode Island Blues	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Don't count your chickens	It would be all too easy to assume from the title of Weldon's latest novel that it is a depressing read.  However, I doubt that Weldon could ever seriously be mournful, especially not when you have both nurses and desire inextricably linked, as you have here.  There's just a brief mention of Blues hero Stephane Grapelli, but that's just about how far the relevance goes.  However, if you do know who Grapelli is, then you may well be of Felicity's generation in this novel.  The title's also an oblique reference to Rhode Island Reds, a particularly fancied breed of chicken at the moment.  Apparently, these poultry are extremely easy to rear.  It's just Felicity's luck however, that she marries an American GI who hasn't a clue about how to run his own farm.  She's even more unfortunate in that she believed his tales of a plantation mansion.  Fifty years later, the funeral of her son-in-law from this marriage leads to a quite unexpected flirtation with romance.<br />  Admittedly, parts of Felicity's life story are quite grim.  Sophia, her only living relative, works in London as a film editor, whilst Felicity herself abides in Connecticut.  Felicity has had a minor stroke, and is coming to terms with the reality of her advancing years.  Sophia loves her grandmother - it's just that she feels far more comfortable when the Atlantic Ocean is in between them.  Her busy life as a film editor means that she cannot just drop everything and be by her grandmother's bedside in Connecticut.  Weldon is very perceptive in relating how much guilt can taint love, and how uncomfortable the young can be beside the old.<br />  Sophia, and Charlie the chauffeur, tend to view the world from the perspective of the movies.  When Sophia visits an aged relative Weldon notes that this old lady tends to use references from the fairy books of her youth in her conversation.  Maybe what Weldon is saying here is that the motion picture is now the dominant form of fiction.  Unfortunately, it really grinds my teeth to come across yet another character in an English novel this year that works in the Soho media world.  If future readers ever come back to these novels, like Toby Litt's 'Corpsing', and Amy Jenkins' dire 'Honeymoon', they might think that everyone in England was working in film.  The only writer who has a credible excuse for writing about Soho is Christopher Fowler who actually works there.  The impression I get is that most young English novelists would really much rather prefer writing for the movies, and I can't help but think that this is very sad.<br />  Sophia mentions many films in her narrative, whilst neglecting to mention the most obvious one:  'Harvey'.  Okay, so The Golden Bowl is an old peoples' home, but it does stand comparison with the mental institution in Jimmy Stewart's movie.  Okay, so you don't get to see the invisible rabbit in 'Rhode Island Blues' either - it's the interaction between the characters and the structure that seems quite similar.  You don't see the whole of this story from Sophia's viewpoint, since Weldon chooses to flit between the main characters at times.  It's quite a jolt to suddenly see the world from Nurse Dawn's perspective, who seems to be such a minor character otherwise.  But then 'Harvey' also strayed from Jimmy Stewart's suspect vision, into other smaller narratives, such as the nurse's romance with the doctor.  Although, this being Weldon, the Doctor/Nurse relationship here is far more risqu&eacute;.<br />  Feliticty's mental health comes into question when she starts seeing a gambling toy boy, and when the staff at The Golden Bowl discover what we've known all along - namely that her Utrillo painting is not a print.  With insurance being such a premium in the litigatory States, moves are made to ensure the safe removal of the Utrillo from the Golden Bowl's walls (James Stewart's mental state in 'Harvey' was also brought into question due to a suspect portrait).  Unfortunately, Felicity has also let slip to Sophia that she may have more family in England.  Sophia, all alone apart from a temporary fling with a film director of Kubrick's stature, can't help but investigate her roots.  She finds a couple of quite dull cousins who eventually let her enter their lives.  Felicity impulsively decides to remarry at the tender age of 83.  Sophia's cousins just as impulsively decide to check out their newly found grandmother, and petulantly join Sophia on her trip to the States.  The question on everyone's minds seems to be this: is such an old woman capable of looking after a valuable Utrillo?<br />  Ironically, Utrillo spent much of his own life in and out of institutions, with painting his only therapy.  From this point of view, it's very fitting that his work should end up on the walls of an institution like The Golden Bowl.  Sophia recognises the name of the old peoples' home as deriving from a passage in Ecclesiastes.  No doubt it is also a reference to the novel of the same name - that also featured a suspected gold digger.  What this novel seems to be about broadly, is the clash between the new and the old: the disparities between British and American culture, the contrast between the generations, and old and new forms of fiction.  Several novels this year have discussed a problem which currently troubles Western culture: what to do with an ever aging population, from Will Self's vulgar 'How the Dead Live', to Barbara Kingsolver's life-affirming 'Prodigal Summer'.  Weldon comes somewhere in between the two extremes.  There is something quite merciless about some of her observations, mostly concerning the immigrant Charlie and his ever-increasing family.  But most chilling and timely of all is Sophia's disquieting journey on Concorde.  However, Weldon provides us with a mixed dish here; not all of her prognosis is quite as gloomy as this.  The blues are there, but playing quietly in the background with the reds.to Sophia that she may have more family in England.  Sophia, all alone apart from a temporary fling with a film director of Kubrick's stature, can't help but investigate her roots.  She finds a couple of quite dull cousins who eventually let her enter their lives.  Felicity impulsively decides to remarry at the tender age of 83.  Sophia's cousins just as impulsively decide to check out their newly found grandmother, and petulantly join Sophia on her trip to the States.  The question on everyone's minds seems to be this: is such an old woman capable of looking after a valuable Utrillo?<br />  Ironically, Utrillo spent much of his own life in and out of institutions, with painting his only therapy.  From this point of view, it's very fitting that his work should end up on the walls of an institution like The Golden Bowl.  Sophia recognises the name of the old peoples' home as deriving from a passage in Ecclesiastes.  No doubt it is also a reference to the novel of the same name - that also featured a suspected gold digger.  What this novel seems to be about broadly, is the clash between the new and the old: the disparities between British and American culture, the contrast between the generations, and old and new forms of fiction.  Several novels this year have discussed a problem which currently troubles Western culture: what to do with an ever aging population, from Will Self's vulgar 'How the Dead Live', to Barbara Kingsolver's life-affirming 'Prodigal Summer'.  Weldon comes somewhere in between the two extremes.  There is something quite merciless about some of her observations, mostly concerning the immigrant Charlie and his ever-increasing family.  But most chilling and timely of all is Sophia's disquieting journey on Concorde.  However, Weldon provides us with a mixed dish here; not all of her prognosis is quite as gloomy as this.  The blues are there, but playing quietly in the background with the reds.	2000-11-17
US	52362742	R1UDJJ7ZVWFXXG	0375411119	408763793	The PowerBook	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Grand Tour	This new book navigates the seas of fiction and love.  As a piece of internet prose, it easily surpasses Matt Beaumont's entertainment 'E'.  Jeanette Winterson explores the opportunities offered by the net, the wardrobe door that leads to many a magical land.  The heroine of this novel flits here and there, choosing exotic locations as she pleases.  However, much of this book is also based in the real as much in the imaginary.<br />  There's an ongoing plot in 'The Powerbook', a very modern love affair.  It's the beauty of the prose that is really outstanding though.  Winterson goes to Capri and uses the funicular railway as a metaphor in a manner that seems entirely natural, unforced, but prone to gravity.  For me, there was a certain amount of nostalgia, as Winterson explores the settings of my own adolescent vacations, from the Isle of Capri near Sorrento, the romantic flirtation with Paris, the exhilarating adventure of seedy London.  'The Powerbook' lives up to its ambition of being an internet novel, since we can all attempt the Grand Tour via the Net nowadays.  It's always a delight to follow in an author's footsteps, see the world through their eyes.  For instance, you can find the painting of his wife Saskia as Flora on the net by Rembrandt.  At first sight, this picture seems too dark to be the image that Winterson describes, but it's a delight to look at the picture again through her prose.<br />  There's a section here where Winterson seems to return to the 'real life' of 'Oranges are not the Only Fruit', and it's very compelling to find a horror of nothing, the fear of having to invent, the burden of having to create.  It does seem, though, that Winterson has been following current literary trends, borrowing and embellishing what she fancies.  The Tulip trade is very much in fashion now, and Winterson has a faction devoted to George Mallory.  Yet there are also much older, traditional tales.  Lancelot and Guinevere, and Paolo and Francesca reading of their love, doomed to a much more bloody fate in the pages of Dante's Inferno.  I had never come across the tale of Paolo and Francesca before, but it thrills me to find that it had been the subject of a variety of paintings, including one by the Pre-Raphaelite 'Dante' Rossetti.<br />  This isn't a very weighty book in terms of page count.  You'll find that you'll be able to finish off 'The Powerbook' in one sitting.  Some might find the book a little costly in hardcover format.  There is very little drama.  Instead, there are some quite modern truths and observations.  Winterson discusses the fact that nobody really seems to be content now, and that they always want more.  That nobody wants to settle.  Just waiting for the next opportunity, the next love affair.  A society where everyone wants love, but wants to be left alone.  So, this book is perfect for of a generation of short attention spans.  Yet, if used in the right way, 'The Powerbook' can stimulate you a great deal; make you highly active as you seek out its subtle meanings, to compose your own story as you weave a path through the web, following the footsteps of Ali and Sebastian Melmoth.  Maybe the Reformation and the Tulip trade brought the immortal Arabian Nights to us? Winterson also covers the theoretical debate of author/reader - which of these two really creates the fiction?  Winterson comes down on the right side, and reveals fiction in its true light, as a dialogue between author and reader (literally).  She conveys how some fictions will never die; will be forever revived by future artists.  This poetic novel deserves to be kept on the bookshelf, and referred to whenever your heart desires.eir love, doomed to a much more bloody fate in the pages of Dante's Inferno.  I had never come across the tale of Paolo and Francesca before, but it thrills me to find that it had been the subject of a variety of paintings, including one by the Pre-Raphaelite 'Dante' Rossetti.<br />  This isn't a very weighty book in terms of page count.  You'll find that you'll be able to finish off 'The Powerbook' in one sitting.  Some might find the book a little costly in hardcover format.  There is very little drama.  Instead, there are some quite modern truths and observations.  Winterson discusses the fact that nobody really seems to be content now, and that they always want more.  That nobody wants to settle.  Just waiting for the next opportunity, the next love affair.  A society where everyone wants love, but wants to be left alone.  So, this book is perfect for of a generation of short attention spans.  Yet, if used in the right way, 'The Powerbook' can stimulate you a great deal; make you highly active as you seek out its subtle meanings, to compose your own story as you weave a path through the web, following the footsteps of Ali and Sebastian Melmoth.  Maybe the Reformation and the Tulip trade brought the immortal Arabian Nights to us? Winterson also covers the theoretical debate of author/reader - which of these two really creates the fiction?  Winterson comes down on the right side, and reveals fiction in its true light, as a dialogue between author and reader (literally).  She conveys how some fictions will never die; will be forever revived by future artists.  This poetic novel deserves to be kept on the bookshelf, and referred to whenever your heart desires.	2000-11-04
US	52362742	R1VOG3PEHYSQOD	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Chocolat is good for you	If you're caught in a bit of twix, with nothing to read, then may I suggest this excellent bounty? It is produced, not by Mars of Slough, but Joanne Harris of Barnsley, a chef who excels in the art of couverture chocolate. Step into her boutique, 'La Celeste Praline', and you'll be caught unawares by her classy wares. Chocolat is a novel of great sweetness, perfect for those who like their confictionary to be well milked. For readers with richer palates, however, Harris has also produced an intoxicating blend of dark chocolate, which is - dare we say it - extremely 'topic'al. If you're looking for a few delightful snickers, and not a lengthy marathon, then this is the novel for you. It's certainly richer and more exquisite than the most popular currency of chocolate bars.<br />Vianne Rocher arrives in the French village of Lansquenet during its carnival, a feast before the fast of Lent. With her is daughter Anouk (who seems to be named after a chocolate treat), and Anouk's companion, the mysterious Pantoufle. Joanne Harris tends to write a lot about alchemy in connection with cooking (see her excellent new novel, 'Blackberry Wine'), but Vianne Rocher would seem to have more than culinary skills at her disposal... This is especially apparent, though, in her delicious meeting with Armande Voizin, to which there is more than meets the eye. 'Pantoufle' refers to Charles Perrault's fairy tale of Cinderella, and as such, could be a subtle hint as to Vianne's true identity... It would seem appropriate here to compare Harris' work with that of Kate Atkinson, especially with regards to her new book, Emotionally Weird. Atkinson says that she has been trying to write a fiction with all the richness of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland. But it seems to me that Joanne Harris is more adept at writing fairy tales - her characterisation is stronger, certainly. Whilst Atkinson plays with words, Harris plays with thoughts and emotions. Chocolat is full of magic and fairy tales, from the realisation of a true Gingerbread house, to Vianne's use of Pagan cards and charms.<br />It is holy appropriate then, that the conflict and drama within this novel stems from the masculine Church's opposition to Vianne Rocher and her culinary work. It even seems that that Joanne Harris could be engaging on a narrative in which God the Father and Mother Earth are the main combatants, featuring their eternal struggle as man and wife. Father Reynaud is the country priest who sees danger in Vianne's shop, and the novel is narrated in the first person by both of these antagonists. Reynaud relates his tale to the mysterious pere, whilst Vianne muses greatly on her long lost mother, with both 'parent' appearing to be flawed in some way. However, this struggle between the masculine and the feminine does not become too abstract, since Josephine Muscat has to bear the bruises in her role as battered wife. Chocolat has its fair share of romance, but also contains a swift punch of brutal reality.<br />Like Blackberry Wine, Joanne Harris has decided to serve some home truths, along with the after dinner mints. The novel deals with thorny issue of immigration, currently a hot potato in Britain, and the problems of a population which is growing ever older. The Pope's recent apologies for the crimes of Roman Catholicism also resound within. These issues may be set in the exotic French countryside, but they still have relevance to us. Okay, so the richness of the carnivalesque and the mystique of magic realism have been added to the mixture, but their presence only serves to add depth, and never confusion. Vianne has a reluctance to see her fate in the stars, but this novel has won near universal admiration and is soon to be made into a film. It's a fiction which works on so many different layers, but like a particularly rich cake, there is something within it for everyone. The author uses simple words in her prose, but the combination of these coarse ingredients is explosive.Harris certainly knows how to play on our heartstrings, to make us feel for her characters.<br />Current medical advice would certainly indicate that Chocolat could play a powerful part in reducing stress and lowering cholesterol. It's potent mixture: a benign, yet provoking stimulant which melts on the tongue. As for its aphrodisiac qualities, well, I can hardly say... But the only disappointment to be had from Chocolat is that it has to end.Harris certainly knows how to play on our heartstrings, to make us feel for her characters.<br />Current medical advice would certainly indicate that Chocolat could play a powerful part in reducing stress and lowering cholesterol. It's potent mixture: a benign, yet provoking stimulant which melts on the tongue. As for its aphrodisiac qualities, well, I can hardly say... But the only disappointment to be had from Chocolat is that it has to end.	2000-10-28
US	52362742	R959J8I93HSUY	0375500812	566914518	Martha Peake: A Novel of the Revolution	Books	3	7	13	N	N	English treachery from afar	Although the novel is named after his daughter, the crippled figure of Harry Peake also shares the limelight of this narrative.  Indeed, part of the novel concerns his life as a kind of sideshow freak, reduced to bearing his huge misshapen spine in public taverns for penitence and charity.  Harry has much to be sorry for:  when he was a Cornish smuggler, he caused the death of his wife, and Martha's mother, by fire, his back broken in an attempt to rescue her.  He's awoken from a drunken slumber by oily smoke emanating from fleeces of wool, a metaphor for the smuggling trade and England's wealth.  With the death of his wife, his children go to stay with his wife's sister, all except Martha, who clings to her father.  Together, father and daughter head off into London, there to seek a living and penance in the filthy metropolis.  Years pass, and Martha comes to maturity.  Harry gains fame as the 'Cripplegate Monster', and excels in his vocation as bard and performer of oral ballads about an American patriot.  Unfortunately, one of the bills advertising Harry's performances falls into the hands of Lord Drogo and his assistant, William Tree.  Drogo is one of the country's leading anatomists, and his professional curiosity is aroused by Harry's misshapen back.<br />This new attention comes at a bad point in Harry's life, as his penance has come to a natural end.  The succour of drink seems to resume its old attraction for him.  And now a patron with money arrives on the scene.  Drogo's attentions demean Harry.  Drogo shows him off as a medical spectacle to other doctors, something which hurts as much as the Schoolteacher's measuring of bodies in Toni Morrison's 'Beloved'.  Badly distilled gin fumes Harry's descent into Hell.  Even Martha is forced to flee to Drogo Hall.  But just as Harry cannot reject his need for drink, so are his other desires inflamed...<br /><br /> The novel is mainly narrated by Ambrose Tree, William Tree's nephew, who is set to inherit Drogo Hall.  This narrative is very much tainted by a fertile Romantic imagination:  the sublime and the picturesque are very much in evidence here in this story of colonial Gothic.  You can't help but think that Ambrose has read maybe a little too much Otranto, too much Mrs. Radcliffe, and also that he's a little before his time (Ambrose seems to be writing Bronte-style twenty years before that melancholy brood got published).  He's just as wimpish and feeble as the lonely traveller who stumbles across Wuthering Heights, even if he is named after the vicious protagonist of Matthew Lewis' `The Monk'. And as unreliable narrators go, well, I certainly wouldn't trust Ambrose with my prized possessions.  However, there is not just the one unreliable narrator in this novel, but three, since William Tree also narrates the story, and Silas Rind, Martha Peake's protector in America, also plays a huge role in her tale.  There are some letters from Martha Peake, but they are old and decaying fifty years after they are written, and not even a sentence of her comes to us direct.<br /><br />  Patrick McGrath, in his bid to write a Gothic novel, has studied the classics of old and all the theory that surrounds them.  Hence Harry wondering around like Mary Shelley's Monster with a map of America transcribed across his back in a none too subtle way.  I thought all the cartoons of this era featuring similar monstrous proletariats were to due with fears of an English revolution made on the French model, not the American one.  Still, the later Gothic novels, like `Dracula', did feature colonialism (with Englishmen threatened with invasion from the east only to be saved by a fertile American).  Why not go the whole hog, McGrath seems to reason, and throw the American colonies into the mixture and see what happens?  The Gothic form is supreme in America now, what with their Muldurs and Buffys staking everything in sight.  In this way, there seems to be too much rationale behind this novel of Unreason.<br /><br />  Where McGrath is at his strongest though, is in the depiction of the brutality of the redcoats.  He really does succeed in enabling us to smell the smoke and be repelled by the heat of the fire.  Some American patriots, however, would have good reason to question the tone of Martha's role in the Revolution.  Having said that, in my research, I did come across one website which suggested that Molly Pitcher may not have fired that cannon.  On the whole, however, I am much of the tendency to believe that such stories are true.  Certainly Ambrose Tree is a far more paranoid listener than I.  It could be that McGrath is pouring doubt on the oral tradition so beloved of Harry Peake, and if so, that would be a great shame, especially in the light of Alistair MacLeod's recent brilliant novel 'No Great Mischief'.  However, the employment of unreliable narrators has been very much a Gothic tradition, from Rider Haggard's 'She' to that wondrous narrator in Hogg's 'Confessions of a Justified Sinner'.  And although Ambrose disavows all knowledge of Harry Rind Peake, you can't help but wonder whether this novel should be named after him, rather than Martha, and that there is something that his uncle has neglected to tell him.<br /><br />  But if we're talking about the denial of psychological and narrative closure here, and of a modern day novelist attempting to write in the Gothic form, then I must confess that I much prefer Joanne Harris' approach in 'Sleep, Pale Sister' (author of recent hit 'Chocolat').  Patrick McGrath's novel seems as botched as Harry's back in comparison.  The trouble with having Martha's and Harry's story narrated for them is that you never really get to see the world through their eyes, and as such, they are so far distant from the reader that they may as well be in the New World.his novel of Unreason.<br /> <br /> <br />  Where McGrath is at his strongest though, is in the depiction of the brutality of the redcoats.  He really does succeed in enabling us to smell the smoke and be repelled by the heat of the fire.  Some American patriots, however, would have good reason to question the tone of Martha's role in the Revolution.  Having said that, in my research, I did come across one website which suggested that Molly Pitcher may not have fired that cannon.  On the whole, however, I am much of the tendency to believe that such stories are true.  Certainly Ambrose Tree is a far more paranoid listener than I.  It could be that McGrath is pouring doubt on the oral tradition so beloved of Harry Peake, and if so, that would be a great shame, especially in the light of Alistair MacLeod's recent brilliant novel 'No Great Mischief'.  However, the employment of unreliable narrators has been very much a Gothic tradition, from Rider Haggard's 'She' to that wondrous narrator in Hogg's 'Confessions of a Justified Sinner'.  And although Ambrose disavows all knowledge of Harry Rind Peake, you can't help but wonder whether this novel should be named after him, rather than Martha, and that there is something that his uncle has neglected to tell him.<br /> <br /> <br />  But if we're talking about the denial of psychological and narrative closure here, and of a modern day novelist attempting to write in the Gothic form, then I must confess that I much prefer Joanne Harris' approach in 'Sleep, Pale Sister' (author of recent hit 'Chocolat').  Patrick McGrath's novel seems as botched as Harry's back in comparison.  The trouble with having Martha's and Harry's story narrated for them is that you never really get to see the world through their eyes, and as such, they are so far distant from the reader that they may as well be in the New World.	2000-10-10
US	52362742	R2M2Z2AOJVCEMZ	0452281881	800097079	E: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Elightful	This is the first novel to be composed entirely of e mail.  Does it live up to the ideals of the novel of letters?  Is it another Liaisons Dangereuses?  Well, yes and no.  The whole point of the billet doux in the Gothic novel of letters was that they were meant to be secret.  E features a CEO who manages to send all his e correspondence to his opposite number in Finland, the ever chirpy Pertti van Helden.  Passions do run high however, especially since the CEO of Miller Shanks UK thinks he's Stalin and the Creative Director of this Ad Agency thinks he's a rocket scientist.  Hurled into this frenzy is the competition to win the next contract from the makers of the biggest soft drink in all the world.  Add a pair of lost knickers, and the nerd in the accounts department, and you have got E.<br />  This novel has a great deal of authenticity about it.  And so it should, since the author's blurb claims that he's been fired by some of London's leading Ad agencies.  However, it's so authentic, that it's almost as if you're reading your own e mails at work, with all the boring ones edited out.  There is a quite discernible narrative flow, as you follow the lives of the various Miller Shanks e mail correspondents.  This sense of eavesdropping is quite addictive, almost as intrusive as the Big Brother house, and you can be sure that it's the kind of place where there'll always be a Sony minicam in the office to capture you at your most embarrassing moments.  In the end though, it seems as though Beaumont's following quite a traditional narrative form in terms of the endless battle between good and incompetence dressed up as evil.  Although, there is a hint that the pigs do start the resemble the farmers, as they did in Orwell's 'Animal Farm'.  The tone of this novel, however, is mostly that of sardonic wit.  Beaumont is an excellent comic writer, and it's this, more than anything, which keeps you reading.  I just loved how all the characters unwittingly revealed their true nature in prose (I reckon Liam could be Beaumont's alter ego).  There are excellent characters, like Pinki Fallon and the irrepressible Nigel Godley, but I think Simon Horne just takes the biscuit.  He's certainly taking something.  All in all, this is a very enjoyable and witty debut.  Matt Beaumont has successfully marketed himself.  But what for the next campaign?  E2?e nature in prose (I reckon Liam could be Beaumont's alter ego).  There are excellent characters, like Pinki Fallon and the irrepressible Nigel Godley, but I think Simon Horne just takes the biscuit.  He's certainly taking something.  All in all, this is a very enjoyable and witty debut.  Matt Beaumont has successfully marketed himself.  But what for the next campaign?  E2?	2000-10-03
US	52362742	R2OCXXHT1A5IAX	006017143X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Jewelling the Elephant	I've followed the TV adaptation of Maupin's 'Tales of the City' over the years, which seemed to get more fantastic and convoluted as they went along, but this is the first time that I've actually read one of his novels.  It concerns Gabriel Noone, a very Maupin-like author, who is trapped in the travails of writers' block.  I have been similarly blocked trying to write this review!  However, my difficulty in writing in no way negatively reflects this wonderful book.  One day Noone is in a studio, and just can't go on recording one of his radio shows.  Noone finds that there is something wrong with his voice - he can't recognise it.  This, in turn, afflicts his writing, and he finds it impossible to commit anything worthwhile to paper.  Deep down inside, he realises that his inability to write reflects his current emotional turmoil.<br />  Jess, his lover, has moved out and has provided no explanation for his desertion.  Noone misses him desperately, and is ever hopeful that his partner will return.  Since Jess features so much in Noone's fiction (under a somewhat shallow disguise), this contributes to Noone's pain about his writing.  And then Pete Lomax's galley proof arrives.  Noone is resistant to read it at first, since he's well used to editors pleading for his endorsement of celebrity cookbooks.  However, Pete Lomax's narrative is far weightier, because it is a tale of unpalatable suffering.  Noone's emotional anguish seems trivial in comparison with this boy's pain.  Noone is more than a little flattered also that his radio shows are mentioned with great admiration in Pete's book, and it's clear that the boy regards Noone as some kind of hero.  So Noone contacts Pete's editor to give his endorsement, and is sucked into Pete Lomax's world.<br />  It's not long before Gabriel and Pete are exchanging involved phone calls, supervised by Donna Lomax, the psychiatrist who adopted Pete.  Pete asks if he can call Gabriel 'Dad', something that Noone readily agrees to.  Noone's somewhat detached father visits town, and Gabriel is reminded of his mother, and the mysterious death of his grandfather, (also named Gabriel like he and  his father).  Gabriel never thought he would have someone who he could call 'son', and yet he's now embracing this young boy metaphorically over the phone.  Pete seems even more poignant now that he is dying.  Naturally enough, Noone turns for advice to Jess, who's thriving despite his illness due to a cocktail of drugs.  Jess readily agrees to talk to Pete about treatment.  However, the more Noone becomes attached to Pete, the more suspicious his friends become about the boy.  So doubtful are they that even Gabriel begins to asks questions, which lead to a catastrophic turn of events in his relationship with Pete.  Overcome with guilt with what he has done, Noone sets out to prove that the disembodied voice at the other end of the phone really does exist.<br />  According to Pete's narrative, he is solaced by Gabriel Noone's nightly shows.  And it appears that Pete is more than prepared to play the role of listener on the phone.  It almost seems as though it's Noone, with his broken heart, who needs comforting, rather than this poor sick boy.  The plot of this novel twists and turns excellently, and constantly keeps you captivated over its three hundred and so pages.  I think what's most attractive is the veracity of the text, and the honesty of Noone - he doesn't hesitate to reveal his petty betrayals.  Maupin has created a protagonist who is very human in his selfish failings, and all the more likeable for that.<br />  Those readers who like closure are going to be in for a frustrating time though, and a good thing too!  At times, it seems very much as though Noone is Maupin.  Jess at one point suggests that Noone gets over his block by writing about the emotional travails of the Pete Lomax situation, and you can't help but wonder if Maupin had a similar conversation, and experience himself.  What if there really was a 'Pete Lomax' character out there?  This is one of the loose threads that Maupin dangles before us at the end.  Those who have read James Hogg's bewitching tale of multiple personality, 'Confessions of a Justified Sinner', will have become enamoured of this type of closure though.  Besides, as Noone relates, what else would you expect of a narrator who cannot but help jewelling the elephant in his tales?  For that lovely metaphor, and exquisite prose, Maupin's thrilling tale of detection gets full marks.if there really was a 'Pete Lomax' character out there?  This is one of the loose threads that Maupin dangles before us at the end.  Those who have read James Hogg's bewitching tale of multiple personality, 'Confessions of a Justified Sinner', will have become enamoured of this type of closure though.  Besides, as Noone relates, what else would you expect of a narrator who cannot but help jewelling the elephant in his tales?  For that lovely metaphor, and exquisite prose, Maupin's thrilling tale of detection gets full marks.	2000-10-01
US	52362742	R2YOX8CSILQN9I	080211671X	72627568	How the Dead Live	Books	4	2	13	N	N	Vulgarity Fair	At first, I thought this novel was going to be about a problem that Britain now faces.  With ever-greater life expectancy, there are many more old folk around than there ever used to be.  Current pension advice seems to consist of saving every penny you have, and not wasting any cash on that deemed to be 'luxury'.  There's also a perception, which Self kind of touches on here, that there are so many old people around that they've become invisible.  This literally happens to Lily Bloom, the novel's narrator.<br />  However, Self does not take this obvious approach.  Characterisation, on this evidence, is not really one of Self's strong points.  You get the feeling that Self does walk around in Lily's shoes, as Harper Lee would have it, but everything she sees is through Self's eyes.  Maybe it's my prejudice, but I'm pretty sure that most old people would never be as coarse as Lily is, in thought and in language.  This novel does nothing to address the perception that much of life nowadays revolves around 'yoof' culture.  One example of this is Self's amusing comparison of car design with that of Nike style trainers (which he repeated, almost word for word, in his recent appearance on Brit TV programme 'Room 101').  How pervasive does George Orwell seem now, with the recent success of 'Big Brother' around the world.  It's not long before the whole focus of the novel seems to have shifted to Lily's daughter, Natasha, who seems to be Self's junky alter ego.<br />  Anyone expecting great characterisation from a Self novel would have to be quite dumb, since this is not how he writes.  Self's voice is ever present.  His dictionary too, probably.  I wasn't fazed too much by the language.  It never interrupts the flow of the book, and is almost always understandable in context.  I love the fact that Self lets rip with words, the fact that he dare play with all the notes.  I suspect that he also makes up words, which makes me like him even better.  In his use of guttural language, Self's text almost approaches that of Chaucer or Shakespeare, a reverential devotion to garbled Anglo Saxon.  It could be that this book will stand the stead of time, whatever that means, as a result of his distinctive use of language.<br />  Not everything's perfect in paradise.  Though Self's outspoken prose is admirable (he's not a Sweeney Todd of words), there are moments when he is extraordinarily insensitive.  This novel was reportedly borne from Self's own grief, yet he stomps on the mourning of others' with all the might of a skinhead's DM.  I have witnessed the public grief of someone who was directly affected by one of the notorious massacres that Self unthinkingly throws into the cauldron, and it deserves more respect than Self allows here.  God help Self if he ever runs into anyone from the Hillsborough families who has read this book.  In this uncaring procession of nineties' bloodletting, the novelist most lives up to his name.<br />  Self delivers a bizarre cul-de-sac treatise of death.  Lily ends up in purgatory, black cab driven to a part of London called Dulston, where all the dead hang out.  She's no Marley, is Lily.  Although she keeps a close tab on what her daughters are doing, she has no gift of foreknowledge and chooses not to manifest herself.  When Natasha does see a vision, it more about Lily's past than her future, and she's too stoned to make much sense of it.  Lily is surrounded by her ghosts, the fat selves she dieted to death, the son she sent to death, and all singing, all dancing lithopedien which is only released with her passing.  There 's also a mysterious narrator, who spits out italics from Christmas 2001.<br />  When I wrote a novel, I had to have a self-imposed deadline.  Since it was about Soccer, I chose the first day of the 1998 World Cup, and I just about made it.  Will Self wouldn't have needed to be a rocket pen scientist to have worked out that all things Australian would be in vogue at the end of this year.  Lily's death guide, Phar Lap Dixon, is an aboriginal.  Anyone dull enough to want to escape the Olympics won't find refuge with Self.  He has an amusing turn of words, a keen sense of observation, and he utilizes 'Schindler's Lifts' in absolutely the correct way.  Although the constant repetition of 'd'jew' dulls in comparison.  On a personal note, one of the highlights of my trips to the old East End when I was a kid was seeing 'George Davis is innocent, ask O'Mahhoney' daubed on a bridge, and Davis gets a brief mention here.  If Self had been more considerate of others' grief, and had mentioned O'Mahonney, I might have given him full marks.y's death guide, Phar Lap Dixon, is an aboriginal.  Anyone dull enough to want to escape the Olympics won't find refuge with Self.  He has an amusing turn of words, a keen sense of observation, and he utilizes 'Schindler's Lifts' in absolutely the correct way.  Although the constant repetition of 'd'jew' dulls in comparison.  On a personal note, one of the highlights of my trips to the old East End when I was a kid was seeing 'George Davis is innocent, ask O'Mahhoney' daubed on a bridge, and Davis gets a brief mention here.  If Self had been more considerate of others' grief, and had mentioned O'Mahonney, I might have given him full marks.	2000-09-23
US	52362742	R1ZEHT7BSVVI1B	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Beautiful Ideogram	When I used to work in a bookshop, women customers would order this book  in furtive undertones, for they knew that they were asking for the illicit.  Appropriate, perhaps, for a novella concerned with such a sensual trade.  There's a pointed moment in this tale when the hero's wife declines to wear  a silk garment due to modesty.  When Baldabiou arrives in Lavilledieu, he  throws a silk scarf down on the mayor's desk and asks him what it is.  &quot;Woman's stuff&quot; replies the mayor automatically.  However,  Baldabiou is determined to prove that there is money in silk, and so builds  a prosperous chain of mills in Lavilledieu.  It is he who also transforms  Herve Joncour's life.  The mayor has determined that his son will make a  life for himself in the military, but Baldabiou is the real power in the  town, and the mayor needs little persuading of his son's new vocation.  Due  to the pebrine epidemic afflicting the European silk hatcheries, Baldabiou  is forced to come up with a novel plan.  He has heard of an island on the  other side of the world that has been fiercely isolationist until a few  years ago.  It is home to the finest silk in the world.  Since it has been  cut off from the rest of the world, Baldabiou reasons, its silk worms are  unlikely to have suffered from pebrine.<br />  So Joncour is sent as  Baldabiou's emissary to Japan, to a nation that he knows nothing about.  He  does know that exporting silkworm eggs from Japan is illegal though.  It is  not the only law that he will transgress there...  For when he meets Hara  Kei, he also encounters Kei's concubine.  Kei appears to be a kind of  warlord, and not a man to be crossed.  However, Joncour cannot help but be  drawn to the mysterious concubine.  She resembles a pretty bird in a cage,  pleading to be freed.  And her eyes are not those of an Oriental...  Maybe  Baricco is trying to transcend the East/West 'opposites attract', the  'seductive East' clich&eacute; here by making the concubine appear to be of  European origin.  Although this does seem to be a hint of an illicit trade  in human beings, or that Eastern malaise of kidnap which Ishiguro has  written of in relation to his new novel, 'When we were Orphans'.  For a  while, Joncour makes his yearly visit to Japan, seemingly getting closer to  the concubine all the while, yet still returns home to his wife in time for  High Mass.  But Joncour's foreign trips may be numbered, for a young  scientist named Louis Pasteur may have a cure for pebrine within his  grasp...<br />  This is a highly sensual novella, incredibly economic in its  use of words.  There is a poetic quality to the form, with each episode  seemingly embodying a verse.  In some ways, it resembles a ballad.  There  are certain repetitions, certain cycles that reflect the ballad form,  especially the manner in which each of Joncour's trips is related.  The  mysterious Baldabiou could well play the role of aged mentor in this hero's  journey.  Joncour does goes to the end of the world, after all, and is  seduced by a magical fairy.  I would have thought that 'Silk' would work  brilliantly as an audio book.  The brevity of the prose is a delight.  This  subtlety of tone allows the reader room to breathe and imagine.<br />  Joncour's name may be steeped in romance, but is it his heart that is  breaking?ar to be of  European origin.  Although this does seem to be a hint of an illicit trade  in human beings, or that Eastern malaise of kidnap which Ishiguro has  written of in relation to his new novel, 'When we were Orphans'.  For a  while, Joncour makes his yearly visit to Japan, seemingly getting closer to  the concubine all the while, yet still returns home to his wife in time for  High Mass.  But Joncour's foreign trips may be numbered, for a young  scientist named Louis Pasteur may have a cure for pebrine within his  grasp...<br />  This is a highly sensual novella, incredibly economic in its  use of words.  There is a poetic quality to the form, with each episode  seemingly embodying a verse.  In some ways, it resembles a ballad.  There  are certain repetitions, certain cycles that reflect the ballad form,  especially the manner in which each of Joncour's trips is related.  The  mysterious Baldabiou could well play the role of aged mentor in this hero's  journey.  Joncour does goes to the end of the world, after all, and is  seduced by a magical fairy.  I would have thought that 'Silk' would work  brilliantly as an audio book.  The brevity of the prose is a delight.  This  subtlety of tone allows the reader room to breathe and imagine.  <br />   Joncour's name may be steeped in romance, but is it his heart that is  breaking?	2000-09-17
US	52362742	R1H8Q79EV9K27H	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	33	39	N	N	Exquisite pain	This is one of the more magical and sensual books that I've read this  year.  Toru Watanabe is a Tokyo student at the end of the sixties.  Western  culture abounds (the novel is named after the Beatles' tune).  'Norwegian  Wood' is Naoko's favourite song, and one that she pays her friend Reiko to  play.  It's a song that seems destined to torment her for the rest of her  life.  In his own subtle way, Murakami suggests to us the power of great  art.  This novel also belongs to that class.  Once you've started to read  'Norwegian Wood', you'll become addicted to it.  Murakami creates  characters that reside in your mind as real beings.  They're people who you  will come to love.  His fiction also transcends cultural barriers, in that  'Norwegian Wood' could have been set anywhere.  Its emotional centre is  that of painful adolescence, so any casual reader will have a great deal to  identify with the main protagonists from the off.  Just as Toru is forced  into the past by a single note of 'Norwegian Wood', this book will also  compel you to confront your own past, the people that you have loved and  maybe lost.  The sixties student rebellions seem to have shook almost every  part of the world, and Murakami's novel does feature such a revolt.  No  doubt the fuel blockades currently afflicting Britain and Europe will be  similarly remembered in future years.  In one revealing scene, Murakami has  Midori articulate that great truth that when higher education chooses to  debate the class struggle, it often does so in terms that exclude the  working class (note my indoctrinated and ironical use of 'articulate').  Of  course, I read a translation (in the Harvill edition, presented like a box  of Cubans, &quot;hand-rolled on the thighs of maidens&quot;), but the power  of Murakami's prose shines through.  Toru extols the exquisite prose of F.  Scott Fitzgerald, and Murakami cannot have had a better writing tutor,  where every word is a wonder in itself.<br />  Naoko and Reiko have decided to  exile themselves away from the mental torments of everyday life in a remote  mountain community.  Toru comes to visit Naoko, his sometime lover.  Together, they share the memory of Kizuki, Noako's boyfriend, who  inexplicably killed himself at the age of 17.  Naoko has far more  difficulty expressing her feelings than Toru, something that he finds both  beguiling and painful.  Under the loving care of Reiko, Toru and Naoko try  to explore their feelings for each other.  What was the truth behind their  night of shared passion?  Reiko believes that Toru may be the best tonic  for Naoko (such great irony), but Naoko has her own reasons for pushing  Toru away, despite knowing how much she needs him.  In one telling episode,  Naoko reveals herself to Toru as she sleepwalks, a troubled soul reaching  out for help.<br />  Denied physical contact with the one woman he really  cares about, Toru satisfies his bodily needs with a series of one night  stands, out on the town in the company of his twisted but content friend  Nagasawa.  But even as his body is sated, Toru cannot help but feel  disgust.  However, his torment is tempered by Midori, who pushes her way  into his life.  She does not seem to mind that Toru is alienated, and far  from content to be the Norm.  She loves the peculiar way Toru talks and  almost consults him as if he were a guru, demanding that he relate his  carnal fantasies to her.  Midori has been to an all-girl school, and seems  to have an endless fascination for those pleasures that she has yet to  experience.  However, she too has her pain and a peculiar kind of madness.  Inevitably, it seems, Toru is torn between his feelings for the  inaccessible Naoko, and Midori's passion for him...  Will Toru be forced  down the path that has led so many of his friends to self-oblivion?<br />  'Norwegian Wood' is a great, powerful novel.  The kind of art that stays  with you for the rest of your life, the kind of music which makes the hairson the back of your neck stand tall, to force a shiver of delight and pain  through your body, to make your mouth starch dry.  There are excellent  characters, from the lowly Storm Trooper, to the warm and loving Reiko.  There is also great subtlety, surprising in such an emotional novel.  This  is, above all, a very sensual work of art, with every feeling touched upon  and plucked with the greatest of skill.rs  on the back of your neck stand tall, to force a shiver of delight and pain  through your body, to make your mouth starch dry.  There are excellent  characters, from the lowly Storm Trooper, to the warm and loving Reiko.   There is also great subtlety, surprising in such an emotional novel.  This  is, above all, a very sensual work of art, with every feeling touched upon  and plucked with the greatest of skill.	2000-09-16
US	52362742	R3GVIHESZED5KV	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	16	20	N	N	The grass is greeneland...	This tale is mostly set in Shanghai, familiar enough for most readers from  Ballard's autobiographical 'Empire of the Sun'.  Ishiguro's novel is also  concerned with biography.  Christopher Banks, his anti-hero, is one of the  most deluded characters that you'll ever find in fiction, with his tragedy  reflecting that of Oedipus.  Not that the method which Banks uses for  introspection is psychoanalytic in any way, for you never get the  impression that Banks is fuelled by sexual desire, despite his on/off  relationship with Sarah Hemmings (another one of the orphans of the title).  Part of Banks' character seems forever trapped in an 'innocent',  desexualised state of childhood.<br />  When he is still young in Shanghai,  both Christopher Banks' parents are kidnapped, his mother some time after  his father.  His father's company, Butterfield and Swire, then ship Banks  'home', to England - but Christopher still regards the International  Settlement in Shanghai as his home.  Despite this, Christopher makes the  very best of settling into England and English society.  But he can never  leave the fate of his parents behind...  He continues the detective games  he'd played with his Japanese friend Akira in Shanghai, imagining himself  to be the illustrious Inspector Kung, always on the point of discovering  his mother and father.  These fictions continue into adult life, with  Christopher becoming a fully-fledged detective.<br />  There is some unease to  be had from such a character, an air of disbelief and unreality.  Surely  such heroes as Lord Peter Wimsey and Campion only ever existed in fiction?  Perhaps this is why his peers sometimes shatter Banks' illusions, because  they can always see that he is maintaining a facade.  However, there are  plenty of people who humour Banks, making him believe in his own myth -  that by solving the mystery of his parents' disappearance, he can somehow  avert the impending catastrophe of World War II.  Now, to a modern day  audience, this conviction appears to be quite absurd.  But no more absurd,  surely, than resurrecting Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes to fight the  Nazis?<br />  Ishiguro in no way camps up the figure of the English detective.  Banks is not presented as some grey-haired Miss Marple or little grey  brain-celled Hercule Poirot - Banks takes himself far too seriously to  equate himself with such parodies.  In some ways though, his young machismo  does resemble that of Richard Hannay.  In the final third of the novel,  Ishiguro conspires with the reader to hope for Banks' success, and you  collude in this despite your better judgment.  It is here when the  narrative is most gripping, most telling.  In this way, 'When We Were  Orphans' resembles the narratives of Graham Greene, partly 'entertainment',  and partly exposition of the grotesques of British colonialism.  Perhaps  there's also a dash of Waugh's black humour, although Ishiguro never lets  us entertain anything as much as a belly laugh.<br />  For the British, this  is an especially grim tale.  Banks' father does work in the despicable  opium trade, after all.  In the early part of the twentieth century, the  British government had a rather different attitude to drugs control, one  that still affects us today (heroin is derived from opium).  In English  literature, there are plenty of examples of the wretches seduced by  laudanum (such as the heroine of Joanne Harris' excellent 'Sleep, Pale  Sister'), but such characters are usually English.  What Ishiguro does here  is to allow us a glimpse into how the Chinese suffered from the opium  trade.<br />  At school in England, Banks strives to be more English than the  English, which becomes a key part of his identity.  He is never a truly  unpleasant British colonial, but he very much believes in the dream of  empire.  His Japanese friend, Akira, has a more overt struggle with his  cultural heritage.  Banks' desire to be fully British in the multi-cultural  city of Shanghai makes him turn to Uncle Phillip, a friend of his parents.  What Ishiguro seems to be saying here is that nurture is very much stronger  than nature.  Those born in the Victorian era will never fully shake off  Victorian hypocrisies concerning the 'innocence' of both women and  children.<br />  It may seem to some that Ishiguro's resolution is far too  fabulous to be believed, like something from the Arabian Nights.  However,  if you look into the history and the narratives left by the inhabitants of  the International Settlement of Shanghai, you'll find much fact which  echoes Ishiguro's fiction.  Chinese merchants in Shanghai set up an  Anti-Kidnapping Society in 1912, for reasons related to this story.  According to research by Robert Bickers, it is very hard to find data about  the Inspector Kungs of the Shanghai Municipal Police, as Banks discovers  when he returns there in 1937 (whilst the records of British and Irish SMP  officers are very easy to come across).  It is also quite instructive to  compare Banks' voice with the imperial memoir left by the acting  commissioner of the Shanghai Police of the time: Maurice Springfield's  'Hunting Opium and Other Scents'.  Jardine, Matheson and Co. was a real  company which 'made its fortune in opium smuggling'.  Huang Jinrong, the  police chief of the French concession, is widely acknowledged to have been  in cahoots with Du Yue-sheng, a notorious triad king.<br />  But why should we  care about events in Shanghai a century ago?  It could be that Ishiguro is  determined to repeat the success of 'Remains of the Day'.  The setting is  very cinematic, and you can almost see Kristin Scott Thomas and Ralph  Fiennes inside the gramophone shop. But the image which most resounds  throughout this novel is that of the blind (ha! ha!) being held together by  its thin twine.  What happens when the 'twine' ('tradition' and 'heritage')  snaps?  It could be that Ishiguro is examining a much more modern topic:  English nationalism.  With recent devolution, some English politicians have  raised this issue (for better or worse, it's hard to tell).  But what are  the implications for the future if we are all orphans now?Shanghai makes him turn to Uncle Phillip, a friend of his parents.   What Ishiguro seems to be saying here is that nurture is very much stronger  than nature.  Those born in the Victorian era will never fully shake off  Victorian hypocrisies concerning the 'innocence' of both women and  children.<br />  It may seem to some that Ishiguro's resolution is far too  fabulous to be believed, like something from the Arabian Nights.  However,  if you look into the history and the narratives left by the inhabitants of  the International Settlement of Shanghai, you'll find much fact which  echoes Ishiguro's fiction.  Chinese merchants in Shanghai set up an  Anti-Kidnapping Society in 1912, for reasons related to this story.   According to research by Robert Bickers, it is very hard to find data about  the Inspector Kungs of the Shanghai Municipal Police, as Banks discovers  when he returns there in 1937 (whilst the records of British and Irish SMP  officers are very easy to come across).  It is also quite instructive to  compare Banks' voice with the imperial memoir left by the acting  commissioner of the Shanghai Police of the time: Maurice Springfield's  'Hunting Opium and Other Scents'.  Jardine, Matheson and Co. was a real  company which 'made its fortune in opium smuggling'.  Huang Jinrong, the  police chief of the French concession, is widely acknowledged to have been  in cahoots with Du Yue-sheng, a notorious triad king.<br />  But why should we  care about events in Shanghai a century ago?   It could be that Ishiguro is  determined to repeat the success of 'Remains of the Day'.  The setting is  very cinematic, and you can almost see Kristin Scott Thomas and Ralph  Fiennes inside the gramophone shop. But the image which most resounds  throughout this novel is that of the blind (ha! ha!) being held together by  its thin twine.  What happens when the 'twine' ('tradition' and 'heritage')  snaps?  It could be that Ishiguro is examining a much more modern topic:  English nationalism.  With recent devolution, some English politicians have  raised this issue (for better or worse, it's hard to tell).  But what are  the implications for the future if we are all orphans now?	2000-09-12
US	52362742	R1KS48NG5WSIAI	0393049701	814842893	No Great Mischief	Books	5	19	20	N	N	&quot;My hope is constant in thee&quot;	The title of this novel comes from a letter written by General Wolfe to  Captain Rickson before the taking of Quebec.  Wolfe was highly suspicious  of his Highlander troops, due to the fact that he had previously fought and  overwhelmed them on the battlefield of Culloden.  Yet the fact that the  Scots were old enemies ironically helped in the seizure of Quebec.  One of  the Highlanders, MacDonald, had been exiled in France before being pardoned  by the British, and it was his knowledge of French that got them past the  Quebec sentries.  Such is the tale spun by the narrator's Grandfather.<br />  I suppose you could expect a wee bit of bias in a novel that is related by  one of the MacDonalds of Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, but I'm more than  willing to give Alistair MacLeod's account the benefit of the doubt.  According to the dust jacket, MacLeod was raised in Cape Breton, so he  certainly has first hand knowledge of the locale.  I've been so enthralled  by this novel, that I've looked a great deal into its historical  background.  Obviously, Macleod has had to change some names.  Renco  Development is a fictional company, but uranium mining did indeed flourish  as an industry in Elliot Lake (&quot;The Elliot Lake story is a moral and  human outrage&quot; wrote Stephen Lewis in his report to the Ham  Commission).  From a modern day perspective, uranium mining would seem to  have obvious health risks, but MacLeod tends to concentrate more on the  dangers inherent in such manual labour and the disputes of workers from  different ethnic backgrounds.  MacLeod does not insult your intelligence by  covering such truisms; instead, he reveals new material from old  history.<br />  My favourite character from the novel is Grandfather.  It's  from him that most of the family history is researched and passed on.  A  lonely widower who never knew his father, he seems compelled to fill up the  gaps in his life.  When he passes away, one of the regrets of the Cape  Breton MacDonalds is that that they did not write down all of the songs  that he kept in his head.  I've never read a story that so authentically  captures oral culture.  There are lots of repetitions, which are just as  familiar and comforting as a chorus, mantras by which the Macdonalds live  their lives.  Very resounding is the tales of the generations of the dogs  &quot;who tried too hard&quot;.  The Macdonalds keep the same family of  dogs throughout the centuries - or rather, the dogs keep the Macdonalds.<br />  The recorded history of the MacDonalds is also very strong.  Calum Ruadh  left Moidart for Nova Scotia in 1779, a sign of defeat if ever there was  one, since Moidart was the landing place of the Bonnie Prince in '45.  It  was a MacDonald who was made an example of in the Glencoe massacre,  betrayed by the British soldiers who were supposedly his guests.  What goes  around comes around, would seem to be the nature of the history in this  novel.  More than one army has reason to lament the non-arrival of the  ships from France, as MacLeod relates.  &quot;My hope is constant in  thee&quot; was what the Bruce told the MacDonalds at Bannockburn.  However,  it is the MacDonalds of Cape Breton that we take to our hearts in this  novel.<br />  General Wolfe may not have grieved the Highlanders if they had  fallen at Quebec (where he got his own comeuppance and finally achieved his  long-cherished fame without realising it), but their relatives would have  done.  It is the twentieth century MacDonalds who do most of the living and  dying in 'No Great Mischief'.  Although the Nova Scotia land is rich, it is  also hazardous, even for the experienced.  The narrator, Alexander  MacDonald, becomes an orphan as a result of one such tragedy.  This novel  encompasses the changes wrought by the twentieth century.  The divisions  between rich and poor are most marked here, if only because some members of  the MacDonald family become more prosperous than even, say, their siblings.  Butthe family link is far stronger than the family divide.<br />  The most  compelling character in the novel is Calum, Alexander's brother.  For him,  his namesake Calum Ruadh's journey to the New World resounds with his own  story.  The attractions of this novel are many.  Anyone from the Celtic  diaspora will be able to recognise the characters in 'No Great Mischief'.  I particularly identified with the MacDonald trait of bearing fraternal  twins, as that is a habit of my family also.  The roots of my family seem  lost within the mists of time; with official documents seemingly  contradicting remembered history.  'No Great Mischief' gives me a powerful  insight into how my ancestors may have lived, of the culture that they  shared.  It is exquisitely written by a master storyteller.  You'll never  forget this great book once you've read it.  There are scenes that  resolutely stick in your mind, like Alexander's encounter with the whale.  The MacDonalds still flourish in Cape Breton to this day, and I think it's  the fact that MacLeod is a native that adds greatly to the feeling of  authenticity in this moving novel.But the family link is far stronger than the family divide.<br />  The most  compelling character in the novel is Calum, Alexander's brother.  For him,  his namesake Calum Ruadh's journey to the New World resounds with his own  story.  The attractions of this novel are many.  Anyone from the Celtic  diaspora will be able to recognise the characters in 'No Great Mischief'.   I particularly identified with the MacDonald trait of bearing fraternal  twins, as that is a habit of my family also.  The roots of my family seem  lost within the mists of time; with official documents seemingly  contradicting remembered history.  'No Great Mischief' gives me a powerful  insight into how my ancestors may have lived, of the culture that they  shared.  It is exquisitely written by a master storyteller.  You'll never  forget this great book once you've read it.  There are scenes that  resolutely stick in your mind, like Alexander's encounter with the whale.   The MacDonalds still flourish in Cape Breton to this day, and I think it's  the fact that MacLeod is a native that adds greatly to the feeling of  authenticity in this moving novel.	2000-09-10
US	52362742	R368236422ZE51	0316655708	69672774	Honeymoon: A Romantic Rampage	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Fluffed	Amy Jenkins created and wrote 'This Life' for BBC2, which was an  incredibly intelligent and compulsive piece of viewing. On hearing that  Jenkins has written a novel, you immediately picture a huge Dickensian  affair of modern London life with multiple characters. Instead of this, we  get 'Honeymoon'.<br />'Honeymoon' is the narrator, and you can't help but  groan as soon as you hear her name. One of the most attractive things about  'This Life' was its ensemble cast of men and women. Here you only get Honey  as a first person narrator, and you immediately feel bereft. Yep, the  portraits of men in 'Honeymoon' are okay, but you don't really get any deep  insights into any of the characters. Jenkins is scrupulously fair,  mentioning that in the majority of marriage break-ups, it's the women who  have walked out. But this is as about as close to real life, or any life,  as 'Honeymoon' gets.<br />Take 'Mac', for example, Honey's boss. He's  something big in Hollywood, we're told. But we never really get to see what  he does, apart from paying airfares at propitious moments (a lot of the  events in the novel seem dependent on the old-fashioned device of  Providence). Because Honey is so shallow, you never really get to care  about her, despite her sob story of being orphaned when young. Ed, her  groom to be, is so anonymous that he could be Anyman. There is the odd bit  of humour, but never really enough to make the novel sparkle. Ed is right  when he observes that Honey is far from reaching the heights in the  hilarity stakes. Everything about this novel is so... comfortable. Honey  and Ed arrive in New York by accident en route to their Honeymoon, and Ed  thinks nothing about abandoning their reservations in Mexico to stay in  Manhattan. Poor little rich kids, you sigh. Even their best friends and  employer turn up in New York. Later on, when Honey has to agonise about  returning to England... the fact that she does have such a coterie really  renders this dramatic choice meaningless.<br />There are moments of high drama  that ultimately fail to get your pulse racing. Jenkins refers to a lot of  Cult TV and movies (with Honey ultimately losing all credibility when she  claims that Roger Moore was the best Bond), and maybe reading novels is not  her first choice of recreation. But you still feel she could have produced  something much more meaty than this. The main story is really too girlie to  have any great appeal. On the back cover, the legend is 'Fiction: General'  which just about sums it up...hoice meaningless.<br />There are moments of high drama  that ultimately fail to get your pulse racing. Jenkins refers to a lot of  Cult TV and movies (with Honey ultimately losing all credibility when she  claims that Roger Moore was the best Bond), and maybe reading novels is not  her first choice of recreation. But you still feel she could have produced  something much more meaty than this. The main story is really too girlie to  have any great appeal. On the back cover, the legend is 'Fiction: General'  which just about sums it up...	2000-08-26
US	52362742	R17LLPCBCQ0MX6	0380978725	418329284	Blackberry Wine	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Delicious is the hand which feeds us	Jay Mackintosh is a frustrated writer.  Living in London, he is constantly forced to go to literary parties, and to teach creative writing by his tiresome spin doctor girlfriend, Kerry, and all because of a prize winning  novel that he wrote years ago.  If left to himself, Jay is content to  wallow in the past and to write pulp SF under the name of 'Jonathan  Winesap' (a pseudonym derived from two species of American apple).  But  then Jay is inspired by a piece of junk mail...<br />  This is Joanne Harris'  follow-up novel to the fantastically successful Chocolat, soon to become an  obligatory film starring Juliet Binoche.  The theme of the pleasure of  mastication is continued here, with homemade bottles of fruit wine  replacing chocolate festivals.  Not that the wine that Joseph Cox makes is  all that sweet.  But Jay still drinks Joseph's 'Specials', like he writes  SF, not for the pleasure of the taste, but for the joy of its associated  memories.  For each sip takes Jay back twenty five years, to the summers of  the mid-70s, reliving his first tumultuous meeting with retired miner  Joseph Cox in a small place called Pog Hill.  There is the where Jay will  undergo his pubescent years, hiding toys, comics, and himself by the canal.  There, separated from his divorcing mother and father, Jay and Joe form a  bond which is almost stronger than that between father and son.  Joseph Cox  is an aged man who has travelled the world, but whose blood beats with the  heart of a hippie, and who proves to be a magical companion to Jay, with  his herbs and rare seeds, each with its own story to tell.  Joe and Jay  become master and apprentice in the mysterious art of 'layman's alchemy'.  But maybe magic is not enough to save them both from their fates...  Jay  escapes his London life to live in an idyllic French countryside.  But as  he becomes embroiled in the machinations and mysteries of this new  community, has he truly learnt the lessons of the past?<br />  Blackberry Wine  is a beautiful novel.  Like a couple of other works recently, such as  'Emotionally Weird' and 'White Teeth', the 1970s are very much present,  allowing Harris and others to show the development or stasis of their  characters, maybe reflecting a bit of soul-searching brought on by the  millennium.  This novel will appeal to anyone who remembers where he or she  was when Elvis died, and the hot English summer of '76.  There is a danger  in going back to the past in that you can misremember things.  Certainly,  it would have been impossible for Jay to buy a copy of The Eagle in 1975,  since it folded in 1969 (one of the memories of my childhood was the  revivification of The Eagle in the early 1980s).  But never mind the  details (Michele Roberts has also criticized Harris' use of the French  inheritance laws), it's the magic that's strongest here.  It does seem  that, in this quite subversive novel, that Joanne Harris has subtly  reverted to her SF past.  The model of this novel seems to be that of The  Hero's Journey, so beloved of Hollywood filmmakers like George Lucas, with  her portrayal of the young boy and his mentor.  Although Harris sensibly  falls short of Joe exhorting Jay to &quot;use the Force&quot;.<br />  Harris  employs the unusual device of having the novel narrated by a bottle of  wine, Fleuric 1962 (the year of Jay's birth).  To some people, this wine  could seem to be deceptively sweet, drowned in a world of fantasy.  But the  more discerning palate can also revel in its astonishing bite.  Joanne  Harris has gone on the offensive here, spelling out the law, laying down  boundaries, much as Jay and Joe try to, marking a line in the sand:  thus  far, and no further.  Just as Jay struggles with his identity, so does  Joanne, seemingly reacting against the success of her previous novel,  reminding you of her varied past as a writer, defining herself against the  definitions that the media has made of her - which is probably why the  village of Lansquenet and its inhabitants make a reappearance here. But I  don't think we'll get to see John Thaw play Joseph Cox quite yet.  Drink  this novel in.  It will give you a feeling that is the equal and opposite  reaction to that of a hangover - pure joy.squenet and its inhabitants make a reappearance here. But I  don't think we'll get to see John Thaw play Joseph Cox quite yet.  Drink  this novel in.  It will give you a feeling that is the equal and opposite  reaction to that of a hangover - pure joy.	2000-07-25
US	52362742	R1IVJGMXX2ACH2	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Potty about Harry, Hogwarts n'all	'The Goblet of Fire': such a name conjures up images of a Grail quest.  Rowling's prose has dealt with such dark issues before, and she herself announced that a character is set to die in this novel...  And also that  Harry has a growing interest in girls.  You can't help but try to speculate  what's going to happen in this book, the clues are so tantalizing.  I sort  of guessed correctly who Harry's squeeze was going to be, but Rowling  completely surprised me with the identity of the deceased.  The secrecy  surrounding Harry Potter 4 was done very well, and the book more than lives  up to your expectations.<br />  There was the increased security for all  bookshops, although one resourceful girl sneaked a copy out and read it  (she must have done a gone back in time charm).  Gringotts are most  displeased that she managed to steal a copy past the massive three-headed  dog that was guarding it.  However, it may have been unwise for them to  choose Fluffy...  The girl was seen carrying a gramophone player at the  time.<br />  Never mind.  Harry Potter himself has placed a silencing charm  upon her, for she has not yet revealed the plot (although this may also be  due to the sheer vastness of the book, which seems to be double or even  triple the usual Potter).  Secret preparations were in place for the  dispatch of the book.  The Hogwarts Express was pressed into service, and  every owl practiced with weights for a fortnight.  Even Buckbeak was  allowed back from exile in order to do his bit.  The password had to be  changed from 'Pig Snout', since muggle security guards seemed to find this  offensive. Everything had to be right for the biggest spell of magic ever.  The muggles think it's fiction, but we know better...<br />  I think the main  appeal of Rowling's books is not the character of Potter himself (most  often the visiting protagonists are much better sketched than the boy  himself).  Since all the novels revolve about Potter, I sometimes think  that it would be better to see Hogwarts through his eyes, in the first  person.  However, Rowling bewitches you with her plots, which are superb.  I hear it's a seven book series, and I believe that Rowling knows exactly  what's going to happen in the end.  Each volume seems to have clues for  future books, and now appear to be much more open ended, and thus more  compulsive.  Certainly, pre-orders for Harry Potter 5 are going to break  even more records in bookshops.<br />Hogwarts itself seems to have come  from Walpole's 'Castle of Otranto', with its ghosts and lively paintings.  However, Hogwarts is both far more benign and malign than Otranto, if that  makes any sense.  Certainly Rowling's prose is more polished than  Walpole's.  Although the narrative is very modern, there are quite a few  healthy references to the past.  I love Rowling's use of Latin, her playing  with words.  If anything though, I would probably want to branch Rowling  off into the more adult writing of Christopher Fowler and Joanne Harris.  Harris certainly has the same love of the Gothic, the Pre-Raphaelite  paintings, and last, but not least, chocolate.  In 'Blackberry Wine',  Harris' latest novel, there is just about the same high regard for the  media as Rowling produces here in 'The Goblet of Fire'.  I think that most  authors cannot but help put what they know into their writing, and I think  Rowling's sudden celebrity has added a powerful ingredient to these novels,  especially this one.<br />  What's most attractive about this series of novels  is the narrative progression.  Rowling lets Harry Potter grow up before our  eyes, so the books should become more mature as they go on.  Harry Potter's  certainly no Bart Simpson or Peter Pan, forever trapped in childhood - but  there's no doubt that he's every bit as immortal as they are.  I think his  appeal lies not in his being a fabulous wizard, but in the fact that he is  so human.  He's not a totally virtuous hero, he's not whiter than white,  and is more than capable of spite and mischief.  This makes him a far more  interesting protagonist in his fight against evil, a battle he only  conducts due to the dire circumstances of his parents' murder.<br />  But  Rowling's proved before that she can make you twist and turn with her  fiction.  There are plenty of surprises in this new book, which I'll not  reveal.  Let's just say that you hope that Harry Potter has much better  form than most English sportsmen seem to have at the moment... Of course, you  have to read all the books, and in sequence, to get proper enjoyment out of  them.  The Goblet of Fire is a very long book, but like Harry himself,  you'll be racing towards the end.  This is the best book in the Harry  Potter series - so far.  Rowling is the consummate entertainer: she always  leaves you wanting for more.<br />  Now, how about extending it to an eight or  nine book series?nd is more than capable of spite and mischief.  This makes him a far more  interesting protagonist in his fight against evil, a battle he only  conducts due to the dire circumstances of his parents' murder.<br />  But  Rowling's proved before that she can make you twist and turn with her  fiction.  There are plenty of surprises in this new book, which I'll not  reveal.  Let's just say that you hope that Harry Potter has much better  form than most English sportsmen seem to have at the moment... Of course, you  have to read all the books, and in sequence, to get proper enjoyment out of  them.  The Goblet of Fire is a very long book, but like Harry himself,  you'll be racing towards the end.  This is the best book in the Harry  Potter series - so far.  Rowling is the consummate entertainer: she always  leaves you wanting for more.<br />  Now, how about extending it to an eight or  nine book series?	2000-07-09
US	52362742	R330BOFUWCZT5Z	0312203241	279845342	Emotionally Weird: A Novel	Books	3	6	11	N	N	It's life, Captain...	Nora and Effie Stuart-Murray are sitting on an island off the west coast of Scotland, telling each other stories.  Effie's tale is of her recent life as a student at Dundee University, whilst Nora tells of Effie's murky  family history, with the announcement that she is not, in fact, Effie's  mother.  The hyphenated 'Stuart' is the only clue left that Nora and Effie  have royalty as ancestors.<br />  However, you do begin to worry about this  novel when Effie's audience, Nora, gets bored and decides to go to bed.  If  a fictional character has been diagnosed with ennui, then what chance have  we of following this novel to its conclusion?  We get to see the  fascinating acts of feeding cats, the boiling of kettles in Effie's life  story, but we do also get occasional glimpses of the invasion of Vietnam.  Effie quotes large chunks of Archie McCue's abstract lecture, as if to  prove how boring the man is, when one or two words would have sufficed.  Archie's lecture appears to happen in real time, and it seems as though  Atkinson is writing the antithesis of a crime novel, by having all her main  suspects meet up in the beginning, rather than at the end.  But Archie  McCrue is no detective.  Chick Petrie is, and so is Madame Astarti, the  heroine of Effie's attempt at fiction.  Practically everyone who is anyone  turns up at McCrue's lecture, an unlikely scenario for an early morning  lecture during a power cut in the strikes of 72.<br />  Emotionally Weird  takes a long time to get going.  There's something wacky about all the  characters, but none of them are truly amusing.  In a recent interview in  the Observer, Kate Atkinson commented that she found it very difficult to  get going on this novel, and to achieve the right tone, and I'm afraid it  shows in these early pages.  Compared with Joanne Harris' Blackberry Wine,  with which Emotionally Weird shares some themes, Atkinson's novel seems  quite poor indeed, to begin within.  This book hasn't really come close to  universal praise in the press, despite a very enthusiastic piece in the  Scotsman.  I approached this book warily since a Star Trek fan is a very  prominent character (Effie's boyfriend, 'Magic Bob').  Oh no, I thought,  Atkinson's pitted all her wits against a very easy stereotype.  My  prejudice came from the fact that, like Bob, I'm also a fan of Cult TV  (although not quite as drugged or sluggish as him).<br />  At the beginning of  the novel, Effie is trying to work out how she can leave Bob.  But you've  only got to look at her narrative to see how far she's been infected.  A  couple of Effie's similes come from Doctor Who (the obvious 'Dalek' and  'Tardis'), whilst her supporting cast have been given the names of minor,  but significant characters from Star Trek:  Christopher Pike, Janice Rand,  Kevin Riley, and even Gary Seven turns up as the author of some obscure  paper.  Purists should note that the novel occurs during the broadcast of  the Doctor Who adventure, The Curse of Peladon.  Maybe Effie should get out  more.  Maybe I should get out more.  Around about 50% of Effie's male  acquaintances seem to be writing fantasy novels, boring the pants off  everyone with varying degrees of success.  However, Atkinson does present  Magic Bob much as Russell T. Davies would: as sad, but lovable.  As to what  genre Kate Atkinson would like to work in, I would stab a guess at the  crime novel.  No doubt her style would be unique, but still far more  competent than Effie's novels starring Madame Astarti.<br />  My favourite  character from the novel is Professor Cousins, who interrupts fatuous  McCrue with the observation that all fiction could be tied down to the  questions surrounding identity, citing Oedipus Rex as an example.  You do  get the feeling that Atkinson would tend to agree with the professor,  whilst wondering when the scourging of eyes is finally going to arrive.  But as with any novel with a phenomenally long cast list, you have to be  patient, youhave to wait for Emotionally Weird to wield its magic, to  endure before the blockbuster ending arrives.<br />  Kate Atkinson employs a  variety of styles and fonts in this book which she claims to be about  'words' (as she said in her Observer interview).  I've done much the same  myself when I've been writing.  The reasons why I used such techniques was  that I was being defensive, placing the expected critics of my work into  the text itself, as Atkinson does here, in the voice of Nora.  No doubt  Emotionally Weird means much to Atkinson, and she fears that it will not  mean much to anyone else.  Martha Sewell and her creative writing class  ponder that old clich&eacute;, that everyone has a novel within them.  Maybe the  relevant question should be: does anyone have a third novel within them?  After a shaky start, Emotionally Weird answers in the affirmative, with a  resounding conclusion that does leave you wanting more.you have to wait for Emotionally Weird to wield its magic, to  endure before the blockbuster ending arrives.<br />  Kate Atkinson employs a  variety of styles and fonts in this book which she claims to be about  'words' (as she said in her Observer interview).  I've done much the same  myself when I've been writing.  The reasons why I used such techniques was  that I was being defensive, placing the expected critics of my work into  the text itself, as Atkinson does here, in the voice of Nora.  No doubt  Emotionally Weird means much to Atkinson, and she fears that it will not  mean much to anyone else.  Martha Sewell and her creative writing class  ponder that old cliché, that everyone has a novel within them.  Maybe the  relevant question should be: does anyone have a third novel within them?   After a shaky start, Emotionally Weird answers in the affirmative, with a  resounding conclusion that does leave you wanting more.	2000-06-03
US	52362742	R1WAK4I7AY98G0	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	17	26	N	N	Mesmerising	This brilliant, stimulating novel reminded me a great deal of 'The Color Purple', especially regarding the theme of subjectivity.  Some of the critics of Walker's book said that for Celie to desire to become her own  person, to express her subjectivity was wrong, since it was the overbearing  subjectivity of the White European male which had created the tradition of  slavery that still coloured Celie's life decades after its abolition<br />   Ondaatje's landscape is similar.  Okay, so Ondaatje's intention is to  supply fictional biography (as opposed to Celie's fictional autobiography),  but the same issue of subjectivity resounds.  'Anil's Ghost' is at heart a  novel about language.  A novel about meaning.  Ondaatje promotes the very  sound notion that language is all around us:  there is the language of  touch (the personal way Ananda touches Anil in the novel), the language of  noise (the ancient culture centred around music, the drumming that awaits  identification of the head that Ananda fabricates), the language of sight  (Anil sees Palipana at one point as an 'idea').  The author reminds us of  that primeval language, of a time before written symbols, and recites a  humorous, but significant tale of what a certain order of monks used to do  to graven images.  It's probably no accident that Anil's favourite rock  star is Prince, or 'The Artist Formerly Known As...'.  I never had much  sympathy for Prince before I read Ondaatje's novel and put down his  decision to change his name to a symbol as typical showbiz eccentricity.   But now I feel disappointed that the symbol has reverted to 'Prince', a  gesture that resounds with the coincidence of this novel.<br />  Anil, the  female forensic brought in by the UN to examine alleged human rights'  abuses in Sri Lanka, is the one character that seems determined to project  her subjectivity in this way.  She demands to define herself, to name  herself.   As a young woman growing up in Sri Lanka, she won a swimming  contest.  As she returns to her homeland, she finds that the fame of her  sporting exploits has reached everyone she works with, even although it was  one event decades before.  Anil brushes such labels aside, &quot;I'm not a  swimmer&quot; she declares.  Even although, in a previous life, her 'fame'  as a swimmer had helped to break her shyness at parties.  Now that she has  defined herself as 'forensic scientist', she is no longer a swimmer; no  longer needs to be a swimmer.  But even labelled by her occupation, she  seems to be guided by simplicity, and her instinct is to create order out  of chaos, to find her truth.<br />  Anil's antagonist in the swimming debate  is Sarath, an archaeologist employed by the government, who much prefers  complexity and silence.  For him, the 'truth' is a dangerous concept, which  should never be discussed when there are recording devices around.  Anil is  suspicious of him, for he works for, and has relatives in, the government,  which seems to be very much involved in the killings.  Doubt resounds  within Anil because Sarath seems to be a decent man, and pupil of the great  Palipana.  Here Ondaatje seems to be dealing with the ancient binary  opposition of the West as rational and the East as irrational, with Anil  embodying the values of the West, and Sarath embodying those of the East.   Yet there's also a binary opposition, which has the West as powerful male  and the East as cowering female.  Ondaatje seems to have swapped the  genders here, since Anil is most assuredly female (she claims she longs for  the privacy of the West, but delights bathing in open air showers). <br />  It  is tempting to think that Ondaatje's treading the ground of neutrality here  as Sarath seems to (there's no mention of 'Tamil' along with 'Tiger'), but  both appear rather to opt for complexity over simplicity (I was surprised  to learn that there were two factions fighting the government in Sri  Lanka).  'Truth is mere opinion' is the belief uttered here, with the  suggestion that there's always a large dosing of fiction mixed with any  fact.  Palipana's reputation as an archaeologist is damaged when he insists  on seeing a truth, which lies beyond the 'facts' (just as his physical  sight deteriorates).  Ondaatje doesn't give us a tedious list of 'rights'  and 'wrongs' in the Sri Lankan context, but merely conveys that everyone  has lost someone, and carry with them a ghost.  Lots of people have  disappeared without explanation, without context in the conflict - the  survivors too scared to ask for clarity in case they're next (and without  context, you cannot create meaning, as Anil's friend Leaf discovers).   Instead, they invent the histories of the lost ones, who are signified by  any remaining talisman, such as a sarong.   <br />  Anil sees that she and  Sarath can do something, for they have evidence in the form of the body of  one of the 'disappeared', a corpse that they have called 'Sailor' (from the  rhyme 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor').  But such is the dominance of  Western popular novels on Sri Lankan bookshelves, with each Agatha Christie  a reminder of colonialism, that one can't help but think of Sailor as  'Spy': that Death as well as the stars looks over the characters in this  novel.    <br />Here, Ondaatje has produced a startling book, which is  extremely topical (note the impotent UN).  There is also a lot of humour  (Anil's letter to John Boorman concerning Lee Marvin's gunshot wound in the  opening of 'Point Blank').  But mostly this is a treatise on subjectivity:  a force used for ill by all those murdering in their bid to create subjects  (where 'subjects' = 'objects', the silent mass to be multiplied by fear),  and as a force used for good.  After all, it is Ananda, the artist, who  breathes life into objects by painting their eyes.	2000-05-31
US	52362742	R39DVEWIXEOL9P	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Dull Start	In the early 90s, a middle-aged American finds love in the form of an aristocratic Parisian architect, named Julien.  This amuses the American, Austin, for his previous lover (who jilted him), was also named Julien.  So, Austin's new lover becomes 'Big Julien', whilst his ex becomes 'Little  Julien'.<br />  There are a few problems with this new relationship.  Firstly,  Julien is married, and has a tragic past.  Secondly, Austin is HIV  positive.  So, much of the first part of the novel is concerned with  Austin's reluctance to come totally clean with his lover.  After all,  Austin's already insecure about the age gap between the two men.  Would not  such a declaration make himself look far less attractive?  A middle-aged  man, with excellent social contacts in the French aristocracy, but with no  real money to show for himself?<br />  In the first part of the novel, it is  very hard to feel anything for Austin or Julien, since their world is one  that is closed off for most of us.  It is difficult to feel sympathy for  those who move in circles that can quite happily invite Lauren Bacall to a  party - it's hard to emphasize with such poor rich folk.  And we get to see  very little of the romance or bond between Austin and Julien.  Since the  whole novel revolves around Austin, it seems strange that Edmund White  chose not for him to narrate the novel in the first person.  So Austin  seems more remote than he should, whilst Julien appears almost inscrutable.  Sometimes the author is also quite clumsy in referring to the period in  which the novel is set.  Do we really need to know that White's  protagonists fly into France, rather than travelling by train, since the  channel tunnel was not yet complete?<br />  Once Austin leaves the rarefied  setting of France, and goes to teach in Providence in the U.S., the novel  improves immeasurably.  For a while, it seems to the casual observer that  Edmund White could be pandering to the Cultural Studies crowd (in which  school his work is often appraised), by his use of language.  It's ironic  that Austin's French audience jokily accuse him of being too theoretical,  since his lack of theory seems to be the one thing holding him back at the  American university, as he's caught in the minefield of political  correctness.  Here, Austin takes a swipe at the deconstructionists,  post-structuralists, and gay theorists.  It's also in America that we meet  another one of Austin's previous lovers, Peter, who is slowly dying of  AIDS.  Julien dislikes this spoilt, whining American, but Austin cannot  abandon the man he'd promised he'd nurse through his illness...<br />  Edmund  White's characters do come alive, after a while, and the portraits of  Josephine and Henry McVay are excellent, along with Ajax, Julien's basset  hound.  As for the 'Married Man'? At the resolution of this novel, it seems  that Edmund White's choice of title could be more complex than it initially  appears.chool his work is often appraised), by his use of language.  It's ironic  that Austin's French audience jokily accuse him of being too theoretical,  since his lack of theory seems to be the one thing holding him back at the  American university, as he's caught in the minefield of political  correctness.  Here, Austin takes a swipe at the deconstructionists,  post-structuralists, and gay theorists.  It's also in America that we meet  another one of Austin's previous lovers, Peter, who is slowly dying of  AIDS.  Julien dislikes this spoilt, whining American, but Austin cannot  abandon the man he'd promised he'd nurse through his illness...<br />  Edmund  White's characters do come alive, after a while, and the portraits of  Josephine and Henry McVay are excellent, along with Ajax, Julien's basset  hound.  As for the 'Married Man'? At the resolution of this novel, it seems  that Edmund White's choice of title could be more complex than it initially  appears.	2000-05-30
US	52362742	RMT6AQCYSSP6D	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mesmerising	This brilliant, stimulating novel reminded me a great deal of 'The Color  Purple', especially regarding the theme of subjectivity.  Some of the  critics of Walker's book said that for Celie to desire to become her own  person, to express her subjectivity was wrong, since it was the overbearing  subjectivity of the White European male which had created the tradition of  slavery that still coloured Celie's life decades after its abolition<br />  Ondaatje's landscape is similar.  Okay, so Ondaatje's intention is to  supply fictional biography (as opposed to Celie's fictional autobiography),  but the same issue of subjectivity resounds.  'Anil's Ghost' is at heart a  novel about language.  A novel about meaning.  Ondaatje promotes the very  sound notion that language is all around us:  there is the language of  touch (the personal way Ananda touches Anil in the novel), the language of  noise (the ancient culture centred around music, the drumming that awaits  identification of the head that Ananda fabricates), the language of sight  (Anil sees Palipana at one point as an 'idea').  The author reminds us of  that primeval language, of a time before written symbols, and recites a  humorous, but significant tale of what a certain order of monks used to do  to graven images.  It's probably no accident that Anil's favourite rock  star is Prince, or 'The Artist Formerly Known As...'.  I never had much  sympathy for Prince before I read Ondaatje's novel and put down his  decision to change his name to a symbol as typical showbiz eccentricity.  But now I feel disappointed that the symbol has reverted to 'Prince', a  gesture that resounds with the coincidence of this novel.<br />  Anil, the  female forensic brought in by the UN to examine alleged human rights'  abuses in Sri Lanka, is the one character that seems determined to project  her subjectivity in this way.  She demands to define herself, to name  herself.  As a young woman growing up in Sri Lanka, she won a swimming  contest.  As she returns to her homeland, she finds that the fame of her  sporting exploits has reached everyone she works with, even although it was  one event decades before.  Anil brushes such labels aside, &quot;I'm not a  swimmer&quot; she declares.  Even although, in a previous life, her 'fame'  as a swimmer had helped to break her shyness at parties.  Now that she has  defined herself as 'forensic scientist', she is no longer a swimmer; no  longer needs to be a swimmer.  But even labelled by her occupation, she  seems to be guided by simplicity, and her instinct is to create order out  of chaos, to find her truth.<br />  Anil's antagonist in the swimming debate  is Sarath, an archaeologist employed by the government, who much prefers  complexity and silence.  For him, the 'truth' is a dangerous concept, which  should never be discussed when there are recording devices around.  Anil is  suspicious of him, for he works for, and has relatives in, the government,  which seems to be very much involved in the killings.  Doubt resounds  within Anil because Sarath seems to be a decent man, and pupil of the great  Palipana.  Here Ondaatje seems to be dealing with the ancient binary  opposition of the West as rational and the East as irrational, with Anil  embodying the values of the West, and Sarath embodying those of the East.  Yet there's also a binary opposition, which has the West as powerful male  and the East as cowering female.  Ondaatje seems to have swapped the  genders here, since Anil is most assuredly female (she claims she longs for  the privacy of the West, but delights bathing in open air showers).<br />  It  is tempting to think that Ondaatje's treading the ground of neutrality here  as Sarath seems to (there's no mention of 'Tamil' along with 'Tiger'), but  both appear rather to opt for complexity over simplicity (I was surprised  to learn that there were two factions fighting the government in Sri  Lanka).  'Truth is mere opinion' is the belief utteredhere, with the  suggestion that there's always a large dosing of fiction mixed with any  fact.  Palipana's reputation as an archaeologist is damaged when he insists  on seeing a truth, which lies beyond the 'facts' (just as his physical  sight deteriorates).  Ondaatje doesn't give us a tedious list of 'rights'  and 'wrongs' in the Sri Lankan context, but merely conveys that everyone  has lost someone, and carry with them a ghost.  Lots of people have  disappeared without explanation, without context in the conflict - the  survivors too scared to ask for clarity in case they're next (and without  context, you cannot create meaning, as Anil's friend Leaf discovers).  Instead, they invent the histories of the lost ones, who are signified by  any remaining talisman, such as a sarong.<br />  Anil sees that she and  Sarath can do something, for they have evidence in the form of the body of  one of the 'disappeared', a corpse that they have called 'Sailor' (from the  rhyme 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor').  But such is the dominance of  Western popular novels on Sri Lankan bookshelves, with each Agatha Christie  a reminder of colonialism, that one can't help but think of Sailor as  'Spy': that Death as well as the stars looks over the characters in this  novel.<br />Here, Ondaatje has produced a startling book, which is  extremely topical (note the impotent UN).  There is also a lot of humour  (Anil's letter to John Boorman concerning Lee Marvin's gunshot wound in the  opening of 'Point Blank').  But mostly this is a treatise on subjectivity:  a force used for ill by all those murdering in their bid to create subjects  (where 'subjects' = 'objects', the silent mass to be multiplied by fear),  and as a force used for good.  After all, it is Ananda, the artist, who  breathes life into objects by painting their eyes.ered here, with the  suggestion that there's always a large dosing of fiction mixed with any  fact.  Palipana's reputation as an archaeologist is damaged when he insists  on seeing a truth, which lies beyond the 'facts' (just as his physical  sight deteriorates).  Ondaatje doesn't give us a tedious list of 'rights'  and 'wrongs' in the Sri Lankan context, but merely conveys that everyone  has lost someone, and carry with them a ghost.  Lots of people have  disappeared without explanation, without context in the conflict - the  survivors too scared to ask for clarity in case they're next (and without  context, you cannot create meaning, as Anil's friend Leaf discovers).   Instead, they invent the histories of the lost ones, who are signified by  any remaining talisman, such as a sarong.   <br />  Anil sees that she and  Sarath can do something, for they have evidence in the form of the body of  one of the 'disappeared', a corpse that they have called 'Sailor' (from the  rhyme 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor').  But such is the dominance of  Western popular novels on Sri Lankan bookshelves, with each Agatha Christie  a reminder of colonialism, that one can't help but think of Sailor as  'Spy': that Death as well as the stars looks over the characters in this  novel.    <br />Here, Ondaatje has produced a startling book, which is  extremely topical (note the impotent UN).  There is also a lot of humour  (Anil's letter to John Boorman concerning Lee Marvin's gunshot wound in the  opening of 'Point Blank').  But mostly this is a treatise on subjectivity:  a force used for ill by all those murdering in their bid to create subjects  (where 'subjects' = 'objects', the silent mass to be multiplied by fear),  and as a force used for good.  After all, it is Ananda, the artist, who  breathes life into objects by painting their eyes.	2000-05-23
US	52362742	R3HNE4E6Z4H4UI	0609603825	602895896	The Forest	Books	5	19	23	N	N	re:forestation and Rutherfurds	This is an extremely rich body of work.  I hesitate to say 'novel' since there are eight parts to this book of equal stature.  Is it then a collection of novellas?  Well, no not quite, since all of these stories  have a tendency to refer to each other.  For instance, there is the little  wooden cross that is handed down the generations of families whose paths we  follow.  Of no great monetary value in itself, this ornament, whose origin  is more or less forgotten, still signifies a great deal to whomever happens  to be wearing it at the time.  The author concentrates his attention of a  handful of fictional families, from the Albions of the gentry, to the  coarser tribe of Seagulls.  The one great thing which binds all these  families is the New Forest.  The author takes great pains to also bring the  forest alive, from the mighty oak, to the fallow deer.  Anyone who's in  love with English history will find much richness here.  What the author  has done is to realise a great empathy for the English peoples of the last  thousand years, and even beyond, if you include the Prehistory of the Saxon  Prides.  Also mentioned are modern day forest disputes, which are rooted in  the past.<br />  The prose is light and easy to follow.  The author has a  few old storyteller tricks here: such as employing loose ends.  A character  will do something in one story that will resound greatly in another.  Those who dislike such loose fragments left unresolved will be relieved to  find that this author is extremely tidy.  However, I did spot a few typos,  but these hardly spoil the impact of such great tales.  This author is also  very aware of the literary conventions concerning the historical periods of  which he writes.  You groan when the section set in Beaulieu Abbey starts  off with the murder of a monk, and suspect that Cadfael is not far behind  with his herbal remedies.  However, the author is very clever here, for he  plays delightfully with your expectations - he does not provide mere homage  to the past - he always brings something new and unique to such fictions.  The tale of 'Albion Park' is very much Jane Austen, and as the author  admits, he derived this story from something which really happened to  Austen's aunt at Bath.  The heroine, like that of 'Mansfield Park', is  called Fanny.  During the latter parts of the book, we also get a delicious  portrait of a Victorian Pre-Raphaelite artist, who is inspired by the  forest of his ancestors.  But all is not sweetness and light:  perhaps the  grimmest chapter features the plight of Alice Lisle, caught within Judge  Jeffries' notorious Assizes.  There are accounts of famous rebels, such as  Penruddock and Monmouth: the author really does bring the history alive.  He reveals how place names and surnames change over time, due to historical  events.<br />  However, there was one family that I was particularly  interested in concerning this novel, but whom I found to be only obliquely  mentioned: the Rutherfurds.  I first became intrigued because of the  peculiar spelling - trying to search for this author's surname in online  bookshop search boxes provides a variety, so much so that it's highly  tempting to believe that the internet will have impact on this ancient  name.  Rutherfurd begins his novel by going back just under a thousand  years to the murder of King William 'Rufus' (so-named because he had red  hair).  'Ruther' is also derived from the Celtic word for 'red'.  One of  the stories concerning the origins of the Rutherfurd name is that it  relates to a ford.  The Rutherfords first seem to appear around this era as  inhabitants of the Scottish borders.  There is an account of them beating  back an invading English force across a ford before the time of William  Wallace, and it's romantic to believe that the name could derive from this  incident.  Is it just a coincidence that Walter Tyrell has a ford named  after him in the New Forest (as Rutherfurd writes in the opening novella),  due to his flight after the death of Rufus?<br />  Rutherford also briefly  mentions Wallace, and the Scottish Rutherfords certainly fought for him and  Robert the Bruce against the English.  Rutherfurd writes of the protestant  dissenters:  Samuel Rutherfurd may have been one such historical ancestor.  There is also a strong branch of Rutherfurds in America, possibly related  to the Pilgrim Fathers or others like them.  Certainly the American heiress  Consuelo Vanderbilt had a distant relation to the Rutherfurds, and may even  have been in love with Winthrop Rutherfurd before she married the Duke of  Marlborough, whose Blenheim Palace is mentioned in the novel (along with, I  think I recall, a cheeky comment about the Marlboroughs marrying into the  best families).  Sir Walter Scott was related to a branch of Rutherfurds,  one of whom is mentioned in his 'The Bride of Lammermoor'.  However, all  this might be baloney or coincidence, except for one thing:  Edward  Rutherfurd keeps mentioning the Royal Navy ship, the Swiftsure, which was  at the battle of Trafalgar as part of Nelson's forces: it's captain? - Why,  none other than William Gordon Rutherfurd!  I therefore think that the  author has derived a great deal from a rich family history, as his  characters do also.pening novella),  due to his flight after the death of Rufus?<br />  Rutherford also briefly  mentions Wallace, and the Scottish Rutherfords certainly fought for him and  Robert the Bruce against the English.  Rutherfurd writes of the protestant  dissenters:  Samuel Rutherfurd may have been one such historical ancestor.   There is also a strong branch of Rutherfurds in America, possibly related  to the Pilgrim Fathers or others like them.  Certainly the American heiress  Consuelo Vanderbilt had a distant relation to the Rutherfurds, and may even  have been in love with Winthrop Rutherfurd before she married the Duke of  Marlborough, whose Blenheim Palace is mentioned in the novel (along with, I  think I recall, a cheeky comment about the Marlboroughs marrying into the  best families).  Sir Walter Scott was related to a branch of Rutherfurds,  one of whom is mentioned in his 'The Bride of Lammermoor'.  However, all  this might be baloney or coincidence, except for one thing:  Edward  Rutherfurd keeps mentioning the Royal Navy ship, the Swiftsure, which was  at the battle of Trafalgar as part of Nelson's forces: it's captain? - Why,  none other than William Gordon Rutherfurd!  I therefore think that the  author has derived a great deal from a rich family history, as his  characters do also.	2000-05-05
US	52362742	R3IJTPX09278ST	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	5	248	279	N	N	Monstropolous Ingenuity!	This is a first class debut novel, which has made the news due to the huge advance, which the author received - a six-figure number. So, the question seems to be: is White Teeth worth all that money? The answer has to be YES.<br />White Teeth is a brilliant novel, superbly confident in its execution.  It starts off in 1975, the year of the author's birth, with the attempted  suicide of Archibald Jones. Anyone who was born in 1970s Britain cannot  fail but identify with the characters and events in this book. If you can  recall the VW badge craze, then this is the book for you. However, this is  not just a novel for the younger generation, for there is at least one  extended family in White Teeth, each member of which is brought vividly to  life. There's Archibald Jones and Samed Iqbal, who first meet in a British  tank in 1945, and who then meet up again thirty years later to start the  families featured within White Teeth. There's the brilliant and comic  portrayal of the aged Hortense Bowden, an avid Jehovah's Witness, who keeps  waiting for the end of the world.<br />Zadie Smith's novel has been described  as Dickensenian, but I think there's a touch of Thackeray in there too. The  author mocks her characters, and parodies them, but she also has a lot of  compassion for them. No one, in the world of White Teeth, is beyond  redemption. Zadie Smith's characters are truly vibrant. Take Samed Iqbal  and his troubles with 'slapping the salami'. As a reader, you begin to  wonder how Zadie Smith has such insight into the male mind and universe,  because it rings so true.<br />For anyone embarking on a Cultural Studies  course, this novel is a must. Throw away your textbooks with their dry  statistics! One of White Teeth's main themes is the mix of cultures in  North London, from the Bengali Iqbals, to the archetypal Englishman Archie  Jones, to the half-Jamaican Bowdens, and a slight smattering of the Irish.  The novel maps these characters as they try to live out their years in a  world which is losing religion and tradition. Samed kidnaps one of his sons  to be brought up as a proper Bengali back home, while his other son,  Millat, flirts with girls and joins the fundamentalist Keepers of the  Eternal and Victorious Islamic Nation (KEVIN - they've got an acronym  problem).<br />History and fate are intermingled in this novel. Hortense  Bowden's apocalyptic vision of the future is indivisibly linked to the  aftershocks of her birth. Samed can't stop boring people with tales of his  illustrious ancestor, the rebellious Mangal Pande. Irie Jones seeks to  visit her family's home of Jamaica. And Joyce Chalfen sees genius in each  Chalfen portrait, whilst Joshua Chalfen literally joins up with FATE.  Archie Jones, who leaves most decisions to the flick of a coin, also finds  that History has a nasty shock in store for him. However, the future's  present here also, with Marcus Chalfen's work on genetics forming a pivotal  part of the plot.<br />Like BBC TV's 'Our Friends in the North', White Teeth  is divided up amongst a handful of years relevant to the characters. So,  you can wallow in nostalgia as you see the Berlin Wall fall down once more,  relive of the turmoil of that October 1987 storm, and remind yourself of  the Bradford protest against The Satanic Verses. Salman Rushdie's review of  White Teeth is the only bit of marketing on the front cover, and indeed,  Zadie Smith has been compared favourably with Rushdie.<br />There are quite a  few pop culture allusions scattered throughout the novel, but I doubt that  these will date, as they tend to be of the immortal kind (references to  'Taxi Driver', and 'Goodfellas'). The plot of another gangster movie,  'Miller's Crossing', seems to reflect Archie Jones' dilemma. But please  don't point any tedious accusations of theft in Zadie Smith's direction.  She has her own, extremely witty, voice as a writer, and White Teeth comes  very much from her perspective. It seems that Zadie Smithhas been writing  this novel for a very long time: witness the similarity of the characters  and story in `Mrs. Begum's Son and the Private Tutor', a story short she  wrote for the Cambridge May Anthologies in 1997.<br />There are only a few  jarring notes. Smith has a tendency to write aesthetic words such as  'monstropolous', when there's really no need to do it, other than maybe  showing off. Having said that, you try looking up `monstropolous' in any  online dictionary, and you'll have drawn a blank. But if you look up  references to the word on the net, then it points all the way to Zora Neale  Hurston's `Their Eyes were Watching God'. Hurston's writing was  rediscovered and promoted by Alice Walker in the 70s, and this tome is  credited by many for being the first novel in which Southern U.S. Blacks  are portrayed as being independent from White society. Once you consider  the provenance of `monstropolous', there can be no possible objection to  Zadie Smith's prose. What had once seemed intrusive, now has a power all  its own. If a single word could tell a story, then `monstropolous' is it.  My first impression was wrong. There are no discordant notes. The music is  sublime.e Smith has been writing  this novel for a very long time: witness the similarity of the characters  and story in `Mrs. Begum's Son and the Private Tutor', a story short she  wrote for the Cambridge May Anthologies in 1997. <br />There are only a few  jarring notes. Smith has a tendency to write aesthetic words such as  'monstropolous', when there's really no need to do it, other than maybe  showing off. Having said that, you try looking up `monstropolous' in any  online dictionary, and you'll have drawn a blank. But if you look up  references to the word on the net, then it points all the way to Zora Neale  Hurston's `Their Eyes were Watching God'. Hurston's writing was  rediscovered and promoted by Alice Walker in the 70s, and this tome is  credited by many for being the first novel in which Southern U.S. Blacks  are portrayed as being independent from White society. Once you consider  the provenance of `monstropolous', there can be no possible objection to  Zadie Smith's prose. What had once seemed intrusive, now has a power all  its own. If a single word could tell a story, then `monstropolous' is it.  My first impression was wrong. There are no discordant notes. The music is  sublime.	2000-04-25
US	52362742	RCGOXCD2R1WUU	1582340676	278851859	Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture	Books	4	7	24	N	N	We could be Zeroes...	This is a highly stimulating novel about the mathematician as artist, following the trend laid down by 'Fermat's Last Theorem'.  Moreover, it is attractive to watch artists suffering, as Petros Anargyros does here.  For Petros dares solve Goldbach's Conjecture...<br />  This Conjecture states that  &quot;EVERY EVEN NUMBER GREATER THAN TWO IS THE SUM OF TWO PRIMES&quot;.  This is an apparently simple mathematical problem, yet it has remained  unsolved for two hundred and fifty years.  The delight of this novel is  that it seems to go over all the options in layman's terms.  Doxiadis has  chosen an excellent problem, in my view, for a mathematical novel, since  Goldbach's Conjecture is a literary quandary as well as a numerical one.  Indeed, math seems to have started off in language.  I do have some  literary complaint about Doxiadis though: he makes Petros more romantic  than his successful peers, and the narrator writes his account in the style  of a math paper.  Goldbach's Conjecture may as well be a cryptic crossword  clue (very apt in the case of one of the mathematicians Doxiadis mentions),  with the answer lying in the body of the question.<br />  At first glance, it  seems very appropriate that 2 (the only even prime), is mentioned in the  conjecture.  After all, it's common sense that there can only even be one  even prime.  If there was an even prime number larger than 2, then it could  be divided by 2, and therefore it could not have been prime in the first  place.<br />  Whenever I do a review of a novel, I'm also reviewing the  novelist, trying to find out what makes them tick.  I think that it's  suitable to apply the same methods to Goldbach.  Who was he?  Why did he  use these particular words?  My task is slightly more difficult here, since  Goldbach didn't write his conjecture in English, and adapted it from the  time that he first mentioned it in a letter to Euler.  But the grammar of  the conjecture still gives us clues, and insights into his mind.  Part of  the conjecture is that &quot;EVERY EVEN NUMBER IS THE SUM OF TWO  PRIMES&quot; with 2 being an exception, since 1 isn't a prime.  This is  true for 2+2=4, 3+3=6, 5+3=8, 7+3=10, 7+5=12.  However, for even number 14,  you can have both 11+3=14, or 7+7=14.  This trend for having more than a  single set of primes creating an even number continues beyond 14.  This is  probably what lies at the heart of Goldbach's Conjecture:  he speculated  that the bigger the even number, the more likely it would be that he was  correct, since the number of chances would multiply.  In this way, it  seems, Goldbach's conjecture is very much dependent on the 'unnatural'  operation of multiplication (as Petros sees it).  He and Euler both knew  and wrote about Fermat's work on chance.  For Goldbach, this meant that he  could quite happily make his conjecture, because the chances of his being  proved wrong were so small.  However, this is too simplistic.  It is not  true to say that the higher the even number, the higher the number of pairs  of primes which constitute it.  Therefore, this is where some doubt comes  in to play, since it does not follow that the biggest even number ever  created will have the largest number of prime number pairs in its  construction.  However, there does seem to be a pattern in the allocation  of pairs.<br />  This is important, because it shows that prime numbers are  not just random occurrences.  The unwritten principle behind the  Eratosthenes' Sieve, which Petros uses, is that prime numbers are  predictable.  Petros also mentions that Euclid proved that prime numbers  are infinite.  I want to go further and say that ALL PRIME NUMBERS ARE  INFINITELY PREDICTABLE - which is probably why Doug Lenat's AM programme  found Goldbach's Conjecture so boring.<br />  This is where Kurt Godel comes  into Petros' story.  His 'Incompleteness Theorems' state that some current  mathematical problems can never be resolved, which is linked to his  'undecidability theorem'.  Much of the drama in Doxiadis' novel comes from  this disclosure.  So, many mathematicians believe Goldbach to be  unsolvable, because we are never going to be able to check every even  number.  Nevertheless, these mathematicians could take a lesson from  literature and Doxiadis.  There is left a certain element of doubt at the  end of 'Uncle Petros', but there is also definite closure.  What I'm saying  is that it is not the numbers that are uncertain:  it is we who have  doubts.  This is where the human factor comes into mathematics.  If we want  certainty in mathematics, then it is up to us to create that certainty.  Could we not create new axioms?  Do we want to be positive or negative?<br />  So, I say that Goldbach's Conjecture is true because it has been proved on  the finite stage many times.  I want to move the burden of proof away from  'we don't know whether this is true' to 'we know this to be true because it  has not been proved otherwise'.  Therefore, Goldbach's Conjecture is more  likely to be true than most conjectures made today, because it has survived  two hundred and fifty years without being disproved.  Fermat's Last Theorem  was a similarly famous problem, which Andrew Wiles proved positively after  an even longer period of time.  It is somewhat appropriate to include a  time factor here, since Goldbach was an historian, as well as a  mathematician.  Geometry may well tell us all we need to know about a three  dimensional sphere, but can it tell us how long that sphere may last?  (Is  there a math of entropy?).  Time has been an important factor in the  development of math, with some ideas lasting thousands of years, whilst  others are instantly dismissed.  Time, like math and language, is an  artificial construct, which we have created in order for us to make some  sophisticated sense of the world.  We start from the finite, and head for  infinity when we choose.ability theorem'.  Much of the drama in Doxiadis' novel comes from  this disclosure.  So, many mathematicians believe Goldbach to be  unsolvable, because we are never going to be able to check every even  number.  Nevertheless, these mathematicians could take a lesson from  literature and Doxiadis.  There is left a certain element of doubt at the  end of 'Uncle Petros', but there is also definite closure.  What I'm saying  is that it is not the numbers that are uncertain:  it is we who have  doubts.  This is where the human factor comes into mathematics.  If we want  certainty in mathematics, then it is up to us to create that certainty.   Could we not create new axioms?  Do we want to be positive or negative?<br />   So, I say that Goldbach's Conjecture is true because it has been proved on  the finite stage many times.  I want to move the burden of proof away from  'we don't know whether this is true' to 'we know this to be true because it  has not been proved otherwise'.  Therefore, Goldbach's Conjecture is more  likely to be true than most conjectures made today, because it has survived  two hundred and fifty years without being disproved.  Fermat's Last Theorem  was a similarly famous problem, which Andrew Wiles proved positively after  an even longer period of time.  It is somewhat appropriate to include a  time factor here, since Goldbach was an historian, as well as a  mathematician.  Geometry may well tell us all we need to know about a three  dimensional sphere, but can it tell us how long that sphere may last?  (Is  there a math of entropy?).  Time has been an important factor in the  development of math, with some ideas lasting thousands of years, whilst  others are instantly dismissed.  Time, like math and language, is an  artificial construct, which we have created in order for us to make some  sophisticated sense of the world.  We start from the finite, and head for  infinity when we choose.	2000-04-03
US	52362742	RJLM5D95SC6X3	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enlightening	Bernhard Schlink's novel starts slowly, but gradually pulls you in.  It is an incredibly subtle work.  The reviews on the back of the book make you all too aware that this is a Holocaust novel.  The narrator strikes out any  stereotypical images though, and conveys the various ways in which history  treats its survivors.  Displayed in 'The Reader' is the contrary, agonising  human nature of the perpetrators and their survivors.  Above all, this is a  novel about an extraordinary love affair, which is powerfully erotic.  The  characters are portrayed extremely well: their tragedies become your  tragedies.  You cannot help but feel for them, and walk around in their  shoes.  Although  this story mostly concerns death, it is highly vibrant,  with an exceptional ability to move.  It is also quite timely, for war  wages in Europe yet.  As we now see all too familiar atrocities, and wonder  how people could do such things, and how we could  let them, 'The Reader'  brings a timely message from the past of what the future might bring.  It's  the best novel I've read this year.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R28XIUFSCCEY3N	0425171698	272514083	The Victorian Internet: The Remarkable Story of the Telegraph and the Nineteenth Century's On-line Pioneers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cakes down the line	This is the pioneering story of the telegraph, an almost forgotten technology, but one which Tom Standage shows to have relevance for today. For me, telegrams are very mysterious things, glued to the hands of  bellboys, like the 'Candygram for Mongo' in 'Blazing Saddles'. In idle,  stupid moments, I wonder how all those words got sent down a piece of wire.  If I'm confused as to what comprises the telegraph, then I wouldn't have  been the first: Standage relates how one woman tried to send a cake down  the wire. The reason being that if generals can move armies by telegram,  then why cannot cakes be sent? This new technology was ridiculed and feared  in the early nineteenth century, with people such as Charles Dickens almost  regaling it with supernatural powers (see Dickens' classic 'The Signalman'  ). That was the case until a telegram from Slough to Paddington apprehended  the murderer John Tawell. Capturing Tawell, and various other vagabonds who  preyed on rail travellers, showed that the telegraph had practical uses. I  was particularly interested in the references to my home town of Slough,  since it has always been a communications centre, from the Roman builders  of the Bath Road, the stagecoach, to the railways.<br />  Standage's analogy  would seem to hold true, since a certain internet retailer has just opened  in the same town, with geographical networks still retaining import in the  invisible world of electronic commerce. But this book will appeal to  readers on a far wider level. This is an exciting tale of scientific  innovation, featuring characters such as Samuel Morse, and will delight  those who loved 'Fermat's Last Theorem' and 'Longitude'	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R1JYUDWCAJHRL8	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Baseballs	The world may have teeth, but this novel sure ain't. It's a short story pulled out so long that you begin to wonder when that rotten tooth will finally go. The heroine, Trisha McFarland, is extremely irritating. No,  make that Stephen King's writing. So determined is he to rough and tumble  Trish that she ends up seriously injured before the first 30 pages are up.  Agony after agony is prolonged in this torturous prose. I suppose it's  difficult for a European audience to appreciate this book, since we're not  used to wilderness on an American scale. Neither are we used to baseball. I  was very surprised to learn that the Red Sox play games nearly every night  (I suppose it's closer to cricket than soccer in this way). Even more  astonishing is that Tom Gordon is a real baseball player (according to the  book). I bet his socks are even redder now. Due to King's predilection for  writing about writers, I had expected something more on the lines of King's  recent trip to England, i.e. famous novelist faces his worst nightmare by  being hit in the googlies at Lord's.<br />It's clear quite soon that this  isn't meant to be taken as a horror novel, but even so, I was surprised how  flat a novel by such a highly paid writer could be. Perhaps a little more  mustard could beef up the next bap.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R1ADN3KOLI59GQ	0375703314	831736355	The Last King of Scotland	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Excellent debut	This is an exciting debut novel. It is the story of one Nicholas Garrigan, a young Scottish doctor who is assigned to be the personal physician to Uganda's famous dictator, Idi Amin. Yet the young doctor discovers, to his  own cost, that one can never be totally removed from the wild excesses of  others...  I read the first half of this novel breathlessly. The  depiction of Uganda is intriguing. Perhaps this is due to morbid  fascination: most people will be aware of Amin's bloody history. The  knowledge that everything  will go wrong draws you further into this book.  Foden presents a compelling portrait of Amin, even to the extent of making  him likeable. For instance, there is Amin's eccentric love of all things  Scottish, and the peculiar messages he sends to other heads of state.  But  there is always a palpable fear for Garrigan whenever he's in Amin's  presence. Amin is dangerous, for Garrigan never knows what he's going to do  next, and how he will become embroiled in his bloody vengeance... I found  the resolution to be quite disappointing. In his bid to escape Uganda,  Garrigan literally stumbles across the worse excesses of Amin's regime,  almost tripping over a pile of corpses. This is the only part of the novel  where Foden's otherwise excellent research overwhelms. Uganda's bloody  history is already well known, and it would have been far more effective  for Garrigan to have remained in ignorance about the worst excesses.  Garrigan becomes a mere cipher in Foden's bid to depict the downfall of  Amin. But this is only really disappointing in contrast to the excellent  first part. Overall, it well deserves its critical success.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R2BFTEISMEHE88	1582340269	927504401	The Ventriloquist's Tale	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A handful of Lust	An Englishwoman arrives in Guyana to do some research on the travels of Evelyn Waugh in the region. She encounters Chofy, an Amerindian whose family gave Waugh shelter. Yet the truth is hard to discern, hidden by an  epic story of forbidden love... 'The Ventriloquist's Tale' won the  Whitbread First Novel Award, and was shortlisted for the Orange Prize. It's  not difficult to see why, since this is a stunning read. Of the several  excellent novels I have read this year, this one stands out as being the  most consistent. It promises to deliver much, and does not fail to meet  these high expectations. Pauline Melville has produced a highly brilliant  debut novel.  As befitting a tale by a ventriloquist, many voices are  imitated, but imitated is too poor a word, for each voice is vibrant,  alive, and wholly convincing. I read the novel mostly in one day, and I now  feel bereft that I have finished it, and a poor wordsmith in comparison  with Melville. It seems contrary, but my block has been caused by the  mighty flowing narrative of this novel, the tides of which turn this way  and that, in such a way that it is hard to describe, except to say that it  is beautiful. This is the novel at its best: 'The Ventriloquist's Tale'  could not work in any other medium, not least because it contains so many  rich stories	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R14L8C53SRVNTG	0140282033	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Chocolat is good for you	If you're caught in a bit of twix, with nothing to read, then may I suggest this excellent bounty?  It is produced, not by Mars of Slough, but Joanne Harris of Barnsley, a chef who excels in the art of couverture  chocolate.  Step into her boutique, 'La Celeste Praline', and you'll be  caught unawares by her classy wares.  Chocolat is a novel of great  sweetness, perfect for those who like their confictionary to be well  milked.  For readers with richer palates, however, Harris has also produced  an intoxicating blend of dark chocolate, which is - dare we say it -  extremely 'topic'al.  If you're looking for a few delightful snickers, and  not a lengthy marathon, then this is the novel for you.  It's certainly  richer and more exquisite than the most popular currency of chocolate  bars.<br />  Vianne Rocher arrives in the French village of Lansquenet during  its carnival, a feast before the fast of Lent.  With her is daughter Anouk  (who seems to be named after a chocolate treat), and Anouk's companion, the  mysterious Pantoufle.  Joanne Harris tends to write a lot about alchemy in  connection with cooking (see her excellent new novel, 'Blackberry Wine'),  but Vianne Rocher would seem to have more than culinary skills at her  disposal...  This is especially apparent, though, in her delicious meeting  with Armande Voizin, to which there is more than meets the eye.  'Pantoufle' refers to Charles Perrault's fairy tale of Cinderella, and as  such, could be a subtle hint as to Vianne's true identity...  It would seem  appropriate here to compare Harris' work with that of Kate Atkinson,  especially with regards to her new book, Emotionally Weird.  Atkinson says  that she has been trying to write a fiction with all the richness of Lewis  Carroll's Alice in Wonderland.  But it seems to me that Joanne Harris is  more adept at writing fairy tales - her characterisation is stronger,  certainly.  Whilst Atkinson plays with words, Harris plays with thoughts  and emotions.  Chocolat is full of magic and fairy tales, from the  realisation of a true Gingerbread house, to Vianne's use of Pagan cards and  charms.<br />  It is holy appropriate then, that the conflict and drama within  this novel stems from the masculine Church's opposition to Vianne Rocher  and her culinary work.  It even seems that that Joanne Harris could be  engaging on a narrative in which God the Father and Mother Earth are the  main combatants, featuring their eternal struggle as man and wife.  Father  Reynaud is the country priest who sees danger in Vianne's shop, and the  novel is narrated in the first person by both of these antagonists.  Reynaud relates his tale to the mysterious pere, whilst Vianne muses  greatly on her long lost mother, with both 'parent' appearing to be flawed  in some way.  However, this struggle between the masculine and the feminine  does not become too abstract, since Josephine Muscat has to bear the  bruises in her role as battered wife.  Chocolat has its fair share of  romance, but also contains a swift punch of brutal reality.<br />  Like  Blackberry Wine, Joanne Harris has decided to serve some home truths, along  with the after dinner mints.  The novel deals with thorny issue of  immigration, currently a hot potato in Britain, and the problems of a  population which is growing ever older.  The Pope's recent apologies for  the crimes of Roman Catholicism also resound within.  These issues may be  set in the exotic French countryside, but they still have relevance to us.  Okay, so the richness of the carnivalesque and the mystique of magic  realism have been added to the mixture, but their presence only serves to  add depth, and never confusion.  Vianne has a reluctance to see her fate in  the stars, but this novel has won near universal admiration and is soon to  be made into a film.  It's a fiction which works on so many different  layers, but like a particularly rich cake, there is something within it for  everyone.  The author uses simplewords in her prose, but the combination  of these coarse ingredients is explosive. Harris certainly knows how to  play on our heartstrings, to make us feel for her characters.<br />  Current  medical advice would certainly indicate that Chocolat could play a powerful  part in reducing stress and lowering cholesterol.  It's potent mixture: a  benign, yet provoking stimulant which melts on the tongue.  As for its  aphrodisiac qualities, well, I can hardly say...  But the only  disappointment to be had from Chocolat is that it has to end.ple words in her prose, but the combination  of these coarse ingredients is explosive. Harris certainly knows how to  play on our heartstrings, to make us feel for her characters.<br />    Current  medical advice would certainly indicate that Chocolat could play a powerful  part in reducing stress and lowering cholesterol.  It's potent mixture: a  benign, yet provoking stimulant which melts on the tongue.  As for its  aphrodisiac qualities, well, I can hardly say...  But the only  disappointment to be had from Chocolat is that it has to end.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R1QT2BJZINJSX2	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Feline humor	There are some nasty rumours going around that Patricia Cornwell has written a bad book. However, I read 'Hornet's Nest' at an extremely rapid rate, which was not entirely due to a tight deadline. Admittedly, I had  only read one previous Cornwell novel, 'Cruel and Unusual', and that was a  tightly plotted thriller.<br />'Hornet's Nest' isn't, and is all the better  for it. I can only think that the negative reactions have been caused by  Cornwell usurping expectations. She has reached the stage of her career at  which she can only feel shackled by genre. There are a number of  revelations here. The most obvious is that Cornwell is funny - funny in the  Pratchett way of making you laugh out loud in otherwise silent staff rooms.  What Cornwell achieves here is to effectively convey the irrational  thoughts which go through everyone's mind. So, there is no forensic  approach to the solving of the crime. In fact, I would go as far as to say  that Cornwell has gone some way to writing an entertaining literary novel,  rather than a conventional crime thriller. The only character who knows  exactly what's going on is the Deputy Police Chief's cat. In short,  Cornwell's 'Hornet's Nest' is nothing but cool. Read it, and you'll be  pleasantly surprised, if more than a little embarrassed by laughing on the  tube.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R3M987TSYFSZ3D	0140274782	38246072	Wobegon Boy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Lutheran humor	This a brilliant comic novel, featuring the adventures of John Tollefson. He has escaped Lutheran Minnesota to live in upstate New York, where he has taken the job of a local radio station manager. In between return visits to  the mythical Wobegon, John romances historian Alida Freeman and embarks on  a disastrous business venture with a New Age builder. And that's the plot,  such as it is. There isn't a strong narrative thread running throughout  this book, and I think that this is one of its strengths. Like many  people's lives, John Tollefson's doesn't run to order. This might make for  a very incoherent novel, but Keillor carries this off exceptionally well.  The humour and wit are exceptional, and make 'Wobegon Boy' a huge pleasure  to read. I was sorely disappointed that the book actually had to end, since  it had easily put me into a very buoyant mood. Exceptional.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R3VFECKOHRQ0HK	1901530086	91215747	The Engineer	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Rising Star	This is an astonishing collection of stories.  Before I read Neal Asher, I thought that there was very little that you could do to reinvigorate the short story, but Asher manages to do this with the greatest of ease.  'The  Engineer' contains some of the best SF that I have ever read, far  surpassing my first expectations.  For I have read Asher before...  As an  editorial assistant for Story Cellar, I always found Neal Asher's work to  be very distinctive.  He put a lot of imagination and style into his work,  and so he stood out from the majority of the entrants.  Neal Asher is a  name which crops up everywhere, consistently winning or being highly placed  in competitions.  Like everyone, he has his bad days, but fortunately for  us these are very few.  His is a name to be bargained with, a player from  the lower divisions who deserves to play in the premier league. Neal Asher  is one of the reason's for Genre's existence: to bring talented writers  some of the recognition which they deserve.  In 'The Engineer', Neal's  talent is allowed to run free, without being restricted by prohibitive word  limits.  To say that Neal should be read far wider is a truism,  although  he has had quite a few prominent reviews. For instance, 'The Engineer' has  always been highly rated by SFX magazine, even making it into their  Christmas recommendations one year.  'The Engineer' is the main story of  the collection, although running at 90 pages, it is more like a novella.  One of the great things that I like about Neal's work is that it is very  economical.  There is no padding anywhere.  Other young writers in this  field are often stretched by having to spread their tales over the space of  70,000 words or more.  The engineer of the title is the last surviving  member of an alien race  called the Jain whose hegemony had been in the  sphere of genetics.  Various human factions battle over the discovery, to  take advantage of its knowledge and technology for their own ends.  But how  far have the Jain already influenced the development of humanity?  Asher  writes a more immediate and terrifying sea yarn in 'Jable Sharks'  (previously published in Story Cellar).  Artificial Intelligence and  networks are just ordinary phenomena in the gruesome house of Asher, with  the most fantastic part of his writing being the evocation of some of the  most frightening  creatures and ecosystems imaginable, including the giant  leeches in 'Spatterjay'.  These are tales which head straight for the pit  of your stomach, whilst subtly toying with your brain stem.ut how  far have the Jain already influenced the development of humanity?   Asher  writes a more immediate and terrifying sea yarn in 'Jable Sharks'  (previously published in Story Cellar).  Artificial Intelligence and  networks are just ordinary phenomena in the gruesome house of Asher, with  the most fantastic part of his writing being the evocation of some of the  most frightening  creatures and ecosystems imaginable, including the giant  leeches in 'Spatterjay'.  These are tales which head straight for the pit  of your stomach, whilst subtly toying with your brain stem.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	RJ7GDFOSBR90O	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Amsterdamned	When Molly Lane dies, her lovers gather at her funeral. Vernon Halliday is editor of the broadsheet newspaper The Judge and his best friend is Clive Linley, composer extraordinaire, commissioned to write a piece to mark the  Millennium. Together, Vernon and Clive loathe Molly's husband, George. Also  present is another of Molly's lovers, Julian Garmony, who just happens to  be Foreign Secretary. Their lives are thrown into collision when it emerges  that there are some rather embarrassing pictures of Garmony, taken by  Molly. Should Vernon publish them despite Clive's protestations that to do  so would spurn Molly's memory? And have they both become too preoccupied in  their work?<br />'Amsterdam' won Britain's 1998 Booker Prize, despite many  critics preferring McEwan's previous novel ('Enduring Love'). True enough,  'Amsterdam' starts very slowly, and seems dull by comparison. Vernon's  career as an editor seems quite unconvincing, and could have done with more  research. But McEwan has made all the chilli sink to the bottom... The end  of the novel is delicious, and very unexpected. It may seem silly, but this  is due to the large dose of Waughian black comedy. How truly do we regard  our friends? Both Clive and Vernon seem like Frankensteins, unaware of the  monsters they create in their work. So, did it deserve to win the Booker?  The answer is undoubtedly NO. The CWA Gold Dagger would have been a more  suitable award...	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R367JKK6H3RRZE	0446674168	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Doggy Style	This is the tale of a breed of genetically engineered dogs, who converge on 21st century New York. With the help of voice boxes and prosthetic limbs, these dogs walk and talk. Soon, the whole world becomes obsessed by  these monsters: where have they come from? And who made them? The dogs seem  determined to have a good time, but that may be because time is running out  for them...  'Monster Dogs' is a brilliant first novel. Kirsten Bakis tells  her story in a whole range of invigorating styles, and well deserved its  nomination for the Orange Prize. Even cat lovers will be forced to tears by  the tragic ending.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R9G18HUQ793NX	1859989748	8136611	The Talk of the Town	Books	4	4	5	N	N	True to its title	This is Ardal O'Hanlon's debut novel. I say debut, because I hope that it is not the last that he writes. O'Hanlon's talents stretch far beyond the playing of Father Dougal Macguire in Channel 4's cult comedy, Father Ted.  As befitting the novel of a comedian, this is a highly humorous read.  However, this is black, cynical comedy of the highest order. Unlike Father  Dougal, there's nothing dim or cute about this book, which plumbs the  depths of darkest despair. It is the story of Patrick Scully, a young  Irishman in early Eighties Dublin, and of his mounting rage at the  incomprehensible world which springs up around him. The novel benefits a  great deal from the structure that O'Hanlon has created. Part of the novel  derives from the diary of Francesca, Scully's girlfriend, and provides a  powerful insight into how Scully is seen by others. Here, Scully is truly  from Mars, and Francesca from Venus, and their stormy relationship could  fuel any number of Self-help books. I was particularly impressed by the  portrayal of Francesca, whom O'Hanlon imbues with a real depth of  character. There are a few moments of caricature, namely Scully's mother,  but even she has a certain amount of truth. &quot;The Talk of the  Town&quot; is one of the best reads I've had this year, and the novel  certainly lives up to its name.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	RQ58LCX4QTGV8	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enduring Power	To my shame, I must confess that I've never read any Ian McEwan before I came across this novel. McEwan, of course, has now won Britain's Booker Prize for AMSTERDAM, but many thought he should won this leading book prize  with ENDURING LOVE. From the balloon on the cover my mind had conjured up a  story of magical realism, set in the Italian renaissance along with the  many weird works of Leonardi Da Vinci. I was wrong. The novel is far more  down to earth than that - literally. The novel's narrator is Joe Rose,  who's enjoying a day out in the British countryside when something unreal  happens. A balloon flight has got into trouble, due to some fierce winds,  and Joe is one of the men who runs to the rescue of the boy trapped in the  balloon basket. Unfortunately, one of the rescuers is killed, driving Joe  into a state of shock and guilt. This is bad enough, but then Joe becomes  convinced that one of the other rescuers from that day is stalking him...  This is a highly intriguing read which I cannot recommend highly enough.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R1X44PLDJTPHPS	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fear in a handful of stars	After hearing alien songs via radio telescope, a Jesuit priest, Emilio Sandoz, decides to mount an expedition. With his friends and colleagues having all the skills necessary to make this dangerous journey, Sandoz  believes that they could only be going via the grace of God. Never has he  been so much in love with God... Four decades later, Sandoz returns from  the alien planet, Rakhat. His hands are mutilated and he is a broken man.  He has become a murderer, and all his friends are dead. The Jesuit Order  shields him, whilst they attempt to find out what really happened. But are  they ready for the shocking truth? 'The Sparrow' is an excellent SF novel,  with a seriously enthralling theological slant. In some ways, it's  reminiscent of Ray Bradbury, with his stories of priests finding Jesus on  Mars, and of the quest for God on alien planets. Sometimes the tone seems  too middle American, too homey, too comforting. A novel written by an  American mother, like that of Russell's iconic author photo. But this  comfort powerfully contrasts with the shocking resolution...	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R5HYY3VN87V7Y	0786705639	722586933	Master Georgie (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Crime of Crimea	At first, I was going to tick Beryl Bainbridge off for writing too well, too literary.  I thought it nonsense that an illiterate girl in nineteenth century Liverpool could never write such exquisite prose as evidenced in  this novel, and that this was a case of the authorial voice being too  strong.  As it happened, I couldn't have been more wrong.  This novel is  narrated by the close acquaintances of 'Master Georgie' (although some are  closer than others), starting with the illiterate Myrtle.  Immediately we  are drawn into the action, as this sequence of a photograph being taken  will resound throughout the novel.  'Master Georgie' is incredibly subtle,  and it is only by looking back over it that you begin to appreciate that  this is the most suitable of beginnings.  Here is where Myrtle begins on  her road to becoming a lady.  And what an unsavory road it is, as Myrtle's  help is initially required to cover up the manner in which George Hardy's  father has died, and leads to the bloody battlefields of the Crimea.  Also  assisting with the cover-up is the duck-boy and street urchin, Pompey Jones  and the pompous Dr. Potter, whose narrations are by far the best.  George  Hardy himself is an ambiguous figure, seen only through the eyes of others.  It may be a fault that we never really get to know him.  This is a novel  of cameras, carnality, and carnage.  The dreadful shadow of history is cast  upon it, with the famous charge of the Light Brigade lightly alluded to.  One almost expects to run into a lady with a lamp at every corner, but  fortunately, Bainbridge avoids this excess.  She takes events frozen in  time, such as the front cover's photograph, and brings them into life and  death, and maybe even beyond.  The camera never lies... Or does it?  Bainbridge fervently burrows into the psyche of characters, enabling them  to bring about apparitions vivid enough to be captured by film.  In my  mind's eye, I see Bainbridge pouring over ancient photographs from the  Crimea, trying to put names to faces and to see if she could walk around in  their bloody shoes.  She succeeds.  If I'd have been on 1998's Booker  panel, I know I would have placed Bainbridge before McEwan.  And the reason  wouldn't have the desire to give her a consolatory, but demeaning, long  service award.  In this instance, 'Master Georgie' speaks for itself.from the  Crimea, trying to put names to faces and to see if she could walk around in  their bloody shoes.  She succeeds.  If I'd have been on 1998's Booker  panel, I know I would have placed Bainbridge before McEwan.  And the reason  wouldn't have the desire to give her a consolatory, but demeaning, long  service award.  In this instance, 'Master Georgie' speaks for itself.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	RGL10TLE36N74	0786706589	102554068	Leading the Cheers: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The prodigal returns	Dan Silas spent his formative years in Hollybush, Michigan.  Now resident in a committee run London executive estate, he finds his past calling back to him.  Dan is to be a speaker at his high school reunion, thirty years  after he's left.  Called to speak because he's become something of a  success in his home country, and because he's practically the only one of  his high school chums to have really left.  In the middle of a separation  which hurts him less than it should, Dan's return to Hollybush makes him  realise a few certain truths.  Features of this introspection are the  encroaching insanity of his friend, who has gone native under the name of  Gary Pale Eagle, a sexual encounter in Jefferson's bed, and the revelation  that he had a daughter, brutally murdered by a serial killer.<br />  This is a  very American novel.  All aspects of American and western life come under a  subtle but penetrating gaze.  There is a discourse on Emerson's notion of  self running throughout this novel.  Cartwright, born a South African,  presents an extremely vivid portrait of a contemporary English man.  What  better device than to set such a character out into America?  Accent is  very relevant to this novel, and accent is strong and flowing, mutable, a  metaphor for self.  Devastating declarations arise, and you feel horror on  behalf of the narrator, who declines to comment, since such things are  deigned to be self evident.  Deprecating humour abounds too.  Sometimes,  'Leading the Cheers' feels like the Coen Brothers' Fargo.  A homely  portrait of American life with engaging characters, mixed with pure horror.  It all rings so true, despite the fact that it's mere composition.  I've  earflapped the pages which speak to me, so that I can find my way back to  them in the future.  Quite appropriately, it also involves the narrative  tracking of a journey, with Gary Pale Eagle willing to steal for clues.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	RJWUYOFM50SCS	0312969139	439791632	The Hanging Garden (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Punk rocks	Any novel named after a Cure song must be good. Amongst Ian Rankin's previous jobs was a stint as a punk musician, so this choice of title is quite appropriate for that reason. The title also refers to the Hanging  Gardens of Babylon. However, Rankin's main character, Detective Inspector  John Rebus, does not himself appear to be an article of antiquity or an  early 80s throwback (much the same thing). Rebus works in the gritty city  of Edinburgh (see Irving Welsh's FILTH). With crime boss Big Ger Cafferty  in gaol, a vacuum has opened up in Edinburgh's underworld. Tommy Telford is  the man moving in on Cafferty's patch. Rebus' bosses are intent that he  should not get involved, and so assign him to a war crimes case involving  an elderly Nazi. But then Rebus' daughter is knocked down in a suspect hit  and run. Is someone gunning out after Rebus? And what will Rebus do when he  discovers the identity of the driver? This is a well crafted, subtle novel  on the theme of revenge, with repercussions from the Second World War to  the modern Chechen conflict. And Ian Rankin is not a one to provide easy  answers. This is a novel which will certainly have you searching your own  soul. It's also the best British crime novel I've read this year, and was  the winner of the 1997 CWA Gold Dagger for fiction.	2000-03-21
US	52362742	R33WV4RZTTMA3V	0563555750	615534974	Corpse Marker (Dr. Who Series)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Disappointingly familiar	In the mid to late 70s, Chris Boucher began a successful writing career by producing two Doctor Who serials broadcast back to back, The Face of Evil and the Robots of Death.  The latter wasn't wasn't universally liked by Doctor Who fans, and Terrance Dicks could only manage a rather flat  novelisation of it.  However, The Robots of Death was exciting at the time  (and still is, IMHO), and this was probably to do with the Jim Acheson's  design of those creepy mechanical men.  At a time when Star Wars'  stormtroopers were bursting onto our screens, Acheson's robot design was  comparable in excellence, and done on a miniscule budget (if you look  closely enough, you can see that the robots' gloves are just Marigolds  painted silver and that the corpse markers are bicycle reflectors).  Acheson went onto to win a couple of Oscars, so it may be no coincidence  that his time on Doctor Who is considered to be its golden age.  Chris  Boucher was another of that talented team.  So successful was his work on  Doctor Who that he became script editor of Terry Nation's Blakes 7.  However, it's still a bit of a surprise to find that the first speaking  character in Corpse Marker originates from Blakes 7, and not Doctor Who.  By doing this, Boucher has explicitly stated that both these narratives  operate within the same universe.  In this way, Chris Boucher has  produced a typical script editor novel.  Like Terrance Dicks and his  vampires, Boucher seems determined to bung in all his past successes.  All  he has produced though, as the Doctor says here, is something  &quot;disappointingly familiar&quot;.  In Corpse Marker, Carnell has  escaped from the Federation and settled in Kaldor City, hiring his services  out to all and sundry.  It's worthwhile reviewing the Blakes 7 episode in  which he appeared ('Weapon') and the Robots of Death in order to understand  what exactly is going on here.  For instance, the three survivors from  Robots make very early appearances: Captain Uvanov, Pilot Toos, and Mover  Poul.  Uvanov and Toos have moved up the Company ladder, and Poul is just  as hysterical as he ever was.  In The Robots of Death, Poul announced his  desire to return to Kaldor City, as he wished to live with humans, rather  than robots.  However, there are robots in Kaldor, performing the menial  tasks laid out for them by their human masters.  The Robots of Death was  typical of Doctor Who stories vetted by script editor Robert Holmes at the  time, in that it was a hybrid of many different tales.  There was the  Agatha Christie murder plot, stealings from Frank Herbert's Dune (the  sandminers here search for lucanol rather than melange), and Asimov's Robot  stories.  And there seemed to be an ongoing postcolonial gothic running  through out many of them.  In The Robots of Death, Taren Capel, brought up  by robots, created a robot rebellion to free them from slavery.  The fact  that he's a bit mixed up was brilliantly conveyed by Acheson clothing him  in a Ku Klux Klan hood (which also served to hide the true identity of the  villain).  The robots in Corpse Marker are also slaves.  Bizarrely, the  main form of transport in Kaldor City is not some form of automobile, but a  robot pulling a kind of Asian rickshaw.  This is something which Boucher  has obviously drawn out from the original serial, as Acheson's robot design  had Asian features and the decor of the Sandminer had elements of the  traditional Japanese home (screen prints for doors).  The crew of the  Sandminer were of different Terran races, but the hierarchy there was based  on family (the twenty Founding Families), rather than race.  Since so much  of the decor is Asian however, it does suggests that this is the most  powerful influence, and that the collapse of American hegemony is  inevitable.  One might argue that there is a strong capitalist motive  throughout Kaldor City, but this is hardly synonymous with the West.  Much  of Boucher's drama comes from exploiting the tensions within this  hierarchy.  The robots themselves never truly seem to be much of a danger.  They were always more of a visual threat, creepy because what they said was  often quite banal.  Camera trickery in the Robots of Death let you see the  Robots' victims from their mechanical point of view, in what now seems a  quite perverse way (reminiscent of the controversial film Peeping Tom).  On  the page, however, the robots are very flat and because they don't have  personalities, they're very difficult to write about, as Terrance Dicks  discovered in his novelization of Robots.  Boucher creates new robots and  a new Karel Capek robot revolution to go with them.  And how has Taren  Capel returned from the dead?  And that's just about as exciting as it  gets.  Watching Weapon and Robots of Death in comparison with Corpse Marker  reveals some of Boucher's disturbing traits.  Characters who do wrong in  his scripts are often warned pitilessly that they'll go to the pits:  the  pit of the Horda in Face of Evil, the slave pits of Ursa Prime in Weapon,  and the Sewer pits in Corpse Marker.  Each of these stories has an  invisible barrier which restricts movement (like IMIPAK in Weapon), a  quasi-religious cult, and scientists with a tendency to run off and hide  with important bits of information.  The author also seems to have lost a  lot of his discipline as a script editor: the ending is horribly rushed.  The only character who really seems alive at times is Leela, but then  Boucher was the writer who originally created her.  Chris Boucher almost  seems to be complicit in presenting his work as every bit formulaic as that  of Terry Nation and Terrance Dicks.  In Robots, Leela asks about the  TARDIS' magic, and anticipates the Doctor's reply by acknowledging that  there's no such thing as magic.  But Chris Boucher's work once had magic:  where has it gone?e tensions within this  hierarchy.  The robots themselves never truly seem to be much of a danger.   They were always more of a visual threat, creepy because what they said was  often quite banal.  Camera trickery in the Robots of Death let you see the  Robots' victims from their mechanical point of view, in what now seems a  quite perverse way (reminiscent of the controversial film Peeping Tom).  On  the page, however, the robots are very flat and because they don't have  personalities, they're very difficult to write about, as Terrance Dicks  discovered in his novelization of Robots.   Boucher creates new robots and  a new Karel Capek robot revolution to go with them.  And how has Taren  Capel returned from the dead?   And that's just about as exciting as it  gets.  Watching Weapon and Robots of Death in comparison with Corpse Marker  reveals some of Boucher's disturbing traits.  Characters who do wrong in  his scripts are often warned pitilessly that they'll go to the pits:  the  pit of the Horda in Face of Evil, the slave pits of Ursa Prime in Weapon,  and the Sewer pits in Corpse Marker.  Each of these stories has an  invisible barrier which restricts movement (like IMIPAK in Weapon), a  quasi-religious cult, and scientists with a tendency to run off and hide  with important bits of information.  The author also seems to have lost a  lot of his discipline as a script editor: the ending is horribly rushed.   The only character who really seems alive at times is Leela, but then  Boucher was the writer who originally created her.  Chris Boucher almost  seems to be complicit in presenting his work as every bit formulaic as that  of Terry Nation and Terrance Dicks.  In Robots, Leela asks about the  TARDIS' magic, and anticipates the Doctor's reply by acknowledging that  there's no such thing as magic.  But Chris Boucher's work once had magic:  where has it gone?	1999-11-15
US	52362742	R3L35N1SVRXFIS	0563555769	180905498	Unnatural History (Doctor Who Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Naughty but nice	Halfway through this book, I thought that I was going to give it three stars out of five, instead of the hundred percent the opening merited. Jonathan Blum has recently criticised Christopher Bulis for using stock SF  ideas, but then the plot of 'Unnatural History' seemed to resolve around  one of these stocks formulas. However, it's how you employ this gravy which  matters, how you twist it to create an original slant, and Jon and Kate  have succeeded in doing this by creating a thrill-a-minute  resolution.<br />Two years after the millennium, a scar has opened up in  space/time in San Francisco. The Doctor did something unethical in a  previous visit, and now he has to clear up the pieces. Unfortunately, the  scar has attracted all sorts of alien flotsam, including a certain Miss  Jones, who is sucked into the scar. In order to stabilise the scar, the  Doctor plugs it with the TARDIS. Sam Jones may be gone, but why is she also  living in London? Where has this alternate Sam come from and what is she to  do with the scar? The Doctor must find out, and release the TARDIS, but  there's something nasty in Golden Gate Bay and old enemies appear to stand  in his way. They're the sort of people who revel in chaos, but the Doctor's  biggest concern is someone with a more rational mind...<br />A lot of  delicious ingredients have gone into this pudding, along with a few juicy  one-liner sultanas, but the mixture never gets too rich to be unpalatable.  There seems to be a lot more continuity operating in the BBC books  nowadays, and there have been subtle hints in previous books about a  particular danger of time travel. There are also teasers which make you  hungry for more. For instance, Kate and Jon seem to address the vexed  question of whether Benny exists in the BBC universe. The extracts from  Eldin Sanchez's 'Interesting Times' are also well thought out and  provocative. And, much more importantly, 'Unnatural History' is far more  entertaining than Kate and Jon's previous San Francisco outing, 'Vampire  Science'. Don't gorge yourself all at once.evious San Francisco outing, 'Vampire  Science'. Don't gorge yourself all at once.	1999-06-13
US	52362742	RTMA67L1IEK8G	0426205324	130800229	Dead Romance (New Adventures)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stars in their eyes...	According to Christine Summerfield, the 'world ended on 12 October, 1970'. This is the first of many conundrums in Lawrence Miles' fascinating novel in the New Adventures series. Immediately we are led to question the main  narrator, a technique the author has used before, but never to such  devastating effect. We are forced to witness the barbaric destruction of a  whole culture - 'our' culture. Lawrence Miles uses the form of a pulp novel  to dismantle the very conception of reality. All the motifs of the New  Adventures are here: from Jack the Ripper who threatens Christine's life,  to the mysterious race of time travellers, but nothing is quite what it  seems. 'Dead Romance' sees the return of Chris Cwej, who appears to be  working for the time travellers, who are in trouble. They find their power  base usurped by sudden re-emergence of the incomprehensible and unknowable  'Gods'. Christine must help Cwej in his bid to build an escape route for  the benevolent time travellers, via an entire universe entrapped within a  bottle. However, the owners of the bottle don't want their space to be  corrupted, and something much more horrifying has followed Chris in...  'Dead Romance' is a witty, macabre work by a novelist at the height of his  powers.	1999-06-07
US	52362742	RHF9MVOAOCBWY	0563555734	781538083	Players (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Better work from Dicks	This is Terrance Dicks' best novel for some time. As usual, the author has returned to some of his favourite stomping grounds, including a flashback for the Second Doctor in World War One. The Sixth Doctor and Peri arrive in  South Africa just an assassin takes a pot shot at the young Winston  Churchill. Having saved Churchill's life, the Doctor believes that more  sinister forces are at work, manipulating the actions of the Boers.  Hindsight is the Doctor's greatest ally and his greatest fear: how much  must he interfere to insure Churchill's future? Events come to the fore in  the 1930s, spurred on by the intrigues of the Nazis, accompanied by the  mysterious assassin... This is an excellent adventure story, very much in  the mould of Indiana Jones or even Colonel Blimp. Familiar faces from the  past reappear to aid the Doctor,and the 'Players' may turn out to be very  old enemies indeed... Despite believing the Doctor to be an archetypal  character, Dicks has got the Sixth Doctor exactly right here. This may even  be the Sixth Doctor at his best, and it's a pity that it's never going to  be on TV, for Dicks allows the Doctor to ditch that dreadful coat, to be  replaced by a costume that Colin Baker might have preferred. 'Players'  surpasses 'Exodus': although it employs real life characters from the same  period, its overall slant is contrary to the earlier book and far more  tasteful. I gave this a high mark because I didn't expect to enjoy it, but  I did. However, Terrance Dicks could win higher marks if only he tried to  do something a bit more original.	1999-06-06
US	52362742	R3FEVFPD45Z1	0563405902	25747396	Vanderdeken's Children (Doctor Who Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent space thriller	This is a very clever book, which certainly gets the brain cells working.  The Doctor and sam arrive in the TARDIS just as an alien spaceship is being  discovered by a leisure cruiser from Emindar and a warship from Nimos.  Posing as a Federation Moderator, the Doctor cannot but help get involved.  Who built the Alien ship, and for what purpose?  And just how far will it  affect the future of Emindar and Nimos, two planets already itching to go  to war? The Doctor is surprised at how easy it seems to unlock the alien  ship's secrets, but unlocking the destiny of him and his companions is  going to be far more difficult, especially when there are mad ghostlike  creatures determined to stop them... This is the first novel by Christopher  Bulis that I've read, but I've no doubt that I'll be hunting down his  others.  The Doctor and Sam were particularly drawn well.	1998-09-27
US	52362742	R27Q093Y7TU2KT	0563405775	73444925	Doctor Who: Alien Bodies	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Best  Doctor Who book ever!	This is one of the most intriguing novels that I have read in any form.  It does help to have more than just a passing interest in Doctor Who to understand the complex story, but I do believe the plot and prose will reward even those who have never  read a Doctor Who novel before.  The story really  is delightful, with one huge central twist which I won't reveal here.  The villain of the piece could hardly be described as melodramatic, or power hungry, he's just out for a fast buck as he auctions 'The Relic'.  With an absorbing cast  of bidders, this book never disappoints. 'Alien Bodies' is longer  than most Doctor Who novels, but I'd be very much surprised if anyone could find a wasted word. Kevin from Ottakars, Slough, U.K.	1998-02-08
