US	52362608	R32VG70DXPM4YN	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	1	67	80	N	N	Oh for a a zero-star option!	Out of boredom or desperation, I picked up this heinous &quot;romantic romp&quot; of a &quot;novel,&quot; and I rue the day I did.  The book is not only offensive -- as many past reviewers have noted, with its self-loathing &quot;lovable&quot; heroine who is pretty much depicted as The Fattest Girl of All Time, and thus unworthy of love and success -- but intellectually lazy and bland.  The author could not be troubled to come up with a better plot than &quot;lose weight, get a man,&quot; her prose style is as unexciting and dull as her characters, and the total effect is something akin to a sharp stick to the eye.<br />Comparing this book to the others in the so-called &quot;chicklit&quot; genre, it becomes obvious that the form, while it has real constraints, does offer opportunity to create likable protagonists and zippy prose.  (The success of the Bridget Jones books was not mysterious -- they were fun books with a protagonist whose flaws and merits went beyond her dress size, and the narrative voice was energetic and full of humor.)  However, Jane Green is not among those who can succeed in either vein.  This book is spectacularly devoid of any merit in terms of content -- though I will grant that I think the cover art for the paperback is well-framed and stylish.<br />If you hate women, if you make air-quotes around the word &quot;feminist,&quot; if you are a woman who reads &quot;Maxim&quot; magazine, or if you just completely lack any sort of ability to read discriminatingly and will pick up whatever mindless pap darkens the post-Harlequinn Romance publishing world's door, this book is for you.  For those of us who have an ounce of self-respect, who care about quality of writing, and who are comfortable wearing a size 8 (or 10 or 12 or 14 or what the heck ever) *and* knowing your man or lady likes you that way, KEEP FAR AWAY from this trite literary homage to the days where women were viewed as decorative throw pillows.  This book redefines &quot;abysmal.&quot;	2003-10-01
US	52362608	R2IBRZIMZMGPU	0965975401	741323380	Cool Women	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Excellent material for growing strong women.	I purchased this book as a Christmas gift for the youngest daughter of a friend of the family.  I was looking for something I knew her mother would never buy her, something that would make her learn about women as unique and wonderful human creatures. <br />I stumbled across this book and was attracted to its magazine-style layout, with photos and blurbs in sidebars as well as a main, brief narrative on each of the diverse women profiled.  It drew me in immediately - in fact before I wrapped it, I had read it myself!  It also offers, in the sidebars, ways for girls to start imagining themselves in roles like those of the women written about, but without that cheesy condescending tone of voice that so many educational books written by adults for kids take.<br />The book offers women throughout history, many of whom may not be known to adults (!), who achieved much on their own.  Artists, politicians, soldiers, writers, inventors and businesswomen all are represented.  The text avoids serious revolutionaries, which is, I think, age-appropriate.  The book is targeted for girls and boys ages 12-14, and it fits well within those age groups, using colorful layout and a conversational tone to talk about these &quot;cool women.&quot;<br />This isn't the text to choose for your burdgeoning Socialist, as many of the women celebrated within its pages are female entrepreneurs and monarchs (all, arguably, quite rightly chosen by the editors).  However, many of the stories also chronicle women who rise from adversity, giving it a real sense of balance.  One might also argue that there is a smattering of racial and ethnic tokenism at work, but I choose to view it as merely an attempt to speak of at least one woman from each group as promotion of multiculturalism (of depth) rather than tokenism (for appearances only).<br />All in all, this book is an excellent tool for teaching young women about the valuable contributions their sisters before them made, and what they too can hope to accomplish.  Highly recommended.	2001-03-09
US	52362608	R33F9PESOGKJQF	0374526222	634218668	Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism, and the Future	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Learning is a journey not a destination.	As we enter the millenium -- and now that I've married and am giving some casual thought to procreation -- I have been thinking about the world I would be leaving for any hypothetical children I may have.  Part of my exploration of this topic has led to me reading books like this, books which attempt to galvanize &quot;the movement&quot; and give it a kick in the shins<br />Anyway, this book attempts to take the energy of young, politically-minded women, and direct it towards issues of women's rights and feminism in general.  It takes a path less chosen, one that involves not only giving suggestions but providing a context for those suggestions in the historical roots of the women's movement thus far.  By the same token, it doesn't focus exclusively on the work of the Gloria Steinem/Betty Friedan 2nd Wave set, but expounds on the influence that Jane Pratt (ed. of the now-defunct &quot;Sassy&quot; magazine as well as the currently published &quot;Jane&quot;) and Katie Roiphe have had on young women.  <br />It discusses dissent within the movement -- one of the most vital chapters, I think, because it points out what should be pbvious, but isn't -- specifically, the break between 2nd and 3rd Wave, as well as the &quot;young upstart&quot; feminists who occasionally seem to be fueling the fire for the attacks of conservative groups.<br />Additionally, the book discusses the personal/political problem...especially in the context of young women, whose focus on the personal has far overshadowed their motivation to do some political agitation, except for causes removed from women's issues.  As a young woman who still struggles with not just politicizing the personal, but also with taking action on that politcal end, I found the ideas in these chapters very helpful.<br />The book is critical of the status quo, both in astute and unsophisticated ways.  It calls for a 3rd Wave Manifesta, a document towards the end of the text, and it serves as a call to action, to reform boththe state of feminism as a divided and sluggish movement, and to to reform the world into which we bring our future generation of female leaders.<br />It's written in a conversational sort of tone, complete with swearing and sly asides, which can be either comforting or terribly annoying, depending on your point of view, but it seeks to truly connect with the young women who may need some guidance on how to be a better feminist and woman.  It is not a text for academics but a text for practical use.<br />All in all, this book is a great handbook for building a women's movement that is inclusive towards women of all ages.  Highly recommended.	2001-03-09
US	52362608	RYXNK8JBXXW3P	0375410198	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Clever, like marshmallow fluff.	Let me begin by saying that I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It was an awful lot of fun to read, and I usually hate books about something unquantifiable, like the nature of love.  They usually ring so hollow.  But this book wasn't like that.  It was good.<br />So, why the middling three stars?  Well, because it wasn't great, in the sense of A Truly Great Book.  Even this style of fiction has better novels in it's canon than Baxter.  But on its own, this book has much to offer.<br />The book is essentially a series of interrelated short stories related to the author, who has placed himself snug at home in his Ann Arbor neighborhood full of Cupid's playthings.  While the narrative voice shift -- as each of the characters tell their story about transforming love, the tale is told in a distinctly different tone -- is clever, it's really parlor tricks.  (Admittedly, very good parlor tricks.)  I admired the structure of the language used throughout the different narratives, how each one seemed to use different construction and vocabulary, just the way a real person would.  In the details, the craft of the book is extremely precise.<br />The stories are all variations on the way that love changes lives and makes you do things you'd never have done without it.  It's a good, though unoriginal, topic.  Each of the tales is heartfelt enough, I suppose, and they all deal with that &quot;everday wonder&quot; thing that being truly in love will do to you. The narrators are all compelling, particularly that of the coffee shop-owning Bradley, whose misadventures in love lead him through a lot of different kinds of transcendence.  Nonetheless, the stories were sort of like comfortable old jeans -- nothing new, but appreciated nonetheless after a hard day.<br />I would recommend this book to the savvy reader looking for a little escapism and a vacation for the brain (to Cape Cod, not to Daytona Beach, mind you).  The amazing simple craftmanship of this book will be a pleasant piece of heavy fluff.<br />Recommended.	2001-03-09
US	52362608	R2OKKV1597EBR1	0679444920	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	5	43	49	N	N	Made me long for croissants.	This book is hilarious, erudite and amazingly enjoyable, making it the best piece of travel literature (but it's more *living* literature than travel literature, I think) I've ever read.  It's full of insights on French culture -- cuisine, labor unions, childbirth and everything else -- and, more affectingly, thoughts on the bittersweet experience of watching a child grow and change.  <br />Gopnik, a New Yorker (the magazine as well as the city) writer known for his wit, chronicles in this book his years of living in Paris with his wife and young son.  Sure, they enjoy an enviably plush lifestyle, with nothing to do but...well, observe all day.  But the observations are worth the envy.  Who else could describe the music (or muzak) inside French department stores so perfectly?  Who else could describe the plight of the French garcon in his favorite restaurant with such humor and sadness?  <br />Most wonderful, though, is the tender portrait of Gopnik's growing young family.  It reads like a love letter to his son and wife.  He chronicles Luke's first experiences, and eventual assimilation, in Paris with the eye of a brilliant naturalist, the kind of eye parents always seem to have.  Far from being indulgent, this tendency is charming and makes me want to get pregnant and expatriate immediately, just to get a whiff of what Gopnik has experienced.<br />This book reads like a set of essays.  Like a set of essays in the New Yorker.  I have read some of the preceeding (negative) reviews, and would like to emphasize that if you have never picked up a copy of the New Yorker, if you don't enjoy the New Yorker, etc., that you avoid this book.  Bear in mind that Mr. Gopnik is a staff writer for the New Yorker, and he epitomizes their dry, observational, academic reference-laden prose style.  If you hate the New Yorker, you will hate this book as well and call it pretentious and stuffy.  Hey, you may have a point.  But I myself enjoy acerbic and bittersweet wit, with referencesjust obscure enough to make me feel like my liberal arts education is good for something.  <br />&quot;Paris to the Moon&quot; is one of the most enjoyable books of last year, and also one of the most intelligent -- a rare combination.  Highly and enthusiastically recommended.	2001-03-09
US	52362608	R39QMRNH81189L	0679768157	262100908	Time Present, Time Past: A Memoir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another reason to love Bill Bradley	I have read a number of political books &amp; memoirs, and I think I can count the times I chuckled on one hand.  Until I picked up Mr. Bradley's wonderful, engaging, self-depricating, insightful &quot;Time Present, Time  Past.&quot;  <br />Now, I am not saying that it is a laugh-a-minute book.  Not  at all.  It just has the tone of reading a particularly well-written letter  from a friend.  Bradley is candid about his own faults, refreshingly direct  about his political views and his mistakes.  <br />The structure of the text  is interesting -- it is non-linear, which makes it even more compelling.   It takes the reader through a free-association voyage on the 1992 campaign  trail, learning tidbits about Bradley and politics all the way.  <br />But the  real reason to read this book is not because Bill Bradley is funny (which  he is) or because he can craft a good turn of phrase (which he can) or  because he is interesting (which he is).  <br />The real reason is that this  book is about the essence of what American politics could be, if everyone  were even half as excited as Bill Bradley.  His absolute integity and  leadership shine through every page of the book.<br />Highly recommended.	2000-03-22
US	52362608	R3T0PTQ85ERCEU	0465091296	824891522	Why Are All The Black Kids Sitting Together In The Cafeteria?: And Other Conversations About Race	Books	5	45	54	N	N	Vital handbook for our country	This book ended up being both informative and intersting, a set of adjectives which frequently do not walk together.  <br />However, Dr. Tatum has masterfully tackled a controversial topic, explained it in a perfect blend of academic and common-sense language, and put forth a pro-active  plan for thinking which is innovative and exciting.<br />This book starts us  from the beginning by deconstructing the very ideas of &quot;white&quot;  and &quot;black,&quot; and by discussing the terminology itself.  From  there, she begins to talk about social models of behavior and more complex  ideas, but she never loses the &quot;essential&quot; nature of her  subject.<br />Dr. Tatum's book is perfect for anyone who ever plans to have  children or who works with them, because it deals with the effects that  race relations have on kids.  This under-studied field is, in my opinion,  one of the most important because it is children who are harmed the most by  polarized race relationships.  Dr. Tatum discusses tools for dealing with  children throughout the book, citing practical examples and giving the  reader a place to go from the last page of the book into real life  application.<br />Highly recommended.	2000-03-14
US	52362608	R39YFZA5TGWAV4	0425145786	620094669	How to Have the Wedding You Want (Not the One Everybody Else Wants You to Have)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Way better than expected.	I was surprised at how helpful this book was.   After reading half a million books provided by loving friends and family, I expected the usual: how to arrange a guest list, tell people kids aren't invited, yadda yadda  yadda.  <br />However, like a breath of fresh air, this book was a pragmatic  look at the emotional dilemmas of being a bride.  It discusses the way to  compromise and the way to assert yourself with regard to specific aspects  of wedding planning, as well as giving tips for combatting tactless but  well-meaning family members.  <br />I think that many wedding books have more  than covered how to outline the duties of attendants, but this book spends  time on the *feelings*, which can start to get steamrolled when you are  going through the drama of planning a party for 200 of your nearest &amp;  dearest.  However, I credit the book with being pragmatic and rational,  because it makes for a soothing read, like bridal meditation.<br />Definitely  worth perusing for stressed out brides with wacky families -- like myself.	2000-02-08
US	52362608	R2NS7FJUO51CUA	0316754323	419080997	The Morning After: Sex, Fear, and Feminism	Books	3	34	42	N	N	Balance mediates everything in your life...	Not that anyone could call Katie Roiphe &quot;balanced&quot;...her debut, written while still in college, reads like a long talk with a loquatious new aquaintence at the campus coffee bar.  She is not a sophisticated  writer, and this book has no research to support it, really.  And yes, it  can be damn insensitive to people who have experienced sexual  trauma.<br />However, it also bring up some very commonsense point which makes  you wonder -- &quot;Why has no one else thought of this?&quot;  Perhaps the  key is Roiphe's writing style, which caught the attention of critics,  because people have been worrying about the perpetuation of &quot;victim  mentality&quot; with women for a while.  <br />Roiphe explores the issues that  she encountered at her insular, Ivy League college, which makes those  experiences privleged ones.  However, the same issues of which she speaks  are prevalent at colleges around the country, an inherently privleged  environment, but not unimportant to the rest of society.  (Though, if  there's one thing Roiphe is most guilty of, it has to be classism, which I  chalk up to her age, her life experience, and her affluence.  Her complete  tunnel vision cripples the book significantly.)  <br />But Roiphe gives voice  to the ostracized in the mainstream feminist movement, and she articulates  that alienation well.  Sure, she believes that women should get equal pay  for equal work, she knows about the glass ceiling, and she is aware &amp;  horrified by sex crimes.  But she also feels like she can overcome those  obstacles without placing herself in the role of victim of sexism.  And she  likes nail polish and reads fashion magazines too, probably.  She wants to  join the feminism club, but she feels that she can't.  <br />She also voices  the very funny politics of college sex life, where consentual sex  is...well, ambiguous.  (Which is, I think, one of her most interesting  points, and it has spurred many a chat between my circle of friends.)   <br />Now, I know that her stance of sexual assault is one of her most  controversial, but I don;t think she is trying to play denial.  She just  argues for a better vocabulary of terms, and thinks that every construction  worker whistling at you does not constitute harassment.  And that's one of  the big rifts between Roiphe and her early 90's feminist adversaries.   <br />Like my feelings about Camille Paglia, I think Roiphe raises interesting  issues, and I think she is worth reading.  While her personal experiences  do not enlighten the world, they are telling of what kind of experience is  happening in our Ivory Towers of education.  And her voice, as a dissenter,  shouldn't be given automatic short shrift just for not agreeing with the  Faludi party line of the era.  (Although, on a side note -- Susan Faludi,  what happened?  Ugh, &quot;Stiffed&quot;? )  <br />To be a balanced feminist  on either side, peruse this short and surprisingly entertaining text.  I  guarantee, it will force you into some opinions, either way.	2000-01-14
US	52362608	R3J53026EILZIS	0449907643	357474860	Promiscuities: The Secret Struggle for Womanhood	Books	2	35	46	N	N	Weakest Wolf yet.	This book was a memoir, and, if I may say so, a very superficially written one.  Which is a shame, because a real memoir of Wolf's life would probably be quite interesting.<br />Wolf's purported discussion of the sexual  maturation in young women deals with little more than her own experience  and that of her circle of friends.  Which is also a shame, because a  seriously written book on this topic would also be interesting.<br />But Wolf  treds a painfully dull and over-hyped path with this book, which manages to  hide her considerable intellect almost completely under trite melancholy  reminisces.  Utterly failing to provide any insight into adolescence's  turbulence, Wolf laments her psuedo-tragic past and suggests  ill-thought-out &quot;solutions&quot; for preventing such pain.<br />This  autobiography is not really an autobiography at all, as it only covers a  few years of her life, and doesn't delve into her psyche or experience at  all, except with regard to her (huge) virgin/whore complex.  It might be a  very compelling book about her adult life as she struggles with her  feminist beliefs and the backlash to &quot;The Beauty Myth,&quot; but it's  not.  So if you are interested in Wolf as a thinker, you're out of luck.  <br />But if you're interested in the complex social navigations of young  women in our society and how those interactions have affected our culture's  view of women, you're out of luck too.  Any discussion about this issue is  about as deep as a puddle.<br />The real shame of this is how much I like  Naomi Wolf, and how much &quot;The Beauty Myth&quot; meant to me.  And if  one looks hard enough in this text, you may take something out of it.   However, something went horribly wrong with this sophomoric,  pseudo-intellectual book from a very smart author.	2000-01-14
US	52362608	R1BQRT4L3SUX99	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Feels epic, plays intimate	This book tells the story of a man who literally dropped out.  Not just rented a trailer in the desert and did a GenX thing, but someone who really had a social agenda and idealism.  Yes, Chris McCandless thought big.<br />But  Jon Krakauer presents this story on an intimate scale, so that while  reading the story, even if you were inclined to dismiss McCandless as a  60's throwback, you couldn't.  <br />The most admirable thing about this book  is that it doesn't satirize *or* elevate McCandless needlessly, but is a  spare, elegant biography.  It is clearly the work of a good reporter (he  follows McCandless's footsteps and leaves no stone unturned), but it also  creates a textured story, full of the melancholy that McCandless's awful  death deserves.  <br />A clear and incisive look at McCandless's motivations,  as well as a meditation on modern society, Krakauer has created a true page  turner.	2000-01-13
US	52362608	RG4YNSBY83FQO	0375703675	742933968	Dear Exile : The True Story of Two Friends Separated (for a Year) by an Ocean	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Sweet friendship makes happy reading	Books about female friendships are few and far between.  I know I will face some argument on this one, but so many of the books that pretend to be about female friendships are *really* about men.  Who one of the loves, who  one of them wants to love, making the men the centerpiece of the story.  <br />But this book does not do that.<br />This book is about women (though  certainly Kate's husband figures in the tale) and about the way that the  women interact with each other.  The letters demonstrate the real nature of  friendship between women, which is not, as many in Hollywood would like to  think, populated with half-naked pillow fights and hair-pulling over some  man.  These women do what women in real life *do* with each other: scold,  tease, smother with concern, and truly share concerns.  The fact that  Hillary is in New York and Kate is in Africa is almost incidental next to  this loving depiction of friendship.  (Although the contrast certainly  helps to illuminate the personalities, and it is a pretty compelling  description of the situation in Africa and the role that the Peace Corp can  play in that environment.  I would esp. recommend this to anyone who is  planning on making a life of activism or service, in the Peace Corps or  elsewhere.)<br />It could be uninteresting to read about such a realistic  friendship, however it isn't.  It is a warm and funny book, obviously well  crafted by the talents of both women and good editors.  It is sweet,  really, but not cloying, and it has an emotional impact on the reader --  makes you want to call your long lost pal and hug her over coffee.<br />In  fact, after I am done writing this, I am going to the post office to send  my copy to my best friend, who's living in Japan.  It's just that kind of  book.	2000-01-13
US	52362608	R31RL5YLP3XSS	0140255281	926596319	Burning Your Boats: The Collected Short Stories	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fine collection.	This collection of Carter's work showcases her unique genius handsomely.  Her interesting reworkings of popular myths and tales (see also her shorter collection, &quot;The Bloody Chamber&quot;) are classics not to be missed,  and this text provides one-stop shopping to get her body of short stories  in a portable size.  The tight, half-creepy, half-sexy, vaguely nihilistic  narratives are rich and textured, and are the perfect length for very  grown-up bedtime stories.	2000-01-13
US	52362608	R1LZN9NY3Y7LVA	0679735798	980097844	Sexual Personae: Art and Decadence from Nefertiti to Emily Dickinson	Books	3	110	135	N	N	I am conflicted in simultaneous love &amp; hate for Camille...	Camille is brilliant, and this book proves it.  But this book also proves that Camille is bombastic, occasionally offensive, and tedious.  There are parts of this book which sparkle and excite, but there are parts which make  me question my decision to shell out the $$ for it in the first place.<br />In  her analysis of everything (which is essentially what this book is),  Camille makes absolutely brilliant links between diverse art &amp; artists.   She is at her best when she discusses the Dionysian &amp; Apollonian  nature of cultural movements, and her clarification of these duelling  forces is incisive and thrilling.  You wonder about the intellectual  acrobatics she is performing in her scholarship, but you are happily amazed  at the conclusion of the performance.  It is an appealing notion to explain  the world of art &amp; culture in these grand, sweeping terms, and even the  most anti-Paglia reader has to give her credit where credit is due for  making persuasive arguments.<br />However, the book is tragically bogged down  by Camille's cult-of-personality approach to her subject.  Her constant  pre-emptve strikes at critics are weak, and her own dubious politics are  showcased occasionally, serving only to discredit her.  She is also  frequently impossible to follow, and when you are done with the book, after  you get over the glow of her fabulous intellect, you have to wonder if she  is just playing some sort of trick...because you have emerged with enough  witty, esoteric cocktail party conversation to fill a lifetime (guaranteed  to impress everyone at that alum function at your alma mater!) BUT you are  still not quite sure what the point was.  Which is a real  shame.<br />Nonetheless, I recommend this highly.  It is intellectual  aerobics, and it is too easy to criticize Camille without ever reading her  work.  This remarkable book is something which I will never forget, and I  have taken a great number of cohesive thoughts about culture from this textand mulled them over, coming to a personal conclusion of my own.  It  requires an investment of time &amp; effort to get to know this book, but I  do feel that it is worthwhile.	2000-01-12
US	52362608	RVM2GFKHO10GL	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Hometown pride, justified here.	What a great, fun piece of modern fiction.<br />This coming-of-age-at-23 story is fabulous for those disenfranchised by education, doomed to be witty, sharp-dressed cocktail party filler, but it is also fabulous for  anyone who knows Pittsburgh.  <br />I am a bit hesitant to classify it as Gen  X fiction (which is inevitably self-conscious and tedious), but it does  conform to some of the hallmarks of said genre: struggle for identity  (including but not limited to struggle with sexual preference issues),  disillusionment with capitalist endeavours, the death of idealism, the  uselessness of designer education for anything but droll coffeehouse chat,  etc. etc.  But this novel, much like the works of Douglas Coupland who  coined the &quot;Gen X&quot;phrase and fiction genre, transcends the usual  trappings of post-adolescent identity dramas, due largely to the  3-dimensional nature of his protagonist.<br />I also like that this novel  isn't afraid to show emotion.  To much of this genre is trying so hard to  be ironic that emotion is subverted into some temper tantrum.  Here,  though, Art (protagonist) goes through a realistic and normal array of  emotion which allows the reader an &quot;in&quot; to the story.  It makes  the supporting characters more real by extension, even though they have  many ephemeral qualities.<br />Aside from the fine characterization, this book  is rich with landscape, and that is also a great strength.  The nooks and  crannies of Pittsburgh are described richly and with loving affection, and  this not only grounds the story, but makes the city serve in the plot and  character of the novel.  (Like Hardy's heath, so is Chabon's Oakland...sort  of.)  Now, admittedly, I am a Pittsburgh native, so I found restaurants,  libraries, museums, and street corners both missed and familiar, but I  think the power of Chabons's love for the great (and underappreciated!)  city would play to a less biased reader.<br />This is also a quick, nice read,  maybe for an airplane or a long wait.  I found that it was a very  engrossing story, and time flew when I was reading it. Strongly  recommended.	2000-01-12
US	52362608	R211631PABXULN	078688262X	88704574	What No One Tells the Bride: Surviving the Wedding, Sex After the Honeymoon, Second Thoughts, Wedding Cake Freezer Burn, Becoming Your Mother, Screaming about Money, Screaming about In-Laws, etc.	Books	5	15	17	N	N	An Incredible Relief	This book really changed my course.  It is an incredibly sane, funny, insightful look into being a grown up woman and getting engaged.  I was already frustrated by the planning of a wedding, as well as some personal  changes that went on in the same period, and then I started to discover all  the &quot;secret&quot; horrors of engagement...your friends don't call you  as much, you worry about your commitment to feminism, you see a cute boy in  a bar, etc.  I was getting a little antsy that I was some kind of flake  when I receieved this book.<br />I got it from my best friend, a self-help  junkie, and found it to be an excellent exploration of the feelings of  independent women who are entering into a commitment which fosters  dependence.  <br />The book is written in a conversational tone (fun to  read!), is not &quot;self-help-y,&quot; which is a really good thing.  It  relates anecdotes from the author's relationship, as well as those of her  friends.  It is reassuring without being pandering, which is a really hard  thing to find in the bridal industry.<br />Highly recommended for the thinking  bride.	2000-01-12
US	52362608	R31HG86ZWRED73	1889392022	402214194	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A must, no matter the budget	No matter how much money you have, if you do not enjoy getting screwed over by evil shopkeepers and devious consultants, buy this book.  I am constantly surprised at how people will try to fleece brides, with the  thought, &quot;Well, she's only getting married once, it's not like I have  to keep her as a customer!&quot;  Stories in this book will scare you with  tales of lost money, missing dresses, and deception worthy of international  spies!  But even better than just informing you as to how you can identify  a scam when you see it, this book gives you weapons to combat the  scam-artists!  <br />This book takes time to rate the big bridal gown makers  (as does its excellent &quot;sequel,&quot; also by the Fields, on finding a  quality bridal gown), tell you about ways to check out your florist, etc.   <br />It also provides money saving ideas which are invaluable and numerous.   Comes with a money-back guarantee, which should speak volumes for the  helpfulness of the book.<br />Get this book and save yourself money, time, and  tears.	2000-01-12
US	52362608	RIA6K9SY5UO3R	0679772839	225405820	Rosebud: The Story of Orson Welles	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Interesting narrative structures makes it move like fiction	When I told a co-worker that I was reading a book on Welles, she said, &quot;Wow, that must be interesting...he was such a mysterious man.&quot;  And this book definitely is interesting.  Instead of reverting to the dry,  analytical narrative that most biographies use, the author uses an  effervescent, almost poetical descriptive voice, as well as employing an  imaginary dialogue with an inquiring editor.  The dialogue technique is  used sometimes to escape the pitfalls of libel suits (as someone to  &quot;suggest&quot; that so-and-so may have homosexual, etc.) as well as to  explore multidimensional interpretations of film.<br />This technique could be  distracting, but it isn't.  Instead it's compelling, and it gives voice to  the reader in an interesting way.<br />Now, on to the content...this book was  a fine portrait of Orson, detailing his early success, blazing masterpiece,  debilitating failure, and strange downward slide.  It examines Welles with  both adoration and horror -- how could someone with so much talent burn so  brightly and then burn out?  <br />Scenic analysis of some films are an added  bonus, and prove almost as illuminating as biographical details.  These  film crit moments aren't too heavy for the amateur, but they also won't  bore a seasoned scholar.  (ALthough if you haven;t seen &quot;Citizen  Kane&quot; before you pick this up, you really should go rent it  first...and even if you know it well, as I do, you might want to still rent  it because the book does explore it with regards to Welles psyche, and it  is very helpful to have scenes fresh in your mind.)<br />This talks about  Welles's personal life, but refrains from idle gossip.  It emphasizes the  *human* struggle in Welles and illuminates the myth without diminishing the  pleasant mystery.  <br />Highly recommended for theater &amp; film buffs as  well as people with a good taste for a tragic story.	2000-01-07
US	52362608	R3502T2MEMMG06	0446391301	890882757	Geek Love	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Strange but in a moving way...	This book disoriented me while I was reading it, because it's one of those novels that gets under your skin.  You know, you look up from reading and almost expect to see the characters standing in front of you.  You have  dreams which feature the characters or landscapes of the story.  You think  about reading it when you're doing something else.<br />That feeling in Dunn's  novel is due largely to her matter-of-fact treatment of her fantastical  circus family.  There is a solidity to these genetic abnormanlities (to say  the least!) that is manifested through their behavior and their  interactions with others.  In the topsy-turvy, insulated world of this  family circus, Arturo, a fish-boy, can become a power player, and it is no  big deal.<br />The solid, even treatment of the characters is just one of the  strengths of this novel.  Interesting in every way, it chronicles the life  of a freaskish protagonist who laments her lack of &quot;specialness&quot;  -- she just isn't weird enough, and feels a whole different kind of body  image angst.  The books moves at a nice pace through her childhood and into  her questioning teen years, and she struggles with the normal things --  only she is very different herself.  <br />The book can be a bit graphic to  the particularly imaginative, but in a really weird, poignant way, and you  have already become so invested in the personalities that it seems  necessary.  It can be harsh and make you uncomfortable, but in a way which  is absolutely enchanting.<br />As you read, you will find yourself  surprised...by the funny, warm narrative, as well as by the fact that you  will accept the utter strangeness as normal by the time you're 30 pages  into it.<br />This book is excellent...it's a fairy tale with character  development, and it's sad and funny at the same time.  A must-read for  misfits and wanna-be rebels of all kinds.	1999-12-23
US	52362608	RQS6AEMU4RXEU	0152438181	542814625	Le Petit Prince (French Language Edition)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Even better than in English -- sublime!	This book was one of my favorites as a child...it is surreal, sweet, and teaches a valuable lesson on love.  The story of lost and rediscovered love is one of the  most pure and true things ever written.<br />In this, the  French (original) language version, that purity seems even more clear.  It  was one of my first &quot;real books&quot; to translate as a young student  of French, but it holds up to me as an adult, in both  languages.<br />Illustrated with lovely and simple pictures of the Prince and  his rose, this French language book is a must for Francophones of all ages.  The English translation edition is a must for everyone else!	1999-12-22
US	52362608	R2Z6H0GBG0ASKP	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Be very brave...	(I think I should make it really clear that I have never recommended this book to a friend -- it is not for the weak of heart.  It is violent, sexist, graphic, full of bloody sex and torture, etc.  I think that if you  are a sort of dark-humored person who isn't too awfully queasy, and you  really like detail, you will enjoy this book, no matter what your political  or social views are.  Just remember, it is a satire.  Of course, I would  never say this at my N.O.W. meetings.  Loving this book is my deep dark  secret.)<br />This book is a strange piece of work.  It's strength is, as with  much of Ellis's writing, in the details.  It is the description that makes  it fabulously funny -- esp. adore the Whitney Houston discography -- and  it's also the description that makes it really really scary.  So, all  things said and done, it's great.  It accomplishes the satrire and  grotesqueries of the 1980's.<br />However, no matter how interesting you find  this book which combines the history of Huey Lewis and the News with a  brutal murder of several prostitutes, I was at first hard pressed to find  the deeper point.<br />I mean, everyone knows that the 80's were full of  materialistic greed.  This is no big revelation.  So, even though the end  of the book is thoroughly satisfying in its own way, you sort of wonder  what the heck was that all about...<br />But I have concluded that it is a  wonderful character study and portrays a powerful image of psychosis.  And  it definitely has some allegorical interpretive possibilities.  Just stick  with it and keep thinking.<br />Note, while reading, the interesting breakdown  of the first person narrative.  Good fodder for book reading clubs.	1999-12-09
US	52362608	R3B5C3CPA3ZH9Z	0671867407	328842679	Who Will Tell The People? : The Betrayal Of American Democracy	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Exciting in a way that most politics don't try to be...	This book captures an energy too rare in political nonfiction.  <br />Much like any notoriously liberal thinker, Greider will not appeal to everyone.  However, also like most any biased thinker, he is a compelling read for  both sides of the political spectrum.  <br />One of Greider's most salient  points is the lack of real alternative that we have in the current American  political system.  Democrats and Rebublicans are, he argues, cut from the  same (corrupt) cloth.  He definitely doesn't play partisan favorites, he  fundamentally attacks the system of special interest politics.<br />Now all  this sounds a bit dry, but Greider's style really is wonderful, in a way  that few political writers are.  He has a sort of sassy, knowing tone that  is both personal and grandiose.  He manages to make you feel simultaneously  at a rally and in his living room.  He turns political writing from  broccoli into chocolate cookies, which is a welcome change.<br />I have used  this book extensively for quoting, have taught chapters and, sometimes, the  whole book as a text in an activism internship class, and have used it in  volunteer circles for a conversation starter.  I think its energy carries  it along to some great observations about our political system.	1999-12-08
US	52362608	R1ADBZ6MUBZRB0	0306801868	814080898	The Fervent Years: The Group Theatre And The Thirties (A Da Capo paperback)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A truly motivating piece of writing	This book is one of the single most inspiring pieces of writing I have ever read.  For actors, directors, designers, technicians, and playgoers, as well as historians, this book is a must-read.<br />In Clurman's wonderfully  bombastic style, this is the first person account of one of the most  exciting theatrical movements *ever*.  It tells of the Group Theater, a  movement which brought Stanislavsky's theories to American acting, and gave  rise to the careers of playwright Clifford Odets &amp; future filmmaker  Elia Kazan, among others.<br />The story is amazing, truly inspirational, for  those of us who love theater.  About halfway through the text, I stopped  being mildly irritated by Clurman's egomanical asides and started loving  them.  They give character to what might be rather dry history.<br />Besides,  the man helped to shape the American aesthetic.  I think we might give him  a little leeway...<br />I finished this book feeling inspired by people who  want to make their lives into art.  It's a very personal story, and the  real love affair in the book is between Clurman and the theater.  And it's  a gorgeous love story indeed.  <br />(Additionally, this text is a great peek  into the spirit that moved the 1930's.  Really interesting from a cultural  historian's perspective, I'm sure.)	1999-12-07
US	52362608	RJ5EFVO45W0KO	0394751736	591877326	The Chomsky Reader	Books	4	42	57	N	N	Tough reading --- in a good way.	Yes, this is a politically biased book.  Yes, he can sound a little paranoid.  BUT this book is an excellent, eye-opening read nonetheless.  <br />This series of essays is arranged topically, so that there is a certain  evolution of events and thoughts that emerges through the book.  It covers  his thoughts on the situation in East Timor in the 70's (note what is going  on there now!), US foreign policy towards South &amp; Latin American  countries, and Vietnam.  This variety kept me interested the whole way  through the text.<br />As Chomsky is a very *detail oriented* person, the text  can get a little bit weighty.  I think I might have glossed over a few  pages here and there because they were just too dry for me.  <br />But the  payoff is worth it.  Though it felt like running a marathon, I came out of  reading this with a lot of questions and new ideas.  Like the works of  Howard Zinn, I would recommend it for people of all political persuasions  because it does bring up so many issues for debate.  <br />I have used  selections from this book to teach internship classes on student activism,  and have also found myself refering back to it for political ammunition  here and there.<br />In summary -- good but dry; biased but thought provoking.	1999-12-01
US	52362608	R21I72D54P59X5	031205436X	778768680	Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Lyric, poignant poetry in prose	Gorgeous and funny, this book has really got something intangible that can't be captured by the trillions of Time and Newsweek articles about the slacker generation and this, their &quot;Bible.&quot;  <br />It is a fairy  tale type book with a set of post-modern lessons, taught by  twentysomething, burned-out friends.  It is just right for anyone who's  grown up next to a nuclear power plant and freaked out when they test the  meltdown sirens, or for anyone who has been stuck in an awful temp gig and  fantasized about dropping out to work at a McDonalds and drink gin at noon.   There is just something so appealing about the journey of the protagonists  that you can read it and feel like you've escaped from life too.<br />Always  funny, very ironic, and filled with droll slang ripe for appropriation,  this book is a fantastic vacation on paper.	1999-12-01
US	52362608	R1C6GGN0IFM3ND	0679736808	699806629	Babel Tower	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fascinating	Byatt has again challenged her readers.  This text is a textured, involving story, picking up where the (I believe) slightly sophomoric &quot;Virgin in the Garden&quot; and &quot;Still Life&quot; left off.   While the previous 2 books in the series were entertaining, they did not  take the chances that &quot;Babel Tower&quot; did.  In &quot;Babel  Tower,&quot; one gets a sense that Byatt is expanding herself -- her  writing and her characterization -- in a similar way that  &quot;Posession&quot; did. While &quot;Babel Tower&quot; is certainly not  as fine as &quot;Posession,&quot; one does get that same feeling of  excitement and discovery by reading it. I might caution against the S&amp;M  tones of the novel's counterpoint (like &quot;Posession,&quot; this text  has an accompanying fictional text which drive sthe plot) -- not that it is  particularly shocking, but rather that it sort of drifts out at times, not  serving the main story as strongly as it might.  It needed some further  development to be an effective counterpoint, but it does serve adequately.  All in all, a great read: it's involving, interesting, and has many layers,  each with Byatt's usual attention to gorgeous detail.	1999-11-29
US	52362608	R82PAEHUKPCIB	0802135234	923968177	Picasso at the Lapin Agile and Other Plays	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Tremendous plays!	For anyone looking to direct a wonderful, challenging one act play, try this collection!  I directed WASP (which is full of fantastic monologues, just right for auditions for both men and women) and have been constantly  thinking of new ways in which it could be interpreted.  There is a lot of  room for a director to innovate within the text.  <br />The other plays in  this collection -- I have read them happily, thinking of their surprisingly  poignant possibilities.  <br />I highly recommend this collection to anyone  who is ready for a fun, compelling artistic challenge!	1999-11-29
US	52362608	R2VIZFLPJEANVV	1888363541	608640474	The Zinn Reader: Writings on Disobedience and Democracy	Books	5	48	49	N	N	From start to finish -- a page turner.	How many times can you call a collection of political essays a page turner?  Well, how many Howard Zinn books are there?  <br />This is a really comprehensive collection of Zinn's work, and makes a nice compliment to his  quintessential &quot;People's History of the US.&quot;  It picks up on the  same subject matter, but in Zinn's voice as an observer to the great  political struggles of this century.  It is, of course, typical, liberal,  activist-minded Zinn, but I view this as a good thing -- he has a great  deal of perspective as both an academic and an activist.  <br />As for my  favorite parts...I was interested and impressed to read of Zinn's activism  during the Civil Rights Movement.  This is a great first-hand account from  someone who was along for the ride.  I also enjoy his discussion of  pacifism in the context of WWII, which is a difficult and delicate subject  to tackle.  I respect that he attempts to explain his anti-war beliefs with  respect to this &quot;good war.&quot;  <br />I have found this book useful in  very practical ways as well.  I used some essays as texts in the activist  internship class I taught, and I also referenced the list of important and  influential books Zinn includes in an appendix.	1999-11-29
US	52362608	R1NQ6UIWLADNW0	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	31	39	N	N	Fab!	What a fantastic book!  An insightful look at the history our elementary school teachers forgot that can change your perspective on our nation.  The book is, admittedly, a bit stilted by Zinn's personal politics, and my  opinion of it is stilted by my own similar politics.  However, I think the  point is to read it and form your opinions from Zinn's presentation of the  past.  So even if you disagree, it challenges you to do so, thus making it  a great improvement over your typical history book.<br />I found particularly  compelling the discussion of the labor movement, especially the early  years.  It is a moving and exciting story that goes virtually untold in  conventional texts.  What a waste -- to miss this tale about the people who  gave us *all* so much!  <br />Also enjoyed Zinn's discussion of war in the  terms of his own pacifism.  I would recommend, for further study of his  views on war, any number of his other books where he talks about his  personal experiences in &quot;the Good War&quot; (WWII) and his protests  during Vietnam.  <br />In summary -- an excellent and thought-provoking work,  even if you disagree.  It gets you motivated to action!	1999-11-29
