US	52368337	R2ECY9YCNXJHVD	080612606X	208436598	Cochise: Chiricahua Apache Chief (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	3	11	19	N	N	A Little Disappointing	While I have read quite a bit about the American Indians of the Northern Plains, this is only the second book I've read on Cochise and the Apaches and I found it a little disappointing. Edwin Sweeney has apparently done exhaustive research, but while I learned a lot about where the Chirichua Apaches camped and traveled, the battles Cochise might have taken part in and those he definitely did, and when he made peace and war with the Mexicans and when he made peace and war with the Americans, I learned very little about Cochise the man. <br /> <br />While he was obviously a very strong and able leader there are hints that he ruled partly out of fear, that he had a terrible temper, and that he was known to strike members of his band and his wives from time to time. If this is so, it would make him an unusual leader amongst American Indians. I can understand that Sweeney may not have wanted to engage in speculation, but more eye witness accounts from captives or Indians who knew Cochise would have made this more interesting. Even the years he spent on the reservation are covered rather sparsely, though I'm sure there must have been more information about what he did, the company he kept, etc. <br /> <br />While informative to a certain extent, this reads like a laundry list of engagements and treaties and would have been better titled as a history of the Chiricahua Apache than a biography of Cochise.	2005-04-17
US	52368337	R3T15F71NXN8BH	0618197354	786188992	The Best American Short Stories 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	2	11	17	N	N	One Bright Spot	The good news is that this collection starts with Sherman Alexie's \\"What You Pawn I Will Redeem.\\" The bad news is that, after that, there are 19 more stories to slog through. Over the years I have found fewer and fewer stories in these collections that I think really deserve the distinction, but this year's selections, to my mind, were by far the worst.    It is important to note that I love the short story form and normally tear through an anthology in no time. I also, up until recently, would have said that I favored the \\"literary genre\\" both in my reading and writing. But I am getting very tired of the old school writers who seem to think that pretty words are all it takes. The story itself also needs to play a major roll.    Every year there are hundreds of magazines listed in the back of BASS as submitters, and every year only the top tier make it in. I am beginning to wonder whether most of these even get a reading. The finalists are submitted to a different judge each year for a blind and, supposedly, objective reading. But by her own account Lorrie Moore had read most of these before. How could she not? What well-known writer wouldn't be reading most of the magazines and journals these appeared in?    The sad part is that, without the names attached, I wonder if many of these would have made it past the slush pile at a mid-level magazine, let alone the best. The majority of these stories are overly long and self-indulgent. While overflowing with well-crafted metaphors there is hardly a decent story among them.     With the exception of Alexie and one or two distant runners-up, these stories do not reflect the best of what is happening in the short genres. I have sampled many of those magazines that don't make it through the first cut and I can tell you that there are a lot better selections out there. Stories are getting leaner and meaner. The writing is more disciplined, and some people still try to achieve the single effect Poe noted as so important to thegenre.    Someday maybe Katrina Kenison will sit up and take notice. In the meantime I am going to stop wasting my money and time.	2005-03-26
US	52368337	R2EAEV6V7XTRKB	0786885939	147300435	Naked Pueblo	Books	1	3	4	N	N	I disliked this so much I had to review it	I haven't reviewed a book in a long time, but I thought that this was so bad, I just couldn't let it go unsaid. On the back of my paperback edition is a blurb from Esquire that terms it a &quot;...throw-everything-in-and-shake-it-up short story collection...&quot; That sums it up exactly, and as so often happens when you throw everything in and shake it up, what comes out is kind a of flavorless, colorless mush.<br />These stories are filled with all kinds of characters, with all kinds of backgrounds, doing all kinds of things. They have no theme or focus, and at the end of each one I found myself saying, &quot;yeah, so, and then what.&quot; They read like like a bunch of guys reminiscing about the old days, telling about the crazy things they did, that only they could find interesting. I kept asking myself &quot;why did the author write this?&quot; And imagining the answer &quot;cause that's the way it happened.&quot;<br />I can't remember when I got this and why it ended up on my bookshelf, but it's not staying there.	2003-11-06
US	52368337	R2IA079NTADC5L	0964721236	922041911	Red Thunder	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I had to review this book. It was wonderful	It's been a while since I reviewed a book, but I had to review this one, because of how much I enjoyed it. That this is Matheson's first attempt at a novel is clear. At times the writing is unsophisticated, and there are a few errors that could have been caught by a good editor, but these are more than made up for by the wonderful story he tells.<br />What makes this novel, or really history, so unusual is that, unlike most of what we read by and about American Indians, this tells a tale of life before white contact. It is a story of spirituality passed down from generation to generation.<br />In telling this tale for Indians and non-Indians, Matheson takes care not to reveal sacred rituals, yet I defy anyone who reads it to feel that anything is missing. This is a moving story for all people. Whether or not you believe in the reality or significance of what he tells, you cannot help but feel the deep spirituality of his characters who spend much of their life in prayer and appreciation of thier surroundings.<br />Matheson can add to his credits of MBA and former tribal chairman, the title of master story teller.	2003-09-09
US	52368337	R2HDWKPZG2FG62	0618048928	393747315	The Blood Runs Like a River Through My Dreams	Books	3	5	20	N	N	Well-written, but ulitmately lacking something	Memoirs are easily written.  That is, anyone can tell the story of his life.  However, writing a memoir as a coherent whole, rather than a string of memories, is much more difficult, and that is where I felt this work fell short.<br />Nasdijj does have a way with words.  He often captures landscapes and characters in an amazing way.  Instead of a memoir, however, this was more like reading the &quot;notebooks&quot; to which he referred so often. It was like the journals that most writers keep to practice and improve their craft, similar to an artist's sketchbook.  The sketches might be quite good, but they are still just sketches and framing and hanging them  together would not be enough to get an artist a show in most gallaries.  Similarly, this work, while far superior in writing style, lacked the progression of, say, an Angela's Ashes, or, in lieu of that, a coherent theme--homelessness, fetal alcohol syndrome, poverty, reservation life.  If any of these themes that were touched on, ran through the entire book, it would have been an improvement.<br />Also, in writing the memoir of an unhappy life, one must be careful not to make it one long lament.  If this was indeed his true life story, the man did deal with some real trajedies.  However, based on his picture on the fly leaf, and his own admission that he &quot;looked white,&quot; one can only suspect that any discrimination he suffered for being an Indian was more his own perception than what actually occured.  Also, when the author goes directly from homelessness to a job as a reporter for a small newspaper, it's hard to feel that the odds are completely stacked against him.  Near the end of the book he blames his not having been published yet on &quot;writing and publishing [being] more of a white people game than even we gave it credit for way back then.&quot; (p.206) This is because an editor &quot;ripped apart' (I assume not literally) his novel manuscript.  However, while most writers, Indian, white, black or anything inbetween, would give their eye teeth to have an editor comment on anything they wrote rather than sending out the generic rejection slip, the author sees this as another condemnation from the world of white people, which he will never understand.<br />Parts of this book are very well written, and the language often verges on the poetic, but getting this published was a break for someone who, I admit, seemed to enjoy very few breaks in his life. I hope Nasdijj sees this one for what it is, and takes this opportunity to impove on his craft even more.	2002-12-29
US	52368337	R3FS9CV8B90WJO	0806133031	767708817	Tell Them We Are Going Home: The Odyssey of the Northern Cheyennes	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Comprehensive and Much Needed History	To my knowledge this is the first comprehensive work on the Cheyennes trek north since Mari Sandoz's often controversial &quot;Cheyenne Autumn.&quot;   In acknowledging this in his introduction, John H. Monnett, in line with some other historians, terms Sandoz's work a novel.  While I would characterize her work more as, what is now known as, creative non-fiction,  I agree with Monnett when he states that &quot;[s]uch passion often evokes intense dedication to a specific viewpoint at the dismissal of others...&quot; (xvi)<br />In this book, Monnett has provided a more 'well-rounded&quot; but only slightly less moving depiction of the Cheyennes struggle to return to their homeland.  And to his credit, unlike many modern historians, he does not dismiss Sandoz's work out of hand.  Indeed, anyone handling this subject would be foolish to overlook her extensive and meticulous research, much of which is based on records and oral histories no longer available.  However, also included in his many sources are researchers like George Bird Grinnell (who is famous for his interviews of the Cheyennes and preserving their oral history), and more recent work by John D. McDermott who apparently turned over all of the research he was originally planning to use for a work of his own on the subject.  Also, enjoyable for those of us who like following up on sources, Monnett is one of the few who are now beginning to list Internet sites in their bibliographies.<br />While presenting all facts in a straight forward manor, it would be difficult to call this work even handed.  Indeed, I defy anyone to research this subject in depth and not come away with a strong sympathy for the Cheyennes and their cause.  However, Monnett also is careful to include extensive information on the attacks by the young Cheyennes men on Kansas settlers.  <br />If I have one criticism of this work however, it would be Monetts 'in-depth&quot; analasys of these &quot;depredations&quot;, and the need to somehow justify them to modern readers.  This was the way American Indians fought.  It was part of their culture, and, as such, it requires no justification.  They did not keep standing armies who were considered the only fair game in battle, and, to the young men, at least, who faced diminishing opportunities to prove themselves as warriors, anyone encroaching on their old hunting grounds was an enemy, who had no right to be there.  It is actually more amazing, as Monnett clearly points out,  that the leaders, Little Wolf and Dull Knife, had the political savvy to try to discourage such raids, knowing that it would turn popular opinion against them--as it sometimes did.<br />This,however, is only a minor point in a work that deserves much praise. Anyone interested in Native American history, or indeed, American history in general should read this.  However, I would still recommend &quot;Cheyenne Autumn,&quot; in that it complements Monnett's work by presenting more in the way of Native culture, and being one of the first books to &quot;humanize&quot; the subject.	2002-11-13
US	52368337	R249KDWLZH3HJV	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Creditable second work	I consider Virgin Suicides, the author's first book, to be one of best books written in decades.  This, his second book, is also well-written and contains some of the same dry wit that makes you unsure whether to laugh or cry.  However, I couldn't help but feel that, as a reader, I was left dancing on the surface instead of being plunged into the depths the way I was with Suicides.<br />One problem was that the book simply covered too much.  It actually had the makings for two separate works.  One, the fictionalized saga of the author's Greek imigrant grandparents.  The other, the story of the Hermaphrodite Cal ne Calliope. While one led into the other, I simply never felt that I spent as much time with the main character as I did with her/his grandparents.  Also I didn't like the way the grandmother,Desdemona, simply disappeared for much of the last half of the book.  This was explained, but I couldn't help but think it was more of a convenience for the author.<br />Greek mythology and irony were nicely woven into the story, but unfortunately, the mythology had to be explained for a less enlightened audience (of which, I must confess, I am one), and the irony had to be bluntly pointed out due to the length of the novel causing us to forget some of the early details.  This all tended to interrupt the flow.<br />However, had Eugenides first novel not been so exquisite, I would probably not have had such inflated expectations for this book.  In short, if this is the first book you're reading by the author, I'd be surprised if you weren't very impressed.  But please do go on to read Virgin Suicides.  You' won't regret it.	2002-10-29
US	52368337	R1LIBRS3WQDMUM	0151009376	120415869	The Woman Who Gave Birth to Rabbits: Stories	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Interesting premise, but somewhat disappointing	Being both a fiction writer and historian, Emma Donahue has compiled a book of short stories based on events and people she came across in her research.  In many cases all she had to work with were one or two sentences, a name, or a rather fantastic story.  So she took it upon herself to create the stories and characters that might be behind these brief bits of information.<br />It's an interesting idea, and the actual writing is flowing and poetic, however, the majority of these stories ultimately disappointed me.  Sometimes it's because her stories are a little too obvious, as with the title story.  If you are going to write about a woman who is reported to have given birth to rabbits, and you want to give a logical explanation, a scam is about the only explanation you can come up with.  THe only room for creativity is in why these folks decided to try it and how they came up with it, both of which I found to lack much depth.<br />The greatest shortcoming, however, was in the length of the stories.  When the main purpose is to develop a character behind a bit of news, it requires far more words. THese stories were more on the order of short shorts. Yet because they were based on actual events, the surprise endings and plot turns required to make a short short work, are not here.  Therefore the reader is ultimately left unsatisfied and wondering why the story needed to be written in the first place.<br />Oddly enough, the only story that appealed to me was the last one, Looking for Petronella.  This story was quite a bit longer than the others and had more depth. The plot was also a lot more creative. It was almost as though the author needed to build her momentum to reach this point.<br />All in all this is not a bad read, but nothing I need to keep on my bookshelf.	2002-08-20
US	52368337	R3E0HY5SLON6QX	0815604572	293043356	Drums Along the Mohawk (New York Classics)	Books	4	27	38	N	N	I was disappointed	No, I'm not some high school kid forced to read this for freshman English who hated it on principle.  I am middle-aged, usually love the classics, am a history buff, and volunteer at the site of a Revolutionary War hospital.  So, when I found this in a used book store, I was looking forward to the read.  What I found was the Seinfeld of historical fiction--a book about nothing.<br />Well, of course, ostensibly this is a book about the Revolutionary War as fought in upstate New York--at that time the frontier. The writing is good.  The history is accurate and well researched, but I kept expecting something to happen at every turn, and very little did.  Instead of actual Indian raids, there were usually warnings of raids, so that the folks got into the fort on time.  There they spent long, dreary days doing long dreary things--realistic, probably--but not the kind of thing I couldn't put down.  In fact, I put it down often, and for long periods.<br />This is a shame because Edmonds' use of words is quite good, and he did an excellent job whenever he was depicting the relationship between Lana and Gil Martin, a married couple caught up in the events.  I wish, in fact, that the author had focused more on their individual story, rather than trying to bring in so many different couples and individuals that they were very diffucult to keep track of, and worse, to care about.<br />I give this four stars for the writing style and the history, but, for me, it was pretty boring.	2002-07-21
US	52368337	R5U1WU8LIG6U0	0471417009	815199869	Crazy Horse: The Life Behind the Legend	Books	1	17	20	N	N	This is no more accurate than any other CH biography	In 1942 Mari Sandoz published her biography of Crazy Horse. Some, like Stephen Oates, the famous Lincoln biographer consider it the best biography ever written. However, several scholars of American western history find fault with the fact that she often did not cite her sources, and she wrote only one version of events of which several varied accounts exist. However, it's not enough to simply avoid these to flaws in order to make a book \\"one of the most accurate accounts of the Oglala Chief,\\" as this book is billed on its back cover. The author also needs to bring up some new information based on new sources. Add to this that Sanja tends to make his own definitive statements about debatable topics, and what you end up with is not of much value.<br />First off, I or anyone else who has ordered most of the books available on the subject [...]could have just as easily written this, ie there's nothing new here. It is based largely on secondary sources, and though Sajna lists some unpublished sources in his bibliography, I don't see where he used them. He even quoted authors like Stephen Ambrose who himself relied on secondary sources for his book Crazy Horse and Custer.<br />Second, Sanja while claiming to separate fact from myth, comes up with some uncorroborated ideas of his own. One in particular that stands out is his statement that\\"[s]peculation about Crazy Horse's sexuality also might be fueled by the fact that he did not marry until after Hump [his hunka brother] had been killed and that among his friends as a boy was Woman's Dress...a well-known winkte...\\" <br />I suppose this is the kind of \\"juicey tidbit\\" that appeals to readers of the 21st century, but it shows a huge lack of understanding of Native American culture. A close relationship between a warrior and his, what we might call, protege, was not at all unusual. And while Woman's Dress did seem to display some effeminate qualities, that is not the same as being a Winkte. A Winkte was a more or less self-proclaimed homosexual, who dressed either in womens' or mens' clothing as it suited him. However, he spent most of his time with the women doing womens' work, though he could join a war party if he chose. There are various notions of how Woman's Dress got his name (as with most American Indian names) but it is not because he wore dresses. And, need I add, that by all accounts Woman's Dress and Crazy Horse were hardly bosom buddies.  <br />Sanja has every right (though one would question why he cares) to speculate on Crazy Horse's sexuality, but in doing so he should make sure he has something to base it on.<br />The fact is that it is rather pointless for anyone to claim that they have written \\"the most accurate account\\" of Crazy Horse's life. Everything we know about Crazy Horse, with the exception of his death and military records that might refer to battles he took part in, is necessarily based on oral history. Those who knew the history are long gone as are those who interviewed them and recorded it. <br />Readers can, however, read Sandoz, the Hinman interviews, Neihardt's interviews with Black Elk, as well as the wonderful collections of letters and eye-witness reports compiled in books like The Killing of Chief Crazy Horse and The Death of Crazy Horse, and come up with a much better idea of the \\"facts\\" than you will find in this book.	2002-06-18
US	52368337	R1OCOVX0AMV9FB	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Retains a certain mystery	One of the things I enjoy about Silko and some of my other favorite Native American writers is that they retain a certain mystery in their writing.  Making use of Indian spirituality, there always seems to be a question as to which events actually occurred and which were part of the vision that lead to the healing.  There are also aspects that non-Indian readers can never quite understand, but that is part of the depth.<br />Much of the American Indian literature I have read deals with veterans of Viet Nam so this story of World War II veterans was particularly interesting.  In general, no matter what socio-economic group, there is not quite so much literature about the adjustments these veterans made on their return.  Though I'm sure it was particularly difficult for American Indians, who, in some ways saw this as an opportunity to be like the warriors of old, but who were fighting a very different war in defense of those who had been their enemies.<br />I found parts of this work a little heavy-handed, especially where Silko feels compelled to spell out the contentions between the white and Native American cultures. This came out in the story, and it didn't need to be hammered home.  However, given the time this was written--the 1970's--a time when Native Americans were just beginning to rediscover their culture and find their strength--I think this minor flaw can be overlooked.<br />Over all the poetic language and the strong story make this a fine piece of literature.	2002-05-29
US	52368337	R1O8P8FRT9H057	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A definite masterpiece	Hemingway's style was so fashionable amongst writers of the post WWII era, that Italian authors actually attempted to invent their own slang just to sound like him. I haven't kept up with modern Italian literature, but I am noting that American writing is slowly regressing into that pre-Hemingway over-wordiness.  The focus now seems to be on sounding &quot;poetic,&quot; rather than writing &quot;one true sentence.&quot;<br />This is truly sad because Hemingway brought American writing to a new level. You can almost feel his straining to come up with the perfect words for his descriptions.<br />I read For Whom the Bell Tolls for the first time thirty years ago, when I was fifteen.  It convinced me then that Ernest Hemingway was the greatest American writer of all time.  Re-reading it now, in middle age, I still feel the same.	2002-05-14
US	52368337	R1YLPDU7E78G8S	0670910252	502515168	Andrew Jackson and His Indian Wars	Books	4	14	17	N	N	This author knows his stuff	The list of Remini's work at the beginning of the book shows that he has devoted the better part of his career to studying and writing about Andrew Jackson. For me, that makes this work infinitely more valuable than a \\"popular history\\" written by someone who has dealt with everyone from Crazy Horse to General Patton. It enables the author, in dealing with this one aspect of Jackson's career--his wars and treaties with American Indians--to show how it all meshes with his personal and political outlook. He also adds ample insight into the American culture of the time.<br />I was very impressed that a person who had spent so much time with his subject was able to treat him so even handedly.  He did not, in any way, make Jackson into the hero he was believed to be in his own lifetime. The author shows that, at times, Jackson could be a dictatorial maniac. He is also not depicted as being highly intellectual.  However,Remini makes it clear that Jackson was just the kind of person America needed at the time, to accomplish its goals (no matter how inhumane they might have been).<br />In fairness to potential readers, I must admit that this was not the kind of book that \\"I could not put down.\\"  Even though I read quite a bit of history, especially dealing with the many Indian Wars, I didn't really get drawn into this until the point where Jackson got more involved in his political career and closer to the presidency.  Though I don't know if this is due to the writing, or simply my personal interests. Even so, this did spark an interest, for me, in the life and career of Andrew Jackson, and I now look forward to reading some of Remini's other works on the man.	2002-03-17
US	52368337	R2PPYDSM8BW14B	0375401067	553410976	Hidden Power: Presidential Marriages That Shaped Our Recent History	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well-written and enjoyable	This is a fast read, but also nicely written, and very enjoyable.  It is not exactly a scholarly work. A more scholarly work would probably cover all the most influential presidential marriages, or all the presidencies of the 20th century. Instead,Kati Marton pays word service to the likes of Abigail Adams and Mary Todd Lincoln, and assumes (rightly so) that we would have little interest in reading about Warren Harding, Calvin Coolidge,or Herbert Hoover. I was a little disappointed, however, that she skipped so summarily over the Eisenhowers.  She justifies this by saying that &quot;[Mamie]played no significant role in her husband's administration.&quot; (11) However, I can't imagine anyone playing less of a role than Marton attributes to Pat Nixon, and yet their marriage is covered at length.<br />With a few exceptions, I didn't find any surprises here.  For the most part it just gave me more details about what I already knew or suspected.  The surprises were how badly Richard Nixon treated Pat, to the extent that H.R. Haldeman felt free to send her press secretary scathing memos; how truly &quot;out of it&quot; Ronald Reagan was by the end of his presidency (more than it even appeared); and the stubborn and sanctimonious attitude of Jimmy Carter. Of course, the last chapter, about the younger Bushes, is necessarily dated, having been written before Sept. 11.<br />While this book seems to be based more on heresay, and the author's observations, than in-depth research, to Marton's credit, none of this is kiss and tell expose. Those looking for sordid little details will have to go elsewhere. Even the Kennedys' and Clintons' marriages are handled with decorum.<br />I am an avid reader of history who appreciates tomes based on several years of research.  However, as a break, now and then, I enjoy a &quot;light&quot; history, especially when it's based on recent events with which I am familiar. If you feel the same, or if you prefer your history simplified and easy todigest, you will certainly enjoy this book.	2002-01-17
US	52368337	R3XEXMSFRGEZA	0471383635	472982214	Cochise: The Life and Times of the Great Apache Chief	Books	2	16	17	N	N	I was expecting a lot more from this.	I at first thought it was daring for Aleshire to write this biography in the style of Sandoz's Crazy Horse. I soon found out that it was actually a big mistake.<br />For those not familiar with Sandoz's biography, she wrote it more in the style of a historical novel.  Though it was based on extensive research, she chose to tell the story in the style in which Crazy Horse's Indian contemporaries might have told it.  Also, in cases where there were different versions of events, she chose only one version, in order to keep the story flowing. I thought Aleshie daring to write in this style because, though I thought it worked well, Sandoz suffered  much ridicule for it.<br />However, I found that this style did not lend itself very well to the subject of Cochise, for several reasons.  First, the author simply did not know as much about Cochise as Sandoz did about Crazy Horse.  For the sake of the story, for example, Aleshire assumes that Pisago Cabezon was Cochise's father.  However, in a footnote he tells us that Cochise's father could have been one of three different people. So, when he later uses the murder of Cabezon as one of the motives for Cochise's hatred of the whites, it falls flat.<br />Also,like Sandoz with Crazy Horse, Aleshire tries to present Cochise as someone who meditates, and tries to &quot;keep his mind smooth.&quot; However, if the author is correct, he also had an uncontrollable temper, and actually killed several members of his own band in anger. And despite the author's protests that warriors followed him out of respect for his achievements in battle, it sounded much more like he ruled out of fear.  This would have made him highly unusual amongst Indian leaders.  However, the author seems determined to gloss over this controversial topic.<br />THere also appears to be little of substance here.  As this is the first book I've read on the Indians of the Southwest, I can't say whether it is due to lack of research, or a simple dearth of available information.  I did note that the biography seemed to be based largely on secondary sources, and that there appeared to be little orignal research.  There were also some really bad errors in some of the dates contained in the footnotes, though I assume this was an editing problem.<br />All in all, I was hoping for much more here, and I didn't get it.	2002-01-09
US	52368337	R384MJI8JRGFIO	0898793491	855006135	Dialogue: A Socratic Dialogue on the Art of Writing Dialogue in Fiction (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	The format is very difficult to follow	I purchased this as the accompanying text to an Internet course.  In conjunction with the lessons, it was mildly helpful, but as a stand-alone I would have gotten nothing from it.<br />Unfortunately, the author chose to write this book about dialogue in the form of a dialogue--a clever premise, but not easy to follow. With the exeption of some actual stories, most of which he wrote himself, the examples are incorporated into a dialogue between the author, and his creation Fred Foyle, with a visit now and then from Nan Dedditor(get it?). Nan doesn't care for the format, or for the author using this as a vehicle for his short stories.  Frankly, I think Turco would have done better to listen to what Nan had to say.I found the format very confusing. I had to read over some passages several times before I could post my lesson. Besides that, only one of the stories was any good.  The others had apparently been written by the author in earlier times--or perhaps that was just his way of excusing a rather amateur style.<br />All in all, I'm glad I got this used, and didn't pay full price.  It's not something that can easily be used for future reference.	2002-01-04
US	52368337	R3G61XK0C23R8C	0684187116	427012340	The Last of the Mohicans (Scribner's Illustrated Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Early Example of American Literature	Reading this, it's easy to see why James Fennimore Cooper is considered the first true American novelist.  A comparison with the rather talky, and overly descriptive English novels of the time, shows that this is vastly different.      First, of course, this is about the exploits of the common man.  Hawkeye, the main white character, is the quintessential rugged individualist, eschewing society to live in the woods and travel with his Indian companions.    Then there is the natural setting--the woods and streams and waterfalls of upstate New York, which appear almost as characters themselves in the novel.  And then, of course, there is that most American of stories, the decimation of the Indian populations.    Having not read this book since I was in grade school, I found it suprisingly enjoyable. I was also surprised to find that the true emphasis of the story was the relationship between Hawkeye, the white scout,and the Mohicans, rather than the love story cooked up for the 1991 movie, and that a love interest also exhisted between the young Mohican, Uncas, and Munro's daughter, Cora,who, expediently, turned out to be of mixed race herself.    There are some qualifiers here. It stands up well in its non-Indian history of the French and Indian War. However, on the Indian side Cooper tends to get his nations a little mixed up. Also, it is important to point out that the Mohicans today are a federally recognized tribe, so the title is, shall we say, a little misleading. And, of course, the major criticism from those of us who have studied American Indian history is the creation of that seemingly invincible stereotype--The Noble Savage.    However, novels must be read in the context of their times and with regard for what the author meant to achieve. In this case Cooper wanted to write a truly American novel as opposed to the English novels so popular at the time, and in that sense I think he succeeded.    In this edition, the N.C.Wyeth illustrations were a real asset.  I wish we could go back to the days when books were beautifully bound and contained artistically rendered illustrations.  It really adds to the total reading experience.    If you are one of those who simply remembers this as a classic you were forced to read in school, give it a second try.  You may be pleasantly surprised.	2001-12-10
US	52368337	R2RN8ZPUA971QG	0878424245	65766048	Crazy Horse: A Photographic Biography	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good photographs, but not much of a biography	Despite the obvious irony of a photographic biography of Crazy Horse-the man who eschewed the medium-Bill and Jan Moeller use a combination of photos and text, to re-tell his life story. They have compiled their own color photos, which comprise, not only pictures of battle sites and forts, but various landscapes on the Great Plains where Crazy Horse's people may have lived and traveled.<br />I enjoyed leafing through these beautiful photos of places I had been, and places I plan to visit.  The Moellers have done a wonderful job of photographing striking landscapes, as with their photo of a rainbow arching over Scotts Bluff. (7) However, while this book works well as a themed photographic collection, as biography and history it falls short.  It does not, as the authors hoped, \\"...add to the works on Crazy Horse and...provide the subject with an expanded dimension.\\"(v) Instead they provide a very simplified and, by their own admission, biased version of Crazy Horse's life, which is more mythology than biography.  Indeed, at times, the writing seems better suited to a young adult audience<br />I also found the photographs of battle sites rather disappointing.  Not that they are not visually pleasing, like the markers on Custer Hill surrounded by golden grasses. (113) But the authors seem to favor the attractive landscape over views that enhance our understanding of what took place there.  For example, at the site of the Wagon Box Fight, they chose to photograph the area just beyond the circle, where the hill begins to slope down.  While this hill did figure prominently in the battle, a photograph of the wagon boxes, and the small area they enclosed would have given a much better idea of scale.<br />I was also disappointed in parts of the last chapter, \\"Life-and Death-at Camp Robinson.\\"  Included here, of course, are photos of the buildings that now stand on the site of the Guard House and Adjutant's Office, where Crazy Horse was wounded, and later died.  The authors fail to mention, however, that these are not the original buildings, but reproductions, nor do they note that the original buildings looked somewhat different.  <br />The Moeller's version of Crazy Horse's wounding is that, \\"Private William Gentles...lunged at Crazy Horse with his bayonet, plunging it deep into his right side.\\"(139) Of course, there are as many versions of this event as there were eyewitnesses, and many say that Crazy Horse actually fell against the bayonet, making his wounding accidental. I would have preferred it if the Moellers had noted that there were other versions, and not stated theirs so definitively.<br />This is an attractive book for those who enjoy landscape photography or romantic images of the American West.  However, those wishing for an expanded biography of Crazy Horse will find only a re-hash of the old myths.	2001-11-17
US	52368337	R2UJFUWJMEBKJA	0803287496	296882585	The Nebraska Indian Wars Reader: 1865-1877	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well-chosen articles that work together to form a whole	As the author points out in his preface, \\"[n] o comprehensive history of the Indian wars in western Nebraska exists.\\"(ix) So he provides us with the next best thing, an anthology of articles, all but one of which appeared in Nebraska History (the quarterly of the Nebraska State Historical Society) covering the years 1865-1877.<br />While Nebraska is strongly associated with the end of the Indian Wars-the surrender and death of Crazy Horse; the Cheyenne breakout; and the largely symbolic Warbonnet Creek-most readers probably know little of the association prior to that period. Fittingly, Paul has chosen to begin this anthology with an article by James T. King entitled, Forgotten Pageant: The Indian Wars in Western Nebraska. In this article, King tells us about the various battles that took place in western Nebraska, and also offers some explanation as to why this region has been largely overlooked with regard to the Indian Wars. <br />Following King's article, Paul divides the book into four parts: Seizing control of the Platte and Republican Rivers; Pawnee Triumph, Pawnee Tragedy; Red Cloud Agency in the Spotlight; and Sioux War Saga, which includes excerpts from the Eleanor Hinman interviews on the life of Crazy Horse. He provides his own introduction to each of these parts, and adds, as epilogue, a previously unpublished article by James E. Potter.<br />For the most part Paul has done an excellent job of choosing the articles for this anthology. They not only cover the important subjects, but also fit together well. They cover all of the major players, and some of the lesser known ones also. I found particularly interesting, due to the novelty of the subject, Paul D. Riley's The Battle of Massacre Canyon. In this article, Riley tells the story, not of the usual Indian vs. Euro-American rivalry, but the massacre of a band of Pawnee at the hands of the Sioux. <br />My one small criticism is with Paul's choice of an epilogue. The Pageant Revisited is more or less a laundry list of Medal of Honor winners and what became of them. This article is interesting and well researched, and warranted inclusion. However, as epilogue, it did not fulfill the promise of drawing all the loose ends together. <br />On the whole, though, the book provides some very valuable information on the Indian Wars in Nebraska. Furthermore, since each article can stand alone, readers not interested in the history of the entire period can pick and choose. However, no one should pass up the Hinman interviews. They, alone, make this book worth the purchase price.	2001-09-15
US	52368337	R3LI0BTGE6HA65	0385496745	145783428	The Heartsong of Charging Elk: A Novel	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Sometimes shorter is better	I know I'm going to take a big hit for this, but I found this book disappointing.  Given how much I admired &quot;The Death of Jim Loney,&quot; and how many wonderful things I'd heard about Charging Elk, perhaps I was expecting too much.<br />First, like another reviewer here, I thought the book could have done with a good edit. There are far too many characters.  They come into the picture and then fade away without having much effect on what happens.  There is also a definite lack of point-of-view.  If this had been told solely from the viewpoint of Charging Elk, it could have been much more interesting, but instead, Welch chooses to give us the inner thoughts of almost every character he introduces, and unfortunately, none of them are very deep.<br />My main problem, though, was with the way the character Charging Elk is depicted.  I hate to say it, but, for me, he came off as a sterotype.  For the entire first three quarters of the book, he hardly has a thought besides going home, and what he will eat for dinner.  He has no understanding of what is going on around him, and doesn't pick up the language.  This might have been understandable for a year or even two.  It is also understandable that he might have had difficulty making himself understood, but I would think, at the end of that time,he would at least have been able to read a menu.<br />The book does have its good points.  The scene in the courtroom where Charging Elk thinks he has gotten his point across in his own language, only to be laughed at by the jury, was very effective, as were his choices in the end.  All in all, though, I think that by sticking with a shorter length, as he did with Loney, Welch could have written a much better novel from this moving story.	2001-08-23
US	52368337	R3TZD0MF4VE5VO	0806133473	468642989	Custer: Cavalier in Buckskin	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Do we need a revised edition?	The earlier paperback edition of Cavalier was the first book I read about Custer. At the time I was expecting Utley to take a strong stand as to whether Custer was a brilliant Indian-fighting hero, or an egomaniacal upstart.  So I found the objective style and even-handed treatment a little disappointing. However, several years and books later, I have come to see this as the best book on Custer and LBH ever written, mainly because of his refusal to approach the subject with the pre-conceived notions others have.<br />Utley neither lauds Custer, nor does he cast blame.  He makes it clear that Custer may have been somewhat over-rated in his Indian fighting abilities.  Though he allows that he had gained a lot of knowledge of Plains warfare and might have become equal to the likes of Miles or Crook, had he lived.  He points out that Custer did ignore the scouts who told him of the great number of warriors present in the camp on LBH.  However, he also notes that Custer was not unlike other military leaders of the time in under estimating the fighting abilities of Indians, and therefore did not think that numbers really mattered.  While he feels that Reno and Benteen did not support Custer as they could have, he also feels that not enough credit is given to the idea that the Indians merely outfought them all.<br />Of course, this was all included in the earlier editions.  So the obvious question is, do you need to read the revised edition. This depends on what you're looking for.<br />With a few small exceptions the text remains the same.  Utley has made a few changes based on later research, especially work by Larry Sklenar, but his overall theories have not changed.  Also, for those interested in further reading, he has augmented his list of sources.<br />The main difference in the editions is physical. This is definitely &quot;over-sized,&quot; fitted better to a coffee table than a bookshelf.  And it is filled with illustrations, many of which seem to have been chosen more to improve the lay-out than for their applicability to the text.  Take for example the photo of a Buffalo Soldier with the caption, &quot;Custer disapproved of black soldiers....&quot; (p.45) Or the photo of modern-day cadets at West Point captioned, &quot;Cadet Custer had 726 demerits....&quot;(p.22) And, of course, there are more portraits of Custer and renditions of LBH than one would ever dream existed.<br />My suggestion would be that, if you're a collector of Custeriana, or simply the type who likes to impress your guests with your choice of books, you might want to purchase this and place it somewhere prominent in your home.  Otherwise you'd do just as well to stick with the paperback version.	2001-08-18
US	52368337	R2GK3V6ZYNKQ4I	0140102914	120147535	The Death of Jim Loney (Contemporary American fiction)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Concise, well-written, and effective	Reading this, I could not help making comparisons with the play, &quot;Death of a Salesman.&quot;  While James Welch may not appreciate his story of a half-breed American Indian being compared to a play about a very white, middle-class male, I found my reaction to both very similar.  Despite the sense of doom, from the very beginning,  I found myself foolishly hoping, as I did with Willy Loman, that Jim would latch on to one of the opportunities offered him, and change his fate.  At the same time I knew that Jim, like Willy, was a finished product by the time I'd met him, and that simply changing locations (or jobs) would not make any real difference. Of course, Willy was more a product of his own choices, while Loney is more a product of other peoples'disregard.  This is where the story of the white man and the Indian diverge.<br />Welch is an excellant writer. This book is concise and neat.  Very little is extraneous or superfluous to the story. There are a couple of small flaws, however.  While he does an excellent job of portraying the feelings and emotions of Loney's sister, I thought he did not do as good a job with his white girl friend.  To me she came off just a bit one-dimensional, but then, it is often difficult for a male writer to explain the female side of a relationship. I also thought he could have done away with some of the explanations at the end regarding Indian alienation from the white culture, and Officer Painter's sudden realization of Loney's &quot;plan.&quot;  Perhaps Welch didn't trust in his own abilities to bring this out within the story, but he had already done an admirable job, and it didn't require repetition.<br />All in all, I would recommend this book very highly.  You will probably end up, like I did, reading it in one night, and then wishing that you hadn't finished it so quickly, so that you would still have it to look forward to.	2001-07-27
US	52368337	R30AM0LF11APRM	080613156X	723710194	To Hell With Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	3	19	25	N	N	Sklenar did his homework, but I have some problems with it	Sklenar certainly put a lot of work into this interpretation of LBH. He went over testimony and eye-witness accounts with a fine tooth comb in his efforts to prove his point. However I have some problems with it. <br />Mostly my problems are with his presentation. Not since reading Whittaker's biography of Custer, which was written right after his death at the request of his widow, have I seen such blatant hero-worship. Consider the following passage&quot;...the runt Custer [youngest brother Boston] would carry information to his hero siblings...and would constitute ...another dreadful burden for the general of the family to bear...&quot;(p.226) The book is filled with such remarks, and they detracted from what could have been a more scholarly work. <br />In addition,though this is supposed to be about the Little Bighorn, the author cannot resist making pronouncement on other aspects of Custer's life. For example, when he assures us that Custer was a loyal husband to his wife, Libby. Not only is this irrelevant to the subject, but those who have studied the lives of both spouses to a much greater extent, certainly had their doubts about it. <br />Sklenar does present some interesting new ideas. For example, he maintains that Custer went up to the Crow's Nest not once, but twice. The second time taking a pair of excellent binoculars borrowed from Lieutenant Charles DeRudio. It is also his opinion that Custer, on coming upon the &quot;loan tipi&quot; site, was convinced that there was not one large village, but a series of villages, as at the Washita, and that by destoying one, and perhaps taking captives, the rest would fall like dominoes. My problem was, that Sklenar doesn't seem to find any fault with the single-mindedness of this notion in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary given to Custer by his excellent scouts. On the other hand, he has no problem in blaming Reno, and to a lesser extent Benteen for the defeat.<br />Even these ideas, would have been a lot more convincing if he had merely stuck to the facts--in themselves quite convincing. Unfortunately, though, he dwells far too much on Benteen and Reno's dislike of their commanding officer, while portraying Custer as all things pure. <br />Finally, Sklenar's approach shares a common flaw with most books on this subject, whether pro or anti-Custer. With the exception of Robert Utley, just about everyone insists on assigning blame, either to Reno, Benteen, or Custer himself. Someone had to make a huge mistake or the disaster couldn't have happened. Consider that there were 2000 warriors present that day. These were men who were trained from childhood in horsemanship and marksmanship. Archeological studies have shown that they were reasonably well armed. Add to this that they had begun fighting as a unit as opposed to fighting for individual glory and stopping to count coups and take scalps, and that their very way of life was at stake. Quite possibly the Indians simply out-fought Custer and his Seventh! <br />If you've never read anything else on Custer, I would recommend you start with Robert Utley's &quot;Cavalier in Buckskin.&quot; However, as one of the wealth of books written on LBH, this one isn't bad, so long as it's not taken as gospel. The fact is, no one knows what happened out there that day, and any book on the subject is pure speculation.	2001-07-20
US	52368337	R3UHNHE0NTNYJ9	0393307905	447088391	The Fireman's Wife and Other Stories (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Pictures painted in subtle brush strokes	As I read these stories I had to constantly remind myself that the author was a man. This is because, not only are most of the stories written from a woman's viewpoint, but it is done so convincingly. I often found myself nodding in the way you do, when someone has gotten it \\"so right.\\"<br><br>I have read women writers who don't do this nearly so well. That is because they insist on painting their pictures with the broad brush strokes of major events--the death of a parent; the breakup of a relationship; recovered memory of past abuse; and, often times, all three at once. But Bausch relies on subtle brush strokes. The only death that occurs is related second-hand, and plays only a supporting roll in the story of the pending break-up of a marriage. Mostly, he writes about the every day things, visits with in-laws, the weekly gathering of friends, things that would not cause the outsider to see anything abnormal. Yet, through subtle clues, like one wife choosing to leave !the group and go to bed, we learn, that everything is not fine. Indeed, there is trouble on the horizon.<br><br>If you require major plot lines,and exciting endings, you'll want to pass on this one. But if you are someone who enjoys the true art of short stories, you need to read this. Indeed, Bausch's work could serve as an example of what short story writing should be.	2001-06-18
US	52368337	R271FWZ3Z8V8A0	0871138018	342146352	The Toughest Indian in the World	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Some of these stories disappointed me.	I imagine Alexie is dealing with a dilemma that many writers, who have become famous writing about their own culture, eventually face.  That is, whether to attempt to appeal to a wider audience, by sometimes touching on themes that are a little more mainstream.<br />Though all of his main characters continue to be Indians, or part Indian, several of these stories deal with those &quot;mainstream&quot; themes. We have the writer who is still trying to find himself, even though he's in his forties.  The Lesbian couple announcing their planned nuptials to one of the girls' parents (with the guy who is in love with the other one, sitting at the table).  We have the devoted married couple flirting, just briefly, with sexual infidelity. While I commend the author for his willingness to  branch out,I found the writing in these particular stories a little flat.  I couldn't help but feel that he was writing about people he didn't really know, but more importantly,didn't really care about.  <br />Fortunately, these stories only make up about half the collection.  The second half is Sherman Alexie at his best.  In stories like Saint Junior, Dear John Wayne, and One Good Man,  where he writes about his own culture, the prose is flowing and poetic, and the characters are beautifully developed. He also shows his continuing ability to depict relationships both between men and women, and between men and other men, better than any author I've read.<br />This is a good collection, and even the stories that aren't up to his best, are still better than most writers produce.  However, if you haven't read any Alexie, definitely start with &quot;The Lone Ranger and Tonto...&quot; before you move on to this or any of his other work.	2001-05-23
US	52368337	R5X0TWGP43XBK	0803273258	134299073	The Death of Crazy Horse: A Tragic Episode in Lakota History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Primary sources at your fingertips	Like The Killing of Chief Crazy Horse this book comprises various interviews with individuals who knew Crazy Horse or were present at his death. However there is no repetition here. Those accounts that are by the same people, have different dates (which, in itself makes for interesting comparisons). This book also includes valuable additions such as telegrams between the various officers involved--giving us the true picture of what their plans for Crazy Horse actually were--and many newspaper accounts, showing just how important an event this was throughout the country.<br><br>Anyone who has studied this period knows the controversy that rages over Crazy Horse and his death. Was he the quiet man beloved by his band and betrayed by the agency chiefs out of jealousy? Or was he sullen and withdrawn, plotting a return to the warpath, and stopped just in time? What you find in these pages, as you would expect, is that the answer depends largely on who is doing the telling. E!ven the physical descriptions of this man, of whom no photo exists, vary greatly. Some say he was tall. Most say he was slight. Some call him handsome.  One man said he was downright ugly. The only agreement seems to be on his unusually light hair and complexion.<br><br>This book is not recommended for someone who is not already familiar with the story of Crazy Horse. However, for those who are, it provides access to some great primary sources, that you will probably want to re-read many times.	2001-05-13
US	52368337	RRJTGOW9LZA6O	0806131896	443177822	Red Cloud: Warrior-Statesman of the Lakota Sioux (The Oklahoma Western Biographies)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	For the most part, doesn't avoid the controversy	Along with Crazy Horse, Red Cloud is probably one of the best known Native American leaders, at least by name.  He is also probably the most controversial.  Some see him as a statesman and visionary who,aware that war against the whites had become pointless, negotiated in the best interests of his people.  Others see him as self-serving and vain, using white insistance on negotiating with &quot;one true chief&quot; as a means to his own ends.<br />For the most part, Larson weighs in on the side of statesman, but he doesn't fail to show the other side too.  He points out how Red Cloud would often make a point of a small issue, that would benefit only him, at the expense of a larger issue that affected his people.  One example he uses is when, on a trip to Washington in 1870, Red Cloud became sullen and withdrawn until he was assured that his delegation would be given 17 horses to for the trip from the train to the reservation.  However, he largely ignored the bigger and more important issue, of mining for gold in the Black Hills. <br />Unfortunately, though, on the most controversial issue, how much Red Cloud had to do with Crazy Horse's death, or at least plans for his arrest, Larson is disappointingly vague.  He does acknowlege that Red Cloud was probably jealous of the younger leader. Indeed, in the last chapter he notes that &quot;...his role in this tragic affair is probably the blackest mark against his name.&quot; (p.302) Unfortunately, though, Larson doesn't cover the incident in nearly enough detail.  He implies that Crazy Horse truly was planning to go back on the warpath, rather than fight the Nez Perce as requested by Lieutenant Clark.  He also makes no mention of any possible misinterpretation of Crazy Horse's words by the less than reputable interpreter Frank Grouard.  Larson may have had good reason for choosing to leave out some of this material. Certainly his list of sources shows that the book is well-researched.  Unfortunately, the choice by the publisher, not to use footnotes in this particular series makes it difficult to determine on what Larson bases his assumptions.<br />On the whole, though, the book is well written, and easy to follow.  It is especially valuable for information about Red Cloud's life before and after the Indian Wars, a period that is not covered much in any history books.  I can definitely recommend this as a good introduction for those not familiar with the period, or for those who simply want to know more about the role Red Cloud played in those important times. However, I would follow it with a good biography of Crazy Horse.	2001-04-30
US	52368337	R2NQTYYXUQ1NHP	0811701980	957892537	Battle of Paoli (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A lot of myth has grown up around the Revolutionary War	And nowhere, probably, as much as in the Philadelphia area, where I have spent my life.  McGuire has used the papers from the court of inquiry into the Battle of Paoli to debunk some of the myths surrounding this particular episode.  He shows, for example, that it was not the &quot;Paoli Massacre,&quot; as it has come to be known in our area, and that neither madness, drunkeness, nor a mercurial temper, on the part of Anthony Wayne, were responsible for this tragic defeat.<br />I will admit that part of the excitement, for me, in reading this book is that I live a mere five miles from the site, and often travel the same roads as the Continental and British armies (albeit, in heavy traffic). Indeed, I thought one of the most poingnant parts of this work was contained in the epilogue.  On the placement of the monument, forty years after the battle, Maj. Isaac Barnard noted &quot;...in a few short years the place of their internment would have been in doubt and uncertainty...fruitless would have been the zeal of the patriots...&quot;  The same words could have been repeated just two years ago, when the site of the Battle of Paoli was just barely saved from developers.  Thank heavens for people like Thomas McGuire who remind us of the treasure trove of historical sites we are in danger of losing.	2001-04-07
US	52368337	R1CBF7V5HECDM4	0738838209	143314741	A Corporal Once	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A pleasant surprise	When I first saw that this was a WWII memoir, I had my doubts.  As a baby boomer, I had grown up with stories about the war, and loads of people who thought &quot;they could write a book about it.&quot; Only writing a book takes more than good stories. So when I read an excerpt of &quot;A Corporal Once,&quot; I was pleasantly surprised, and decided to order it.<br />Inglesby's style is simple and concise.  There is no great drama.  There are no bloody battle scenes, nothing to tell us that &quot;war is hell,&quot; except for the dedication, written in memory of a fallen friend he obviously still thinks about some 60 years later. It's a simple memoir of one man's experiences during WW II. It contains lots of humor, and little of the cliche.  <br />I strongly recommend this book not just to those interested in the war, but to anyone who enjoys a well-written memoir.	2001-03-25
US	52368337	R3NPPU2QSBL27D	0917298683	152582697	Nez Perce Summer, 1877: The U.S. Army and Nee-Me-Poo Crisis	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Greene has done his homework	Over the years I've read a lot on the subject of the Indian Wars. However, it seems that many recent publications are just a re-hash of materials, from secondary sources, presented as a new thesis or from a new perspective. Nez Perce Summer is a notable exception. Greene has used a wealth of primary sources, many never used before, in order to turn up new information and call old notions into question.<br><br>This is not a history of the Nez Perce, it is a military history of the campaign against them. While many these days prefer their Indian wars history from an Indian perspective, they should not be deterred from reading this work. This is a history of the military campaign, not a support of it. Indeed, one cannot come away from this without being amazed at how the Nez Perce continually stumped the most experienced Indian fighters of the time.<br><br>The narrative is well-written, and Greene holds our attention as well as any fiction writer could. I highly recommend !this book to anyone--scholar or casual reader--interested in the study of the Indian Wars.	2001-02-26
US	52368337	R1N9HF53KEHNNG	1878610724	926067624	Madchild Running	Books	4	2	3	N	N	At first I was a little disappointed	If you are a person who has unresolved issues with your family, or are someone who works or is planning to work in social services, you will probably gain a lot from reading this book.  As I don't fall into those categories ( well we all have unresolved issues with our families, but I'm talking about the major kind that affect your mental health)I have to review it on its literary merits-and they are many.<br />At first, I must admit, I was a little disappointed. I have come to expect a little &quot;extra&quot; from Native American writers.  Whether it's mysticism or time travel, or simply the dry wit of a Sherman Alexie, I assume that Native American literature will take some unusual twists and turns. For the most part Egawa's telling is pretty straight forward. But eventually I found that this approach actually added to the story, especially as the author managed to avoid all the obvious cliches a story of this type lends itself to.<br />Egawa is very good at portraying familial relationships, but, by far his best talent is his handling of the children the main character deals with.  Many authors have difficulty portraying children, and especially teens realistically and in all their complexities.  Egawa does it very well, right down to the body language.<br />In all I would say Egawa is off to a good start and I look forward to some of his other work.	2001-01-26
US	52368337	R2KMOFYCU441OT	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Eugenides is an artist	I must admit that given the title, the cover picture, and the fact that this book was being made into a movie, I had my doubts.  I was sure it was going to be some sexual thriller or superficial detective story.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  This book is a work of art.  It is obvious that the author took great time and care with its writing.  Each word is carefully selected not just for meaning, but for impact.<br />Having grown up in a similar neighborhood in the same era, the imagery was particularly effective for me. However, I don't think anyone can read this without getting caught up in the atmosphere.  You can feel the summer nights and the cold winter days.  You can smell the burning leaves.  You can feel what the boys feel as they watch the Lisbon girls from afar. Because,in the end,that is what the book is about-the way we feel, and the memories and images we come away with.<br />If you appreciate the magic that words can weave, you should read this book.	2000-12-13
US	52368337	R338KYI1M44J7A	0803287305	898487148	Singing an Indian Song: A Biography of D'Arcy McNickle (American Indian Lives)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good biography of a fascinating person	I first became familiar with D'Arcy McNickle through his two novels-The Surrounded and Wind from an Enemy Sky.  I did not know that despite his lack of a college degree, he was also a respected anthropologist; he was the right-hand-man to John Collier during his tenure as head of the BIA; he was asked to chair the new Anthropology Dept. at a University; and he was instrumental in organizing some of the programs which led to the pan-Indian movement and activism of the seventies.<br />Dorothy Parker does a very good job of covering the life of this fascinating and highly respected man.  While she had ample information to draw from regarding his professional life, there was scant information regarding his personal life.  Even though McNickle kept a diary and wrote many letters during  his lifetime, he made little reference to his personal relationships. Happily Parker respects this. Certainly a life that included two failed marriages and a possible affair, not to mention estrangement from his nuclear family, might have led other authors to go &quot;digging for dirt.&quot;  Instead Parker engages in some slight speculation, simply to flesh things out, but she does not dwell on these aspects.<br />If there is a fault here, however, it is that Parker perhaps focuses too much on the positive.  For example, one would wonder why a person who tried to represent Indians in a White world would not have had some doubts regarding the Indian Reorganiztion Act, or some questions as to the way it was implemented.  Also, while McNickle became known as an authority on Indian issues, he actually spent very little time living as an Indian.  He basically went from the boarding school into a life of government work, and spent very little time on the reservation.  While this does not necessarily detract from his accomplishments, I would have liked Parker to address these issues more.<br />Over all,however, this is a book worth reading, both for the way it is written, and the person it is about.	2000-12-07
US	52368337	R3GSKS1KNTA8I4	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Actually I thought the movie was better	For a screenplay the writer has a couple of hours to make his point; with a novel he can use as many words as he likes.  The usual result is that the movie version lacks character development, and the plot is superficial.  In this case, however, I thought it was just the opposite.  Irving's novel goes on far too long, there are too many unnecessary characters, and the allegory of the cider house ( so effective in the movie) is all but lost in the confusion.<br />About half-way through the book, I commented to someone that it must have taken a genious to make that movie from this book.  I was surprised to find that John Irving also wrote the screenplay.  I give him credit for seeing room for improvement the second time around.  The movie shortens the time frame, consolidates some characters, and also changes them a little to make them more believable.  This coupled with some good acting made an excellent film.<br />If you haven't seen the movie, I would suggest you rent it and save yourself the money and time you would have spent on the book.  If you've already read the book, rent the movie anyway.  You won't regret it.	2000-11-21
US	52368337	R1PLE0U6WZGTSZ	1884910459	219644869	The Art & Craft of the Short Story	Books	5	31	33	N	N	This is not your standard how to book	Most of the books I've come across on writing provide formulaic methods and page after page of boring exercises.  They tell you things like, grab the reader's attention in the first paragraph; use a lot of dialogue.  Yet those of us who appreciate literature know that some of the best writing is the kind that breaks all the rules.<br />One of the first things Rick DeMarinis tells us is that he doesn't know how to write a short story.  Though he's been writing for 30 years, it's still a struggle.  All he can really do is tell how he goes about it, and give us examples of where he thinks other writers have succeeded.  For every piece of advice he gives, he shows examples of how another writer took a different approach and it worked.  <br />You might think that this would tend to make the book confusing and almost worthless, but it doesn't.  Certain important points do emerge.  For example, a short story is more like a poem than a novel.  Due to its length, each word is important and must be chosen carefully.  Most of the time the theme of your story will not come through in the first draft.  It will take several re-writes.  There are any number of approaches one can take to a story-some more conventional than others-and the writer should not be afraid to experiment.  Trying to develop a style or trying to &quot;make a point&quot; with your writing often results in stilted prose.<br />For me this book was a validation of all the things I've been doing all along, but that other books had told me were wrong.  It's not for the individual who is looking for a shortcut to getting published, or who wants to write best sellers. As the author tells us, &quot;This book is addressed and dedicated to all of you who can't quit, who would be miserable if denied pencil, pen, or keyboard.&quot; If you fit that category, then you need to read this.	2000-11-08
US	52368337	R25ROF00BT99FJ	0060187263	203847573	The Antelope Wife: A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A beaded tapestry	The theme of this Erdrich novel is beaded tapestry and how our lives are smilarly woven into a pattern. She also shows the interweaving of past and present, the animal world with the human world, and myth with reality. <br><br>Common wisdom says that narrative should almost always be in one voice and that stories should move in a linear progression. Erdrich, as do many of the best Native American writers, shows that this is not necessarily so. Though I did find myself frustrated sometimes trying to follow the connections of past and present, and how different people were related, it became clear in the end that the tale was told in a circle, and eventually it all made sense. Erdrich does not tie up all of the loose ends, however. There remains some mystery, for example, in the characters of the two grandmothers, which is what gives the story a lasting value and keeps you thinking long after you've finished reading.<br><br>The one flaw, for me, though, was that the weavi!ng still had some loose threads. Like the telling of a family history, everything is included, even the parts that are not necessary to the plot. Perhaps I missed something in my reading or interpretation, but I felt that the story of Sweet Heart Calico (the true antelope wife) and Klaus could have stood alone. While it was fascinating and well handled in and of itself, it really was not necessary to the main story. Also the story of the German soldier was a bit superfluous. <br><br>Of course, Erdrich was not really writing a family history. She was writing a novel about family histories, and as such, she could have done a little more weeding and honing. In spite of its small flaws, however, this is still a beautiful and well-written work.	2000-10-29
US	52368337	R2IEDKMW52VE12	0826311008	519679697	Wind from an Enemy Sky	Books	5	14	18	N	N	McNickle took three decades to write this and it shows	I am told that D'Arcy McNickle took three decades to write this book.  I was also told that it is based on a true story, even more significant today because of all  the discussion of dam breaching and the terrible effect hydro-electric dams have had on the ecology.<br />McNickle writes excellent prose, but what I like most about his novels is his grasp of human nature.  Perhaps because of his mixed heritage, he allows that people often do all the wrong the things for all the right reasons.  This is not a book of racial hatred, but of deep misunderstanding.<br />This is a fairly straight-forward narrative.  McNickle does not make as much use of spiritualism and ancient beliefs as some of the modern Native American writers. I think he was targeting the non-Indian audience and trying to create a better understanding of his own culture.  If so, he succeeds admirably.	2000-10-26
US	52368337	RPXBAF2L5HR5G	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well-written history of a "hazy backdrop"	Don't know that much about the French and Indian War? You're not alone. As the author notes, the French and Indian War, or as it was known globally, the Seven Years War \\"figures in most Americans' consciousness of the past as a kind of hazy backdrop to the Revolution.\\" However, this book brings that \\"hazy backdrop\\" to life.<br><br>There were so many things I learned, that I couldn't mention them all. For example the colonies were hardly a compact unit fighting along with their parent country-the British-against the French. Not only was there great animosity between the Colonials and the British Regulars, but there was also a lot of competition amongst the Colonies themselve regarding land disputes and raising and funding of troops. I also learned that Indians fought on both sides. While the majority fought on the side of the French at the beginning of the war, many of them supported the British once they found that the French could no longer protect their interests.<br>!<br>What held my interest most, however, was the writing and structure. For example, rather than interrupt the the thread of his history by giving a long background on each individual being introduced (something I find very distracting when I read histories) Anderson came up with the ingenious idea of using contemporary portraits of these individuals and summarizing their life stories in the captions. He also includes maps drawn shortly after the battles took place. I found these to be a valuable addition to the information presented. The author also does an excellent job of presenting the war in it's global context--something that was usually overlooked in our high school history classes. <br><br>The only part of the book I did not care for was the way the aftermath of the war was treated. Once he gets into Writs of Assistance and The Stamp Act, it starts to read a little more like your standard history text. Though, I'll allow, that it could be the terms themselves that made! me feel like I was back in school. Still, all in all, I would say this was well worth the time it took me to read all seven hundred plus pages.	2000-10-13
US	52368337	RGMFR38H9BXAI	0385479662	122786926	Crazy Horse and Custer: The Parallel Lives of Two American Warriors	Books	2	50	77	N	N	Good intro to the period, but not much  else of value here	Stephen Ambrose is an amazingly prolific writer of history.  I cannot speak about his other books, as I have not read them. This book, however, is simply a regurgitation of old research trying to be unique by juxtaposing the lives of the two men most associated with the Indian Wars.  The only thing parallel in these two lives is the time period in which they lived. Anything else is a stretch. <br />Indeed the underlying premise that these were two great warriors destined to meet on the field of battle is the stuff that drama, not real history, is made of.  By all accounts the Indians didn't even know Custer was there until the fighting was over, and while Crazy Horse was known as a great warrior amongst his people, there were many respected warriors on the field that day.  Crazy Horse was, at most, a first among equals.<br />Indeed, in trying to popularize his history, Ambrose makes the common mistake of portraying Crazy Horse as a general leading his troops into battle. Phrases like &quot;Crazy Horse stuck to his command post,&quot; may help to bring the battle to life for WWII veterans, but it is not a truly accurate rendering of how Indians fought.<br />Ambose does do a good job in the first two chapters of showing the vast differences in the cultures these to men grew up in.  For this I give the book two stars.  It's also not a bad introduction for someone who has no previous knowledge of the topic.  Only, however, if it encourages them to go on to read better and more accurate works.	2000-10-07
US	52368337	R29S8YEUJB4P0H	0826317553	76640306	Crow Indian Photographer: The Work of Richard Throssel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A beautiful book for historians and photography buffs alike.	Richard Throssel was a Cree Indian, adopted by the Crow. He was also a trained commercial photographer who worked with some of the best in the profession at the time. This book serves as a brief biography and a compilation of his photos of Plains Indians-mostly Crow and Cheyenne.<br />Those interested in the study of Plains Indian culture will enjoy Peggy Albright's well-written text and the way she incorporates the photos into her brief biography of Throssel. While those interested in the art of photography can simply skip to the section containing the photos and read the comments by people she interviewed while working on the book. Some, for example, are descendents who helped identify and give background on people in the photographs.<br />This is not your typical collection of portraits of dour &quot;chiefs.&quot; Included here are portraits of many different people- some better known than others-including women and children. There are also photographs of ceremonies that were actually being performed illegally at the time, as well as posed compositions lke &quot;The Three Scouts,&quot; riding amongst the markers at The Little Bighorn Battlefield.<br />My only regret is that I purchased this book in paperback. I certainly hope it will withstand all the many times I, and others will leaf through it.	2000-10-02
US	52368337	R20OTPK8D74WJU	0914875272	554873692	Edge of Heaven	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Good first effort	I was introduced to this novel by the author herself.  I understand it is  her first, and it is a good initial effort.  While a little rough around  the edges, it is at the same time simple and unpretentious.  It has the  nice warm feel of family lore.  One can just imagine Ms. McCall's  grandmother telling her this story in bits and pieces over long winter  nights in the mountains.<br />One can only hope that, in the near future, Eva  McCall can get a larger publishing firm to give her work the attention it  deserves.	2000-09-05
US	52368337	R293MJFO9ZDX01	157322152X	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For anyone who gave up the dream of being a writer	this is the book. Lerner, a poet, successful editor and agent divides her book into two parts. Part I deals with writing. Part II deals with publishing. In part I she tells what a grueling process it is to write, and what makes a person a writer. In part II she covers what a writer must endure to have his or her book published. For someone so successful in the commercial aspects she shows tremendous understanding and sensitivity for her clients and the prospective clients she is writing for. Like a mother, she tries to warn her artistic children against publication and all the pain that can go with it. But if you must go ahead with it, she wants you to be prepared.<br><br>Lerner makes us realize that publication is not necessarily the validation we believe it to be. Plenty of bad stuff gets published while plenty of good stuff is overlooked. Much of what has been successful has depended on great editing, and many great ideas never make the best-seller list. In all, her !main premise is, if you love to write then do it. No matter if anyone ever recognizes your talents.<br><br>If you're looking for a book on the mechanics of writing a best seller, go elsewhere. But if you need someone to light a fire under you to finally sit down and start writing again, Lerner will do it for you.	2000-08-31
US	52368337	R6KX20MJX8M2K	0803257716	468167158	The Cheyenne Indians, Vol. 1: History and Society	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Highly recommended for those interested in NA history	Early writers of Native American history tend to fall into two groupings.   There are those who relied only on written history, and therefore ignored  most of what Indians had to say about their own past; and there were those  who tried to serve as a conduit through which the Indians could tell their  own history. Happily, Grinnell falls into the second category, and his work  turns out to be both interesting, and readable.<br />Though not as exciting as  his better known work, The Fighting Cheyenne, which was a warrior history,  this book provides a lot of information about the early history of the  Cheyennes, and their migration westward.  It also goes into many aspects of  their culture and society.  Volume one (which is the only one I have read  so far) ends with a chapter on Cheyenne tribal government.  Here Grinnell  does a wonderful job of handling a topic, which is actually rather simple,  but which eluded many white historians, such as George Hyde, who insisted  on believing that chieftanship must have carried with it certain  dictatorial powers.  He also shows great insight into the status of women.   So many white historians, even today, do not understand the high standing  that women held in Plains Indian society.   <br />I highly recommend this book  to anyone interested in the history of the Plains Indians, and I am quite  anxious to get on to volume two which deals, among other things, with  religious practices.	2000-08-24
US	52368337	R20DXVMY91O8JB	0804115761	785795777	A Thousand Acres	Books	3	8	11	N	N	I have very ambivilent feelings about this book	which will probably show themselves in this review.  In this novel the author deals with a family in crisis.  The demise of the patriarch leads  family members (especially the main character) to re-examine their lives.   The result is that they find that a little below the surface, things are   not perfect as they seemed.  In that way it is very realistic-so much so  that it almost hurts.  But then Smiley seems to carry things to extremes.  Some of the realizations and the characters' reactions to them are, if not  totally unrealistic, at least a bit more dramatic than necessary.<br />The  author's style put me in mind of a friend bringing you up to date on her  life after a long absence.  I could imagine myself sitting across the lunch  table as she told me, not just the events, but her interpretation of them,  along with her analysis of each personality, their motives, her past life  with them.  While this made for a certain intimacy between reader and  author, a little voice kept telling me that a really good writer doesn't  need to give you all that information.  You can figure it out yourself from  the story and the characters' actions.<br />Some of the characters are very  well developed.  Ty, the farmer husband, for example.  So are the father;  Jess, the returned neighbor; and even sister Caroline who plays a very  peripheral role, but others like the brother-in-law, Pete remain nebulous.   In fact, sister Rose, who was one of the most important characters in the  book remained a enigma to me.  If the author hadn't kept explaining her to  me, I never would have figured out her motivations.<br />Lastly, Smiley makes  the same mistake many modern American authors do. She never passes on the  sexual encounter.  As soon as a certain guy appears on the scene, we know  that the main character will sleep with him (don't worry there's way more  to it, so I'm not giving away the plot).  I found myself hoping beyond hope  that she wouldn't.  It would have made the book so much more poignent and  realistic, especially given the time and culture the main character grew up  in.<br />To sum up, I would say this is a book worth reading.  It has its good  parts. However, it is not great literature.	2000-08-09
US	52368337	R127283NILY4U1	0806115203	484912386	Red Cloud's Folk: A History of the Oglala Sioux Indians (Civilization of the American Indian)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A detailed and valuable history of the Oglala Lakota.	As the title states, this is not a biography of Red Cloud.  It is, instead, the history of his people-the Oglala-as far back as the middle of the 17th century.  However, while Hyde's speculation on the early history  is probably the most valuable part, the various migrations and splits of  the Sioux are a little hard to follow and make for slow going.  It is not  until he reaches more familiar territory, from about the Grattan Fight on,  that the pace picks up.<br />This work, originally written in the 1930's and  updated in the late 50's appears to be very well researched.  However it  has it's flaws.  Hyde has difficulty overcoming a certain cultural bias,  and he has a habit of picking and choosing the information that most  supports his point of view.  For example, time and again, he laments the  poor memory of Indians when it comes to relating their own history, and  belittles them for mythologizing certain events at the expense of accuracy.  However he insists that it was the Crazy Horse village which J.J. Reynolds  attacked and destroyed on the Powder in 1876, and not a Cheyenne village as  the Indians of the time asserted, and as is now widely accepted by  historians.  And in this case he bases his theory on the accounts of  certain Indians who said that they saw Crazy Horse fleeing up the bluffs  with a small child on his back.  The notion of course is rediculous.  Crazy  Horse's own daughter had died by then, and the idea that the great war  chief could come up with nothing better to do during an attack than pick up  stray children makes no sense.<br />Hyde also asserts without doubt, that  Crazy Horse, in his last days was planning to break out of the Red Cloud  agency with his band, and was not simply escaping to Spotted Tail for  sanctuary from his enemies.  While this may be true, he has absolutely no  evidence to base it on.  Having said this, Hyde's habit of pronouncing  opposing views as &quot;blatantly absurd&quot; is somewhat refreshing, and  keeps the narrative more interesting.<br />Anyone who studies the Plains  Indians must add this to their library, however, they should keep in mind,  that it represents only one point of view.ps the narrative more interesting.  <br />Anyone who studies the Plains  Indians must add this to their library, however, they should keep in mind,  that it represents only one point of view.	2000-07-30
US	52368337	R2GNZPUGQBSMOC	0965873307	58217672	Cheyenne Dog Soldiers: A Courageous Warrior History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hard to come by, but if you can get a hold of it-do!	If you are at all interested in the Plains Indians, Native American Art, or the history of the Cheyenne, do everything you can to get a hold of this CD, which takes you on a tour of an exhibit at the Denver Historical  Society Museum.  The center piece is the legder art of the this fiece  warrior society, but many other artistic and historical items are also  included. <br />I have read extensively on this subject, and visited any  number of museums, yet I still learned a lot from the text and the  narration.  In addition you can click on any of the items in the virtual  tour and get a detailed description along with a history-and there are  many, many items.  There is also a separate section on the ledger art which  is clearly displayed a beautiful.<br />Kids will love going through the  virtual exhibit, though I found clicking the next button, and viewing items  one by one more helpful.  There is also a special kids section, so the  entire family can enjoy it.<br />This is well worth the price!	2000-07-23
US	52368337	R2F6Z7I8OTYVVO	0312093608	297599354	Over the Earth I Come: The Great Sioux Uprising of 1862	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Fairly even handed approach	In 1862 some of the Sioux in Minnesota reacting to starvation rations and delayed annuities rose up against the white settlers.  The result was a great loss of life and suffering on both sides.<br />The author gives a fairly  even handed account of this uprising, however, I think he dwelt just a  little too much on graphic accounts of the atrocities committed by the  Indians.  Not that I think it would be fair to white-wash their  participation.  Under the influence of alcohol and the breakdown of their  society, I'm sure that some of these atrocities did occur.  However, we  must keep in mind that it was long assumed that the Plains Indians tortured  live victims because bodies were often found mutilated.  In most cases,  though, these mutilations took place after death.  Also the eye-witness  accounts of those suffering from fear, starvation, and delirium, may not be  the best to rely upon, especially as they were probably told after the  fact.<br />Still the author does a very good job of handling the politics on  the Indian side, and showing how innocents on both sides suffered, while  many of the guilty did not. This episode also brings up many questions  about assimilation, mob psychology, and human behavior.  This is definitely  a must-read for anyone interested in Native American history or the history  of the American West.	2000-07-07
US	52368337	R1CPZJKKWQOHLW	0446673706	356722115	Indian Killer	Books	2	11	19	N	N	This is not Alexie's best work	Sherman Alexie has great skill as a writer, but he doesn't use it here.  He does an excellent job with main character John, who was adopted by white parents, and suffers from mental illness. Unfortunately, he also brings in  a lot of other character whom he seems to want us to know just as well.   The result is that all the other characters both Indian and White are flat.   They basically fall into two catagories; those who think Indians are good  and White people are bad, or visa versa.<br />Actually I shouldn't say that  all the characters are flat.  There are two black men from a donut shop who  befriend John.  They are the only other characters who seem to have real  feelings and emotions. They care about John, but realize he could be  dangerous.  They also sympathize with his white parents who are always  searching for him.  Unfortunately they are very peripheral to the  plot.<br />Alexie also makes the mistake here of over-describing his  characters.  On the first introduction we get all the physical details as  well as past history.  In his other work, he has done a much better job of  developing the characters throughout the story.<br />The greatest loss,  however, is his characteristic humor.  It is what brought demension to his  other characters, and separated him as a writer.  John often laments that  he cannot laugh like other Indians.  Yet none of the Indians here laugh at  all.<br />Alexie is at the point in his career where anything he writes will  be met with rave reviews.  He is also probably being pressured to produce.   I certainly hope this will not cause him to waste his considerable talents.   It would truly be a loss.	2000-06-19
US	52368337	RCQUIUYJ05VJM	0156006898	973743273	The Wreck of the Whaleship Essex	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good quick read	This is an excellent book to take on a plane or read on a day at the beach.  At a little over a hundred pages, it can be read in one sitting, yet it's the narrative of an actual event-the ship wreck that inspired the  novel, Moby Dick.  Best for me was the glossary in the back that explains  some of those terms I always read in those old nautical novels, but never  understood.	2000-06-16
US	52368337	R12WEBXOYRXPF2	0803279787	652675512	Sun Dancer	Books	1	6	11	N	N	The first problem with this book is the premise	In this novel London takes events that happened a few decades back and sets them in the present day.  This is a very difficult thing to do. The author must take into consideration changing attitudes and political climate.  In this London fails miserably.  For example, he depicts FBI raids [that seem based on]  Mathieson's ISOCH (which took place in the '70s) and sets them in the late '90s.  While I will admit that I have only a passing acquaintance with the Pine Ridge reservation, I do keep abreast of Indian Country politics, and it seems to me that both Native American political leaders, and the US government have become a lot more sophisticated in their dealing with each other over the past 10 years or so. <br />A poor premise can still make a good book, however, if it is well written.  This is not.  The character development is very poor.  London also jumps from event to event, leaving some important pieces dangling when they become superfluous to the plot....	2000-06-15
US	52368337	R3N0QBWIHXS3ZS	0930100743	951359770	Red Earth: A Vietnam Warrior's Journey	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This is a wonderful book	There's been a lot written about Vietnam vets and post traumatic stress, but I've never read any author who portrays the pain and anguish as well as Red Eagle.  Then he portrays the healing.  But to understand it you must  enter a different skin.  The skin of a people not held to standard  conventions; where time has a different meaning and visions and dreams are  an important part of life.  I have never read an author who managed to  accomplish this, but Red Eagle does.  Even Alexie, an author I greatly  admire, still leaves the reader on the outside looking in.  But with Red  Eagle you are truly taken inside.<br />I am an avid reader who usually  consumes one book after another.  However, when I finished this book I  couldn't start another one for a couple of days.  It has that kind of  effect on you.	2000-06-05
US	52368337	R1ZLVJQKNAIEQ5	067080889X	102398027	Empire Express: Building the First Transcontinental Railroad	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Great for Railroad Buffs	Bain took 14 years on this book and he seems to have included every piece of his research in its 700 and some pages.  This is both a plus and a minus.  On the plus side, railroad buffs will probably appreciate having  all this information in one place.  For someone like myself, however, who  is interested in the railroad as one piece of the American West, it was a  bit more than I needed to know.  There are far too many names to keep track  of.  Also, Bain has a tendency to give too much background information on  even the most minor players, and his style doesn't make the read any  easier.  I actually found myself speed reading,or skipping huge chunks of  this book, which is very unusual for me.<br />In short, if you want to learn  everything there is to know about the building of the Transcontinental  Railroad, this book is for you.  If you just want a brief overview, look  elsewhere.	2000-05-28
US	52368337	R53PR1RWLIAX3	0688165575	430042831	Use Me	Books	1	10	15	N	N	This gets one star for the first two chapters	I forced myself to finish this book just so I could be completely fair in my review, but this was a tremendous disappointment.  I say disappointment  because the first chapter about 14 year old Evie touring France with her  family was great.  It reminded me of my own childhood, and of recent  outings with my own 13 year old.  The next chapter about Mary Beth, the  same age, was not quite as good, but still good.  But in the third chapter  the book made a tremendous slide downhill, which continued through to the  end.<br />First of all by the third chapter, Evie's family is not even close  to the one described in the Chapter I.  Except for the names they are  totally different people.  This starts a pattern that seems to continue  throughout the book.  The protagonist jumps from event to event, and  characters change their entire personality somewhere inbetween with only a  brief explanation given as background.  <br />There are also small, but  sginificant errors (my pet peeve)that show the writer was not being  careful. For example,a photo of her parents in the fifties standing in  front of a blue Mustang-the fifties? Mustang? Just a bit of research would  have turned up a car that was actually being manufactured in the fifties.    Things like this are just sloppy writing, and make me wonder why I should  spend time reading this book, when the author couldn't spend enough time to  write it well.<br />In retrospect my guess is that the first two chapters were  short stories, and they were good ones.  Perhaps Ms.Schappel should have  quit while she was ahead.	2000-05-02
US	52368337	R1ZGU2LW2NVWXA	0571199038	373253876	Hell With the Fire Out: A History of the Modoc War	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Well written and concise	During the height of the Indian conflicts on the plains a smaller,but no less deadly campaign was being waged against the Modocs of the Northwest. Like the Cheyenne after them, the Modocs were a small band whose numbers  had already been reduced by warfare and desease.  They were willing to live  peacefully, only they wanted to live in their own homeland.  And as with  the Cheyenne, the military wasted much time money, and worst of all lives  in order to bring these people to their knees. This is a concise and  well-written account of that war.<br />Quinn is one of those historians who  makes broad use of dialogue in his work.  While many scholars take a scant  view of this method, I think it works well, if done carefully.  Certainly  we can question how Quinn could possibly know exactly what was said, when  there was no one there to record it.  However, memoirs and journals often  paraphrase, and if the writer has researched the characters and the times  well enough, I think it is fair to allow him to make certain assumptions,  especially as it brings such dimension to the characters.<br />Quinn's  depiction of events is very exciting without crossing over into  sensationalism.  And though any story of Americans' treatment of the  Indians invites a certain amount of moralizing, he does not go overboard,  nor does he portray the Modocs as saints. He also does an excellent job of  incorprating the landscape into the story.  Quinn's depiction of the lava  beds the Modocs called home makes it even more wondrous that the Americans  found it so important for them to leave.<br />This was definitely a story that  deserved to be told, and Quinn does a very good job of it.	2000-04-28
US	52368337	R3RL1OXCQNJMRY	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sobel writes excellent popular histories	I believe there is a definite value to popular history.  It gives you the opportunity to &quot;test the waters&quot; of a different era.  If you want to learn more, you can delve deeper.  Sobel, however, is not just good at  popular history.  She combines it with popular science, and makes the most  obscure topics interesting.<br />The one flaw I found in this book, however,  was that it was mistitled.  Galileo and His Daughter might have been more  apt.  This is actually a biography of Galileo with some letters from his  daughter thrown in for human interest.  It works well, but it's not what I  expected.  I really did not feel that I came away with any great  understanding of Suor Maria Celeste.  I did, however, learn a lot about  Galileo, and it put some myths to rest for me.<br />I would definitely  recommend this book.	2000-04-25
US	52368337	R1PWL106OJEO92	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The characters really moved me.	It's been a long time since I cared so much about the characters in a book.  It's also been a long time since I read a book that I could not put down.  However I could not put this one down, not because it was an unraveling mystery or had a shoot-em-up plot, but because I wanted to find  out what happened to these people, and I held on to the hope that would  survive and be happy.<br />Alexie is well on his way to becoming one of our  great writers.  However, while I found his short stories neat and concise,  in moving to the novel I feel that he added a little too much explanation  and historical background.  Perhaps he thought this was necessary to  explain his culture to a white audience.  His characters are so well  developed, however, that their actions speak for themselves.  I did not  think any explanation was required.  Indeed, I thought the best parts of  this novel dealt with the mysticism and blending of time.  These are  aspects of Native culture that we, as outsiders can know about, but not  fully understand.<br />There are few writers in this mass marketed culture who  still see writing as an art form.  Alexie appears to be one of them.	2000-04-19
US	52368337	R307OKVC1EY7Z	0684826682	762172146	BETWEEN TWO FIRES: American Indians in the Civil War	Books	3	9	11	N	N	I was hoping for more	In this book Hauptman tells about a little known part of Civil War/American Indian history-the Native Americans who fought on both sides of the conflict.  Before reading this I generally thought of the Civil War  as a period when the Plains Indians got a brief respite from their battle  for freedom and the tribes of the East-well, I didn't really know.<br />While  Hauptman gives us some interesting facts, however, he never really treats  the obvious question.  Why?  Why did so many American Indians put their  lives on the line for a battle between two factions of whites?   Unfortunately Hauptman devotes little time to this part of the issue,  simply stating over and over that the Indians saw this as a way to ward off  even further dislocation and perhaps as &quot;a bargaining chip&quot; with  their conquerors.  I would have liked him to go into more detail.  For  example, was it individual Indians who chose to fight, or were they  encouraged by tribal leaders? Were there any negotiations going on between  Indians and whites?  Were the whites making promises to the Indians in  order to recruit them? In his last chapter, Hauptman tells us what we  already know.  Whatever the Indians hoped to gain pretty much came to  nothing.  But he doesn't tell us what, if anything the Indians did to fight  this outcome.<br />This was worth reading because I learned some interesting  things.  For example how Indians were seen in the South vis a vis Blacks;  how different tribes viewed slavery, etc.  However, I was hoping for more.	2000-04-07
US	52368337	R26JZQRTFG8S1	0811214168	859913010	Cape of Storms	Books	4	1	5	N	N	In the hands of Jane Austen this would have been trivial	This is the story of three half sisters living the ex-patriot life in Paris before WWII.  In the hands of a Jane Austen, it would have been filled with trivial flirtations and misunderstandings- bringing everything  to a happy conclusion.  But Nina Berberova is Russian.  Therefore this  novel is filled with introspection, analysis and suicidal tendencies.  To  her credit, she only touches briefly on the existance of God.<br />I say this  a little tongue-in-cheek because, in fact, for those of us who love the  Russian novel form, that is what puts it head and shoulders above Jane  Austen.  One must use one's mind, not merely be entertained.<br />I give this  4 stars because Berberova is not exactly Dostoyevsky or Tolstoy.  However,  if you want something a little deeper than the average modern novel, but  don't want to spend several months plodding through it, this book is for  you.	2000-03-06
US	52368337	R24OFG77FPEQ8Z	0292715986	658223079	The Nations Within: The Past and Future of American Indian Sovereignty	Books	5	39	39	N	N	This book provided an added bonus	I bought this book to try to understand how tribal governments fit into our federal system.  I got the added bonus of learning how a bill becomes law.<br />In outlining Collier's attempts at getting the Indian Reorganization  Act passed during the FDR administration, DeLoria and Lytle explain in  detail, the committee hearings, the compromises and the way the two houses  of Congress work together.  I am sorry to say that,up to this point, I had  no understanding of this complicated process.<br />This is a well-written,  even handed book.  It makes complicated issues easier to comprehend, and it  casts blame, as well as praise, on both sides of the issues.<br />During the  time that I was reading this book, members of the Lakota nation on the Pine  Ridge reservation took over tribal government buildings as a protest  against their Tribal Council.  Because of my reading, I was able to  understand a little bit better what was happening.  <br />I would strongly  recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn about what has happened in  Indian policy since the end of the Indian Wars, and also to anyone who  wants a better understanding of how our own government works.	2000-02-23
US	52368337	R366RGV5PT09MH	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	4	6	7	N	N	This was a pleasant diversion	I enjoyed reading this book. It was a pleasant diversion.  However, I wasn't quite as moved by it as some seem to have been.  Perhaps if this had been my first introduction to the Native Amercan view of nature, it might  have been more meaningful for me.  As it is, it reminded me a little of the  kind of anti-establishment novel we would have read in the 60's and early  70's and found to be &quot;so true.&quot;<br />I did, however, feel that the  writing was quite good.  The author did a very believable job of telling  this from a child's point of view, and I always appreciate someone who  describes nature so that you can feel,taste and smell it.  Over all, I  would recommend this as an excellent book for young adults.	2000-01-17
US	52368337	R3AG8AUP0PWRRA	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good popular history	I enjoyed reading this very much.  The author calls it a popular history. Being accustomed to reading books on history, I would call this more of a light history. That is it's not too bogged down.  It reads easily and  quickly.  It uses the facts, but focuses more on personality.  I would have  given it five stars, except that, the paperback version at least, didn't  have any illustrations or diagrams.  This made it difficult for me to  visualise how each clock differed from the last, and what made them work.	2000-01-06
US	52368337	R3L85V8O9IINGN	0803297491	131924935	The Indian War of 1864	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Interesting memoir of two conflicts	This is the memoir of a young cavalry officer serving on the Plains at the end of the Civil War. It is very interesting in the way it depicts day to day life, and merges the two conflicts. I was not aware, for example, that  the Union was so concerned about Confederate attempts to ally with Indian  tribes.  <br />Having said this, I caution, that it's not exactly like reading  about Custer. The most exciting encounter with the Indians involves Ware  and his troop trying to make a mad dash for the fort before the Indians  have time to persue, and the major accomplishment is replacing the  telegraph wires that the Cheyennes destroyed.  Thus I would not recommend  this for an individual new to the topic of the Indian Wars, but if you're  at the point where you want to delve deeper, and get more insight into the  times, this is a very valuable work.	1999-12-29
US	52368337	R35TRJN60ACQ80	0806118393	619090953	The Fighting Cheyennes (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	This book does not need to be reviewed.	People familiar with studies of the Plains Indians and their culture already know that this is the defininitive book on the Cheyennes. The details of their history, culture, and religion are fascinating.  However,  those just beginning to dabble in this area of study should be warned, it  may be more than they are looking for right now.  For example, the  alliances and warfare between the Cheyenne and other tribes would be very  difficult to follow if you didn't already  know a little bit about who they  were and how their migratory paths crossed,etc.  Once you've done a fair  amount of study on the subject, however, your library will not be complete  without it.	1999-12-27
US	52368337	RAM4SNLKOOQ1Q	0684839075	582605999	The Torrents of Spring	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Still holds up after all these years.	I thought I'd read everything Hemingway ever published, but I was not even familiar with this one.  When I read that it was a parody, I thought I might not get it, since it had been a long time since I'd read any of the  authors he was targeting.  Instead I found myself laughing out loud. So  much reminded me of best-sellers I had read in recent years(The Bridges of  Madison County is one which comes to mind).  It just goes to show, great  writing can come in many styles, but bad writing remains amazingly  consistant over the years.	1999-12-05
US	52368337	R3STJSGPIW6O8X	0803292112	132903709	Crazy Horse: The Strange Man of the Oglalas (50th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	This book opened a new page in my life	It will be 3 years ago this February that I first read this book.  I then bought the hard cover version so I could keep it in my library and read it over and over again.<br />Prior to this, my interest in Western history was  confined to pioneers and cowboys.  The Indians were just some folks who  happened to get a tough break.  This book though, opened my mind to a  culture that I had never known or thought much about.  Now I read every  book I can get on the subject, and spend my summers touring forts and  battlefields.<br />Since my first reading of Crazy Horse I have read a  biography of Sandoz.  I know that her research was maticulous and that she  had a good rapport with the Indians who knew Crazy Horse and were still  living at the time she was writing.  Of course, since this is mostly an  oral history it is hard to know what is actual truth and what is the myth  which grew around the subject, but it doesn't really matter.  No one can  read this book without coming away with a new understanding of what it was  like to live the free life on the Plains, and how devestating it must have  been for those who lost it.	1999-12-05
US	52368337	R2KD700QEB95K2	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Writing is like portraiture.	When something is missing you can't quite put your finger on what it is.  All the features are depicted correctly, but it just doesn't catch the essence of the subject. In Young Men and Fire, Norm Mcclean describes what  happens to the body when it is burned to death. He also goes further and  tries to imagine what must have been in the young men's minds at the last  minute.  Junger attempts to do the same with drowning.  I found Young Men  and Fire poignent and moving.  This book reminded me of one of those cable  shows that mascarades as a documentary, but actually relies on  sensationalism and graphic pictures of death scenes.  It was exciting,I'll  admit,and I did have difficulty putting it down, but it was more like a  need to gape at a car wreck, than being drawn into people's lives.  I also  think that Junger might have narrowed his focus a bit.  This book could  have been about the destruction caused by one storm, the men who died on  one boat, men who make their living from the sea, or boating in general.   Narrowing it down would have allowed for a little more depth.   Unfortunately, he tried to cover all these topics, and lost something in  the process.	1999-10-20
US	52368337	R2M1F7A3QXJQE4	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is what I call good writing.	So much American fiction, these days, seems to be shallow trash, knocked off in a few afternoons, that I think I will read this book over several more times, just to savor its beauty.  This is not prose.  It's poetry.   Sometimes, I did not quite grasp the exact meaning of a story, but it  didn't matter.  The words still conveyed the feeling.  However, if you're  expecting &quot;Smoke Signals,&quot; I found this much less upbeat.  Before  Alexie, I read some novels by D'Arcy McNickle.  He was a prominent Native  American who died in the '70's and whose books dealt mostly with the early  reservation period. I was touched by his depiction of frustration, and of  failure despite  educational opportunities.  It's very sad to realize that,  in the 90's, Native American authors are still having to deal with these  same themes.	1999-09-25
US	52368337	RERNSE9RFO6ML	080328246X	265612404	A Guide to the Indian Wars of the West (Bison Book)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	You'll want to keep this as a reference.	I was introduced to this book after I had already done quite a bit of reading on the Indian Wars, and I was sorry that I had not found it earlier.  It provides alot of basic information in a very readable format.   I now keep this book on hand as a reference when I do any other reading on  the subject. I had the privilege of meeting John McDermott this summer when  he served as historian guide for a tour of the battlefields of the Sioux  wars.  It must have been very difficult for him to condense his vast  knowlege of the Indian wars into this simplified format, but it works very  well.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the  Indian wars, or someone who would just like an introduction into that  period of American history.	1999-09-19
US	52368337	R13DN107I7PNJU	0878423044	705523136	The Mystery of E Troop: Custer's Gray Horse Company at the Little Bighorn	Books	4	75	78	N	N	For the non-expert this can be a little overwhelming	This book is well researched and well written.  However, if you have just a passing interest in the Battle of the Little Bighorn, or have just begun your reading on the subject, this is not for you.  In an effort to solve the mystery of 28 troopers who apparently died in Deep Ravine, but whose bodies are said to have never been found, Michno provides innumerable eye-witness accounts both white and Indian.  In the beginning I tried to follow all of them, especially since I had just been to the battlefield, but I soon found it far too cumbersome. Mr. Michno has put alot of work into this, and he deserves recognition for it, however I would recommend this book only for people who already have a very detailed knowlege of the subject.  END	1999-09-19
US	52368337	RJMU6T5I3LL2L	0806125012	891323478	Elizabeth Bacon Custer and the Making of a Myth	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Leckie does not judge Libby by modern standards	This is a beautifully written book, and very readable.  Having read a lot about the history of the period I already knew how fiercely the widow Custer guarded her husband's reputation and how much she did to enhance it.   Unlike many female authors might do, however, Leckie does not judge Libby  by modern standards, but puts her in the context of her time.  She also  touches on the possibility that remaining Autie's widow may have been far  more liberating for her, in her times, than it would have been to become  Mrs. Someone else.  During her husband's lifetime she lived in his shadow,  but after his death she was able to use that connection to become an author  and lecturer in her own right.  She also left an estate valued at over  $300,000, after her husband had managed only to put them into debt.  Having  read her memoirs like Boots and Saddles and Tenting on the Plains, it was  clear that Mrs.Custer never gave much insite into her true feelings.   Nothing seemed to upset her except a criticism of her husband.  Inspite of  this, though, Leckie does manage to make her into a real person.  I found  her epilogue truly moving, and I came away with an understanding of an  historical character, whom up to this point, I hadn't much cared for.<br />.	1999-09-02
US	52368337	R2NUY79AAHMKZL	0786705620	739916429	Inventing Wyatt Earp: His Life and Many Legends	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Kind of Fun	As someone who grew up marking time by whether it was Matt Dillon, Wyatt Earp, Palladin or Major Adams (just to name a few) on the screen in front of me, this book was kind of fun.  Ironically the same generation who grew  up idolizing these figures and buying replicas of their paraphanalia in the  toys stores, became the iconclasts of the sixties.  So it was refreshing to  read something telling me that the original TV version was actually the  most accurate. Having said that, however, this book had a lot of flaws.   First and foremost, it was one of the worst editing jobs I've ever seen.   The book was filled with misprints-so much so that it's the first thing I  will remember about it.  Secondly the stucture is poor.  There are at least  three chapters which would have made good endings, but they all came  somewhere in the middle of the book! Wyatt's death, for example takes place  in chapter 9 out of 12.  There is also a lot of repetition (like the joke  about the &quot;oy-vay corral&quot; which appears at least twice) and the  many repeated references to the movie Tombstone.  Indeed there is so much  analysis and praise of the movie (I rented it when I was about 75%  through  the book,and found it good but not great) that it sometimes seemed as  though the book were written as a companion to the movie!  Finally, instead  of giving us the various stories and legends of Earp, and letting us decide  ( as I feel the title implies)the author continually chooses for us, and  the version he chooses is always the one which most resembles the character  in the 50's TV show,or the Tombstone version.  In some cases the author  seems to have no more reason for his assumptions than that he just doesn't  believe that Earp would have acted that way.  The author should just admit  that he fell in love ( as many of us did) with the western legends he saw  on TV as a Kid, and would like to keep just one of those legends alive.  In  fact, so would I.  That's why I enjoyed readingthis through to the end  inspite of all it's faults.	1999-04-19
US	52368337	R2D2OUO4JX7L4O	0292701322	189146590	The Burning Plain and Other Stories (Texas Pan-American Series)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	The translation is so wonderful, I wish I could read spanish	Sorry, I did not buy this book from Amazon, but I will by the other Rulfo books available.  I found this book in a used book store, I happened to be browsing through. I don't even know what caught my eye, but what a find.   This is so beautifully written.  I must admit that though I at one time had  a strong interest in the Mexican Revolution, I have forgottem much of what  I learned, so some of the stories were hard for me to understand in their  historical context.  The writing is so evocative, however, that it doesn't  matter.  The feeling of desolation is almost too overwhelming.  I was  reminded somewhat of Ernest Hemingway by the use of short declarative  sentences, also I suppose because Hemingway often used Spanish phrasing in  his work.  The best writing, in my opinion, evokes a feeling rather than  describing it.  Rulfo accomplishes that amazingly.	1999-03-17
US	52368337	R1YV2AARYE8ATB	0226500624	907441434	Young Men and Fire	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A great cross-over between history and fiction	My husband read this book a few years ago when it was first plublished.  At the time I wasn't much interested in what appeared to me to be a story about fighting a fire, probably filled with alot of facts I couldn't  understand.  It was not until I read an article about MacLean and how he  did not publish (or complete for that matter)any of his works until he was  in his 70's that I became curious about him.  I first read &quot;A River  Runs Through It, then went down to our basement to dig out &quot;Young Men  and Fire&quot;<br />Lately I have developed the greatest admiration for those  writers who can bridge the gap between non-fiction and fiction.  My  favorite writer to do this  was Mari Sandoz, but MacLean has done it also.   This is not the same as historical fiction, which makes up a story based  loosely on fact.  This is a style the majority of which is based on known  facts, but where we cannot possibly know the facts, such as a man's  thoughts in the last moments before his death, the author uses, not  imagination, but experience and research to fill in these gaps  credibly.<br />While I was correct in my assumption that this book would have  alot of information I didn't understand, it took nothing away from it for  me.  All I can say is, I wish MacLean had started his writing sooner, so  that I would have had alot more of his work to read!	1999-03-11
US	52368337	R2OMTZR74ZNM31	0671776975	200661390	A River Runs Through It and Other Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You've seen the movie, now read the book!	Like many, I was very impressed with the movie, and did not know until recently about the book (or actually story) it was based on.  I was introduced to it by an article in Montana Magazine, where I found that the  author had carried on a correspondence for many years with Robert Utley,  the historian best known for his works on Custer.  Apparently MacLean tried  for many years to write a Homeric tragedy about Custer, but was never  satisfied with his work.  It was not until he retired, and finally got down  to writing about the simple things, that he was able to find his niche as a  writer.  To my mind, he succeeds beautifully.  His descriptions and turns  of phrase are all carefully thought out.  At times he puts me in mind of  Hemingway, only a little less sparse. It is truly sad that he started his  writing so late, with a little more work, I feel he could have become one  of our great writers.	1999-03-11
US	52368337	R21D8A71MXVII7	0140084428	54419163	English Creek (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I loved the style, but not the ending.	Doig's writing, like so many who are from Montana and write about it, captures nature beautifully.  Like other writers from this area (Norm McClean comes to mind) Doig paints a beautiful picture of plains,  mountains, and of course the weather becomes a character in itself.  My  only disappointment was the denouement in the end.  It rather strained the  credibility of an otherwise  realistic story.  I would rather Doig had  stayed away from actually telling a story, and had made it more a novel  &quot;about nothing.&quot;  For this reason, I enjoyed &quot;This House of  Sky&quot; more, but this is still a novel which I feel falls into the class  of literature, rather than popular fiction. For me, that is high praise  indeed.	1999-03-11
US	52368337	REZNHP0PLU7GX	0803283598	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux	Books	5	10	11	N	N	This is a very valuable read.	Mari Sandoz both admired and modeled much of her work about the Plains Indians on the work of Neidhardt.  Both worked on using the flow of the native language as  opposed to a word for word translation, and both spent  time with Indians, learning their culture and getting first hand  information.  They took advantage of what is no longer available to us,  first person histories from those who actually lived the free life on the  Plains.  They also did more for native cultures than any white person  before or since, by writing down this information for future generations.   One thing I found enjoyable about Black Elk, and the Sandoz books is that  while the Indians they spoke with took their religion and duties very  seriously, they also had a great sense of humor, and didn'tt mind poking  fun at themselves as well as whites.   I found the story of the warriors  who stopped to eat a buffalo during the battle of the Rosebud particularly  humorous.	1999-02-06
US	52368337	R2SBYVBOBXD7HK	0803291345	334126186	Mari Sandoz: Story Catcher of the Plains	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Well written biography of an amazing person	I love Sandoz's books about the Plains Indians, but was never sure until I read her biography, as to their historical accuracy.  I now wonder why anyone else would bother to research the culture of the Lakota and Cheyenne  or the Sioux Wars, or any of the historical subjects she wrote about.  Not  only did she get first hand accounts from survivors who are now long dead,  she also delved into papers and reports which have long since disappeared,  mostly due to neglect.  She brought historical writing to a new level.   Never being satisfied to surmize, she would spend years researching gaps in  her information. I have read several histories of the Sioux wars since  reading Sandoz's Crazy Horse, and though her name appears constantly in the  footnotes, no one in their introduction seems to want to acknowledge her as  the definitive source.  Perhaps it is because her writing style was not the  standard regurgitation of facts, but had a beauty of its own, perhaps, as  she believed,  it was because she was from the West, and had no actual  college degree, or perhaps it is because she was a woman who added a  woman's touch to subjects usually handled by men. I also noticed that  the  First Nations'   Amazon site does not list even  one of her books.  This is  very sad because she probably did more to make white people not only  sympathise, but empathise with the Plains Indian, than any other  person-Indian or white, before or since. My congratulations to Helen Winter  Stauffer for writing a very thorough biography of a great bigrapher.	1999-01-27
US	52368337	R1PM77FBHP1PX7	1565844025	69152238	Like a Hurricane: The Indian Movement from Alcatraz to Wounded Knee	Books	5	9	11	N	N	I found this book very well-written and well-researched	Unlike &quot;In the Spirit of Crazy Horse&quot; which was a  more  hysterical presentation,  throwing out a patch quilt of names, bar room brawls, arrests and killing, I found this  book very informative, very   well written, and very even handed.  I would never have guessed from  Mathieson's book, for example, that the American Indian Movement, like so  many others of that era, started as a movement of students and  intellectuals.  Also the authors seem to feel that &quot;the incident at  Oglala&quot; which has attracted so much press and celebrity attention,  basically took place after the death knell for the movement had been  sounded. To some of the authors' ideas as to the reason for the demise of  the movement, I would add another, from the pespective of a white student  at the time.  That reason is  simple bad timing.  We had supported Black  Power, We had supported the Chicano grape-pickers,  We had protested the  War in Viet Nam.  American white society,  which has admittedly a very  short attention span was growing tired of causes.  When Watergate came  along the baby boomers felt vindicated and so we put aside our anger, and  started working toward lives which ended up to be much like those of our  parents' generation.  Just a few years earlier we would have supported and  Indian movement.  Now sadly we just didn't care.	1999-01-19
US	52368337	R2I9HTEQQ7NDKU	156731175X	244989544	Old Jules: Portrait of a Pioneer	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Oddly Sandoz writes better about Indians than her own cultur	Oddly, I found that Sandoz wrote better books about Native American culture than about her own, but this is still wonderful writing.  Having first read her biography of Crazy Horse and then Cheyenne Autumn, I was a little disappointed when I first started this story about her father.  By the end of the book, however, I found that I had been just as drawn in as I was with her other books. Sandoz has a way of depicting her characters and the worlds in which they live so beautifully that when they die, you feel as if you had truly known them.  Certainly Jules Sandoz was not a very likeable character, and yet he was a very powerful man, who left his mark on those who knew him.  By the end of Sandoz's first published work, he had definitely left his mark on me.  END	1999-01-05
US	52368337	R1QJJ5K3SN7Q2H	0767902513	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This was a fun read	This was a fun read-I agree with the reviewer who compared it with &quot;Into Thin Air,&quot; but with humor.  This is a &quot;must read&quot; for people in their mid-forties to mid-fifties who can identify with the physical deterioration coupled with a deeper appreciation for life and nature, which go with middle age.  Bryson pairs humor with some lyrical analysis and insight, and the ending, comparing two views on what it means to actually hike the AT, I found to be quite moving.  END	1998-12-16
US	52368337	RU4S7AU31ROCS	0345332717	362161209	City and the Pillar	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Like &quot;Valley of the Dolls from a Homosexual View	Prior to this the only Vidal book I had read was Palimpsest in which he laments over and over that &quot;no one reads literature anymore.&quot;  Since I tend to agree, I decided to read this, his first published novel.   I did not find it to be geat literature.  Unfortunately it read like a  Valley of the Dolls with a Homosexual protagonist.  There was no deplth to  the characters, no great literary style, The characters were all cliches.   I had hoped for more.  Since he was young when he wrote it, I'll give him  the benefit of the doubt and try just one more of his works, but I'm  sceptical.	1998-12-16
