US	52375519	R2NT8REPKJYS7O	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An excellent resource, albeit not mind-altering....	Business books are not my first interest.  That being said, this book is well-written, with some insight, and incredibly useful because of the systematic way that Cole and Mitchell attempted to evaluate companies and research their proposals.  Other reviewers have noted that this book is saying nothing earth-shattering.  Earth-shattering books aren't often written about business; what good business books do (and there aren't as many as book sales often show: so much written in this area is absolute garbage) is to  reevaluate and present sound thinking and distill other peoples' experiences.  Cole and Mitchell do this seemlessly and insightfully.  Revoultionary thinking in the business area hasn't done great things for the world economy lately: had so many people not fallen victim to the next great thing or to the newest fad, we might not have had a bubble for so long, and perhaps not that much to regain.<br />In &quot;The Ultimate Competitive Advantage&quot; the authors argue that companies should basically do what they say in the rest of the title (e.g. &quot;Continually [Develop] a More Profitable Business Model&quot;).  They point out that people shouldn't wait; should constantly work to improve their product; and should work to discourage others from competition through constant, tireless innovation.  In these things, they aren't saying anything revolutionary: countless books from Sun Tzu to row upon row of management-related books do the same thing.  Many consultancy services say it too, and charge companies a great deal of money to listen.  However, in this book, Cole and Mitchell through a constant and continual use of case studies prove their points, work to provide insights, and, in the end, through doing so provide stories through which managers can seek to influence others to impliment changes.  Their examples are thus useful both educationally and for influence.  Finally, they do pretty well at putting together a book that is a relative page-turner: I enjoyed both reading and learning from it.  <br />Those things been said, there are places I wish that the book had been put together differently.  There are insights I disagree with or find troublesome.  However, this is a really good book: both students and managers could profit from looking through its pages.  I wholeheartedly recommend it for those interested in business or management.	2003-05-04
US	52375519	RD9XUY1IG37U	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A powerful tale to tell....	I recently had a chance to read this book by D'Haene; setting aside for a minute the merits of the book to the people to whom it might be of the most help (i.e. victims / people close to those who have experienced sexual violence) it is a book that for the sheer force of the words alone deserves a much broader audience.  As a tale of faith tested (setting aside literary merit...), it ranks with Elie Weisel's Night as one of the most powerful books that I have ever come across. <br />In this story D'Haene tells the story of his upbringing.  His father was controlling of his mother, and sexually and physically abusive to he and his brothers and sister.  He tells of his personal dissent into a hell: high school is bad enough for most of us without the additional bitterness and pain caused by a tumultuous home life and the fact that your father has raped you.  Nevertheless, D'Haene's story is not solely a tale of angst and suffering: instead, it is a story that shows how one individual finds redemption. <br />As an honest reviewer, D'Haene does not write with typical artifice and convention; his story is an honest and personal account.  As it is honestly the story of one man's life, and not the idea of one man's life, it reads as such.  Were it intended to be literary, there are ways that it may have been possible to package it in a form that would be a little more tortured, and perhaps more dramatic.  Parts of it could be cut; others could be edited.  However, as it is what it is, it is a wonderful book as it stands, and really should be read. <br />However you got to this point, I would recommend that you need to read this book.  It is enlightening, interesting, and, in an odd way, a book that could strengthen one's faith.  I commend Mr. D'Haene for having the strength to live through his early life strong enough to tell his tale; I hope, for all of us, that many people read this book.	2002-09-01
US	52375519	R3SEBM7WHTPHZZ	0316320277	821080130	Anarchy and Elegance: Confessions of a Journalist at Yale Law School	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The book that everyone should read before law school....	The kind of people that make the choice to sell their souls and begin their study of &quot;the Law&quot; are often typically the sort of overachieving people that overresearch, and look for ways to win the game several moves deep.  As such, they peruse the different &quot;how to do law school&quot; books: Law School Confidential and Planet Law School being the foremost names in this category.  That exhausted, they move on to Scott Turow's &quot;1L&quot;, which is an autobigoraphical account of his first year at Ha-vad, and from that, and repeated viewings of &quot;the Paper Chase&quot;, get a picture of what their lives will soon be like. And often it is an erroneous picture.<br />This book is one man's attempt to describe HIS 1L year (or his only L year, as he got the one-year M.L.S. or whatever it is called from Yale). This is a tremendously good book: it presents law school as most find it: the amorality, the confusion, the lack of praise, etc. inherent in conquoring that beast.  And it's a pretty good read as far goes these books written by journalists posing as professional students. It's a DEFINATE must read for anyone who's making the mistake of trudging off to study these endless rules, but it's an interesting take on our society if you're not. <br />Totally, this is a book that you should read. I recommend it fully...	2001-10-18
US	52375519	R23H7MB2E9BYKJ	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Robert Kaplan is a must-read author....	This is Robert Kaplan's first big book (i.e. mainstream press, wide circulation). He's had a knack for writing a particular kind of narrative: part history, part travellogue, part political science, at very particular times that ususally end up being right about as the world falls apart where he is. Needless to say, his last book was about the Middle East. <br />This book is now several years old and parallels Rebecca West's classic work about the ethnic tension in the Balkans at the end of the Cold War. From speaking to friends who were there at the time, they claim that it is a well-balanced and well-researched account; I, myself, can vouch to it's being well-written, timely, and important. <br />This is the sort of book that students should be forced to read their first year in college: it's not overly challenging in how it's constructed, but is challenging in subject matter, and the late rinsight it would give you into an academic discipline. This is one of my favorite books: I recommend that everyone read every book by Kaplan....	2001-10-18
US	52375519	R18S0EWSGJI1AG	0684838648	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto: How Hillbillies, Hicks, and White Trash Became America's Scapegoats	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An absolutely phenomenal book....	This book remains a favorite of mine several years after I first read it. This is the story of 'white-trash' in America-- a people set apart-- by their historically low socioeconomic status, their backwards backwoods culture, and the tremendous scorn that proper society has heeped upon them for generations. People here are characterizing Goad as a liberal: there is nothing further from the truth.  Most likely, Goad is a libertarian: he shouts on high perches above both the left and the right.  This book is a polemic: a shout in the dark against the scourges of political correctness, the welfare state, affirmative action, and also rich, liberal, sentimental white people. <br />Goad sounds old-order Marxist at times.  He is riotously funny, perceptive, and this book truly is one that most people are unable to put down.  This book is absolutely phemonenal, and should be reading as much in the hallowed halls as in the shopping malls containing Wal-marts from West Virginia to North Dakota.  This is a book that is truly a necessary read....	2001-10-18
US	52375519	R1XOMP7BTQXETB	038549503X	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	3	10	19	N	N	It is not as good of a book as people here are implying....	This book was not what I expected when I purchased it; it was not that I was looking for a tremendous read, but I was looking for something that would hold my interest and provide some insight into the functions and interplay of popular culture and the market economy. I'm not sure that I found it.<br />This is not to say that this is a bad book.  Of books on popular culture, or books seeking to provide insight into 2001 America, this book is not even close to the best. Frank is a pundit attacking pundits: at times, he is witty; at times, he makes a good case for being brilliant. On the whole, though, this book could benefit from a good editing: I'm not sure that it has the substance to carry on for so many pages. <br />It's not that I dislike this book: I just think that there are a lot of other books out there that say similar things in a more interesting fashion. And please, no ad hominem attacks here, either....	2001-10-18
US	52375519	R1BF735OE114YL	0231120508	838155428	Law and War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A very good book and an excellent read for any student....	This is a good book that I stumbled upon in an unnamed university bookstore in the not-to-recent past. In it the author explores the ways in which law-- most specifically legal proceedings-- have come to play in regard to war. Specifically, he addresses how legal proceedings have come to play in war: from U.S. trials regarding soldier's conduct against native Americans up through the twentieth century. His conclusions are relatively cynical: when it comes to practice, courts are often more-than-less objects of show as opposed to instruments of justice. <br />This is a very good, well written read by a person who has spent a good deal of time getting acquainted with his subject matter such that he can present it clearly and capably. This book is a must-read for any student of ethics of international politics or international law focusing on war....	2001-04-23
US	52375519	R9T9DRA3DNB96	0029331552	402030565	The Transformation of War: The Most Radical Reinterpretation of Armed Conflict Since Clausewitz	Books	5	34	38	N	N	One of the better books on current military issues....	Martin van Crevald is truely one of the best strategic thinkers whom is writing today. In his more classic books like 'Supplying War: Logistics from Wallerstein to Patton' he wrote VERY credible military history that shook some of the foundations of less-sound strategic thought that was occuring concurrently; he has also written a powerful critique of people who have hopped on the shoulders of NGOs and non-state actors AND state-centered people in 'The Rise and Decline of the State'.  Personally, these have over time become two of my favorite books: perhaps a couple years from now, this shall finish the trinity.<br />Van Crevald puts forth a case that the era of massed conventional wars have finished. For a variety of reasons, the Central-front type conflicts between the USSR and US of the fifties never happened and never will. The more conflicts have happened, the more correct he appears (this book is already eleven years old...) Trying to prepare for them is silly (much in the same way , he asserts, that National Missile Defense is....)<br />This is a must read for students of military strategy and affairs and international politics in general. Its quite a worthwhile book as general reading, though I think that it might be at present out of print. I highly recommend it-- and the other books listed at the beginning of this review....	2001-04-09
US	52375519	R38Z2S7ZJ0ZP0Q	1891620800	449582025	A Question of Intent : A Great American Battle With A Deadly Industry	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A good read or a good book for one interested in policy....	It's funny that when I purchased this book, I never really suspected that it would be quite the page-turner that it is. In this book, David Kessler (former head of the FDA) speaks first of his agency's enlightenment that it COULD and SHOULD fight Big Tobacco and then of the fight itself. This is gripping and compelling a story that public policy has to offer: it's hard to remember that ten years ago, the tobacco industry still held that nicotine a)was not addictive and b)did not cause cancer; this book shows how these myths were finally put to bed in the public sphere. Second, this is a neat story. Kessler has much more of a knack for putting words down on a page than one would expect for a medical doctor (perhaps his wife, whom he declares was a fan of Anthony Trollope, rubbed off on him!) He puts together a story that is worthy of John Grisham; seeing that Erin Brockovich became one of the big pictures of the past twelve months, this fella might have something going for himself here....<br />Setting all of these aside, this book has something to offer for people interested in how the American political system works. In much the same way as books like 'Boomerang!' chronicled the downfall of the centrally-funded health care system also circa the early Clinton-era, this book deals with one of the great succeses (or a part thereof) of the same period. This is a great read and entirely worth buying in hardcover....  <br />Please buy this book....	2001-04-09
US	52375519	R3ELT4UFMU5WHN	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	4	41	48	N	N	A thought provoking book....	This is a good book, and should be read by an awful lot of people who are interested in Christianity. First, I must disagree with the reviewer immediately below mine who states that there are not fundamentalists who hold the 'straw man' beliefs to which Spong assigns them. There are. <br />Having been brought up in a culture in which these 'fundamentalist' views were precariously close, or in, the Christian mainstream, it's only been through encountering writers like Spong that I have found 'faith' again. He is preaching two different messages: to people still in the flock, he states that it is necessary to THINK and BELIEVE and not that these are exclusive; to others who have left the fold, he tries to make the faith acceptable.  And now on to my comments about the book....<br />I think this is a good and interesting book though no where near as thought-provoking as 'Why Christianity Must Change....' or 'Liberating the Gospels'. Some of his points about Paul-- i.e. that he was a closeted homosexual are a bit played out and striken with an uncharacteristic meanness. I also get annoyed by his liking to mention Einstein and subatomic physics-- its safe to say that the cosmology of the world has changed without bringing in specifics... As a whole, though, the book is interesting for those really fluent in Christian scholarship to those in want of something to think about or even an introduction to the Bible.<br />I'm pretty sure this review is going to get lots of negative votes, but I recommend this book sincerely and wholeheartedly.	2001-03-26
US	52375519	R1KN7K5J04Z6BI	0465041752	189956826	The Ape And The Sushi Master Reflections Of A Primatologist	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An excellent, thought provoking, highly readable book	I was delighted when I saw that this book had come out. For those who had never read de Waal, both his 'Chimpanzee Politics' and book on bonobos were great books as general reading-- outside of the context of primate anthropology. He is an engaging writer with a good story to tell.<br />De Waal wants to make culture away from being a human-centric concept. Such, he uses stories from the world of monkies to make his point: animals have group-learned concepts and ways of doing things that differ from independant populations (I wish I could say this more eloquently....) He can flat out write.<br />Buy this book.  Read this book.	2001-03-26
US	52375519	RQFC4391HFJXV	0140444890	694729970	The Satyricon and The Apocolocyntosis of the Divine Claudius (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A classic that should still be read....	This book, when, as here it is translated well (i.e. in a fashion that renders it valid to a modern reader as opposed to one in which it is more a word-for-word translation from the Latin), is one of the funniest books of which I know. Roman literature typically seems derivative-- less real, less well-thought out than Greek stuff-- this book is one of the major exceptions to this rule.<br />If you know of this book and want to read it, this translation here is a good place to start. This is the first novel (whatever that means!), and just an all-around good time....	2001-03-26
US	52375519	R3MWX4T8ZE7L2P	0060675381	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The book would stand alone even if not written by Spong...	This is a well-written biography and many parts of it can stand with pride as JUST biography without needing to have been written by one of the more prominant thelogians of a generation to sell books. Spong's life IS an interesting story-- he has seen a lot and done a lot, and because of that, his life story is worth reading. <br />Setting that aside, this book provides great insight into his theology AND ALSO into the process of one man's travels through a career in the Church. You can see him struggle, you can see him scheme. Unfortunately at times, you can still see him bitter and seething over people with whom he had conflict (though many of these were for VERY GOOD reasons.... I was still a bit put off by it...)<br />This is probably my second-favorite book by Spong: if new to the author, I would read 'Why Christianity Must Change or Die' or 'Liberating the Gospels' before this, but still, I highly recommend this book....	2001-03-26
US	52375519	R628LJZ4ZVF6M	0465041752	189956826	The Ape And The Sushi Master Reflections Of A Primatologist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent, thought provoking, highly readable book	I was delighted when I saw that this book had come out. For those who had never read de Waal, both his 'Chimpanzee Politics' and book on bonobos were great books as general reading-- outside of the context of primate anthropology. He is an engaging writer with a good story to tell.<br />De Waal wants to make culture away from being a human-centric concept. Such, he uses stories from the world of monkies to make his point: animals have group-learned concepts and ways of doing things that differ from independant populations (I wish I could say this more eloquently....) He can flat out write.<br />Buy this book.  Read this book.	2001-03-26
US	52375519	R2HCCP94NQTNZO	0679746315	116218361	Up in the Old Hotel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best books of short stories I have read... ever..	This book would be interesting even if it weren't so cleverly written. The character's that Mitchell portrays: Joe Gould, the bearded lady, the denizens and proprietors of McSorley's saloon are so... for lack of a better term human that this story would be worthwhile to read as if it were just a part of Joe Gould's 'Oral History'-- for what it contributes to a knowledge of a time that has long since passed us, for the insight it has provided in to a world that has since disappeared. Mitchell describes a world that has left us and makes it seem as if it were still with us; I think that I'd give this book four stars just for the characters and the insights alone....<br />But one could say the same about writers like Iceberg Slim; certainly, he too described shady characters in works like 'Pimp' and 'Trick Baby'; today, those seem more annoying than invigourating, and his writing more self-aggrandizing than reaching toward a verismilitude. Mitchell seems with us. His work could stand alone as a work of fiction rather than one of journalism; if it is six-hundred and eighty for pages (I think it is...) all are worth reading in multiple.<br />I highly recommend this book. And I'm usually not a fan of works of this type. If I were to be, another neat book that is vaguely similar but a lot older is Hamilton Holt's 'The Life Sotries of Undistinguished Americans as Told by Themselves...'	2001-02-08
US	52375519	R200RZU98LFMFQ	0425165965	983349113	Timequake	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A really good book... though not a classic....	This is only my second or third Vonnegut book; as such, I'm probably not as worthy to comment as are some of the other reviewers here. This said, this is an interesting book: not exactly what one would expect, not exactly a classic, but something that proves that Vonnegut at age seventy-four (or whenever he wrote this book) still had more to say than a lot of the last century's other authors did as much younger men (like Fitzgerald at thirty-five or Hemingway after forty....) <br />This is somewhat autobiographical, somewhat nonlinear, and wholly entertaining. You can gather from the above reviews what this book is about (which is not something wholly clear even after reading it... in the sense of most books....): that it is an author's reflections and meanderings (much as the other books I've read by him are...) written in a very stream-of-consciousness manner....<br />This isn't quite a must-read but it is a fine book nonetheless. People who have read this and like it should try J.G. Ballard's 'The Atrocity Exhbition': it is a little older and a little more avant-guarde, but reminds me a little of this book (minus Vonnegut's humor and silly-old-man style.....	2001-02-01
US	52375519	R2V9QHYLWPOY8I	1851680268	426784975	Gospel Of Buddha	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Simplest place for Christians to start with Buddhism....	Although this is a really old and linguistically dated, for a variety of reasons this is the simplest place for a person familiar with the Gospels to begin an inquiry into the life of the Buddha (as opposed to Buddhism as a religion generally-- which is much to broad for this book to cover in its just over three hundred pages....) For a book that is almost one hundred years old, its author did a remarkable job of summarizing the sutras that detail the life of the Buddha and in providing charts, etc. such that Christians would grasp that yes, this man was teaching many of the same things as was the man who taught in their Bible.....<br />This is a good place to learn about the Buddha's life. However, a person versed only in this book would not be familiar with most of the forms of Buddhism as they were actually practiced-- it would be difficult to identify HOW Zen of Pure Land or Vajrayana Buddhism came to be having just this little book much in the same wasy it would be impossible to determine how Christianity had changed and developed throughout time having only the record provided in the New Testament, or Judaism having only the Pentatuch.....<br />For those acquainted with Buddhist literature, this book is vaguely similar in content to the Digha Nikaya (&quot;The Long Discourses of the Buddha&quot;) in that both are trying to portray how Buddhism, or the thought and teachings of the Buddha were portrayed at the time of his life as opposed to any kind of philosophy, etc. which developed later (the Mahayana stuff). For those interested in this stuff, I would advise books by Robert Thurman (there are a number) and D.T. Suzuki (again, the same) as the easiest to understand in regards to Indian and Tibetan forms and East Asian and Zen forms respectively. <br />I highly recommend this book....	2001-02-01
US	52375519	R2IUK8QVTDRF3B	0691027943	190088124	Environment, Scarcity, and Violence.	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A must read on the relationship of violence and scarcity...	Like most political science books, after I finished this one, I was slightly disappointed. I bought this book in hopes of a masterwork; upon turning its last page, I thought that this book was something much less than this. I thought that it begged as many questions as it sought to answer; I thought that much of what it brought forth as profound was only that in the sense of being profoundly obvious; I thought that the author opened this book with definitions that were overly broad and thus, in the end, proved nothing.<br />Thankfully, as time has passed, though, my opinion of this book has changed fully and completely. Many of the problems that I saw with this book stemmed from the fact that this book is essentially the first large-scale, well-publicized work of its kind. Its author puts forth a strongly written and researched work into the interrelationship between scarcity and violence on multiple levels; it is both (fairly) easy to understand while still being challenging for those who are not new to the study of conflict....<br />I'd recommend this book to any student of international or comparative politics-- especially those who are interested in fighting between groups of people. This is probably going to be one of the key books toward understanding what is to come in the world in the next twenty or so years; in this category (though topically somewhat unrelated) I'd suggest van Crevald's 'The Transformation of War' and 'The Rise and Decline of the State' and some of Robert Kaplan's travel books as excellent source material....<br />I am certain that there are going to be many who dislike what this book says-- but as to how it is written, and how it is researched, it seems to me to have been in large measure flawless. Buy this book.	2001-01-30
US	52375519	R3LJES6ZKD1M2C	0195098919	169515427	Faces in the Clouds: A New Theory of Religion	Books	5	24	30	N	N	A book that deserves a wide audience.....	There are among fairly academic books books that should be read widely and never quite get the audience that they deserve. This is among the foremost among those that I know; as far as are the merits of it academically, it is also a very strong book. Setting this aside, because of its thought-provoking nature, this book deserves a cult following....<br />Gutherie in it argues that people, for processes of biological advantage, have an innate tendancy to see 'people'-- faces in the clouds-- where they don't exist. I first read this book while studying religion at Columbia and was more impressed by it than any other I read for the particular class I read it for (excluding William James-- which is understandable....) It explains a lot. Its author is widely read and a persuasive writer, it has interesting pictures and really forces one to think about a lot of stuff. It really angered many of my more theologically minded classmates-- which for agnostics should be reason enough to read it....<br />As a book of 'general reading', this is still an interesting book that should be read. It's really smart and a fun read. I'd definately recommend (in either case) to buy this book. It will make you think, or it will change the way you think about religion (and life....) <br />How people percieve is really an avenue that needs much more exploration as far as it concerned the study or religion....	2001-01-30
US	52375519	R2XRWFD0BYH9KM	0674644840	235817770	Origins of the Modern Mind: Three Stages in the Evolution of Culture and Cognition	Books	5	33	37	N	N	A really swell read....	This is a fun book to read-- which is something for a book that credibly spreads across a number of disciplines and through some pretty dense stuff.... <br />Donald is a credible writer and has a style that is simultaneously engaging without losing academic credibility. After opening up with a couple of chapters dealing with a review of literature stemming from before Darwin, he moves into an examination of archaeology, anthropology, and neurology trying to trace how the human mind came to function as it does (if you see it as special... or not....)<br />He traces through most of history. It is a broad, well-constucted swoop but one of which I still have not passed my final judgement. Perhaps it will take a couple of reads before I get to that point. What I am certain of is that this book, secondary to Julian Jaynes &quot;The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind&quot; made me THINK more about how we think than any other book I have come across.<br />I wholeheartedly recommend for you to buy this book if you have stumbled across this page....	2001-01-23
US	52375519	R2NN9Y3N37MAN5	0393049558	208269558	Rimbaud: A Biography	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A vgreat companion to the works for understanding this poet	I cannot vouch claim to having read every other biography of Arthur Rimbaud; some people who are reviewing this book obviously can. I am familiar somewhat with his poems and his letters and knew the story of his life-- at least until he abandoned what most of the world has defined as his productive period-- as well as I could....<br />This is a poweful work of autobiography though one written by a man who seemed at time alternatively enamoured by and abhorrant of his subject. That the biographer doesn't like Rimbaud vouches for his judgement: Rimbaud, by most accounts-- was not the kind of guy that one would like. He was precocious but a total nightmare and menace to all of those around him. Fortunately, he redeemed himself in what he wrote. <br />This is a well-researched, well-referenced biography that is also an easy read and tells a good story. I highly recommend this to anyone who has stumbled across and been enamoured by the poet who wrote Une Saison d'Enfer, Les Illuminations, and Le Bateau Ivre. This is a fine book and worth all of your money-- it may be among the better literary biographies that I have read that are composed outside of the native tounge of the subject author. <br />Someone should make movies about Rimbaud. Now that Quills showed a little of de Sade to the world, isn't little Arthur the next most fitting subject? Smuggling and gun running, c'mon!	2001-01-23
US	52375519	R2W05ABYRYQ6JN	0618056777	612867510	Through a Window	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A great book... and not necessarily because of the apes...	Goodall is a great writer and will be remembered as something of a scientist. More so than any other, she has been a champion and a poularizer of the study of chimpanzees and baboons; Richard Wrangham and others who are at the forefront of ape-research studied under her at Gombe-- and there is something about the myth of a little lady devoting her life to study in the forest that catches people's imaginations...<br />The thing that makes this book so compelling, though, is the insight that it gives into the human condition-- not into that of chimps. Goodall forces people to feel because she can show-- minus the scientific dispassionate inquiry-- how these monekys behave-- and how much like us they act. She feels for them, she identifies with them-- and this book, in the end, forces one to see the human condition in a different light....<br />This is a worthwhile read and fully worth the money it costs. There are times when you can read Goodall's almost religious zeal-- and it is really neat. I highly recommend this book....	2001-01-23
US	52375519	R1XLGGUPNXYFMN	0393049558	208269558	Rimbaud: A Biography	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A vgreat companion to the works for understanding this poet	I cannot vouch claim to having read every other biography of Arthur Rimbaud; some people who are reviewing this book obviously can. I am familiar somewhat with his poems and his letters and knew the story of his life-- at least until he abandoned what most of the world has defined as his productive period-- as well as I could....<br />This is a poweful work of autobiography though one written by a man who seemed at time alternatively enamoured by and abhorrant of his subject. That the biographer doesn't like Rimbaud vouches for his judgement: Rimbaud, by most accounts-- was not the kind of guy that one would like. He was precocious but a total nightmare and menace to all of those around him. Fortunately, he redeemed himself in what he wrote. <br />This is a well-researched, well-referenced biography that is also an easy read and tells a good story. I highly recommend this to anyone who has stumbled across and been enamoured by the poet who wrote Une Saison d'Enfer, Les Illuminations, and Le Bateau Ivre. This is a fine book and worth all of your money-- it may be among the better literary biographies that I have read that are composed outside of the native tounge of the subject author. <br />Someone should make movies about Rimbaud. Now that Quills showed a little of de Sade to the world, isn't little Arthur the next most fitting subject? Smuggling and gun running, c'mon!	2001-01-23
US	52375519	R1STFC46B0M46C	0201626209	440859044	Hemingway: A Life Without Consequences	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Is as a literary biography should be....	Mellow is a fan of Hemingway and perseverant, hard working, and knowledgeable about even the minutia of his subject matter. For the whole of a very readable biography, he is in constant dialogue with different texts: Hemingway's, family memoirs, diaries of his lovers, family photo albums. And in doing all of this, he disentangles a lot of cleverly woven strands woven together in the quest of one man toward greatness....<br />I can remember first reading Hemingway like six or so years ago when I was in high school and I hated him... could not understand why he did not understand why... the pointlessness of it all... Once, being forced to read 'A Room of One's Own' all of my disappointment in the man turned toward adulation; I still count Hemingway among my favorite authors.... and this book strengthens it.....<br />Even if Hemingway were some no one whose books had never been things of legend, whose life had not been held in esteem even while he lived-- this would still be a remarkable book. I highly recommend it to anyone-- it is definately worth all the money you'll spend....	2001-01-05
US	52375519	RT6SK9DUOA0J1	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	2	9	34	N	N	People here are confusing the subject matter with writing...	This is an interesting book but was a very painful one for me to get through... and not because of the subject matter....<br />This book was successful in getting people to read it. Good stories, good title, pretty book to look at. And really, the stories told in it are enough to break ones heart: genocide carried out with machetes and directed by radio; children whom have lost everything; a society totally broken like few others in modern history. The authors successes in this book stem from how powerfully gripping his subject matter was. His failures come about through the fact that this book is poorly written and his somewhat smugly dispassionate yet mixed with idealistic style just doesn't get the story across so well.<br />I have read many books-- many journalistic accounts and history books and books about the state of the world and the state of Africa. This book by this author adds nothing new to the dialogue in my head; in fact, it lessened my want to address many of the questions that it raises. The 'whys' and 'hows' and 'wheres' of genocide and civil war are not as simple as the autor seems to indicate; if these were such simple problems, there would be more simple answers.<br />I wholeheartedly recommend that people avoid reading this book and instead read more cleverly constructed books for their information. Robert Kaplan's 'The Ends of the Earth' has a neat section on Africa; Elie Kedourie's classic book on Nationalism explains what it tries to do better than this watered down sop; there are also a slew of books that can better relate stories of ethnic fratricide. It is a shame that this book is the most well-known of the books on Rwanda.	2001-01-02
US	52375519	R3AVU90FS33INU	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A good popular biography.... and a good read....	I'm not usually the type to be a huge fan of popular biographies. Had this book not been given to me for Christmas, I probably would never have read it. Seeing that it was, and I have, though, I am much better off for the effort.<br />One of the other reviewers wrote that this biography of Franklin also reads like a history of America. This is true. Because of his long life, central geographic position in the colonies, and outstanding mind, a story of the life of Franklin tells much more than a life of Washington or Adams ever could. There are as many vignettes about science (the electrocution of chickens being foremost among them...) as about politics, and as many about other people as either of them.<br />And through these, the author paints an interesting portrait of one of our Founding Fathers with his warts and all (much as he did himself in pieces like &quot;Dialogue of Franklin and his Gout&quot;). This, although I am certain it may not be loved by all serious Franklin scholars (it has been too successful for all to love!) is a must read for any student of history; and, too, for anyone just interested in.... say... historical fiction (because it reads that well)....	2000-12-27
US	52375519	R1B577XOHUGM81	0140185852	677758129	We	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A really good (and under read) book....	Obviously, this is one of the classic &quot;dysutopian&quot; works though I am inclined to not think that its strength came from the fact that its author lived in the 'fledgling socialist state' of Russia..... Nor am I inclined to list off a variety of other books in the same genre: that doesn't help anyone decide whether this book is really a worthwhile read (though 'Erehwon' by Samuel Butler is another book that should be massively well-regarded and just isn't....)<br />This is a really good book for a number of reasons, foremost among them that the state sketched by Zamiatin is the most modern, its characters the most well-crafted, and its strengths among how its author strung together his stream-of-consciousness like ideas. In the preface to this version it mentions that in this story it is unclear where the state is (i.e. unlike in 1984 where the story obviously takes place in Britain...)<br />It is obvious that the author is Russian. No Western author would have alluded to Plato's &quot;The Republic&quot; for the whole of a novel so strongly without admitting to it. And perhaps, moreso than socialist Russia, was where he was drawing his source material.	2000-12-13
US	52375519	R36JBC2URL3XZY	0486203239	322478029	The Mysteries of Mithra	Books	4	20	25	N	N	A great book, but suffers from problem of really old books..	This is the classic book on Mithriac religious practice; it was written at the turn of the last century and then translated from the French. It obviously, after one hundred years has been built upon; it is still of wide use.<br />This is a good introduction to the religion of Mithras: its rites, its adherants, its spread: the problems that I had in using it (old forms of names, etc.) can be alleviated through use of the map that is convieniently attached to the back cover (which I did not find untl I was through the chapters where it would be of most use). This is a good book to have, especially when used in connection with other, more modern books.<br />I recommend this book to students interested in history and the history of religion.	2000-12-12
US	52375519	RCOP1YDT66TZR	0140279164	528225956	The Religion of Technology: The Divinity of Man and the Spirit of Invention	Books	4	5	6	N	N	People are giving this book less credit than it deserves....	This is a good book and a bit of a fun read though in its nature-- in what it tries to be-- it alienates itself from whatever group is intended to be its core audience. Nevertheless, it is worthwhile and well-written; though I gather than some, from its reviews, have had some problems with its difficulty and subject matter.<br />This is meant, I think, to be a popular book rather than an academic text. The author has his story-line and sticks too it fairly well: as with any 'popular' book, if you dig from one discipline into its minutia, you're going to find flaws and biases. Books can be great still. Because it is a popular book dealing with more or less of an arcane area, it does have a tendency to ramble between lots of stuff that most people generally haven't heard of: if you sit back and let the whole picture come into focus, I have found, in the end, you're still left with a worthwhile read.<br />To the reviewer who said that this book only focused on the development of technology and its interplay with religion in the West: it could be argued that only in the West could the author's thesis be proved: religious devotion was a cause of technolgical development and not vice-versa (i.e. religion/religious groups reacted to technology in the form of change in doctrine, practice, etc.: like the development of the different 'modern' branches of Judaism in the nineteenth century OR changes in Islam toward fundamentalist, anti-Western belief caused partially by technology... I can't think of any better non-Western examples...)<br />This is a worthwhile read; I'm pretty sure that its worth the fifteen dollars or whatever it costs. Buy it if you're in the mood for a challenging, good read on this sort of subject matter....	2000-12-11
US	52375519	RA0CBVIVV35UF	0140279164	528225956	The Religion of Technology: The Divinity of Man and the Spirit of Invention	Books	4	17	24	N	N	People are giving this book less credit than it deserves....	This is a good book and a bit of a fun read though in its nature-- in what it tries to be-- it alienates itself from whatever group is intended to be its core audience. Nevertheless, it is worthwhile and well-written; though I gather than some, from its reviews, have had some problems with its difficulty and subject matter.<br />This is meant, I think, to be a popular book rather than an academic text. The author has his story-line and sticks too it fairly well: as with any 'popular' book, if you dig from one discipline into its minutia, you're going to find flaws and biases. Books can be great still. Because it is a popular book dealing with more or less of an arcane area, it does have a tendency to ramble between lots of stuff that most people generally haven't heard of: if you sit back and let the whole picture come into focus, I have found, in the end, you're still left with a worthwhile read.<br />To the reviewer who said that this book only focused on the development of technology and its interplay with religion in the West: it could be argued that only in the West could the author's thesis be proved: religious devotion was a cause of technolgical development and not vice-versa (i.e. religion/religious groups reacted to technology in the form of change in doctrine, practice, etc.: like the development of the different 'modern' branches of Judaism in the nineteenth century OR changes in Islam toward fundamentalist, anti-Western belief caused partially by technology... I can't think of any better non-Western examples...)<br />This is a worthwhile read; I'm pretty sure that its worth the fifteen dollars or whatever it costs. Buy it if you're in the mood for a challenging, good read on this sort of subject matter....	2000-12-11
US	52375519	R11PCLFDFW6HVU	1586480103	64931643	MY WAR	Books	5	22	24	N	N	This is a really good book....	This is a really good book, and I'm not sure that these reviews so far have done this justice....<br />First, to make the point, I was raised in a house in which my mother had bought, I believe, every one of the books that he had written to date. I am accustomed to his voice and like the fact that he pretty much sums up the world as he sees it (he scathes-- at least scratches at-- Tom Brokaw's 'The Greatest Generation' in the second version of this book: Brokaw who WROTE THE PREFACE....) His voice is ironic, thoughtful, and that of an old crumrudgeon-- what you'd expect after having listened to him since time immorial on 60 Minutes...<br />He details his triumphs, travails, and low moments in the course of being a sergeant for 'Stars and Stripes' during World War II. He doesn't glorify war, praise anyone out of want to preserve history, and has a neat way of telling a story. He saw a lot in the time he served. Thus, this is a war memoir of the first degree....<br />Another book that fans of this book might like is called 'Infantry Soldier' which is a memoir of an American soldier who fought in the Battle of the Bulge.... I'm not sure who the author is.... but this also, is a worthwhile read....<br />Buy this!	2000-11-27
US	52375519	R1QLWG1LA8BA8H	8798170201	659607794	American Pictures: A Personal Journey Through the American Underclass	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A powerful (and very dated...) book....	This book features artistically beautiful pictures of America that are designed to trouble and make think; it provides elegiac photos of a world that most of its readers have never/will never see.... It is an indictment by a foreigner of a world that he can never completely grasp and that those of us born in the US will never try to....<br />If left alone, the pictures depicted in the book might be too much to be believed; with the text that accompanies them, written by Holdt who is left-leaning to a fault and self-described as a Marxist, they seem more dated but also more real....<br />This is a really good book and worth taking a look at if you can get hold of a copy. It makes one think about how the world works in these times in which we are inclined to see plenty. Readers who liked this book would definately like Jonathan Kozol's books like 'Amazong Grace'...	2000-11-27
US	52375519	R1NG8HGPEH1512	0521556406	939515081	An Introduction to Buddhist Ethics: Foundations, Values and Issues (Introduction to Religion)	Books	4	8	16	N	N	A good introduction... though it has its faults....	This is a really good introduction for people who a) are knowledgable about Western ethical theories and want to see things from a different perspective of b) people getting into Buddhism who want a good general introduction into what people have thought about what people have thought that Siddhartha Gotama thought and taught. This book is divided into sections first which illustrate bases of Buddhist ethical practices and then how these practices have effected different issue-areas (the environment, homosexuality, etc.) Thus far, this is a remarkable book.... I like it a lot....<br />The problems that I have with this book are but a few. First, in the first chapter outlining bases for Buddhist ethics, the author cites a few suttras almost exclusively when others could make the points that he is trying to make better. (Don't worry, reader-- I'm not going to belabor this point....) The Asokavedanta (Life story of Asoka, the, I believe, second to last Mauryan Emporer in India) which is revered in Sri Lanka being foremost of these those I thought of off the top of my head... Another is that he occasionally cites Western sources when the primary texts would do.... These little thinks irked me, but I suppose that the author had a reason for them, and they don't really detract from the strength of the whole of the book....<br />As to the last reviewer saying that this book provides a good insight into non-theistic ethics... I'm not so sure about that. Off the top of my head, I can think of no titles.... but this book deals with Buddhist ethics... which is a broad enough field.... and not EXACTLY non-theistic (although generally so...) <br />I'd recommend this book to about anyone though especially to the two groups of people I mentioned at the opening of this review....	2000-11-27
US	52375519	R1SHOFX1193MIU	0486299910	797977859	"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Fitzgerald short stories....	For those who like F. Scott Fitzgerald, this is a really good book; for those who for their own reasons dislike him, here they are going to find more of the same.<br />In this book are contained around five or so of Fitzgerald's stories; in them, his writing style seems as being youthful: more 'This Side of Paradise' and playful than contrived. The title story is clever and more-or-less a fairy tale; for every echo of Maugham that you can find in some of these stories, there are two or three echoes hinting that Fitzgerald grasped a lot of the wicked strangeness of the world and class more like J.D. Salinger....<br />This is a really good book.... and for $1.80, if you haven't read it, buy it in company with another book to save on shipping....	2000-11-21
US	52375519	RP1W8NE0FDSKL	0486299910	797977859	"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Fitzgerald short stories....	For those who like F. Scott Fitzgerald, this is a really good book; for those who for their own reasons dislike him, here they are going to find more of the same.<br />In this book are contained around five or so of Fitzgerald's stories; in them, his writing style seems as being youthful: more 'This Side of Paradise' and playful than contrived. The title story is clever and more-or-less a fairy tale; for every echo of Maugham that you can find in some of these stories, there are two or three echoes hinting that Fitzgerald grasped a lot of the wicked strangeness of the world and class more like J.D. Salinger....<br />This is a really good book.... and for ..., if you haven't read it, buy it in company with another book to save on shipping....	2000-11-21
US	52375519	R3N86U36AE6FGU	0801486661	385732653	Ravenswood: The Steelworkers' Victory and the Revival of American Labor (Ilr Press Books)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A must read for those interested in Labor's struggles...	This is a book about a strike against an aluminum plant in West Virginia by the United Steelworkers labor union in the early nineties. First, this is a genuinely good read (just based on the story....) with characters (all be they real...) that you root for and others that you shy away from (Emmitt Boyle and Marc Rich are drawn as evil incarnate....) Aside from this, this book serves as a record of a number of things: 1) a model for how a small-town labor struggle could be conducted on a broad-based front; 2) the ways in which capital does not exist in a locality so much as scattered throughout the world; and 3) an illustration of how labor stoppages in small towns have evolved from the days of Pinkerton thugs and picket lines to something more conplex and... well, modern....<br />I'd really recommend this book to about anyone but, well, honestly, only people really into labor are ever going to read this. This is a really good book....	2000-11-13
US	52375519	R2EN09FRJQOBQ9	0764107909	264364050	Dictionary of Finance and Investment Terms (Barron's Financial Guides)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A worthwhile book... even if it is outdated somewhat....	I'm not sure what people want for $13.00. This book is a good general professional reference book that can give you a clue about things that are in the newspaper, etc. For business people, this book is generally helpful and (normally) companies pay for it. Its binding and pages are made to last; it can fit easily in a briefcase. A few of its definitions are somewhat outdated; some things aren't included that might help. It'll happen in a later edition.<br />This is useful. Buy it.	2000-11-13
US	52375519	R2Q1CPA4DVQEN3	0375502726	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Another powerful book by Robert Kaplan....	This is another powerful book by the &quot;travel writer&quot; Robert Kaplan....<br />In much the same fashion as he took on the Balkans ten years ago (before all of that areas problems came to surface in the world's view) Robert Kaplan, well-known for his books and as an author at The Atlantic Monthly, chronicles his travels from Budapest to the great city of Merv (one hell of a name) in Turkmenistan. The author doesn't try to present a fully drawn picture of any specific place as much as he does of an impressionistic vision of a future that is not quite as ideal as it is often presented. What he sees on the ground is filtered through historical and sociological lenses: whereas others might see in some of these countries societies modernizing towards a Western paradigm, Kaplan hints at them continuing as more of the same...<br />I really like Kaplan. Lots of people really like him; others detest him-- probably, both groups should be forced to read him because what he says has a validity at least to the point it needs argued against. I recommend this book to everyone though people who are inclined to see the world as a unilinear path toward progress aren't going to find this work satisfying: this is more Malthus than Godwin or more Huntington than Fukyama....<br />It is really a beautiful book and even worth getting in hardcover. Buy it now and don't wait. It's only a few dollars more anyway....	2000-11-13
US	52375519	R3O7999CPR60NT	0375503544	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great introduction to a great author....	This is Kaplan's 'shortest' work, and probably the best place to start reading the work of an author who is as talented, intelligent, perceptive and relavent as they come-- and probably, the person most capable of explaining what it is, in fact, that goes on in the 'rest' of the world....<br />For every time Francis Fukyama or one of the rest claimed that we were at 'the End of History' or something else composed of similar garbage, Kaplan has come back with a major work insinuating that he was not right at all. This book is composed of a number of essays about a variety of things; the theme of the book is that the world is going to stay the same more so than it is going to change; it is not that the rest is going to become like the West so much as that the world is becoming more and more like a Mad Max sci-fi reality full of despiration and hopelessness.... He, like other Hobbesian pessimists (Samuel Huntington being one that he discusses; Martin van Crevald being another arguing along similar lines) points out that at the end of Communism as a valid force, the world was left with as many questions as answers, and that things shouldn't be glossed over with Voltaire's Panglossian optimism....<br />This is a must read for those not willing to wade through one of Kaplan's longer works. I'd buy this, and I'd buy them, and read... and question.... <br />This guy is the real thing....	2000-11-01
US	52375519	R34DN69UJFS0BS	0812931955	784490193	Gray Dawn	Books	2	9	31	N	N	Not-so-great a book but for other reasons....	This isn't an exceptionally good book for a number of reasons that aren't really being euclidated in the other reviews. <br />First, whoever reads this obviously has to realize that the author was a partner at an investment bank AND leans conservatively. These two points DO give liberals reason to question where his heart lies; to discount the whole of the book for that reason hints that readers aren't being open minded and fair. And before you write this review off as bad, note that I gave it two stars too....<br />Peterson tries in this book to make a point-- that due to what in techincal terms are called Phase-III demographic shifts (i.e. birth rate falls, death rate falls, a higher percentage of the population reaches the retirement age...) the means of entitlement that have become traditional don't work as simply any more. In his other book ('The greying...') he makes the case for the United States; in this one he focuses on Western Europe. <br />His evidence as presented is valid. There is no lock-box; paying for my retirement (I'm 22 right now...) with the wages of my children will be impossible without significant structural changes in the system. (Personally, I think that paying for it with the stock market is pretty bad karma too.... but that's neither here nor there for this review....) European countries and Japan are due to be hit doubly hard because of their traditionally-greater entitlements and the specifics of their demographies.... most economists would agree on these points....<br />And his solutions are good-- given that people have the ability to save (assuming that people reliant on Social Security do.... not other rich people... like the author...) and that people are willing to work. His solutions aren't biased so much by his position excepting the possibility that he may not realize that for lots of people, saving is an impossibility.... working longer in years is more or less a definate.... <br />But these aren't really earth-shattering ideas. Adding to this, I find his writing style annoying. More so than this, I find reviewers who have slammed this book as being bad just based on it being written by an I.Banker annoying. <br />Think! And.... by a book on this pheonomenon by a better economist.... who doesn't try to dumb down the information....	2000-10-31
US	52375519	RPZCG8WJN5LJ3	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another positive review from someone with a reviewer copy...	After getting this book in the mail, I was fully prepared to dislike it wholeheartedly.... in the end, I found that I wasn't able to put it down....<br />This is a book that seems meant to be a popular novel; unfortunately, having been published by a small press and, at times, not crafted like a popular novel, it fails in it's purpose. The editing in places is bad (or the typesetting), throwing off characters names (on pp. 378, a man talks and answers himself erroneously....); when the author makes attempts to use sex to titillate, it seems stilted; characters seem flat and cliched. Thus, it's sort of like Ayn Rand.... about an election (a joke...)<br />Thus far, this seems like a negative review. It's not. I couldn't for the life of me put the book down; I had to finish it in a night. It is gripping toward the end; as much as I wanted to hate it, I couldn't.....<br />Even when you know what is going to happen as it starts in media res.<br />The author's other ideas force readers to think; at times, he hits the American electoral system right on its head. Some of the ways he frames policies seem, well, poor but-- with George Bush trying to do the same thing, Wright does his better (though just as cliched). The author has his political crosses to bear and does it; so what. I liked the book.....<br />Read the reviews here. Everyone here reviews a lot of books and seems to hold the same opinion....	2000-10-30
US	52375519	R2YQMJ51DBB0OD	0942299310	310775555	A Thousand Years of Nonlinear History (Zone Books / Swerve Editions)	Books	5	31	34	N	N	A really good book.....	De Landa's take on history is that it is a product of complexity and self-organization much more than we are prone to believe; in this book, he expands on and explodes from those of his (also) brilliant &quot;War in the Age of Intelligent Machines&quot;.<br />The traditional metaphors for human progress that have been coopted from other sciences-- economics, geology, and engineering-- and do not adequately portray what exactly man hath wrought. In this book, De Landa works through history three seperate times and discusses-- through the use of terms like 'bifucation' and 'singularities' how he believes it did progress....<br />I really like this book: I think that it is definately a text whose time has come..... BUT.... having read both this and 'War...' I want to warn readers of their one failing-- the author-- because of his broad sweep-- seems to occasionally make errors in the myriad of references that he makes (the book is meticulously footnoted, to its credit). Though this is largely an editor's problem, it is bad.... something that someone who is going at things fast-and-furious and from a broad sweep is likely to have happen....<br />It doesn't blight the whole. This is a must read.... though fans of traditional disciplines might not find a whole lot to like about with it (and might find a lot more along the lines of my above point....)	2000-10-25
US	52375519	R1T50X7D2FASYU	1565845927	311854397	False Dawn: The Delusions of Global Capitalism	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not an exceptional book.... but is a worthwhile read....	Gray in this book treads over what is, to most familiar with the debates over the costs/benefits of capitalism covered ground. He does this in a highly engaging and readable form, though: this saves this book partly from irrelevance. <br />Perhaps the student's familiarity with political theory and philosophy accounts for his love of classical political thinkers; that he writes a great deal in the first two chapters around the writings of Joseph Schumpeter and Karl Polyani, neither of whom wrote much after 1947 (the year 'The Great Transformation' was published...) without noting that many of his commentaries could have been derived from Marx, Raul Prebisch, or Jose Ortega y Gasset-- or, for that matter, to anyone of the European, Asian, or Latin American schools of dependency theory since then-- is frustrating. His critisicm of capitalism as a Utopian vision is again well taken-- no one who did work in development would subscribe to this view....<br />So what you're left with is the same tension that bounded Condorcet and Goethe, Malthus and Comte-- determinist visions of Becoming versus the tensions left in Being. Which is a philosophical point-- not an economic one.....<br />His writing style is captivating-- the book did make me think-- but only about why it frustrated and angered me-- and perhaps of why it shouldn't have been written...<br />Save your money on this book. There are a lot better critiques of neoclassical economics out there.....	2000-10-25
US	52375519	R1WPNRFXQKOAVL	0942299752	28332966	War in the Age of Intelligent Machines	Books	5	5	25	N	N	A really good book, though by a non-rigourous popularizer...	De Landa in the book puts together something that is both very impressing in unexpected ways and wholly disappointing in very predictable ways. As to substance, what he does is neat and innovative for what is, essentially, a popular book in an unread subgenre; it's of the same order as DJ Spooky CDs (more or less academic in a popularly predictable sort of way). And, again, like DJ Spooky, De Landa is REALLY smart but in a dilettente-sortish way; I know from having gone there that he is a professor at Columbia-- I'm not sure in what discipline (architecture[?]) but his class, I'm sure, is mind boggling and fun.....<br />And here come this book's problems. Because of the scope of what he takes on, he makes some little mistakes. My academic background is in political economics; he misspells an author's name for the whole of the text (Douglass North has two 's's). That makes me a little scared of what other little mistakes he makes, or if he makes BIG mistakes that because of this work's broad scope I'd never catch.<br />This book is a definate must-read; his '1000 years of Non-linear history' by all accounts is even more amazing (including my own!) and this is a really, really smart book.<br />Buy this!	2000-10-23
US	52375519	R2SZO3W7GMN2X8	0520042107	60493906	My Past and Thoughts	Books	5	21	31	N	N	Another great writer than Americans never get exposed to....	Herzen is one of the many authors whom Americans never are exposed to and rightfully should be. He was a great thinker; he writes lucidly (although tending toward personal speculation.... you've got to remember-- he was living at a similar time to Tolstoy who does the same thing....) and CAN BE surprisingly contemporary for someone so long dead....<br />It's understandable why Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy, and Solzenitzen (sp?) are much more widely read than he is: they are better novellists and never got cursed by the fact that they were socialists (such a dirty word in the US!) BUT, Herzen is definately someone whom anyone trying to pawn themselves off as a psuedo-intellectual should read. <br />One problem with this book: some of his best stuff is obviously just not in here (as it is his memoirs....) His philosophy is brilliant; some of his letters to his son are as moving as any I can think of (excepting perhaps Rilke's to the young poet...) <br />His memoirs are a definate must-read.... for whomever is reading this review.... Just buy the book!	2000-10-19
US	52375519	R13BK9CJ4TZ53Q	1566630193	225330296	The Hedgehog and the Fox: An Essay on Tolstoy's View of History	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A brilliant book....	I really want to disagree with the reviewer below who said that this book is &quot;overly academic&quot; and &quot;not interesting to someone without a serous research interest in Tolstoy&quot;. C'mon.<br />This is a HIGHLY readable book though probably only one that should be read after having read 'War and Peace'. In combination, the boring sections of 'War and Peace' and this book provide a pretty interesting dialogue and line of thought that can be comprehended by most anyone.....<br />This is a beautiful book and one that can be appreciated by tons the teeming multitudes and not just self-righteous undergraduates at small colleges in Massachusetts. Berlin is a very readable philosopher, which explains much of the reason WHY he is held in such esteem in the Anglo-American philosophical community....<br />Finally, who could ever say that this little tiny red book was worth neither the effort nor the expense. A must-buy.	2000-10-19
US	52375519	R1EXUM64F0E5TX	0300030797	155281082	The Rise and Decline of Nations: Economic Growth, Stagflation, and Social Rigidities	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A classic in the world of political economy.....	It surprises me that I haven't reviewed this book..... Anyway, this is one of the classic works on political economy: it builds on the Olson's earlier (and perhaps even better work) 'The Logic of Collective Action' using the logic contained therein to explain why and how different societies have prospered (and declined....) at certain stages in the world's or there own development.<br />Without writing a short book report for the undergraduate readers of this book, countries he examines are spread across the world; much of his thesis hinges on post-WWII comparisons of the US against Japan and Germany....<br />For prospective readers of Olson's work: first, I would start with 'The Logic...' BEFORE you read this, though a reading of this book would not be compromised by not having done so. His newer book 'Power and prosperity...' can be safely avoided (it's kinda expensive as it is still only out in hardcover...) having read both of these; you could then waste your political economy-budgeted money on either the works of Douglass North ('Structure and Change in Economic History';'The Rise of the West), Karl Polyani ('The Great Transformation'), or, well, Hemingway or Fitzgerald or something fun to read.....<br />I do highly recommend this book. Any student of foreign affarirs, politics at any level (though people who don't do IR or comparative stuff might benefit more from 'The Logic...'), economists, or students of history. Perhaps even to more general readers.....	2000-10-12
US	52375519	R1CMFECBRWSRYF	0300030797	155281082	The Rise and Decline of Nations: Economic Growth, Stagflation, and Social Rigidities	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A classic in the world of political economy.....	It surprises me that I haven't reviewed this book..... Anyway, this is one of the classic works on political economy: it builds on the Olson's earlier (and perhaps even better work) 'The Logic of Collective Action' using the logic contained therein to explain why and how different societies have prospered (and declined....) at certain stages in the world's or there own development.<br />Without writing a short book report for the undergraduate readers of this book, countries he examines are spread across the world; much of his thesis hinges on post-WWII comparisons of the US against Japan and Germany....<br />For prospective readers of Olson's work: first, I would start with 'The Logic...' BEFORE you read this, though a reading of this book would not be compromised by not having done so. His newer book 'Power and prosperity...' can be safely avoided (it's kinda expensive as it is still only out in hardcover...) having read both of these; you could then waste your political economy-budgeted money on either the works of Douglass North ('Structure and Change in Economic History';'The Rise of the West), Karl Polyani ('The Great Transformation'), or, well, Hemingway or Fitzgerald or something fun to read.....<br />I do highly recommend this book. Any student of foreign affarirs, politics at any level (though people who don't do IR or comparative stuff might benefit more from 'The Logic...'), economists, or students of history. Perhaps even to more general readers.....	2000-10-12
US	52375519	R7XKA1EW93B70	0870679775	99670582	Trick Baby	Books	3	1	4	N	N	I REALLY wanted to love this book.....	This book, I think, is doomed to end more of a period piece than any kind of real classic; although it provides insight into one particular kind of situation (the place of the white-appearing African-American con artist), beyond that, it's not well-written, heart-wrenching, or even coherent enough to really warrant all of the attention that it gets-- even if it is just a monior bit of attention.....<br />I like the dialogue and the spin that the book gives to it's time period (late fifties-early sixties.... I'm not sure.... very contra-Ozzie and Harriet). I love the author's voice-- it's definately one-of-a-kind an interesting.... at a base level, though, I've had more trouble focusing and reading this book than one person ever should have; for a book that was intended to read like pulp fiction, that spoils it's while value.....<br />It might be worth reading if you've read other books by Iceberg Slim and really like them or if you've read out whatever genre this falls into. Own it's own merits, though, this book is better left unread. And I'm a reviewer who rarely says things like that....	2000-10-11
US	52375519	RMO5YZU6THJ79	0062510517	792098814	Essential Tibetan Buddhism	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A highly usable introduction into Tibetan buddhism....	As far as popularly available books go, this is about the best 'introduction' into Tibetan primary-ish texts that is really available. I am supposing that the core market for this book is as the reviews above indicate: Americans who are familiar with the Dalai Lama and/or Zen but want to know more about the wide and fascinating religious domain that is Tibetan Buddhism.<br />And this is the best place to 'start' provided that a) this is not your introduction to Buddhism in general (there are good books for Westerners for that-- 'The Gospel of the Buddha' by Paul Carus is a simple one that orders the Pali Canon into a structure more accessible for Christians; Thurman's 'Inner Revolution'; a general introduction into world religions that differentiates classical Therevadan forms from Mahayan stuff from the Vajarana stuff....) or b) a book on Tibetan history c)a comprehensive book in any sense. <br />It's a fun read and a good introduction. Other books on top of this: Thurman's translation of 'The Holy Teaching of Vimilikirti' and any of the stories of Milarepa are fun; a neat history is 'The Dragon in the Land of Snows....'<br />I highly recommend this book....	2000-10-11
US	52375519	R2V67OYETGE3VR	0671888021	937318659	Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	47	50	N	N	A powerful and funny book....	People here are prasing this book for the insight it gives into the lives of Native Americans. Not that this book isn't important for its take on Amerindian culture: to say that John Lame Deer doesn't have a grasp on what is important to himself and his people would be improper and negligent.<br />People are missing two of the things that make this book so powerful: its humor and its take on the white world that exists outside of the reservation. Erdoes commentaries on his Indian visitors, Lame Deer's comments on EVERYTHING, and the voice and process of this book are FUNNY. This book is well-constructed and fun to read. On to the second point: Lame Deer is fairly sucessful in making Europeans often look like clowns-- stripping their culture and sophistication, making them more human....<br />This book should have a much wider audience than it has ever had (and that is actually fairly substantial, strangely enough....) Not that this is a book that could change a person's life: it could at least give direction to the perplexed. I highly recommend this book....	2000-10-03
US	52375519	R18E2CDGWU69SO	041592510X	182981501	The Life Stories of Undistinguished Americans as Told by Themselves: Expanded Edition	Books	5	13	18	N	N	You can't say enough nice about this book.....	I'm not one of the sort of people who falls often for heart warming. I'm too bitter, too jaded... too educated to be able to gush openly about kindly regard for many things. This book, though, deserves that kind of praise.<br />As you could gather from the blurbs from magazines, this is a hundred year old book that seeks to illustrate the lives of typical, everyday (not to say uninteresting) Americans. The book is short; it's stories are realistic. Thus, it gives great insight into our collective 'ancestry': a voice to the long-dead.<br />I'm inclined to think that every time I mentally want to destroy America, in this book, again, could be found renewed hope and exploration. In this book one can find the stories of Lithuanians who set out to cross the ocean, of free black women finding for the first time life in a segregated south, of Greek pushcart workers who end up with $50,000 in the bank. More or less, these are the voices that give our community continuity.... and, well, I'm starting to ramble and make little sense....<br />Just read the book....	2000-10-03
US	52375519	R38N2EX3OO5NYY	0306809494	215852419	Hitler's Spies: German Military Intelligence In World War II	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A good book on two levels.....	Kahn's book can be read on two levels. On the first (the more shallow) it provides a few great stories about SPIES, which, as any student of war should be able to indicate, are just fun. Kahn capably points out such horrendously important information as at what stores German agents shopped at, and where German contacts lived in New York City. Which is an awful lot of fun, and that one can say that about an academic author writing a credible book deserves credit into and of itself. <br />Secondly, it is the probably the most well constructed book in English talking about German intelligence in the Second World War. Certainly, by this point, many books have been written and become popular illustrating the history of the OSS (the US spy agency) and MI-6 (the British one) but this is the first uber-credible account of German intelligence that I have ever stumbled upon (not that I've spent a great deal of my life looking....) Kahn capably illustrates the structural strengths and weaknesses of the system, and also does a thourough job of in dealing with the personalities that made them better (or worse) than they should have been. He does a good job of discounting the popular conception that only generals win battles: intellegence, in the case of this war, if used properly could have stopped Hitler from making several of his most egregious errors. <br />People who like this book might also like a book that focuses a tremendous amount of it's words on Admiral Canaris called &quot;The Unseen War in Europe&quot; although it's largely about how the US and the UK used intellegence to their benefit during the war.	2000-10-02
US	52375519	R2MI5JE6EJ8O42	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not a bad book.....	I just finished reading this book straight through during the course of last night, and I wholly object to the reviewer who said that it couldn't hold an avid reader's attention....<br />This book presents a portrait of Ibo culture that is sympathetic yet realistic, and a portrait of a man that is portrayed in much the same fashion. The back cover of the book compares this story to one of the classical Greek plays: perhaps this is because of the spartanness of the narrative shared by both; perhaps it is because in both that genre and this work, the main character has a tragic flaw that in the end brings their downfall. Aside from that, they aren't that similar..... excluding the fact that in both a world is portrayed that is very much NOT like our own....<br />I have a feeling that this work is often pigeonholed with other works about Africa written by predominantly black authors (either in Africa or amongst its diaspora). This is a better work than that: one can take more from it than something surmised as 'alternate' narrative. It is a well-written and constructed work that should earn its place in a human canon not just one of a particular substratum....<br />Who should read this book? Everyone who likes to read. It is a pretty, well-written story ASIDE from being about Africa in tribal times. Another book that is kind of contact literature-- when white folks come into common with other folks-- is Shisaku Endo's 'Silence': detailing missionary work and prosletizing of Christian missionaries in Japan. Hope someone reads it....	2000-10-02
US	52375519	R11UZA59XTHVNO	1573220906	210637134	Inner Revolution: Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Real Happiness	Books	4	37	41	N	N	This is meant to be a basic and popular book.....	Showing my hand, first, I studied religion under Thurman as an undergraduate at Columbia. Nevertheless, both sets of reviews (they seem on here to be divsible into two camps) have grains of truth to them; some, to me, seem a little too hero-worshipping (either of the man or of the Dharma) and others a little bit too harsh (crushing Thurman for the inclusion of a political agenda in this work)....<br />First, this was meant to be a popular, non-academic book and not a treatise entirely on the history of Tibet or an analysis of its culture. Thurman's 'Central Philosophy of Tibet' is near as dry and distant as books come; he had a reputation as a translator before he had one as a popularizer. Which no doubt he is-- his hand is laid bare in the fact that he's chosen to spend his life educating people in the West of Dharma, of trying to protect and help the Tibetan people (whom he thinks were special, unique, and good....), and achieve some kind of an enlightened polity....<br />He IS trying to change the world with this book. Necessarily, when you introduce a child to America, you don't always tell ALL of the truth (which is a tough thing to do anyway); when you teach a child about Christianity, you tell of the Gospels and NOT of Revelations, the anti-Semitism of Luther, or the excesses of many of the Popes-- and no one says that these are bad things. Thurman is introducing a culture and an idea-- him having been a monk it's going to be a bit of a polemic (which if you ever read a lot about Tibet most of it is.... strangely only excluding much of what the Dalai Lama has written..... and 'The Dragon in the Land of Snows'-- a history of Tibet...) It's preachy and it is a polemic.....<br />Perhaps the book would have been left better off without the political agenda added at the end. You could say that it helps people to think about WHAT would be good; how could they change their world toward some kind of Shambala BUT it provides a huge way for people to slam this text.<br/>Buy this if you want (albeit a bit polemical) an introduction into Buddhism and what went on in Tibet-- it's a fun, easy read. It's worth your time. Then, though, read other books.... to find out more.... cause this one in places IS NOT a strict, hard, grey work of 'Truth'....	2000-09-27
US	52375519	R1B6HWWC9EEIU9	0192890956	164950331	War in European History (Opus)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Easy, fun to read, fairly basic.....	Regarding this book, I'd go opposite of the last reviewer. I'm not certain that any more than a prefunctory grasp of European history is necessary to make this book worthwhile. It is a small tome (165 pp); it provides a clear and simple diagram of the ways that war has changed as society has changed, and how war itself has changed society. <br />Howard provides the clear and erudite prose that befits a man who will probably be remembered as one of the class military historians of the last century. I recommend this book as an introduction to military tactics and history; with it, Earle or Paret's 'Makers of Modern Strategy' and John Keegan's 'A History of War' at least an outline of questions to investigate will start to form.....	2000-09-26
US	52375519	R2DOGXHISY6F7Q	0965653536	649731170	Naked Pictures Of My Ex-Girlfriends	Books	4	21	24	N	N	So what-- it's fake and cheesy....	So what? It's fake and cheesy. The guy presents his photo collage here as a set of piuctures taken of his ex-girlfriends from 1970-1980. Initially, it was aceepted as such and got pretty big press in all of the sources of intelligent media. Everyone was pleased at such an innocent take on the past-- rememberences of a time, well, for me-- when I wasn't even born....<br />And there is nothing earth-shattering in this photography. The pictures are alright; the whole style is a bit cheesy (especially considering the sappy dialogue added in fake-writing next to them... But, really, who ever is buying more than verismilitude? These are fun and could be some kind of coffee table book. Probably better to make one's own, but, well, that takes time...<br />It's worth a glance through-- for a laugh. It's definately cute. Intellectually, artistically, not worth that much....	2000-09-26
US	52375519	RSDM93NF80KQO	0674030214	922536114	American Politics: The Promise of Disharmony	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One of my favorite books dealing with US politics....	In this book, Samuel Huntington, who, whether one likes him or hates him has been one of the most commented upon political scientists of the last generation takes on American politics: their realities versus their illusions, promise versus practicalities. And on the whole, he is successful at raising issues: although the book is almost twenty years old, it has managed to stay surprisingly current and valid and still remains though provoking.<br />I'd reccomend this book to anyone interested in US politics or current affairs but especially to people on the liberal/Huntington-hating typically side of the spectrum, because after reading this book, one might become much more pro- this author. It's striking at times how much he seems like Howard Zinn, etc. in this particular book.....	2000-09-26
US	52375519	REWJRDRI5JB2C	0140136495	29326220	A History of Scotland (Penguin History)	Books	5	94	98	N	N	A very well-written history...	This is simply put one of the best places to start an inquiry into Scottish history. <br />Allowing the comments of one of the other reviewers, this book might not answer EVERY question that one might have regarding all of the specifics of Scots history. As in any book that sets out to tell the whole history of a people in under five hundred pages, there are omissions and a little of opaquenesses. Setting this aside, both the original author and the updaters of this book have done a remarkable job putting together a history that is equally entertaining and enlightening. This book DOES do an adequate job illustrating all of the changes of power and intricacies that are necessary to understand the interrelation between England and Scotland and the Highland and Lowland populations. It is fair which is important. And it is just a fun read.....<br />Beyond this, obviously, this book raises additional questions regarding the history of Scotland that must be answered by additional reading. But, then again, this is a book that as an intitiation, makes one want to read more.<br />I highly recommend this book....	2000-09-25
US	52375519	R1QMNCPUBWZAPF	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An undertaking....	Davies in this book sets out to do something that not many other people would try: to turn the highly documented and politicized morass that is the story of Europe into a coherent whole. By and large, he does this-- reason enough for a fairly good review....<br />This is a highly readable, fairly well researched attempt at putting forward an introduction to the history of Europe in one volume. On the whole, Davies succeeds at presenting a fair and balanced accounting; one must allow that in a place where ties and scars run deep, on many issues, he feels for a middle ground where none lies (a critic below hints at this regarding the USSR). I, too, find the blurbs that he insterts totally infuriating and determental to the flow of the book; perhaps that, for some, would be a good thing because it keeps the stream from being overwhelming. <br />It's a neat book though it suffers from lots of problems that are associated with a) very long books and b) books that are grand visions. It's a totally worthwhile read for someone who is interested in an attempt to tie together many of the lose strings that are European history....	2000-09-25
US	52375519	R3TIW1IJPMGB8B	0803294328	456817988	The Gospel in Brief (Texts & Contexts)	Books	5	69	83	N	N	A powerful book.... for those who like it....	This is the kind of book either you like or you hate. <br />Three kinds of people will read this book. The first (and most moderate) will be Tolstoy scholars, etc. interested in his religious beliefs and influences, and there readings of this book will be value-empty and hygenic. The second group of people will be those akin of mind to Tolstoy, and they will love and cherish this book ahead of almost any other: when the philosopher Wittgenstein first read this book he decided that it was spectacular and went off into the countryside to begin to change the world (and failed... leaving Austria to go and study with Russell at Oxford....) The third group will be more traditional Christians-- for whom Jesus' particular authority and the authority of the Church handed down through the Fathers is paramount, and they, generally, will detest this work.....<br />I love this book. I find it splendidly written, insightful, and clever: I'm of the sort who would toss out the whole of the Bible excluding Ezekiel, Daniel, and James: I want Christ as a man and a social reformer. Unfortunately, Gandhi and Christ were not usually considered one in the same. For people like me, this book is a must-read and almost guaranteed as a world-changing event. <br />For more traditional Christians, this book is probably better left forgotten. It's going to be objectionable and even with his style being beautiful, there are better things to be read....	2000-09-25
US	52375519	R24L84RWZDCTVN	0803279957	188392745	The Sokal Hoax: The Sham That Shook the Academy	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A fun read covering a neat topic.....	Whether Alan Sokal pulled off either a 'brilliant statement' or a 'mean spirited hoax' is certainly a matter of opinion; THAT he did is relavent for anyone interested in the philosophy of science and/or cultural criticism's place therein.... Because of this alone, this book SHOULD be a worthwhile read for many people: for people tired of hearing of the patriarchies of science, of its historical biases toward the Western lines of thought following Cartesianism, toward Science becoming one of a goup of equally valid dialogues. Some of these might be applicable for history; they probably are certainly valid when discussing literature; Sokal's little trick PROVES that in at least this case, they should stay away from the hard science of physics....<br />And it's a fun read. You see one person bash people who come off sounding like smart little jerks; I liked this. Perhaps the case against one particular kind of anti-realism is overstated here; it doesn't hurt the smart people who are really good at it though....<br />This would not be a good read for people who think already that the smart little cultural studies people should have won.... that Sokal was being mean. Save your money....	2000-09-25
US	52375519	R3K00JVLVLD19Y	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Read 'I, Claudius' first....	Rightfully, this book has around 20% of the number of reviews as does the first half of the life of the same man by the same author. This is not nearly as good of a book as 'I, Claudius', I doubt that anyone reading this would be much surprised at this. 'I, Claudius' is considered as a classic of the English language whereas this is just a fairly strong 'good' book.<br />There are a number of reasons for this. First, the first half (well, chronologically more...) of Claudius's life provides a better ground for Graves to do his job; he also seems to identify more with the character before he became emperor. When Claudius loses his humor and perspective, the whole of the series loses it's brilliance....<br />Setting this aside, this is still a highly entertaining and worthwhile book. I loved the first work better; I'd read it first. If you have read it, I am assuming, you liked it enough to come back to this page looking for more. And there is more here: it's just that it is slightly.... ever so slightly.... less....	2000-09-25
US	52375519	RLGBKZQK2G40Y	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	A classic of English literature....	I've read a few of Graves books. Most certainly, he is an accomplished author; most certainly, this is his finest work.<br />This is an old book on an old topic. He is writing on the early life of the Roman Emperor Claudius, a man whom, like most of Roman history, has been forgotten. Because of his talent as an author, the life of Claudius becomes important and something that the reader can identify with: through the intreigues, etc. that he lives through, one becomes forced to compare/contrast many of the intregues, etc. of the present day. Things become not so far off....<br />I read this book for the first time a few years ago when it was placed at something like #14 of the top English language books of the twentieth century: I'd never heard of it, and that seemed wrong. Setting aside a few instances where he plays improperly with history (Nero comes AFTER Claudius) this is a brillaintly written work that should be remembered as a magnum opus of the English language.	2000-09-25
US	52375519	R1MY1QWXEYTJ8R	0345439597	677201957	God's Funeral: A Biography of Faith and Doubt in Western Civilization	Books	4	33	37	N	N	A powerful contribution to the History of Idea	In this book, A.N. Wilson, already a success as a novelist and as a  biographer sets out to investigate the demise of the relevance of God as  Institution. Through examining the works and lives of figures both major  (Hume, Nietzche, Darwin, Carlyle, Goethe) and minor (Sherman and Irving) he  sets to pinpoint the demise of 'God' as a relevent and important  institution. <br />Obviously, any close minded fundementalist of any stripe is  going to see ghosts in this book of what it is NOT. Wilson presents neither  a case for belief or non-belief, just an investigation into why people did  or didn't themselves. He is sympathetic to both sides though it is obvious,  to use the terms of the German philosophers which (necessarily) he  investigates, his world is one of Being rather than Becoming (i.e. it is  illogical to think that somehow Man has transcended the needs for God in  some kind o f end-of-history fashion....<br />And in doing this, he created a  remarkable, erudite, easily readible book that does a commendible job of  examinining its subject. He is a widely read and thoughtful man and clever  enough to put together a book that is a joy to read. People into the  history of ideas would obviously profit from reading this book; die-hard  non-believers will dislike the fondness he has for the middle of the  roaders like Hardy and Carlyle. <br />It is a great book and entirely worth  your money. Buy it with my reccomendation.	2000-09-14
US	52375519	R1GPAMU7LLF633	0684831139	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A book that puts an awful lot in perspective....	I've got an awful lot of education in me, and this might be the most  important book that I've read left off of every syllabus ever....<br />In  haute culture and academia, the only acceptible slurs allowed are against  those poor and white. Whereas a person raised impoverished in Harlem (where  I live...) or South Central L.A. might be given compassion, a person raised  in Boone County, West Virginia or Paducah, Kentucky would be derrided as  &quot;ignotant&quot; or &quot;white trash&quot;. The ways in which the poor  are portrayed/exploited on Jerry Springer for the entertainment of the  masses would be attacked by the Cornell Wests of the black community if the  people shown were generally African-American (and rightfully so...) The  rich and white just view the people on them as scum, beneath them, and not  worth neither time nor pity.<br />Jim Goad searches for a reason why in this  book. It's humor betrays some of the bitter points that it makes; if it was  a strictly academic book, it would have never been published outside of  Appalachia and then, only read by the small subgenre of people into  Appalachian studies (read: the study of poor white people and the black  people who live near them.... there aren't people of any other color...) As  it is, it's found a rather marginal audience. <br />It's a really important  book. Everyone should read it: especially those who've read out the Fanon,  and W.E.B. du Bois, and Malcolm X... and the people who don't read at  all.... and search for an answer WHY the last person who did any meaningful  work on the problem of poor white people was Karl Marx..... (betcha someone  is going to write me on that point...) <br />PLEASE read this book!!!	2000-09-13
US	52375519	R231BNKOFKOBLJ	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Heartwarming tale that lots should read....	I read this book almost entirely straight through in a matter of two  sittings in a friend's apartment....<br />I'm not of the kind that say that  books could change people's lives. Really there are few that can alter the  way anyone thinks. This might be one of them.<br />First, Morrie, a former  college professor of the author, was an intelligent man who had something  to say, and said it, and loved it with kindness and honesty. What better  person is there to comment back upon life than a person willing to face  death with good humor, courage, and a kindness that enabled him to teach  unto his very last....<br />The author paints a sensitive and beautiful  picture of his former mentor. His writing is fluid and empassioned and  touching.... much more than you'd expect of a sports-writer. He paints as  close to perfect a picture of his mentor as could be painted....<br />Everyone  should read this book: from kids to adults. It's just wholly worthwhile...	2000-09-12
US	52375519	R2VYX4SGJJOT4M	0192832999	685547825	Pancatantra: The Book of India's Folk Wisdom (The World's Classics)	Books	4	14	21	N	N	A classic children's book (and manual on life...)	This is a translation of an old Indian children's book that is, not  surprisingly, also a moral tale on how to live, and, perhaps more  importantly, how to govern. I'm not in a position to comment as to whether  this is a good or bad translation; it is a fun read for adults and I  suppose that a pretty progressive or multicultural parent could read it to  their kids in place of the Brothers Grimm or something else....<br />I liked  the book. Other books in the age-old stories of wisdom from around the  world: &quot;Monkey: A Journey to the West&quot; by Wu Ch'eng-en  (translated by Arthur Waley, among others), the tale of Mil-e-re-pa  (translated by a number of people: this one might be too risque for a lot  of kids....), the 'Meditations of Marcus Aureleus', and the 'Conference of  the Birds' by Farud-din Attar. Not that I am an expert on raising kids  through multicultural readings.....<br />This is a neat book (though I think  that this particular translation might be a bit dry.... it's been a while  since I read it...) and it should be bought. And someone other than me  should have reviewed it!	2000-09-12
US	52375519	R2G0YHQYCUDXIU	0060976977	935369154	Amazing Grace: The Lives of Children and the Conscience of a Nation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A touching book... that makes you think.....	The portrait of the lives of children in the South Bronx that Koziol paints is definately one designed to touch people... and to force them to  think about what goes on in their world.... On its own, it is a great book;  because of it's nature (dealing in large measure with the religion of  children/ their perceptions of the sublime while living in squalor in the  midst of plenty... and that at times it necessarily functions as a polemic)  it's probably never going to get as wide of an audience as it should  reach....<br />This is a book that should be read because it illustrates a lot  of things that are STILL going on in NYC in a time when it seems that 'we'  all are living in the midst of plenty. This is the kind of book that raises  a ton of questions but doesn't really point to the answers because those  answers are tough in coming....<br />If you haven't read this book, please  do-- especially if you buy the fact that welfare reform, etc. are always a  good thing. Especially if you live someplace where you don't have to deal  with 'poor' people. Maybe it'll make you think....	2000-09-11
US	52375519	R19MHEXE81AIYM	0451523032	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther and Selected Writings (Signet classics)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	In English, a forgotten classic....	Once on here I read a comment by someone that the American educational  system is biased against works not written in English. Obviously, this is  true.<br />The greatest sin caused by this is that Americans aren't ever realy  exposed to Goethe more than to read 'Faust, p. 1' once in college. This  book, even in translation, is one of the most powerful books ever written:  Goethe here created a psychological kind of novel that was never again  equalled (though Gide's 'Straight as a Gate' and Flaubert do come  close....) and NO Americans EVER read this.....<br />Buy this book. It is  haunting, beautiful, and every other adjective that you might want to lay  upon it. Goethe, perhaps the world's best writer ever (even out of German,  when translated well...) writes his best work in prose (in my humble  estimation....) here.....<br />Read this!	2000-09-08
US	52375519	R1KARZ41V003P5	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the world's classics	If you haven't read this book, you should really give it a chance. First,  although it is an old book (i.e. written in the nineteenth century)  Stendhal was sophisticated enough to paint vivid enough characters such  that they can be identified with even today. Second, it is regarded as one  of the world's most important books, and to really feel educated, shouldn't  a person have read it?<br />I read this book at sometime during college: a  time during which I feel, in hindsight, that most people could benefit from  this book the most (though don't let anyone not in this category be stopped  by this!!!) The main character is in a similar circumstance that modern  kids are in the 18-22 year old age bracket and like them, trying to figure  out what to do (buildingsroman, I think, is the technical term for a  book.... about this age of people....) And the author does pretty well in  painting out a character who is trying to get head....<br />I like this book a  lot and may come back soon to read it again...	2000-08-30
US	52375519	R28KNKPT66HNDB	0380713330	345099793	Animal Liberation	Books	5	24	32	N	N	A powerful book.....	I was made to read this book while studying political ethics at a British university. At the time, I was already a vegitarian (though for more  aesthetic reasons than ideological ones...) This book is splendidly written  and puts forward a pretty powerful case (though the case is made more out  of repetition of shocking items rather than a full-blown ideolgical  dialogue). It makes one think. It challenges readers to take a stand  (toward animal rights) by showing how skewed our actions toward other  beings have/had been (most universities, for instance, now would NEVER  sanction most of the research mentioned in the chapters regarding it...)  His case based toward the raising of animals in industrial conditions,  though, is still fully relevant (nine chickens in a three-foot by  three-foot box, with their beaks cut off, etc.) <br />It's something for a  philosophy book to change how a 'normal' person thinks (i.e. not an overly  empathetic person....) but, I think, this one did to me.... and that is  something that Nietzche, Kant, Mill, or no other philosopher could  claim.... I highly recommend reading this book....	2000-08-30
US	52375519	R15AIYXCRD55Z8	0415140439	847408399	The End of the World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction	Books	4	9	14	N	N	A good and wholly entertaining book....	The reviewer below misses the thrust of Leslie's argument. Initially, in  the first two chapters of the book, he sets out to list ALL of the ways  through which society could become extinct (a notion that has not been held  in high esteem for policymaking relevance, anyway, in modern society). As  such, he does borrow a lot from other authors. And, adding in, his lifting  of the mathematical equation suggesting that we are near the end of 'our'  time on the Earth makes mathematical sense, even if being totally  anthropomorphic.... And the case is made, if you let it be, that we should  probably start thinking about how we are going to 'go', and plan  thereof....<br />Aside from that, this book is a riot. The first two chapters,  though morbid, are a laugh. The book (setting aside the good philosophy)  should be read just for the initial paranoia. It's all in good fun....	2000-08-30
US	52375519	RAPR4M9QYL7Q7	0870813633	953709397	Living Systems	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good introduction to systems throry at the largest levels.	Although reading such a long book in its entirety seems at first measure a  daunting task (and one that few people's academic credentials hold up  to....), readers daring enough to try are pretty well rewarded across the  whole of this book. This book is an introduction to systems theory (i.e.  that the result of a conglomeration of small scale processes can be seen to  accumulate into larger, predictable processes at macro levels, similar to  how a person who makes individual knots can end up with a rug...) that  straddles the mark from physics to political economy (which is running far  indeed!!!)<br />This is a really big book besides having a lot of pages, and I  have a hunch that not too many people are going to buy it outside of  researchers or university librarians. But, I suppose, if you're either of  these (though if one were going to research they'd probably look to a  sucession of smaller books, no?) I'd buy this book.... your collection  would be enriched through having it....	2000-08-30
US	52375519	RWN4RYPJ6VZBR	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	5	5	12	N	N	One of the world's classics	If you haven't read this book, you should really give it a chance. First,  although it is an old book (i.e. written in the nineteenth century)  Stendhal was sophisticated enough to paint vivid enough characters such  that they can be identified with even today. Second, it is regarded as one  of the world's most important books, and to really feel educated, shouldn't  a person have read it?<br />I read this book at sometime during college: a  time during which I feel, in hindsight, that most people could benefit from  this book the most (though don't let anyone not in this category be stopped  by this!!!) The main character is in a similar circumstance that modern  kids are in the 18-22 year old age bracket and like them, trying to figure  out what to do (buildingsroman, I think, is the technical term for a  book.... about this age of people....) And the author does pretty well in  painting out a character who is trying to get head....<br />I like this book a  lot and may come back soon to read it again...	2000-08-30
US	52375519	R2LMJJ5694ZQJC	0375701532	417982079	The Birth of the Beat Generation: Visionaries, Rebels, and Hipsters, 1944-1960 (Circles of the Twentieth Century)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A good book for so many reasons....	This is a great book for a numer of reasons. I'm going to list a number of  them and then write a bit in conclusion.<br />1. It deals with many of the  'Beats' rather than focusing, as is typical, on Kerouac and Ginsberg and  forgetting the rest of them. It provides an illuminating portrait of  Burroughs (who is definately a key figure), Neal Cassidy (who is also), and  alot of the girls, etc. who were around them. 2. It provides reading lists,  etc. of what they were reading. This is HUGE if you want to understand the  bitterness/despair that is found in Burroughs and Ginsberg... as well as  insight into how they interpretted their life and times (i.e. because they  read these books, they in a dialogic sense would interpret things along  such-and-such lines.... as a psychologist would interpret a 'vision of God'  one way and a believer a second.... 3. Lots of minutia/trivia that is just  fun.<br />It's a really good book and more stimulating than one  would expect  from a book that is in the shape of a square. It would not suffice as a  literary biography of any of the authors contained in the 'movement' nor  could it supplant any social history book. But, it suppliments them and is  fun to read: sort of an academic version of 'Seventeen' at points. I really  love this book. I'd definately recommend this book to anyone who wants to  become first among their band of friends if all their friends want to do is  read a little bit of 'On the Road' and 'Howl' (and then think they know  about this time period....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	RPYKOSGTEA5U1	0860916464	43300814	Against Method: Outline of an Anarchistic Theory of Knowledge	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A great book....	The reader below is right when equating Howard Zinn to Paul Feyerabend....  both are among my favorite authors, both perform similar functions, and  both are, to say the least, controversial in many ways.... not just because  of their eloquence and ease to read....<br />First, if you are a scientist and  not philosophically inclined, skip this book because this is not going to  be something that is in any way akin to your spirit. This book is a  wholesale attack on how science is traditionally viewed: Science is not,  Feyerabend argues, one long march toward some ideal of knowledge, but  something different entirely....<br />Feyerabend is both enlightening,  erudite, and fun to read: I'm not going to spoil him because he explains  himself much better than I could ever. I recommend this book to anyone into  the history of science, to anyone who has read and liked Thomas Kuhn, and  to anyone with an open and inquisitive mind in general.... as well as to  anyone who is just looking for an interesting author to discuss over  martinis....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	RXPNI2DMVGC9S	0140043519	683385169	Junky	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A more constructed book than people here are letting on....	Junky is a first hand tale of one man's life and drug addiction. It is a show of a slide into a world that most of its readers will never  experience. It was something that at its time. immensely shocking. Beside  these things, it is a really compelling tale and a wholly worthwhile  read.....<br />BUT it is also a book that is of a tradition: Burrough's was  largely borrowing the style and tone of the French author Louis-Ferdinand  Celine (i.e. straight ahead, haunting, almost profane at every instance,  black humor at its finest). Even though the author was a drug addict, he  was a HIGHLY erudite and educated drug addict-- and because of that, the  bitterness of his life is interpretted in a way that comes from a man who  was influenced by the doom of Celine and the historian Spengler (another  must-read) as well as the sort of devil-may-care attitude of Andre  Gide....<br />Intellectual name dropping aside, this is a powerful book  artistically BECAUSE of this stuff, the D.A.R.E. message aside (and I would  suggest that other instances from his life-- shooting his wife in the head  while playing William Tell foremost among them hint at a D.A.R.E. message  better than the almost Trainspotting cinema-veritas stuff of this book).  And it's a neat counterpoint to the writings of Kerouac for anyone who  wants to run the 'Beats' together (but an interesting counterpart to  Ginsberg-- who was, in a sense, Burrough's student as much as Lionel  Trilling's....<br />I'd read this book.... it's good....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	RNMGONLHEG2TD	0853451591	258943531	China Shakes the World	Books	5	82	84	N	N	A book that explains why Mao (at the beginning) was good....	This is a really powerful book..... It is an account of China under the government of the Nationalist Chinese written by an American journalist  who, in the end, fell under the spell of Mao's PLA not for ideological  reasons-- but because of a personal affinity for the Chinese people.... who  were suffering....<br />I was advised to read this book in college by a  professor who claimed that &quot;if you can read this book and not cry,  then you don't have a heart.&quot; Certainly, Belden's account of how  through Communism the Chinese people relieved themselves of some of the  subjugation which a feudalish society compounded by Western imperialism  subjected them to, graphically illustrates suffering.... murder, rape, and  many other human vices.... in ways that few other books do.... and hints at  WHY people (barring events of the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural  Revolution) can still respect Mao as a leader and a liberator of a  nation....<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone.... if you can get a  copy....<br />I have a feeling that this is a review that no one will ever  read....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	R3OVMP2B76UTIS	014018600X	866699447	The Summing Up (Penguin 20th Century Classic)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Don't make this the first Maugham book you read....	This book was this author's last: because of that, it makes a lot more  sense to read it after you are familiar with a smattering of his other  works. I love Maugham and have since I first read 'Of Human Bondage' in  high school. This book is a wonderful end-of-life explanation of what he  thought of his work. How many authors would acclaim themselves among the  'first rank of the second best' or slander avant-guarde theater in praise  of production of plays that people wanted to see for storyline (outside of  smug cleverness...)<br />This is a definate must-read for anyone who falls in  love with this author BUT I'd not make this the first book you read by him  in any way. I kind of feel as if without having read a ton of his other  books, I would have not looked at this one with such reverence.....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	R3K3AG4IPLM2QF	0140185887	427984483	Cakes and Ale (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	22	31	N	N	A wonderful portrait with insight into the human condition..	First, this should not be the first book by Somerset Maugham that a person  should read. Certainly, every character in it is well drawn and there is a  wonderful storyline BUT it lacks some of the majesty and grand sweep that  make 'The Razor's Edge' and 'Of Human Bondage' so powerful, so grand, and  able to stand among the best English language works written this century  (although neither of these is typically regarded with Faulkner or Joyce  because they are not stylistically avant-guarde in any way). If you haven't  read both of these books, read them first.<br />On the other hand, this is  another great book by this author: and like every other one of his that I  have read (atleast five more) a worthwhile read. It may be more lacking in  pathos than the two mentioned above: while it is second to them in this  area, for how much the characters are touching, and heartfelt, it is eons  ahead. Rosie, the main characters love interest, is beautifully written as  is the other main character.... it's definately a good and worthwhile  read.....	2000-08-29
US	52375519	R2XJ0M28LA9V9W	0316955108	612064026	The Caine Mutiny: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A really good book that shows the realities of war....	I first picked up this book becuase much of it takes place in my sophomore  dorm at Columbia... I was rewarded with a book portraying one of the most  dynamic characters in hmm, interesting plotlines that one could ever  read.<br />Obviously this book is about WWII. Much of what Herman Wouk wrote  was; quite possibly, this is his best book although the 'Winds of War' and  'War and Rememberance' are also REALLY good. Obviously, this is a long  book: it's also of the kind of book that you, as a reader, would not be  overly inclined to put down once you start reading it. As such, I wouldn't  get this book unless you have a lot of spare time on your hands (or else  you'll have to make it!!!)<br />This book is a must-read for fans of  historical fiction. Also, it's a pretty good psuedo-history for people into  WWII: it presents a pretty vivid of what life must have been like then....  or so I suppose, having been born a few generations after it's close....	2000-08-26
US	52375519	RTJ8Y3POUOVL1	0316955159	47347911	War and Remembrance	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A really sound job of making history come alive....	If you've never read any books by this author, and you're a fan of  anything historical, you've really missed out.....<br />This was the third  book by Wouk that I read (after the Caine Mutiny and The Winds of War). His  works of fiction can in many ways bring home history better than most  textbooks: his carefully sketched portraits of Rooseveldt, for instance (in  this book) make him seem to me, at twenty-two a person whereas any  biography of him would make him seem more of a demigod....<br />Wouk aside  from this is just a good read. He presents characters that you care about--  they seem almost real. You feel for loves lost and loves spurned, and-- as  I did-- get so caught up in their lives that often you have to read more of  his books to find out how they turned out.... <br />For anyone who is a fan of  history and isn't put off by reading eight hundred pages that you can't put  down prose, I'd highly recommend this book.... read &quot;Winds of  War&quot; first, though, such that you don't spoil it....	2000-08-26
US	52375519	R1WA4IHPA7AH35	0316929190	838798147	All Too Human: A Political Education	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A good portrait of the life of an idealist.....	People who have ranted against this book in their reviews seem to have  done it for idelogical reasons (either being conservative, anti-Clinton, or  somehow anti-Stephanopolous...) than for it being a bad book.... <br />Really,  this is a spectacular book. The author has a slightly gossiupy style; this  does not detract from the whole of this book but quite possibly adds to its  immediacy. That the book had to be rewritten after the whole Lewinsky  scandal broke does not indicate somehow that the author was acting as a  revisionist: moreso, it illustrates that he was hurt by the actions of the  President both ideologically and personally. This is a tale of how an (very  pragmatic) idealist comes of age in the presence of our (somewhat)  brilliant, (sometimes) clueless President.... it's not a story about  Clinton so much as a tale of the life and times of one of his advisors,  it's not about the substance of policy as much as the substance of a soul  of a person....<br />It's a good book: obviously, people could clash with it  on a number of fronts... for their own ideology... for their own stand on  Clinton... but not say that it is in any way a poorly written, false, or  ill-concieved book.... because it is none of these....	2000-08-26
US	52375519	R2VYBIBSN42YT6	0375500065	456765327	God Is My Broker : A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 1/2 Laws of Spiritual and Financial Growth	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A really funny yet eerily telling book....	This is a really funny book. <br />It's not a classic but definately a fun  and worthwhile read. Buckley's send up of the American proclivities of  spirituality, self-help gurus, materialism, etc. still amuses me almost a  year after I first read this book.... how much more people who fell into  these traps would realize if they instead of reading Deepak Chopra and his  kinsmen would only read this!!!<br />This is the story of a stockbroker who,  tired of life, went to find seclusion in a monestary... only to find that  the monestary was broke and that its product.... horribly made wine (which  was why he went there...) was in dire straits... but eventually finds  salvation....<br />If you find a copy of this book, definately pick it up and  read it. It's a fairly quick book..... though I'm not sure that it'd be  worth the cover price to me....	2000-08-25
US	52375519	R33IQFCEWOUWBD	0316330116	154225661	On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of the most important books that one could ever read....	I'm not the sort to write an overly long review that no one is going to read the entire way through. But, if any book deserves one this one does: it is a masterpiece that should be read by ANYONE studying public policy,  military affairs, or society in general. Dave Grossman's take on the social  ramifications of applied military psychology is haunting, and something  that one is not likely to forget.<br />The thesis of this book generally  states that the programs which the military uses to teach people to set  aside aversions to kill are harmful (and that these devices are mirrored by  other devices in society, that are even more harmful-- because there are no  checks and balances to control them). Grissom's work attempts to illustrate  the multifaceted ways in which they are negative-- and he succeeds.....<br />I  went to pretty good schools and read an awful lot of books that had an  implied purpose of attempting to teach a person how to better make  decisions that affect society in positive ways. This book, which I found on  a shelf... in some small town in Ohio, probably has affected  my thinking moreso than the sum total of my elite education. As such, I  implore anyone who reads this review who hasn't read this book to get it  and read it..... the world will be better off.....	2000-08-25
US	52375519	R34S1KF8J94ZXO	0679750541	362948743	Culture and Imperialism	Books	5	17	31	N	N	A riveting book by a learned man.....	In this book, Edward Said (also author of the classic Orientalism) shows  the broad grasp of imperialism (i.e. the possession of one culture/group fo  people by another) through analysis of 'Western' authors and texts. First,  this book differs from most, if not all other major 'revisionist' kinds of  texts because its author never sets aside the value of reading anything:  Said uses his erudition in order to illustrate the plight of the oppressed,  as opposed to many others, who view erudition, developed through culture,  as a device that can only bind one more into a group of people. Whereas  others read stories of Conrad and see mainly a story of the white upper  class, Said reads between the lines and shows Conrad's implications toward  other people. <br />I guess that explanation was relatively unclear: I don't  have the book in front of me. This is an important book for any person who  wishes to consider themself either educated or worldly to read. Setting  aside that it is brilliant for what it is about, just having the  oppurtunity to read the words of its author would provide value enough.	2000-08-23
US	52375519	R32QBMFBCQ9PXF	067973385X	227363368	Exile and the Kingdom	Books	3	15	25	N	N	My least favorite of what Camus did....	I've read out Camus: his philsophical treatises, his plays, his novels, his cahiers, etc. and been tremendously impressed by almost everything that  he ever did. I find him brillaint, but even more importantly, humane. That  having been said, I find the short pieces contained in Exile and the  Kingdom (and, strangely, the French translation of the same..... he he) to  be some of his most regrettable work....<br />Not to quibble... or to say that  these aren't that important or contain something of use.... but if I were a  new Camus reader, I'd definately go and read the rest of his tremendous  body of work before I settled down to read these..... my specific  criticisms come in line with the rest of the negative reader reviews (i.e.  somewhat lack plot or devices to hold interest, etc.)	2000-08-23
US	52375519	R40OQZHHJL3AT	0201421879	572379240	Economic Development	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A very readable introduction to developmental economics.	Todaro in this book presents what is quite possibly the easiest to  understand introduction to developmental economics that the world has to  offer. He does not provide quick answers but a logical and well thought out  conception of the complexities of the problems in a format that although  not wholly excluding mathmatics, uses it only in appendixes, etc. to  explain problems-- which leaves the book open to a wider audience (and also  does not allow its readers into the overly simplistic answers that too much  mathmatics sometimes hints at....) In my studies of development, this book  more often than any other served as a quick reference and fairly handy  bibliography. I recommend this book to any undergraduate student or student  of public policy the world over. It should be a classic.	2000-08-23
US	52375519	R36ULNDRCXDQQM	0140187650	256512110	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Books	5	11	19	N	N	Where do you start with this book?	This is philosophically speaking one of the most important books of all time.... regarding political affairs and ethics....<br />First, you have  Hannah Arendt. Her book on totalitarianism is a classic: she was THE  mid-century philosopher/historian/sociologist. She had a brilliant mind and  brilliant contemporaries to work with. She was an able writer and  stylistically good. And she had an assignment to write about Adolph  Eichmann, Nazi bureaucrat. <br />And Eichmann was more troubling than anyone  figured. Rather than deny his actions, he embraced them, using the Kantian  notion of duty dervied from a consequential imperative. He was just doing  his job-- hence the banality of evil.... what does a person do when the  accomplishment of the normal-- in his case, getting trains from one place  to another-- encompasses the extinction wholesale of a group of  people?<br />Thus comes this book. It is an accounting of the trial in  Jerusalem in 1961 (I believe....) A great read, although, as is anything  regarding the Holocaust, a little bit dark....<br />I'd read it if I were you.	2000-08-23
US	52375519	R17N2EWVMFDBIE	0679750541	362948743	Culture and Imperialism	Books	5	21	29	N	N	A riveting book by a learned man.....	In this book, Edward Said (also author of the classic Orientalism) shows  the broad grasp of imperialism (i.e. the possession of one culture/group fo  people by another) through analysis of 'Western' authors and texts. First,  this book differs from most, if not all other major 'revisionist' kinds of  texts because its author never sets aside the value of reading anything:  Said uses his erudition in order to illustrate the plight of the oppressed,  as opposed to many others, who view erudition, developed through culture,  as a device that can only bind one more into a group of people. Whereas  others read stories of Conrad and see mainly a story of the white upper  class, Said reads between the lines and shows Conrad's implications toward  other people. <br />I guess that explanation was relatively unclear: I don't  have the book in front of me. This is an important book for any person who  wishes to consider themself either educated or worldly to read. Setting  aside that it is brilliant for what it is about, just having the  oppurtunity to read the words of its author would provide value enough.	2000-08-23
US	52375519	R24SHYRYD046W0	0156806797	734553685	The Seven Storey Mountain (Harvest/HBJ Book)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Probably the most well-known book by an American monk...	Even for a non-Catholic agnostic kind of person, this book was a near  life-changing event. Having read Merton's work on Eastern things  (Chuang-tzu, etc.) I came to this book with an open mind. What I found in  reading it was a story of a child of the early nineteen forties who turned  toward God. He was actually a classmate at Columbia (or a near  contemporary) of Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg..... and they ended up trying  to find salvation in a similar, but different manner....<br />It's a wholly  worthwhile book for anyone to read though for some I could imagine the  section after his conversion (which would strike many of his readers as the  most profound section of the book) could end up being a bit tiresome....	2000-08-23
US	52375519	RO4KZU92TDNVA	0312093500	258980605	Negrophobia: An Urban Parable	Books	5	5	9	N	N	The best novel of the last ten years....	This novel brings every steryotype to life in an energized and hyper-real  format that is more along the lines of a Terry Gilliam movie than it is any  other 'novel' that I have ever read. First: this may be the funniest book  ever written. Although at times it is harsh and scatological, it is  just.... funny..... In the way that the author switches from style to style  (a la Joyce at his finest... or Ballard at his....) you have avant-guarde  literature at its best. Adding to this, it has the kind of humor and  brilliance that would be brought by an author whose other major work was  on..... Blacksploitation....<br />I never put this book down once I picked it  up... till I had it read.... twice....<br />Someone who really liked this book  might also like the music of Keith Thorton (a.k.a. Kool Keith, Dr. Dooom,  Dr. Octagon). The two men are cut from the same mold.... though James might  be at least (partially) sane....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R3LUR0MRGVMC7D	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not a bad book.....	Its not just that I usually don't read this type of book, I usually don't  read any type of book that anyone has ever heard of. Strangely, I picked  this book in a bookstore and sat crumbled on the floor all the way through  until it finished. Although I've never seen the movie, the book, in and of  itself, was a poignant and remarkable picture of how the lives of a number  of people were effected by the 'perfect storm' that hit the NE coast of the  US. The book, throughout, is well-written and witha  gripping story to tell  and the author paints a sympathetic and kind portrait of all of the people  involved-- which is a necessity considering all of them still have  families, etc.<br />I'd recommend this to anyone in search of a good read.  It's well worth your time....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R389DLPP7E9CUB	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	2	3	N	N	My favorite Camus book....	I love this book. First, it is a story written in second person narration  largely (more or less) in which you, the reader, become implicated in the  plot through which the protagonist frees himself. It is a complex and  readable portrait even when set aside from being one of the easiest to  understand superficially yet subtly complex Albert Camus' works....<br />It is  a shame that so many teachers force the Plague and L'Etranger on kids  without looking to this book.... by itself, it is certainly more fun to  read than the Plague and at least as good as the other.... If you're a fan  of Camus, buy this book. If not, what are you doing on this page?	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R1YL1GVVU1UT1V	0684809702	685920640	The Color of Truth: McGeorge Bundy and William Bundy:  Brothers in Arms	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A must read for any student of Vietnam or foreign affairs...	I happened upon this book in a bookstore in New York. I'm not going to say  it changed my life: it would take a lot for a biography to do that. But for  what it is: a biography of two men who were raised to hold the reins of  power, than did so in one of this countries most difficult periods, the  book is balanced, insightful, and enlightening. <br />I was a bit worried  going into the book that Bird, a frequent contributer to the Nation, would  perform an unbalanced hatchet-job on these two men-- who must of course be  seen with their redeeming qualities. And he does. This is a  well-researched, well-put together book. It is a must read for anyone  interested in Vietnam, the Kennedy Administration, or foreign affairs in  general.	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R82I6XNWG4021	0872860175	396737102	Howl and Other Poems (City Lights Pocket Poets, No. 4)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	An amazing book.....	When I first read this book in high school, I found it both disturbing and  profane. Now I still do, but it's in a much better way....<br />Ginsberg came  of age in a time of both terror and hypocrasy. During the Presidency of  Eisenhower, we were edging toward hot war with the Soviets and on our own  people. Kids were just finding psychoactives for the first time-- they were  just learning to bend their minds and change their souls. Americans were  just hearing of Louis-Ferdinand Celine and Andre Gide and Oswald Spengler  and all of the other literary people who can be heard in the words of  Ginsberg....<br />And he processed them (though some of them now would seem  more high culture than him) and came up with the knowing, tortured voice of  a generation. A voice that is not so different from the voice of my  generation-- one of trouble, angst, unhesistancy, and spiritual malaise.  Whereas he saw his generation starving, hysterical, naked in a mental  institution, we do not even have the clothes to care so much....<br />However  old you are, read this book. It will make you think. Read Gregory Corso  too.... he was wonderful but has been forgotten....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R11N1BR5VDXE2O	0679764003	937627221	A Happy Death	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Make this the last book you read by Camus!	I love this book... but.... honestly, I think that this is probably the  least important work by Camus (sorry for those terms) and the least  relevant-- to me it strikes interest having read twenty books on him-- to  see where he was coming from-- but as a novel or philosophical piece, it is  less interesting than any other-- and less well crafted as well.....<br />This  is a vaguely similar story to the Stranger (the first part anyway) and has  a similar main character and similar polt lines. What differs is that it is  by a younger author with less worldly experience and who has faced less  worldly difficulties (i.e. the beginnings of WWII). As such, it comes off  as not as good of a book....<br />If you haven't read 'The Rebel' or any of  his other books, read them first. Then come back to this one. I promise  you'll make it....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R2PLLAD2CGXQ13	0811200418	218271646	A Coney Island of the Mind: Poems	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not splendid throughout, but good enough.....	At his best, this poet is one of the best of his generation. Certainly  more bookish than Kerouac or Bukowski (and perhaps even moreso than  Ginsberg and Burroughs) this poet in this book is allowed to be more  relevant because... well... he's still alive....<br />Some of the poems in  here are wonderful and could stand beside the best of any other poet. As in  most anthologies, though, some are forgettable and would be best exised and  forgotten. Those are few in number but they keep me from giving the whole  book a five star review...<br />If you like the 'beat generation' but are full  with the more well-known writers (not that this poet is in any way unknown)  this might be a good book to check out....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R19X8946OL9UOS	0679733841	225572541	The Rebel: An Essay on Man in Revolt	Books	5	32	37	N	N	How has this book been forgotten!?!	Of course, this book has not been totally forgotten, but for what a good  piece of work this is, it is largely negelected. Flat out, I find this book  Camus' masterpiece and if all his other books were destroyed, this one  alone would make him seem genius....<br />Why is this book so good? First, it  provided a reading list for me, an American, to learn the basics and the  names of some of the most important French and European thinkers in the  past five hundred years and an impetus to read them (such that I could  agree or disagree with what Camus said about them). Second, the book made  me think, and made me question, in the logical, precise, but human way that  Camus did (which is an invaluable tool for anyone just starting out in the  world). Third, in this book you get to see a great swath of history unfold  through one of the greatest writers/minds of the twentieth century. How  cool is that?<br />I highly reccomend this book to anyone to read. Especially,  though, I recommend this book to anyone just starting out on a path in the  social sciences or law (who thinks about 'things that matter....') or to  anyone going through post-adolecent pangs of conscience....<br />This is the  first book that I'd read of Camus if I were new to him too....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R2EML7J8C3MV1N	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So the book's a bit sappy... but still worth a read....	My two reasons for disliking this book pale in comparison to thr reasons  to like it (and read it!!!). First, Bryson skips out on parts of the trail  and never hikes the whole thing. He's not a purist: he's got to be  forgiven. He's a middle aged writer who spent most of his life in the UK  (which explains a bit of the laziness and the grumpiness!). Second: it's  kindof a sappy book written by a middle aged man-- not a whole lot of  adventure to be had.... But-- redeeming it it has a lot more. It's a  heartwarming tale of discovery-- both inner and outer. It's well-written  and funny-- both of the characters in it are, well, characters.....  Finally, it could inspire people to go out and actually do something-- to  hike, to look for what was wrong in their life, to do something.... which  is key....<br />I'd recommend reading this book to anyone....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R3IU1PJFML9IP8	0679428550	499002310	Albert Camus: A Life	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An excellent job of capturing Camus....	This book provides an interesting portrait of someone whom most would now qualify as one of the more interesting (if not most important) authors of  the twentieth century. This book documents his early life (somewhat  disappointingly for anyone who has read 'The First Man'-- Camus' own  account) through his dallainces with careers and women to his litery  triumphs. <br />This is a well-written and researched book, with the only  negative from me that Camus comes out a lot less heroic and a lot more  bitter and stereotypically hepcat and existentialist, which was a  disappointment for I, who had raised him toward being a god....<br />A must  read for anyone interested in Camus....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R24TEUSLNLLFBG	0679764011	847169544	Resistance, Rebellion, and Death: Essays	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A good book.....	Camus' essays are obviously more difficult to read than hisstories, and quite possibly more difficult to read than his philosophical investigations as well. Should they be read? Of course. In them, he speaks of similar topics (i.e. what to do in the face of absurditiy, human moral dilemmas, etc.) as he does in the other books, though in a more precise, more direct fashion. His views on the death penalty shaped my own almost completely.  <br />What you get in this book are coherent arguments by a coherent, nuainced thinker. Is Sartre smarter than Camus? Camus knew enough to fear most -isms and -ologies where Sartre did not... (not that I recommend ignoring Sartre either! )	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R3OBEJ30A9KGRK	0679732454	706531097	The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Only three people have reviewed this?	First: this is one of those books that if you know it exists, you have  almost a moral obligation to read. The way Rilke manipulates the  mind/thinking of Malthe.... to observing and commenting on the city is  amazing.... the world he lives in is haunting because of the ways in which  he views it..... <br />Aside from that, this is a poetocal masterpiece which  even in English translation can hint at how language should be put together  and structured. It is clear, it is lucid, and it is beautiful. And it is  one of only a few books that should be called a must-read....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R3FKKRK34ZEVBE	0767902521	853461955	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So the book's a bit sappy... but still worth a read....	My two reasons for disliking this book pale in comparison to thr reasons  to like it (and read it!!!). First, Bryson skips out on parts of the trail  and never hikes the whole thing. He's not a purist: he's got to be  forgiven. He's a middle aged writer who spent most of his life in the UK  (which explains a bit of the laziness and the grumpiness!). Second: it's  kindof a sappy book written by a middle aged man-- not a whole lot of  adventure to be had.... But-- redeeming it it has a lot more. It's a  heartwarming tale of discovery-- both inner and outer. It's well-written  and funny-- both of the characters in it are, well, characters.....  Finally, it could inspire people to go out and actually do something-- to  hike, to look for what was wrong in their life, to do something.... which  is key....<br />I'd recommend reading this book to anyone....	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R10YKQ66TTI3CM	0679733736	126207643	The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A really important book...	This is probably, in my estimation, Albert Camus' greatest work in that it  explains in detail some of the similar underlying feelings that appear in  some of his other books. On the surface, the book is an investigation into  an answer of the question &quot;what for?&quot; posed in the face of what  seems as being an absurd and senseless universe. Beneath that, it is a  sensitive and well-thought out account through a particularly lucid  (although not as bleak as one supposes-- especially if one has negelected  Camus in favor of Sartre....) mind...<br />Camus' would have been a philosophy  teacher had not his childhood tuberculosis rendered him incapable of  recieving his degree in it in Algeria. He shows how good of one he would  have been in this work. I love this book because it comes to a hopeful  conclusion in the face of an absolutely terrible world (this book was  finished in the middle of WWII-- along with the Rebel and Caligula (plays).  It is a definate must-read.... especially for a late high school student or  early college student who thinks too much and wonders why (that's when I  read it!!!)	2000-08-21
US	52375519	R19FI14NEGXU27	0465037054	141684236	Just and Unjust Wars: A Moral Argument With Historical Illustrations (Basic Books Classics)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	One of the best texts on political ethics....	This book, which Walzer did write as a polemic against the Vietnam War (something that many other people did at the same time) is one of the  seminal texts in the often maligned discourse (atleast by Americans)  regarding international political ethics. For what it is, it is a valuable  book: Walzer is an erudite scholar who possesses a substantial knowledge of  his material and a command of his subject. Perhaps it would be a bit dry if  you were forced to read it-- but then, what isn't?<br />For what this book  is-- an attempt to summarize the ways throughout time and to make them  relevant for its time (i.e. twenty five years ago) this is a powerful book.  Now-- as to being a text for a European history class......	2000-08-17
US	52375519	R2902MCZU8S0L4	0679448268	461021367	The Unseen War in Europe: Espionage and Conspiracy in the Second World War	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A flat out amazing book.....	This book tells stories that are as fun to read as a James Bond movie is  to watch.... and apparently, no one realized this. Setting aside that it is  a book of serious history, it tells the stories of the OSS and the NVKD and  MI-6 and the German Abwehr. It tells of the decptions of Canaris... which  are a key to understanding the whole of the progress of the war.<br />First, I  can't believe that this book is so soon out of print. Second, if you are  interested in WWII and haven't read this title, you must go out and get it!	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R1VX89V4RYBPXV	0673524868	209897180	Using Econometrics: A Practical Guide (3rd Edition)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The best text to have for USING econometrics...	This text probably is not necessary for those with a heavy background in  mathmatical econometrics.... but is an overwhelmingly useful tool for  students are new to the field of econometric analysis be it used in  economics, political statistics, sociology, or other fields. It can provide  simple answers to the (normal) kinds of simple questions that pop up....  and basic explanations for terminology, etc. It explains additions to  typical OLS regression clearly and aptly. <br />I would recommend this text as  a must-buy for anyone NOT looking for hard-core theoretical math but only  for something useful....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	RKGWH55IPT5LC	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	5	9	14	N	N	A great book (for the most part....)	Generally, I believe that this was the book that most structured the ways  in which I think about politics.... and I think it is a must read, which  can be evidenced by the fact that the people whom have reviewed it have  tended to either love it or slam it....<br />Hungtinton (who has to be  considered among the first rank of US political thinkers) continued in the  great tradition of grand political thinkers like Spengler, Toynbee, and  Braudel and puts forth a thesis that the world is broken into nine  civilizations which will have a tendency to 'clash' along their lines of  fissure (i.e. Yugoslavia-- where the 'Islamic' 'Western' and 'Orthodox'  civilizations come together.... India/Pakistan where the 'Indic' and  'Islamic', etc.). Largely, this has been true.<br />One doesn't go about  setting up theories based on these kinds of evidence, and Huntington  doesn't do that. He puts forth reasons. He has a good case for flare ups  (using demographic changes-- chapter 5 of this book). Largely, he puts  forth a very coherent case....<br />People slam him for being racist and for  being a realist. The racism charge I have no desire to defend. He's of an  older generation. His realism, though (i.e. anti-institutionalism) only  comes into play for LDCs, etc. because AS A DEVICE TO ANALYZE, AT HIGH  STAKES LEVELS, states still are the moving objects when it  counts....<br />This is a definate must read for any student of politics. I'm  sorry for belaboring a few points....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R36CZ6ERNQX430	0192836730	294040005	Sartor Resartus (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	27	41	N	N	A powerful and profound book	This is a powerful and profound book and even sort of funny (a professor  of everything... c'mon!!!) <br />This is a difficult book. It has small print  and is written in the sort of stilted style that one would expect for a  book with a Latin name written by a Scot more than a century ago. Carlyle  was one of the most brilliant men of his time and in this book you can see  hints of Goethe and Novalis and the other German romantic types..... which  makes it sort of worthwhile....<br />But this was a really tough book for me  to get through. Normally, I can plow through about anything.... but this  took an awful lot of work.... <br />I recommend it, though, with that  qualification.... it is one of the &quot;best&quot; books ever written....!	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R2JXDFQVZ6VUK5	0854963782	760440819	Silence of the Sea / Le Silence de la Mer: A Novel of French Resistance during the Second World War by 'Vercors'	Books	3	2	5	N	N	This book is neither good nor bad....	I've read this books versions both in English and in French, and to  suggest that it is a terrible book in either is to miss the point entirely.  Yes, it is a bit dry at times (especially if your French is bad.... cause  you'd miss a lot of the subtlety...) Yes, in English it seems rough and not  that well done. Yes, perhaps if you have a limited amount of time to read  books regarding this subject matter, etc. this should not be the first book  you read....<br />But it is a good story with a different viewpoint. Does one  accept a common humanity and collaborate with the German-- who after all  does not seem that evil.... or does one forgo that for the pride of being  French.... and being the conquored....<br />Honestly, everything having to do  with WWII is biased.... or most everything.... this portrait is at least  honest about it.... and fairly nonpoliticized... though that is another  topic entirely....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	RONSI7BXPVLHW	0854963782	760440819	Silence of the Sea / Le Silence de la Mer: A Novel of French Resistance during the Second World War by 'Vercors'	Books	3	8	13	N	N	This book is neither good nor bad....	I've read this books versions both in English and in French, and to  suggest that it is a terrible book in either is to miss the point entirely.  Yes, it is a bit dry at times (especially if your French is bad.... cause  you'd miss a lot of the subtlety...) Yes, in English it seems rough and not  that well done. Yes, perhaps if you have a limited amount of time to read  books regarding this subject matter, etc. this should not be the first book  you read....<br />But it is a good story with a different viewpoint. Does one  accept a common humanity and collaborate with the German-- who after all  does not seem that evil.... or does one forgo that for the pride of being  French.... and being the conquored....<br />Honestly, everything having to do  with WWII is biased.... or most everything.... this portrait is at least  honest about it.... and fairly nonpoliticized... though that is another  topic entirely....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R34YNSKKDJBD4G	0072347848	827840277	Basic Econometrics	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Basic, but might not be simple enough....	Although this book seems pretty widely respected and used, my usage of this book (which was a text for a course in political data analysis and not  econometrics) was relatively infrequent. not discounting the need to state  all of the maths involved in econometrics, I'd suggest that for a student  new to the field, Studemunds &quot;Using Econometrics&quot; provides a  better introduction on how to actually USE these tools (and a fairly  good.... although not as good as in this book! explanation of the  mathmatics, etc. involved....) <br />Perhaps for a Ph.D. student.... this  might be a great book to have.... I like it.... I just like the Studemund  better.... especially if added to by SAGE paperbacks when more specific  information is needed....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	RYRNHW756NYEI	1881089525	54031737	The Strawberry Statement: Notes of a College Revolutionary	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A good book.... but not the Bible!	First, I loved this book. Kunen provides a wry and clever portrait of a time that was interesting.... and vastly different from my life in  college.... which was at the same school as him (Columbia) and vaguely  similar in other ways (rowing). Included in this book which is  superficially about the '68 student uprisings at Columbia (due to a want to  build a gym in Morningside Park (which was used predominantly by the  Harlem's black community...) are also many notes about the coming of age of  the books author, who as other reviewers mentioned, went on to be more than  a marginal figure in the American left....<br />It is a shame that this book  is out of print. You should be able to order it. Check the auctions on  amazon-- that's where I got my copy. It is especially a good book for  people going to college (especially Columbia!)	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R3O3Y31H9O3JYL	039395241X	339374083	Structure and Change in Economic History	Books	5	3	35	N	N	A must read.... I suppose....	Although this is an important book from the 1993 Nobel Prizewinner in  Economics, and a text that capably and fully illustrates what it sets out  to do at its outset, I hesitate to recommend it universally for reasons  that aren't fully clear to me..... <br />Certainly, this is a book that should  be read by students of economic histroy and political economy. It  illustrates how social changes (i.e. changes in property rights) lead to  seemingly unrelated changes across the whole of society. It is  well-written. Perhaps you should buy this book....	2000-08-14
US	52375519	R3B9UEF0SY3JNS	0521397340	240016635	Institutions, Institutional Change and Economic Performance (Political Economy of Institutions and Decisions)	Books	4	31	36	N	N	A good... but not great.. book....	I have a hunch that this is one of the kind of books such that only people  whom have in a sense already specialized come upon it and decide to buy it.  First: if you are one of these kind of people, the articles contained in  this volume are well written and though not classics, could further your  understanding of 'our' field. Second: if you are not already a specialist,  there are other books by Douglass North and Mancur Olson that can better  illustrate the general principles on which the economic/political hybrid  field is based.... Olson's &quot;The Logic of Collective Action&quot;  illustrates the development of institutions while Norths &quot;Structure  and Change...&quot; shows how they have functioned throughout time...	2000-08-14
US	52375519	RPVJUU6LLNTW0	0394588010	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	5	4	5	N	N	It might be John Keegan's masterpiece.....	Some of the reviewers on here have scathed this book for attempting to  trace warfare throughout all of human history: they , perhaps, are put off  from comparing this to some of Keegan's earlier more 'set-piece'ish books  (i.e. &quot;The Face of Battle&quot; or &quot;The Mask of  Command&quot;).<br />But what he does here is nothing short of extraordinary.  From the beginnings of human history, he builds a convincing case that the  nature of warfare has completely changed. Its stakes have risen  drmatically. Citing examples, he charts the broad and terrible swath that  it has cut.<br />Personally, this is my favorite of Keegan's books, and I'm  pretty sure that I've read them all. It might be a nice companion for some  whose interests are focused more on specifics (i.e. WWI or WWII) as a  change of pace.... or, for people who just are interested in the topic of  the book itself....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RUPEPWP24GVLB	0521379520	30198972	Public Choice II: A Revised Edition of Public Choice (Cambridge Surveys of Economic Literature)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A good introductory primer for political economy	This is a good introductory book for political economy. This may or may  not be as good as the same author's &quot;Perspectives on Public  Choice&quot; but it does cover most issue areas in the Public Choice  subdiscipline in the course of its sections. I think that this was the main  coursebook for my first political economy class when I was in college:  definitely, if you're going to buy one book on public choice, buy the other  one (hopefully buy them both!!!) Then get some Mancur Olson too.... he's a  lot of fun!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R1TJ3A1WYPPFF	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Brilliant book.....	It is good that this book is viewed in the US as a must-read for almost  every child. It is rare here that we ever have to read anything that  acknowledges any other perspective but our own (i.e. non-American)-- but  when we are forced to do this, here, through the life of Paul.... one  becomes forced to be humanitarian and no longer nationalistic.<br />This book  brings individual tragedies to the eye of the universal. So imporant, so  important. One of the sort of books that can change ones life. Please read  it if you haven't.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R29ZZBPAYLX995	0553274325	602609686	Johnny Got His Gun	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What can you say about this book?	This book should be a must-read for every man, woman, and child in the  United States. It raises dire questions about many of the values that we  hold dear-- and their importance in the face of the tragedies and sorrows  that must occasionally be waged in their name....<br />What happens to the  title character in this book is entirely inhuman. Trumbo's accounting of it  fills the entire book with verismilitude and although he is selling a  platform, it never seems polemical. This book is friggin' brilliant....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RCZWWP40J72R7	0060921080	186682494	Declarations of Independence: Cross-Examining American Ideology	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A devistating, hugely important book....	In this, what could be his most important book, Zinn lambasts these ideals upon which the United States was founded. The People's History reads more  like an addition to a high school textbook whereas this is more like an  inditement of it.<br />Would this be a good book for a high schooler? I have  my doubts. In the fragmented, destroyed mileaux in which kids grow up today  (I'm only 22...) such a rabid slam at 'America' might not be the best idea.  Is it important for anyone who is interested in public policy and the  spectacle that is American culture? for such people, this book is an  absolute necessity. It calls into question the philosophical premises with  which we buttress our occasionally immoral actions.....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RMLPGX02236S1	0674537513	312689812	The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of Groups, Second printing with new preface and appendix (Harvard Economic Studies)	Books	5	19	26	N	N	THE crucial book on political economy	I once read that Olson was on the short list of people being considered  for the Nobel Prize at the time of his death. Certainly, this list is not  so short: at least three of my college professors were rumored to be....  Enough of that, though....<br />This work takes a simple premise and expands  on it to explain processes that at the outset seem contradictory.  Organisations exist, in economic logic, to seek either economic rent or  ideological satisfaction. Olson in this book works through organisational  logic and explains group behavior in a clear, concise fashion. This  behavior influences economic performance and politics at all levels.  <br />Moreso than other books which in part relate to the same areas  (including Olson's the Rise and Decline of Nations and a few by Douglass  North) this is THE key text for this issue, and a must read for anyone who  is into political economy.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R14AQZ8V1EZGWU	1889307033	126090950	The Atrocity Exhibition	Books	5	11	14	N	N	I really don't know what to say about this book.... but...	This is perhaps the trippiest and most important book that I have ever  read. I'm not going to pretend that I read tons and tons of avant-guarde  literature: this was recommended to me by a philosopher studying postmodern  ethics. What you have in this book is something that is neither necessarily  real nor unreal, a story nor not a story. This is the Madhyamaka novel--  neither this nor that.<br />I'm not even fully sure that I 'got' it when I  read it. it works much more subconsciously than other books-- without  cohernat plot or story line-- suffering through lack of detail, etc. But it  hits you, and you understand. It is represenatational of things-- of  reality.... I'm not going to be able to put down a lot more than this  because I want to avoid pretense, but read this book!!!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2X509SY6NH8A5	1883642299	654260370	Bukowski: A Life	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Are these reviews or indictments?	Frankly, not having known or been discussed in this book, I liked it. I  wasn't alive (for much of his lifetime) and really, seeing a little more  about him (in novel fashion) proved to be fascinating. <br />Bukowski was an  American writer. He is shown in this book with his scars, dirty clothes,  and kinda lewd persona. He's real from the beginning whereas it took an  awful lot of alcohol, etc. until Hemingway was near as (like those of us  mortals....) <br />This might not be a critically perfect biography. It might  have needed more research, etc. BUT.... speaking form the perspective of an  educated general fan, it is worthwhile, though I don't kow if I'd buy it--  the other biography is probably more of a keeper.... This is a good story,  though.....<br />Buy the poetry more than any bio. though!!!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R3BUPZJRV2AUZH	0262581620	605019269	Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy (Studies in Contemporary German Social Thought)	Books	5	8	47	N	N	I didn't want to review this.... but.....	The reviews for this book are really poor, so I'm going to take a shot at this book....<br />Habermas in this book is very German. The book is  straightforward: it deals with the dual nature of laws.... i.e. that the  ideals we establish in laws are conditioned by a sociological process and  then interpreted through the same process. It's not a book that one would  read for pleasure... it's not a book that one would want to have around to  please girls. It's dry at times, but CAN BE very rewarding. Please, dear  God, do not let this be an introduction to philosophy. But-- as the reviews  above hint at-- it is an important work by an important author if taken in  the right light and for the right reasons. <br />I do not intend here to write  a review of Habermas: that's way beyond what needs to be done in this  situation. He's not a whole lot of fun though.... ;)... but a brilliant  man, nonetheless....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2I5SXTMO6KNWV	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The classic revisionist history book in the United States	Zinn in this book essentially writes the classic revisionist history book  of the United States. Barring the WASP-y majority (soon to be gone!), Zinn  spends the whole of this texts illustrating the plight of blacks, women,  american natives, and others. For this, he was even mentioned in Good Will  Hunting....<br />This is the paradigmatic exemplar of one of the more  controversial issues in the US: do we essentially rewrite our history--  going away from one that was rife with incompletions toward one that lacks  the manifest-destined nation on a hill mentality that has marked the US for  the whole of its history? Is denying the American identity a necessity such  that we can allow individuals to grow and the nation to change?<br />I  recommend this book wholeheartedly to anyone who is curious about the lies  and half-truthes that we have partaken in the US secondary education AND to  any person who desires to stare revisionist education in its face.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2NYXL1DKYE1D5	0226245330	31557271	Conquest of Abundance: A Tale of Abstraction versus the Richness of Being	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A good book.... and the most accessible Feyerabend....	This is the only book that Feyerabend really meant for a popular  audience-- not that he was really a very esoteric philosopher to begin  with. But, in this text, he comes across as brilliant, engaging, and very  erudite and posits a case for how we think... and how we classify  reality.... <br />If you haven't read any Feyerabend.... as hated as he is by  scientists, etc. he is worth reading. REALLY worth reading.... and this is  perhaps the best place to start....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RLM1GR7WGBSWN	0226245314	844478837	Killing Time: The Autobiography of Paul Feyerabend	Books	5	8	11	N	N	If you've read his philosophy	Not only are Feyerabend's ideas strange, he was a different guy.... He  liked to give up places, women.... wanted to be retired when he was  five.... and fought for Germany in WWII without really knowing what the  cause was about.... He liked opera.... and.... finally.... he was one of  this centuries most important philosophers.<br />This is a well written, well  concieved book that will tell you pretty much everything about this guy.  Which explains a lot. His style-- clever, ironic, kindly-- emparts little  bits of warmth and wisdom. Looking back upon this book, I feel pretty fuzzy  about it and highly recommend it to all people....<br />Especially who those  who know who this guy is!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2LKE0N8MSC62C	052165629X	738385726	The Rise and Decline of the State	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A brilliant book	In this book, Van Crevald gives a synopsis of the rise in importance of  the state and then a synopsis of forces that could (or will) lead to its  decline. As a work of political history, I suggest that this work is  invaluable-- both to students who lean toward institutionalism and  neorealism.... For a book of political science, this book is relatively a  fun read: I don't want to say it is impossible to put down, but damned  close! <br />I would suggest that this book is a MUST read for anyone who has  been conditioned to think politically along the line leading from  Morganthou to Waltz because it MIGHT hint at things that are to come,  especially (and initially) for non first or second tier states.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R3KG4SSKHBMNTT	0300068212	986889509	The Rational Choice Controversy: Economic Models of Politics Reconsidered	Books	3	6	29	N	N	If this isn't an academic debate... what is?	This is one of those books that is of interest only to a small, small  percentage of people who are not just trying to USE rational choice for an  end, but fairly interested in it as an intellectual device. As the review  above indicates, it is a rejoinder to Green and Shapiro's work, and a  capable one at that. ...<br />As one might imagine, this is not a book for  pleasure reading so much as a group of scholars commenting on the minutia  of an argument that only affected .01% of the US population. For more  general reading on public choice, check out Muller's Public Choice II or  Perspectives on Public Choice.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2HUE3HASYHQBG	0375724621	190367208	UP at the Villa	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A glimpse of how good Maugham is....	Its cute, its quick, its fairly entertaining.... <br />But it's Maugham boiled down. He's the king of suffering... of moral qualms.... of quirky,  rich, upper class characters.... but he's good in length..... this is  almost too short.... too bam, bam, bam.... the characters moral failings  never have time to develop....<br />I recommend going to a library and reading  this book... it's too short to buy.... but buying others &quot;Cakes and  Ale&quot; &quot;The Razor's Edge&quot; and &quot;Of Human Bondage&quot;.  He's a brillaint author but I can't get myself to trumpet the praise of  this work....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RK420FNC8D1D7	0140193502	777267682	The Life of Milarepa: A New Translation from the Tibetan (Compass)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	If you haven't read the story of Milarepa this is a good one	The story of Milarepa is a classic in Tibet. He is their Robin Hood and  their Shakespere, and universally loved. This is the most well known of the  recent translations and provides a readable and fun story, if not something  that is somehow going to provide enlightment.<br />Milarepa starts out as an  orphaned child who learns magic to defeat an uncle who slaughtered his  family. Later in life, he renounces those powers and becomes a monk.<br />I  highly recommend this book!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R335NTSXCW98MK	0521297931	727926923	Supplying War: Logistics from Wallenstein to Patton	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Who would think that a book on military logisitcs....	Seriously, this was one of the most mind boggling books that I have ever  read. Having read Keegan and military strategists from Machiavelli to  Thomas Schelling, I never realized that THE most crucial factor as for wins  and losses for battles and wars is getting food and materiel to your men.  Van Crevald, really, here, writes a tour-de-force that should be a must  read for any politican, public policy official, OR student of miliary  history because it changes perspective entirely as to how one views battles  and wars.....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R27SC3LCASO3FZ	0300021909	470341516	The Moral Economy of the Peasant: Rebellion and Subsistence in Southeast Asia	Books	5	88	90	N	N	Here's a review that'll never be read....	Honestly, I am enthralled by the work of this man. Writing against the  premise that profit maximization is (or should be) the goal of individuals  in developing countries, Scott's thesis is that peasant social order is  predicated on the fact that the worst-case scenario is starvation. Peasants  seek to minimize the risk of this, and as such, to not maximize profits....  which is what the 'West' has tried to force them to do.... (and  failed...)<br />I do not know who you are who is reading this review. I am a  student of political economy specializing in South Asia.... for my studies  into the rise of Sinhalese nationalism in Ceylon, this book was invaluable.  I'd read this book just for fun, too....<br />This book is a must read,  though, for any student of south and east asian development, agricultural  development, or developmental theory in general. Bon chance.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R26S063VO8I3J2	0811200264	861165215	Elegiac Feelings American: Poetry	Books	5	11	13	N	N	the first book of American poetry I ever fell in love with..	Corso in this book writes in a clear, concise language, a rabid indictment  of alot of America. He is written off as one of many: standing in the line  of poets behind Ginsberg and Kerouac BUT, at least technically, probably  either equals or surpasses them.<br />This was the book that allowed me to see  mid-twentieth century American poetry okay (in high school) when I wanted  to write it off as a bunch of wasted filth. I've since come around to a lot  more of it.... ;)<br />Definatley read this book if you have the oppurtunity.  Well worth your effort.....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R21N6PERRUDPCX	0691027641	810381478	Makers of Modern Strategy from Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Still, this is a good book.....	Although I agree with the reviewer preceeding me that this might not be as strong of a book as was the masterpiece which preceeded it (by Earle), it  is still a strong book and does (generally) what it sets out to do: to  provide an accounting of major developments in military thought (i.e.  western military thought) from the Renassance to the modern age. <br />As a  text or as a reference, this is still a powerful and useful book. Each of  the chapters discusses a major figure's thought in a fashion that can be  dealt with easily in a sitting: for those people who don't want to sit and  sort through Jomini (though everyone reading this should sit down with  Clausewitz! ) or Douhet, to see their rights and wrongs....<br />I like this  book. I bought my copy for $8.00 in NYC and have had it with me through a  number of moves since....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RBQUQQYGVFN6F	0271006013	923696672	The Holy Teaching of Vimalakirti: A Mahayana Scripture	Books	5	16	21	N	N	A brilliant sutra....	This is the Vimilikirtisastra, a Mahayana treatise that deals with  nonduality. What this means is that the construct of the Therevada (or  Hinayana-- meaning devotional Buddhism) is replaced by something other--  larger-- (from Sanskrit little vehicle to larger vehicle).<br />What does this  mean to you? You have a book here in which all of the paired items  (good/bad, monk/layperson, holy/inholy) start to be broken down. Buddhism  becomes 'purer' through being less pure, more people are offered the  ability to have salvation...<br />More than that, this is a fun read that can  be gone through multiple times-- which will be necessary if you want to  fully grasp all that this book says. It will alter your conception of what  the Dharma is, or introduce you to one if you're just beginning to learn  about it. <br />I would suggest, though, that you have some background in the  Therevada stuff before you start-- otherwise this book would kind of be  pointless: excepting that parts of it are amusing. Prof. Thurman has a  knack for translation...	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R1S9KXH1NI10YF	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A tour de force.	As much as he shows war has differed in some of his other books, in the  Face of Battle, Keegan shows much of how it has remained the same. Soldiers  have sat from the beginnings of time in conditions much worse than at the  sides of pretty women at home. They have been forced to fight drunk, often  by coersion. They have had a rough lot....<br />Intuitively, I like this book  and its investigations of Azincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme better than  some of Keegan's others: perhaps because how the bluk of men FIGHT is more  interesting (and more important) than the lives and strategies of the men  who command them. I would reccomend this book to anyone.<br />If one wanted to  read additionally along the same lines as of this book, I would suggest the  book &quot;Infantry Soldier&quot; which is one man (I'm sorry.... I've  forgotten the author) accounting for his life from 1939 until he was  injured in the Battle of the Bulge for the U.S.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2QPXSPXCI4XCK	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An amazing book....	This book was, for me, on the reading list of a misguided class in  'Western' relgions taught at Barnard College in NYC. Althought the  professor was an awful teacher, her havingselected this book for that class  almost redeems the entire experience....<br />What Weisel does in this book is  amazing. In his autobiography, he presents a portrait of himself, his  world, and the state of his religion. You can see that rites become  meaningless (for him) when the suffering imposed by God becomes too much to  bear. It is not that faith is gone necessarily, so much that faith has  changed..... and this experience in this book will change you.....<br />Please  read this book: especially if the name Celia Deutch means anything to you.  You'll need something to quash the innanity of that course entire....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	RS3ZBCOYB55L2	0736635181	335061524	The Kindness Of Women	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Important for Ballard fans....	I got this book in a used bookstore in Vermont and perhaps it illuminated  Ballard moreso than criticism, etc. ever could. This tells about his life  from the end of &quot;Empire...&quot; until the eighties and.... hmmm....  well... explains a lot about where he was drawing source material from for  books like &quot;The Atrocity Exhibition&quot; which, without this, seems a  little bit more extreme than perhaps with it it is. <br />Aside from that, it  is an engaging story. You care about the characters, and you care about the  author. You meet people and see things and have a good time.....<br />I would  suggest this book as not something for someone who is just looking for a  read but more for someone who is into Ballard and wants clarification...  and details... about him....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2S7JXNTC4P81E	0198235453	297166753	Is There a God?	Books	2	3	16	N	N	Not a memorable experience....	I read this book for an undergraduate course on the idea of God paired  with Richard Mackie's 'the Miracle of Theism'. In hindsight, that is a  better book-- but it is also arguing an easier point... that God and  miracles, etc. doesn't exist is an easier debating point than the one left  for Swinburne. <br />Is this a coherent book? Yes. Definately. He argues his  point much as a Cambridge man should. Is the point taken,  well....<br />Perhaps this is a better book to buy than my two stars  indicates. Buy it and the Mackie. Compare. Then fall into the faith-based  existentialist arguments of Kierkagard if you still want logic to prove a  God....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2LZK7Q8MS72GF	0806132221	502547208	Infantry Soldier: Holding the Line at the Battle of the Bulge	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I wasn't there... BUT....	I am a student of public policy and military affairs.... and perhaps, this  book changed how I think about war moreso than almost any other. In the  authors descriptions of his experiences from the beginning until what was  for him the end of WWII, I realized that it is the obligation of the men in  charge IRREGARDLESS to make certain that their soldiers are given  everything that they could ever need....<br />And that the whole concept of  war is wrong....<br />Aside from that, this was a fun read. I'm glad that I  stumbled upon it.....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R15NEVGH7EF2IF	1567511562	477267253	The Future of History: Interviews with David Barsamian	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A good, quick read.....	As the other reviewer mentioned, this is a good, quick book for those  slightly interested in Zinn but without the time or energy to devote to  reading one of his books.... not that it is near an adequate  substitute....<br />These interviews are interesting not so much for what they  contain regarding Zinn's ideas as for an insight into how he came to them.  This is another book that I would read in a bookstore (if that option is  available) rather than buy because, really, it doesn't contain that much  information that you'd need to have it at home on a shelf to quote. If such  is your desire, get 'A People's History' or 'Declarations of Independence'.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R3BE73ZNL0EBV7	0465051952	343903714	Power And Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist And Capitalist Dictatorships	Books	4	21	27	N	N	A good book.... but....	Essentially, this is Mancur Olson's most accessible work. It is fairly  current and doesn't seem to fall off into political economy esoteria. It  explains problems such that anyone can understand them. BUT Olson breaks no  new ground here. It is a shame that he died before the book was published--  I am fairly certain that it might have benefitted from some additional  shepherding....<br />If you have read The Rise and Decline of States and The  Logic of Collective Action, save your money on this book. If you have not,  nor plan to, and want a good synopsis of Olson's message (and a fairly good  read too.... for a professor!) check this book out....	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R360GHQZV3JFVG	0521556546	853960256	Perspectives on Public Choice: A Handbook	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A good introductory to political economy	Although this book is nothing spectacular, it is what it is. This is the  best introductory book on political economy that there is. Without being  weighed down heavily by cumbersome mathmatics, etc. (which is something  that economics teachers should probably leave to the appendixes) this book  expalins most if not all of the major interest-areas in this ever important  subdiscipline.<br />There are no breathtaking theses in this book: it is  simply the best minds in the business explaining their particular  subdiscipline: be it voting beahvior or Niskeanan bureaucracy. As such, it  is also a convienient reference for a more advanced student.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R1D37L4K5WL90R	1853264431	927161979	Works of Algernon Charles Swinburne (Wordsworth Poetry Library)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A great.... but oft forgotten poet....	Swinburne has been my favorite poet since I passed out of my Goethe phase  at around seventeen. So what if he writes in stilted, outdated language  using images that have passed out of our cultural mileau? He puts words  together intricately. He writes beautifully. If you read other people's  accounts of him (see 'The Education of Henry Adams' for one) he was  considered one of the smartest people to ever live. <br />He's a fine poet  albeit an acquired taste. It's great that you can buy a volume of his  completed works rather than having to see two works in a Norton's anthology  and then... nothing... <br />I doubt that he'll ever again be a crowd  favorite. If you've gotten to this review, buy this book. He's awesome.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2IKNS312TAU1O	0395563526	20096665	The Origin of Consciouness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind	Books	5	2	6	N	N	There is nothing like this....	In this book, Jaynes hypothesizes that five thousand years agi, people  obeyed the voices of 'gods' without conscience. They lacked the ability to  think. As intellectal as this sounds, this book weaves together a very  cohesive argument based on literary and architectural records....<br />Why  would one read a book on an obscure topic by an author who published  nothing else? Simply, one must because it is that smart. It becomes a must  read. It will blow your mind.	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R19IJH2CTQZGDP	0553103466	619601880	Circling the Sacred Mountain : A Spiritual Adventure Through the Himalayas	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A good book.... BUT....	This book, I suppose, could be read by one of two groups of people. First:  it could be read by the New Age Hippie traveller types looking for an  intreguing story about a man travelling. I more approve of this kind of  reading..... Tad Wise part of the story is told with humor and warm  feeling.... The second, more Buddhafied group, looking to Prof. Thruman as  a kind of guru, is not going to get enough here. Bad Dharma. Too little.  <br />Perhaps, if one was going to read his sermons with a couple of other  books, one could get a good understanding of something. It when accompanied  by Wise's prose is fairly... um, enlightening....<br />I'm afraid that lots of  people are going to miss that though.... If the two journeys are  disconnected, the book goes to become mediocre..... keep that in mind!!!	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R239G0WQJACEG9	1557787557	298939662	The Radiance of Being: Complexity, Chaos and the Evolution of Consciousness	Books	3	15	24	N	N	I'm not as crazy about this book.....	I'm not so certain that this book is as good as people here are saying it  is. I read it based on the fact that people who read Julian Jaynes'  masterpiece ('The Beginnings of Conscience in the Breakdown of the  Bicameral Mind') have a tendency to buy it. It is a good book, and very  thought provoking in sections. But, as a whole, it alternates between  relatively unsophisticated philosophy and kinda popularizes a bunch of  stuff that has been out there. Perhaps it's a bit too New-Agey for my  tastes.... but I can't reccommend reading it..... Unless you have already  read it (like me) read the Jaynes book mentioned above...<br />(Please don't  hate me for writing this!!!!)	2000-08-11
US	52375519	R2ZR6AL3G4ND62	0075548526	797276122	Theory of International Politics	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Please forgive the dear Brit, he knows not what he says....	I suppose that this book might be a bit dry. I can remember the first time that I read it, my eyes about bled at both its aridness and at how theoretical it actually was. And yes, it is also THE seminal text on neorealist analysis. If you disagree with many of the premises of realism  or neorealism (as, quite obviously, the L.S.E reviewer did, not entirely  unexpectedly--) quite possibly because one 1)misunderstands them 2)finds  them hygenically amoral, etc. you're going to hate the text. <br />Beyond  that, it is brilliant. No other book sets out such a clear method to  understand deviations from rationality in the construction of foreign  policy. THIS BOOK MAKES SENSE. <br />There are few other books which do what  Waltz tries to. Allison's 'Essence of Decision' makes an attempt at it  (I've not read the newer version....), this takes that analysis and trumps  it, bar none. <br />I might have a bit of bias here. I was weaned on realism  at ol' SUNY-Harlem (nee Columbia)-- the bastion of neorealism on the  Hudson.... <br />If one were going to dislike a book because of what one  believed its conclusions led to, Waltz is not the place to start. The  analysis is harsh: in reality, outside of this text, he comes across as  fairly dovish.... and brilliant....	2000-01-27
US	52375519	R12PVXYXRQ7E8C	0231085648	946061504	Man, the State, and War	Books	5	12	18	N	N	An excellent text.	When Waltz proposed this book over 45 years ago, his thesis advisor (William T.R. Fox-- another brilliant political scientist at Columbia) said something akin to what follows:<br />&quot;None of us is exactly sure what it is exactly that you are tryng to do.... we all agree, though, that you  should probably go ahead and do it.&quot;<br />This book was FAR ahead of its  time in 1954: it is still brilliant and a seminal text today.... a must  read for any future &quot;guns and bombs&quot; man who wonders why things  happen......	2000-01-27
