US	52379302	RNWDBLSXZ1E9J	1564766187	144976442	The Parish Papers: Three Complete Novels in One	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Omnibus collection of some hard to find stories, but...	This is an omnibus editon of George MacDonald's three Vicar Walton stories, the second and third of which are fairly difficult to find.  Excellent reads, very enjoyable. The only drawback is this particular edition is edited into modern English, so the original flavor of MacDonald's writing is lost.  While that has its advantages, especially in readability, still this aren't the books that MacDonald wrote and that C. S. Lewis named as some of his favorites.  If you are a casual reader that just wants some of the finest English fiction from the late Victorian period, I highly recommend this edition.  If you're a fan of MacDonald, though, you might want to keep looking for the unaltered originals.	2005-04-05
US	52379302	R30WTJCD0AFSVP	0374163065	639784328	Giving Good Weight	Books	5	40	40	N	N	If only life was like a box full of McPhee essays	All sorts of tasty satisfaction, with something of interest for all tastes.  John McPhee is a master of the literate essay.  He seeks out topics that most of us would never think to be interested in, and makes them available to us.  Best of all, McPhee always remembers that it isn't just the technical details of a subject that are interesting, but the people.  His essays can be found first in the pages of &quot;New Yorker&quot; magazine, but then usually make it out in book form quickly.<br />In &quot;Giving Good Weight&quot;, McPhee serves up five splendid examples of the essayist's art.  First, the title essay, about the produce sellers of the open-air farmer's market, the Brooklyn Greenmarket.  McPhee interviewed, and sacked produce for, several of the sellers. His specialty, green peppers.  He follows the sellers back to their farms, tracking the greens from seed to sale.<br />What if you had a dream of how to produce electricity cleanly, out-of-sight, and still be competitive?  That's what Richard Eckert, subject of the second essay, 'The Atlantic Generating Station' had.  McPhee focuses on Eckert and the other dreamers involved, but along the way gives us lots of information about oceangraphy, marine biology, the electrical utility industry, and nuclear regualation.<br />'Pinball Philosphy' is about the two best pinball players in New York City, at a time (1975) when public pinball was illegal there.  We learn about the machines, the sub culture that saw pinball play as their life and work as the finacing mechanism to supply quarters, and tricks of play.  Then, McPhee puts Tony Lukas and Tom Buckley head-to-head for play on a Williams Fun-Fest machine.  Only the best flipper can win.<br />Next, we join McPhee and some cronies for canoeing in Maine, mostly on the St. John River, in 'The Keel of Lake Dickey'.  McPhee's first mass market bestseller was his Alaskan classic &quot;Coming into the Country&quot; and in this essay he shows yet again his love and feel for nature.<br />The last, and best, essay in the book is 'Brigade de Cuisine'.  This is about a restaurant, it's one man kitchen crew Chef &quot;Otto&quot; (hence the title), and his family.  In the essay, McPhee never identifies 'Otto', the name of the restaurant, or even it's location.  This caused quite a fuss with the professional food critics of New York when the essay was published in the 'New Yorker', as they couldn't believe that such a place could exist.  In time they found the place, and did their best to destroy it, out of sheer pique.  Fortunately, 'Otto' already had plans to move out West and open a new place.  It would be fun if McPhee would write a sequel to 'Brigade' and tell us his view of all the fuss.  Oh, for anyone who has read the essay, and might be interested to know, 'Otto's real name is Alan Lieb, and his restaurant was in Shohola. PA.	2002-01-12
US	52379302	RLQZ98H3ZAB30	0800611365	464741994	Jerusalem in the Time of Jesus	Books	4	74	75	N	N	A good if awkward tool for your Bible study toolbox.	Raise your hand out there if you, when you read one of the Gospels, have a mental image of the scene that comes straight from a movie.  You read about Jesus healing some lepers, and in your mind you see Ben-Hur's mother and sister.  Get to Exodus 14 and there's Charlton Heston chewing up the landscape.<br />One of the central questions used in Bible Study is &quot;What did it mean to the original readers?&quot;.  Once we know the context that the text originally took place in we start to examine it to see how it applies to us today.  There is a chance that we can go off track if we subconsciously place the narration of the Bible over a Hollywood backdrop.  The Holy Spirit is there to help us with our understanding, but God expects us to use the tools available to us too.  Enter Joachim Jeremias' survey of the city and countryside that Jesus walked during the 1st century.  It isn't the place that we see on the late show.<br />Jeremias opens the book with a survey of the economy of Jerusalem.  We look at the various industries; household goods, food supplies, luxury items, and construction.  There is an explanation of the loose guild system, as well as that major employer of the city, the Temple.  He goes on to explain the commerce of Jersusalem, both in terms of goods in and out as well as people in and out. The people examined include not only the large number of pilgrims that would arrive for the three annual festivals, but also the Roman military and administrative cadres.<br />The next section looks at class differences in the Holy Land, spending some time with rich, middle class, and poor.  Amongst the poor there is special attention paid to slaves and the subsidized.  The discussion of the last lends a lot to an understanding of the first half of the Acts of the Apostles.<br />After that look at overall social stratification, four groups with special positions in the city are looked at.  The Priesthood, of which there was a huge number associated the Temple, islooked at first.  Finally, a good explanation of the difference between high priests and chief priests, weekly and daily courses.  The lay nobility of the land are looked at with a bit less detail, followed by two groups all readers of the New Testament are acquainted with, The Pharisees and the Scribes.  They may not be quite who you think they are.  Jeremias reports some surpising things about both.<br />Having discussed class status and several social power groups, Jeremias turns to a major concern of the elite in Jesus' time, racial purity.  There is a long discussion of whom the elite considered legitimate Israelites, illegitimate Israelites, the place of Gentiles both free and slave, Samaritans, and women.  Lots of surprises here.  One example that astounded me, the senior priests not only were restricted to marrying within the body of legitimate Israelites, and restricted to marrying only virgins, but &quot;virgin&quot; was defined much more strictly than a 21st century reader might imagine.  <br />Ok, let's say I've been persuasive,and you agree with me that Jeremias' book might be a good tool for your Bible study toolbox.  Why do I say it is awkward?  Apparently Jeremias wrote this for the serious Bible student, and not just for seminarians.  However, the serious student he wrote for was German (orginal title &quot;Jerusalem zur Zeit Jesu&quot;) and apparently serious Bible students in Germany like lots and lots of footnotes, endnotes, and citations.  Nothing wrong with that, it means if you have questions about anything Jeremias writes, you can go to the source material and check it yourself.  For most American Bible students, the style of writing can be a shock at first.  Example, from page 90, discussing Herod's court:<br />&quot;The Mishnah sets the limit at eighteen wives (M. Sanh. ii.4), and the Talmud gives twenty-four and forty-eight, both figures representing Tannaitic and so ancient teaching (b. Sanh. 21a bar.).&quot;<br />A fine tongue-twister,eh?  Despite the readablity issue, though, this really is a fine book to refer to when reading the Gospels and Acts, and to a lesser extent the Epistles.  After reading Jeremias' book, you will have a much better understanding of just how much Jesus upset the status quo with what He said and what He did.	2002-01-12
US	52379302	RYOEMOGSU19KH	0374514968	278893366	The Headmaster: Frank L. Boyden of Deerfield	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Teacher for the generations	From 1902 to 1968, Frank Boyden was the Headmaster of Deerfield, a private boy's school in the countryside of Massachusetts.  When Boyden arrived, the school had 14 students, transportation was by foot or horse drawn wagon, and he intended to stay only long enough to get enough money.  66 years later, Deerfield was one of the leading prep schools in America, the equal to Exeter and Andover.  Best of all, the school wasn't an imitation of British schools, as so many prep schools of the first half of the 20th century were.  Boyden had turned Deerfield into an outstanding educational institution while keeping it uniquely American.  Demanding, even a bit of a despot, Boyden shaped the school and its students into something special, a school where the students come first, then the faculty.<br />Only John McPhee could tell the story as it deserves.  Boyden and all the other residents of Deerfield come alive under McPhee's pen.  The little touches, like the Headmaster's rejuvenating midday naps, followed by letter writing and inspections tours, make it seem as if the reader is there.<br />I doubt you'll be able to read this book, and not wish you could have been a student under Boyden.  For several generations, Deerfield under his leadership was what a school should be.	2002-01-08
US	52379302	R264B2LCXNIA8T	0374512973	21574150	Oranges	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Full of Juice	Back around 500 BCE the sage Confucius wrote the first essay on &quot;Oranges&quot;.  In 1966 CE John McPhee wrote the essay that gives us the 'rest of the story'.  There is something here about the orange juice industry, something about the history of oranges, a little bit about their botany, and a lot about the women and men that grow them.  Above all else, McPhee gives us all of this in an entertaining and spellbinding way.<br />From migrant orange pickers in Florida to Nostradamus, from the Countess Mathilda of Wurttemberg (&quot;if you love me, bring me oranges&quot;) to Ponce de  Leon (who probably introduced the orange to Florida), we get the stories of the people of the orange.  There is even an explanation of the origin of the William Tell legend, probably based in the 'Pomeranzschiessen', an 15th century annual 'Orange Shoot' in the Alpine area of Breslau.<br />Take a bite out McPhee's &quot;Oranges&quot;, you'll love the taste.  Don't forget to wear a napkin, because its juicy.	2002-01-08
US	52379302	R1QSGWZK6QKQCD	031095178X	243093313	Amplified Bible, Indexed	Books	5	315	324	N	N	Outstanding Second Bible	When reading the Bible in different translations readers are often struck by the different words used by different translations.  That is even between two Literal (word-for-word) translations (like the King James and the NRSV).  When you get into a Dynamic Equivalence translation (like NIV) or a Free translation (like Phillips) you can be astounded, and wonder if the translators were using the same source material. Idealy, students of the Bible should be able to read it in the orginal Hebrew, Aramaic, and koine Greek.  But that's an ideal the vast majority of us will never be able to meet.  Enter the Amplified Bible.  The purpose of the AB is to give English readers a better feel for the original material by amplifying the translation.<br />The AB starts with an excellent Literal translation and then uses brackets and parentheses to amplify any word that doesn't have a literal English equivalent.  Brackets []contain clarifying words or comments not in the original.  Parentheses () include additional meanings to the original word that the English word doesn't, for example the Greek work transliterated as pisteuo, is usually translated as 'believes', but in the orginal actually means much more.  See my example from John in the next paragraph.<br />John 11:25- &quot;Jesus said to her, I am [Myself] the Resurrection and the Life.  Whoever believes in (adheres to, trusts in, and relies on) Me, although he may die, yet he shall live.&quot;<br />Why do I title this &quot;Outstanding Second Bible&quot;? I find that for my first read thru on any section, I prefer to use a good study Bible, as the amplified material interrupts the flow of the narrative.  Especially for those new to Bible study, the amplifications can be confusing.  Read your primary Bible first, then look at the AB to ensure you have a good grasp of the word meanings.  My personal recomendations for primary study Bibles are: for Literal translation, the &quot;Harper-Collins NRSV Study Bible&quot;, and for Dynamic Equivalence translation, the &quot;Concordia Self-Study Bible (NIV)&quot;.<br />To sum up, the Amplified Bible is an outstanding tool for anyone interested in serious Bible study, my only caveat is that it shouldn't be your primary text.	2002-01-08
US	52379302	R38BR344DBDY92	0374514429	36054596	The Pine Barrens	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A snapshot of nature, now passing	While John McPhee's best known bit of nature writing is his tribute to Alaska, &quot;Coming into the Country&quot;, before it he wrote &quot;The Pine Barrens&quot;.  The Pine Barrens were a chunk of New Jersey (!) that was mostly unspoiled sandy woodlands in 1968.  Filled with colorful folks, and even more colorful tradition, the Barrens were a retreat for those who knew to escape to them from the cities that surrounded it.  Now, alas, development has slunk deep into the Barrens, were there was once dirt roads and craftsmen still making bark canoes, now there are commuter suburbs with cutesy names like &quot;Piney Haven&quot;.  Please don't think that the book isn't worth your time, just because most of what it describes has passed.  The genius of McPhee is that his prose is so wonderfull and timeless, that the people and places of the Pine Barrens still live in the book.  Read it, and resolve to maintain the little slice of nature near you that is still there.  Don't know where it might be?  This book will inspire you to find it, around the corner and back behind something.  When you find it, you'll know it, and you'll want to help it survive.	2002-01-08
US	52379302	RV3J4EYWDAW6J	1586091786	294598221	The Screwtape Letters Study Guide	Books	5	191	197	N	N	Great way to group study a Christian classic	C.S. &quot;Jack&quot; Lewis' &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot; is one of the great classics of Christian literature; well-written, educational, full of a deep faith, and funny.  It can be a difficult book to get the full meaning of if the reader doesn't have a fairly comprehensive grounding in the New Testament, and a decent command of the English language.  This is not to say that only biblical scholars or those with a college education can enjoy 'Screwtape', but high school students, or those new to (or not of) the Christian faith, may be confused by some references in the book.  Lewis wrote the book for the average Briton of the 1940s, presupposing a higher command of the English language and familarity with the Bible than is common today.  Enter Presbyterian pastor Michael Poteet and his study guide to &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot;.<br />Poteet writes the guide for readers with, I'd guess, at least an (American)10th grade reading level or the equivalent age elsewhere.  He is especially good at ensuring the student understands the vocabulary used by Lewis.  A good dictionary will come in handy here!  Once a lesson is completed, though, the new words should be a firm addition to the reader's personal vocabulary.  Poteet is also excellent with providing biblical references to ideas brought up in the individual letters, with some exposition.<br />Each lesson in the guide covers 2 or 3 letters in the book with plenty of questions, both multiple choice and essay style.  There is an excellent answer key in the back for the instructor to base her or his response around.  There is an excellent introduction to the course, which includes information about Michael Poteet as well as a short biography of Jack Lewis.  There is a short list of further recommended readings, both by and about Lewis, as well as URLs for web pages that can help the student along. There are also several essay questions at the end for a student to base research papers of various length on. <br />While the study guide is designed for bright high school students, this would make an excellent asset for adults to use, eithier in a book reading group or in an adult Christian Education study group.  The questions are perfect launching points for a spirited discussion of the book amongst any adult group.  Each member of the group should have a copy of the Lewis book, of course, and I'd personally recommend the unabridged audiobook version voiced by John Cleese (available from Amazon) for in-class listening.	2002-01-05
US	52379302	R1MMUOW4WFD03H	1892086018	111497988	The Grandfather Paradox	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Could have been a great book	It could have been, if it had an editor to hold the author's feet to the fire.  The problem with self-published books like this one, there isn't anyone to tell the author to take this out or expand on the other bit.  This could have been a great book, if someone had done so.<br />A time travel story in which the hero discovers the method to returning to the past, and does so in order to save his grandmother from a fatal genetic disorder.  So far, so good.<br />Burgauer is an excellent writer, his dialog is crisp, his charecters are reasonably believable.  But then, despite the superb writing, the whole book is dragged down by its flaws.<br />The story repeatedly screeches to a halt while Burgauer uses page after page to go off on a tangent, usally in the form of an essay plugged into the body of the story.  First, when the hero finds the time travel technique, we have 12 pages of exposition, including charts, on how to do it.  Just as dull as it sounds.  Six pages about the science of poker, which didn't contribute anything to the story.  It was followed by a couple of pages that basically just said \\"Using her telepathy, the women from the future made a killing in poker\\".  Later, after the hero gets involved in the American Civil War, 18 pages about the Battle of Shiloh, including maps, with nary a mention of our fictional charecters.  Now, I'm even a bit of a Civil War buff, but if I wanted this, I'd just go read Shelby Foote.  No matter how well paced a book is otherwise, digressions like these just stop the narrative flow dead.<br />Other flaws. The depiction of Samuel Clemens, an important part of the last part of the book.  The majority of Clemens' dialog seems to have been cut-and-pasted from his \\"Life on the Mississippi\\" and \\"Roughing It\\".  Burgauer demonstrated in the rest of the book he could write good dialog, I do think he could have put something more original in the voice of Mark Twain for the story.  A faintly ridiculous sex scene, basically beautifulfemale triplets who have never seen a male before our hero...  Future villians drawn as the kind of bigoted buffoons you expect to find in the KKK.<br />If only a good editor had gotten ahold of this book, slashed the chaff away without mercy, browbeat Burgauer into expanding on the interplay between the two main charecters and everyone else, and maybe made the future bad guys a little less two dimensional.  This book might have been a contender for an award.	2002-01-01
US	52379302	R3DUC0S1ADF1RD	0441790925	237452820	Study In Sorcery (Randall Garrett's Lord Darcy)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A faithful pastiche	The author Randall Garrett wrote a series of novels and short stories about an alternate universe where Richard the Lion Hearted lived to a ripe old age, and his Plantangent descendents rule over a just and noble Anglo-French empire.  Oh, and the laws of magic have been developed into basis of all technology and commerce.  The orginal series was a lot of fun, full of humor, some decent mysteries, and tributes to a host of fictional dectectives.  The central character is Lord D'arcy, a pastiche of Sherlock Holmes. After Garrett's death, Michael Kurland was commissioned to continue the series, with this book and &quot;Ten Little Wizards&quot;.<br />In &quot;A Study in Sorcery&quot;, Kurland successfully continues the tales of D'arcy and Master Sean, his forensic mage.  A murder in a locked room in an abandoned Aztec temple in the imperial domain of New England (North America in our world) threatens the peace and stablilty of the world.  Our intrepid heroes are dispatched to solve the case, with the assistance of Garrett's Doc Savage-type character, Lord John Quezcotl.  Plenty of intrigue, romantic liasons with beautiful female spys, and danger from fearsome savages (my personal favorite fearsome savage, Chief He-Who-Laughs-Last, MA Oxford).  Try it, you'll like it.	2002-01-01
US	52379302	R2NRRR3TCCF5G0	0529102390	934523753	New International Version for Today: New Testament	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good value	Excellent audio New Testament at a reasonable price.  Johnston's voice is clear and sharp.  There is a rather odd background music that steps forward into notice at times, an unneccesary addition but not an overly intrusive one.  Its very handy to hear the correct pronunciation of some of those names in the NT, when I'm lector I'm sure I'm using Johnston's accent to pronounce some of those tongue twisters.  This audio NT is just the thing for when you're driving, walking, or working and want to study the Word.	2001-12-21
US	52379302	RE3SHKGYSQ6HY	185326685X	294447659	The Miracle of Dunkirk (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Why isn't this book better known?	I've read several histories of the Dunkirk campaign and evacuation, this one is by far the clearest and most interesting of them.  Lord tells the story so that you can see what happened, in every part of the field, to all sorts of folks. There may be accounts by military historians that give more detail on troop movements, but for sheer readability this has them all beat.  Read Lord's account first, then use academic accounts to fill out the fine print if you feel you need to.	2001-12-21
US	52379302	R1Y2WMSY6HMB48	1574532618	963630731	The Screwtape Letters, Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A review of the audio version	Well, I won't repeat the other 100+ plus reviewers about what a great book &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot; is, other than to say it will reward you to read it.  I'd just like to comment on the unabridged audio version, narrated by John Cleese.  They couldn't have picked a better vocal talent to do the Letters.  In the introduction, Cleese speaks the persona of the Oxford/Cambridge don C.S. Lewis, not mimicing Lewis' voice, but copying the style of speech heard on Lewis' World War II broadcasts that eventually became &quot;Mere Christianity&quot;.  Then, through the rest of the tapes, Cleese becomes the ultimate fiendish (literally) bureaucrat, Screwtape.  Screwtape's sputtering indignation and fury at his nephew's incompetence, which leads him to turn into a giant centipede, is captured to perfection.  In the closing essay, &quot;Screwtape Proposes a Toast&quot;, his effete snobbery at the fine vintage of bottled Pharisee is delightful.  All in all, the ideal audio presentation of Lewis' masterpiece.	2001-12-21
US	52379302	R2MFZF9Q0EKW4E	0310312302	29578793	Methodical Bible Study	Books	3	34	41	N	N	Not very useful for most of us	This guide to Bible study would be of use to some folks, but not most.  The limited appeal of it doesn't really have anything to do with a reader's level of experience with the Bible, a novice could start off with Robert Traina's technique as well as a seminarian could adopt it, if they had the right 'reader personality'.  This book would, I believe, appeal to the sort of reader who diagrams sentences, flow charts plot lines, draws up Venn diagrams to show relationships.  For most readers, who take notes but don't process the information into formal presentations for themselves, the method taught would seem tedious.  For the rest of us, I would recommend Fee &amp;  Stuart's &quot;How to Read the Bible for All It's Worth&quot;.<br />All in all, Traina's isn't a bad book, just not very accessible.	2001-12-17
US	52379302	R3HLDXH8G7ZLE1	0441008798	809043802	Second Contact	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great-grandchildren of the Lens	Remember those thrilling days of yesteryear, when E. E. &quot;Doc&quot; Smith and his peers gave us the square-jawed heroes and dewy-eyed heroines that made space opera what it was?  Remember when aliens were green skinned and did everything with brain emanations?  Ever wonder what it would be like if someone could bring back those days of Space Patrols using modern writing techniques and science?  Well, wonder no more, J. D. Austin has done it for us.  Daring deeds from the good guys, insane schemes from the forces of evil, interstellar romance, &quot;Second Contact&quot; has the space opera fix you've needed, and didn't even know about.	2001-12-16
US	52379302	R3DLZ5XOD1L3L	0664501907	731096712	GodViews: The Convictions That Drive Us and Divide Us	Books	5	33	34	N	N	How to get along as Christians	You'd think that Christians would know instinctively how to get along.  Disagree about theology, differ about interpretations, dicker over dogma, sure, but at least stand to be in the same room with one another.  All too often, however, it just doesn't work out that way.  It is bad enough when folks from different Christian faith traditions argue, but how horrible it is when those from the same background start slinging accusations of demonhood at each other.  No wonder the last thing Our Lord said when He was among us in the flesh was a reminder to love one another, He knew how messed up we can be.<br />C.S. Lewis tried to approach this problem from the direction of showing how much all Christians can agree on, in &quot;Mere Christianity&quot;.  John Haberer goes at it from a different direction, by talking about the preconceived worldviews, or as he calls them, 'Godviews', the different personality types that come to Jesus.  By understanding the five Godviews, someone can see why that other guy at Church Council just won't look at things in the &quot;right&quot; way.<br />The five Godviews? (The following are my simplifications of Haberer's types.)  There are the Confessionalists, who want to discover the Truth, to whom the details of theology are the main expression of faith.  The Devotionalists, who hunger for God, who live for the Joy found in prayer and worship.  The Ecclesiasts, aka the church builders, who focus on the faith community (further subdivided on those who focus on the local parish, those who focus on the denomination, those who focus on the Universal Body of Christ). The Altruists, who find the call in serving those in need, in serving the Jesus among us.  The Activists, those whose call is in establishing justice NOW.  No one is purely one of these, but most of us are mostly one of them.  Haberer shows us how to recognize the different types and how one type will almost automatically dislike those of a certain other type.  Example: A Devotionalist might insist that the parish soup kitchen include prayer and witness before, during, and/or after the food, whereas an Altruist might insist that the food be handed out without a message attached, lest a hungry person avoid the meal for fear of being evangelized.  Both are sincere, both are good Christians, and both often think the other is only pretending to be a believer.  It is in easing the tensions between Godviews that Haberer's book excells.<br />Who can use this book?  Anyone in a church which has disagreements about anything, which means just about all of us.  If we are going to obey the command to love one another, and avoid the hurtful behavior Saul and Barnabas displayed toward one another when discussing John Mark, we need to know how others look at faith.  We will still disagree, this isn't a guide to conflict resolution, but rather a guide to conflict management.	2001-12-15
US	52379302	R26YFA9CJZ8P5D	0310384915	186621545	How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A user-friendly tool for Christians at any stage of growth	An extremely readable book about how to read the Book.  This gem is usable from anyone in any stage of growth in Christian life, from 'just started Bible reading' to seminary student.  It is also useful for almost any Christian faith tradition, whether  evangelical, main-line, conservative or liberal. Whether the reader believes in biblical inerrancy or that the Bible is an inspired work, &quot;How to Read..&quot; will help them get more out of the Bible.  <br />The authors explain how to watch out for basic exegetial fallicies, reading things into the Bible instead of out of it.  Then they discuss different translation philosophies with examples of each.  The bulk of the book is a description of the different genres of literature that make up the Bible, and specific ways to deal with each.  The book concludes with recomendations for commentaries on specific books of the Bible, and all through the text are recommendations for further reading and good biblical reference materials.<br />The one point I want to reemphasise, this is a very readable book, accessible to anyone.  It will enhance your Bible reading.	2001-12-15
US	52379302	R15I7L3Z53HM1W	0151137323	13290373	The D. Case: The Truth About the Mystery of Edwin Drood	Books	4	2	5	N	N	3 stars for the Dickens, 4 stars for the Fruttero/Lucentini	A rather interesting book, &quot;The D Case&quot; contains the incomplete manuscript of Charles Dickens' &quot;The Mystery of Edwin Drood&quot; interleaved with Fruttero &amp; Lucentini's fictionalized examination of what the solution to the unsolved mystery is.  &quot;Edwin Drood&quot; was Dickens' last, and probably weakest novel.  It just isn't a very interesting read.  Read it alone, and you probably won't care what happened to Edwin Drood. What F &amp; L do is cover all the various ideas scholars have had over 'whodunnit', by putting the arguments in the mouths of all the great fictional sleuths of the last 100 years+ working as a team.  A much more interesting way to follow the discussion about the book than reading formal articles in Lit Journals.  In the end, F &amp; L's detectives present a new and interesting solution to the title crime, and in addition, reveal a new crime no one suspected, the murder of Dickens himself, along with the culprit!  Sound farfetched? Try it, you'll like it.<br />The reason I don't give this 5 stars is the poor depiction of the fictional dectectives.  With the exception of Hercule Poirot, none of them talk like they did in the orginal works they appeared in.  Whether this is the fault of F &amp; L, or the fault of the translator, I don't know.  Regardless, it weakens the book.	2001-12-12
US	52379302	RHGTQQEG8FJ5G	1581822227	261156500	A Date Which Will Live Infamy: An Anthology of Pearl Harbors Stories That Might Have Been	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Pearl Harbor Redux	An anthology of allohistories, that is, &quot;what-if&quot; stories based on the attack on Pearl Harbor. Like all anthologies, some stories are superb, some are weak, but overall the level is quite high. The only flaw, and it isn't a serious one, lies at the hands of the editors in their selection and organization of the stories. I'll leave the weakest part of the collection, Part 1, for last.<BR>Part 2, 'Alternate Actions', are the stories by Pineiro, Reasoner, Dietz, and Hallanhan. These are the most traditionally &quot;what-if&quot; stories, hinging on a minor event causing a major change in result. Three are very good, and one, Reasoner's 'The East Wind Caper' is outstanding. A hard-boiled private eye (see Bogart in the role) stumbles onto the Japanese plot and saves the day. Well told, tightly paced and humorous.<BR>Part 3, 'Alternate Aftermaths', contains stories by DuBois, Tillman, Allyn, and Keith. Of these, Keith's 'A Terrible Resolve' is the best, a tale of Japanese victories which lead the Empire up to the beaches of California before the success of the Manhatten Project and the actions of American kamikazi bombers, turn the Imperial Navy back.<BR>A Postscript by Kupfer, which posits a Nazi victory over both America and Japan, is the most chilling story in the book.<BR>The Appendices give an excellent historical background of the real world event, of the military and diplomatic realities which the allohistorians in the anthology had to manipulate for our entertainment.<BR>Now, the worst for last, and as I previously said, it isn't too bad. Part 1, 'Alternate Architects', has the four stories by Hawke, Geraghty, DeFelice, Gorman. Very little allohistorical content in any of these, and what little there is, is only background color. Mostly these four just rehash old conspiracy theories about Roosevelt and/or Churchill knowing that the attack was going to happen and allowed it to go on in the hopes American would enter the war against Germany. I've got no problem with this belief, though I think, like most conspiracies, the proponents are assuming malice where simple incompetence is enough of an explanation. My problem with these stories is that so much of the tale is given over to rehashing the arguements, lecturing the reader on why the plot really did happen, that the stories are just plain boring. The editors could have had a much stronger anthology by leaving this part out and putting more of the rest in.<BR>One observation, something that gave me a small grin. When reading the stories, watch for similarities between them. Variations on the phrase &quot;cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoke&quot; pops up in an awful lot of stories. I suspect the editors handed our a very detailed background guide to the authors, and some of them lifted material out of it verbatim.	2001-11-24
US	52379302	RLLJSTS8G16AR	0670030198	750462043	The Mitford Snowmen: A Christmas Story	Books	1	34	37	N	N	Disgraceful	23 pages. Two-thirds of the pages a dozen lines of text. A handfull of cartoonish illustrations. No charm. No grace. No wit.<br />Plot Summary, Spoiler Alert!<BR>Three snowmen get made. The mayor hands out donuts. The End.<br />When Karon and her publisher/co-conspirators gather together in some dingy back room in the bowels of Manhattan to chortle over their ill-gotten gains, they might find some entertainment in the knowledge that I feel like a complete idiot for buying this &quot;book&quot;.  As good as the five novels are, I don't know if I will ever be able to reread them with any pleasure with the stench of this product in my memory.	2001-11-10
US	52379302	RX8EAU1HLS94J	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	If you enjoy 1940s comic books, this is the one for you!	what the heck, even if I give it only two stars for poor writing, lame charectors, and contrived situations, it is fun in the same way those old Captain America and Bucky cartoons were. I mean, this book has it all...Evil Nazi clones! Jackbooted goons all in black riding SnoCats (as seen on TV in the Man from Uncle)! Loneghrin's Spear (aka the Holy Lance, per Cussler \\"the holiest relic in Christianity!?!)! .... Butwait, there's more! You can have a bundle of fun laughing at Cussler's grasp of science and history. I always thought Star Trek was the low point of pop science, but no longer, Clive has taken the nadir for himself. .... And the history is even sillier. Cussler has a historian say \\"it's a fact that the more advanced a civilization, the less they leave behind them\\". Huh? That makes no sense whatsoever. ....	2001-08-25
US	52379302	R1P3V8UJ95RACF	1888173602	200970951	McAuslan Entire: Including the General Danced at Dawn, McAuslan in the Rough, the Sheikh and the Dustbin	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Serve a book's worth of time with the few, the lousy	This is an omnibus edition of all three of Fraser's 'McAuslan' novels, &quot;The General Danced at Dawn&quot;, &quot;McAuslan in the Rough&quot;, and &quot;The Sheik and the Dustbin&quot;.  The stories cover the years 1945 to 1947 as a young lieutenant Dand MacNeil (the barely disguised George MacDonald Fraser himself) serves with the 2nd Battalion, Gordon Highlanders in North Africa and Scotland.  I laughed steadily thourghout the book.  While Private MacAuslan, the world's dirtiest soldier, isn't the central charecter in every chapter (actually short stories), the Jocks (Highlanders) who serve with him are each unique and astonishing in their own rights.<br />One warning, you may find the dialect of the Jocks a bit hard to follow at first.  Persevere, read thru the dialouge and you'll find you will understand their lingo quick enough.	2001-07-21
US	52379302	R1CZNWT06TS27S	1587153092	953166841	Bureau 13 : #1 Judgment Night	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You'll howl, hopefully with laughter	This book is just plain funny.  As the inside cover blurb says, &quot;X-Files meets the Marx Brothers&quot;.  Not only is it a funnier version of Men-in-Black (which it predates) but it is a spoof on all those action-adventure titles, usually part of a series with names like &quot;The Eliminator&quot; or the &quot;The Eraser&quot;.  If you like your conspiracy theories laced with a strong dose of humor, try Bureau 13.	2001-04-26
US	52379302	R2GDF6B81QXLJ4	0679750061	255611086	Sahara Unveiled: A Journey Across the Desert (Vintage Departures)	Books	3	13	22	N	N	Great study of the land, terrible study of the people	&quot;Sahara Unveiled&quot; is extremely informative and entertaining when talking about the Western Sahara and the Sahel.  When discussing the geography, weather, transportaion in hostile and impoverished enviroments, and deep thirst, Langewiesche's tale is nearly as well written as one of John MacPhee's essays.<br />But, and it is a big But, when talking about people, this is a very marginal story.  Everyone Langewiesche met on his travels is portrayed as pathetic in one way or another.  Examples?  Judge Moulay Yazid is described in the most glowing terms of the whole book, and he is described as a fatalist time server, who idolizes an elderly, illiterate farmer who has only left the Sahara for two months in his entire life.  Another? A German woman Langewiesche is introduced to is described as &quot;trim, tanned, tennis-playing, cuckolding type&quot;  Cuckolding type? Pretty arrogant and sexist, in my view.  Everyone else in the book is as bad or worse, in the author's eyes. As I read the book, I was struck by a sense of familiarity.  Suddenly, it occured to me, that while this is written using politically correct language, this is basically a travel book in the vein of the Victorian travel writers, where the white author survives by courage and superior intelligence, facing down the natives.	2001-04-26
US	52379302	R1CYNCH824NU3B	0310215382	735207965	The C. S. Lewis Readers' Encyclopedia	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Best single volume Lewis reference	If you can have only one reference work on Jack Lewis, this is the one to have.  This volume is well edited, well written, and complete.  You can find allmost as much about some of Lewis' obscure essays as about the Chronicles of Narnia and the Screwtape Letters.  Most of the entries include suggestions for further reading.  There is also short but reasonably complete biography included, written by John Bremer.	2000-11-03
US	52379302	R2IVDVT7NSTHHF	0911381082	416329464	Riding the Boom Extension	Books	5	7	7	N	N	For rabid collectors only	'Riding the Boom Extension' is an excellent essay, but don't go looking for this book unless you are a collector that simply Must have all of McPhee's books.  'Riding the Boom Extension' is included in the collection 'Table of Contents', which is much easier to find.	2000-11-02
US	52379302	R5QA6CTTRH9N9	0966294106	264788585	The Secret of Sherlock Holmes	Books	1	4	5	N	N	So bad it is kinda fun	A quite awful book, every plot point requires the most unlikely  coincidences and illogical behavior.  Some of the errors are so silly that  I read it a second time just to spot them.  Here is a good one to give you  a feel for the whole book.  Holmes offers his guest tea and biscuits, with  &quot;plenty of good honey and butter&quot; for the biscuits.  As anyone  who knows anything about the English, as apparently author Boothe does not,  when an Englishman says biscuit, he means what we call in the States a  cookie.	2000-08-23
US	52379302	R1XL4E14FXQD68	0671578359	99564271	Down in the Bottomlands (And Other Places)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Allways fun to revisit old friends	The title story is an excellent piece of allohistory, a world in which the Mediterrean Sea never reflooded.  A world where Neanderthals (Strongbrows)  have not only survived, but hold their own with modern type humans  (Highheads) in an atomic age present.  A couple of lines in the story make  me suspect Turtledove is slipping in a small tribute to Randall Garrett's  Gandalara saga, which was about a humanity evolved for the the  &quot;Bottomlands&quot;.   The second story is a classic, de Camp's  &quot;The Wheels of If&quot;, while the the third is a sequel to 'Wheels'  written by Turtledove. A nice salute to a classic, but Turtledove's smooth  dialouge clashes oddly with de Camp's two-fisted '30s style speech.	1999-10-29
US	52379302	R2G6VM1DHCAQV4	0671578197	344226228	The Multiplex Man	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Well written, but you've read it before	James Hogan has been a favorite of mine for  a long time.  It is a real joy to read hard SF written with skill, there are not many who can combine cutting edge science with the ability to write sensible sounding dialouge  and fashion believable personalities.  Having said that, this one does not  make it.  The old 'waking up with amnesia and killers after you' plot has  been  around for a long, long time. Sure, there are a couple of twists, but  nothing really new.  The real disappointment, however, is the political  layering.  Anyone who likes an L. Neil Smith novel would like &quot;The  Multiplex Man&quot;. Exactly the same depiction of Libertarians as good,  smart, helpfull, successfull people; and everyone of any other viewpoint as  eithier naive, criminal, mentally ill, or a combo of all three.	1999-06-29
