US	52377733	RK54X5HW453S9	0330280414	393004743	England, Their England (Picador Books)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Hilarious but affectionate	Although born in India (in 1895), Archibald Gordon Macdonell always regarded himself first and foremost as a Scot. Invalided out of the army during the First World War, he made an early living writing revue articles - principally dramatic criticism - for the London Mercury, before finally making a name for himself as the author of this satirical examination of the character and nature of the English from the viewpoint of a stranger to their land.<br />\\"England, Their England\\" is set in an England of the 1920s. In almost autobiographical fashion, it chronicles the adventures of a young man, Donald Cameron, who is forced, under the terms of his father's will, to live his life south of the border amongst the 'alien and strange' English, rather than in his native Scotland. Whilst trying to make his way in London by means of various newspaper jobs, a chance encounter with a Welshman lands him with a commission to write a book about the English, as viewed through the eyes of a foreigner. Donald thus sets off on a quest to discover the true character of this alien land in which he finds himself forced to live: a Post (Great) War England of toffs and wags and provincial yokels, of gay young things, and of officers' and gentlemen's clubs; of weekend parties in the country (amidst the last dying embers of an earlier world).<br />In his search for what it is that epitomises 'Englishness', Donald observes at close quarters the English engaging in numerous of their staple national pastimes: village cricket (probably the best known chapter of the book); walking the links; rugby football; fox hunting; boozing; international diplomacy and domestic politics. The book also contains an account of Donald's experience of what in those days was but a fledgling upstart clamouring for a place in English hearts and minds - an association football (soccer) match - as well as taking passing swipes at English inter-war literary and dramatic endeavours.<br />This book's early chapters are outrageously hilarious, bordering on farce on occasions, although the mood turns more towards pathos in the later stages, as Donald discovers (and the author portrays the virtues of) the more down-to-earth, homespun existence of the newly emerging middle and working classes, although even here the author finds plenty of scope for caricature. The book turns briefly to total farce for its finale, in which all of the characters come together in one last ludicrous Act, before winding up with a peaceful (and rather sugary) coda on the history-steeped lawns of Winchester.<br />The inter-war years were an odd period throughout the whole of Europe but perhaps nowhere more so than in Britain, and especially England, with the gradual collapse of its privileged classes - long in decline but by then all but wiped out in the carnage of the Great War (or else facing financial ruin in the depressions that followed). It is no real surprise that satirical novels were virtually the standard form of literary expression of those years; A G Macdonell's approach is wittier and less gloomy (yet more acerbic) than most of that time, especially the better known ones such as the writings of Evelyn Waugh (whose early novels are more or less contemporaneous with \\"England, Their England\\").<br />Despite the passing of the years, this book acts as a perfect window onto its times; a window, nevertheless, fitted with distorting glass, intended to point up the ludicrous and the grotesque, encouraging no-one to mourn the passing of outmoded ways, or, indeed, the sad decline of a once great imperial power. And yet, speaking with a wit and humour that transmits itself as clearly and articulately today as when it was written, this book suggests that there is - and always will be - something of value at the heart of this indomitable (but fundamentally crazy) nation.<br />Some of the jokes may have lost much of their meaning in the seventy years since this book was written (especially for younger readers unaware of the details of the history of those times) but ironically, many of the anachronisms so mockingly (and yet affectionately) painted in A G Macdonell's treasurable prose remain recognisably present in the England of today. \\"England, Their England\\" remains a classic book, and a great testimony to an observant and witty man whose untimely death in 1941 robbed the English-speaking world of a great mind and a fine author.aware of the details of the history of those times) but ironically, many of the anachronisms so mockingly (and yet affectionately) painted in A G Macdonell's treasurable prose remain recognisably present in the England of today. \\"England, Their England\\" remains a classic book, and a great testimony to an observant and witty man whose untimely death in 1941 robbed the English-speaking world of a great mind and a fine author.	2002-09-19
US	52377733	RH31JJA5CZ6EB	0375503064	94745060	The Clothes They Stood Up In	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Priceless!	Alan Bennett's writing so often reminds me of fractal forms; the twists and turns of his plots on the macro scale being matched perfectly on the micro scale by the endless convolutions of his individual sentences and paragraphs. There are times when his writing gives every impression of wandering aimlessly through a tangled mass of irrelevant side detail, with no possible single end point in mind, until suddenly, and with an almost shocking clarity, his words reveal themselves as carefully chosen after all, when they all unexpectedly lead plumb to centre of the narrative target that has been in his sights all along. I can see that, for some people, this technique may prove to be an impenetrable annoyance (although anyone brought up in Yorkshire - and more especially Leeds - where they talk like this all the time, should merely find it homely and comforting.) But examine his words closely and, for all their meandering, you'll see that they have an absolutely exquisite precision and economy to them. This is the work of a true (and truly English) literary craftsman.<br />This short story, \\"The Clothes They Stood Up In\\", receives the classic Alan Bennett treatment, both in terms of writing style and also in terms of another of his hallmarks: the at times almost surgical examination of the social mores (and boors) of Middle England. Although this book is very short indeed (it should not take even the most meticulous of readers more than a couple of hours to devour this tasty titbit) it nevertheless demonstrates this author's unerring capacity for dissecting away endless layers of social stereotyping, in order to expose the central nuggets of individuality at the heart of his characters (or else reveal such nuggets to be entirely absent) whilst at the same time pointing up the basically ridiculous natures - and faintly ludicrous habits - of even the most ordinary of people.<br />Amusing and poignant by turns, this small volume delivers some exquisite character studies of ordinary people in entirely extraordinary circumstances. As ever, it makes for a highly entertaining read for those open to Alan Bennett's distinctive writing style. Bargain hunters may like to be aware, though, that this story is available in various better-value boxed collections, alongside other Alan Bennett short stories (principally \\"Lady in the van\\" and \\"Father! Father! Burning Bright\\") There are also plans to publish it within a single compendium volume some time in 2002. Of course, some people may just consider such collections as altogether too much of a good thing!ordinary people in entirely extraordinary circumstances. As ever, it makes for a highly entertaining read for those open to Alan Bennett's distinctive writing style. Bargain hunters may like to be aware, though, that this story is available in various better-value boxed collections, alongside other Alan Bennett short stories (principally \\"Lady in the van\\" and \\"Father! Father! Burning Bright\\") There are also plans to publish it within a single compendium volume some time in 2002. Of course, some people may just consider such collections as altogether too much of a good thing!	2002-08-07
US	52377733	R12PPFN4TZ371U	006001394X	841970994	Five Boys: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quirky but endearing	At the start of Mike Jackson's bitter-sweet novel, &quot;Five Boys&quot;, we follow schoolboy, Bobby, as he is sent away from his home in war-time London into the supposed safety of the depths of rural Devon. Principal amongst our (and Bobby's) new acquaintances are the Five Boys, an irrepressible group of youngsters whose wild escapades impinge upon much of the life of the village in which the young evacuee finds himself billeted. Much of the first part of the book follows Bobby's trials and ordeals in coping with being away from family and friends and amongst strangers (with even stranger ways) whilst also charting his gradual acceptance and eventual madcap initiation into the company of the Five Boys.<br />Then, as American GI's - in training for the forthcoming D-Day invasion of Normandy - begin flooding into the rural idyll of Devon, the book's emphasis shifts away from the outrageous activities of the boys and gradually comes to encompass the equally outrageous goings-on of the wider village community. These are presented in a series of only partially (it seems) connected vignettes, mostly hilarious although often poignant - this is war-time, after all - too.<br />Mick Jackson's writing style - never less than refreshingly vibrant - coupled with his eye for detail, a wicked sense of humour and an imagination that at times quite beggars belief, all serve to conjure up an entirely enthralling tale of English eccentricities. Indeed, not since A. G. Macdonell's &quot;England, Their England&quot; has there been such a sparkling exposition of the true nature of the unbridled English spirit, as was once so often exemplified within small, and especially rural, communities (but is now, alas, almost all but gone).<br />From the very outset, the reader is drawn in by the very finest of prose, swept off one's feet and carried along by the flow of events in much the same way as is young Bobby. Towards the end of the book,  though, the reader begins to get an uncomfortable feeling that the flow might not be as tranquil as its surface suggests. And as the book proceeds towards its concluding pages, with the chapters becoming ever shorter, one can feel a distinctly ominous undertow beginning to develop, as even the very words themselves begin to cascade over each other, tumbling ever more rapidly and inexorably towards an increasingly threatening ending.<br />While the book is not without its faults - some aspects of the latter parts of the tale feel just a tad out of kilter with its time-setting, for instance - these are more than compensated for by its entirely loveable quirkiness. I suspect it will only be a matter of time before this story is made into a movie - properly handled it would make a very good one - but please don't wait for that to happen before reaping its many rewards firsthand. This has to be one of the best literary offerings of the year. Read it and weep - mostly with laughter!feeling that the flow might not be as tranquil as its surface suggests. And as the book proceeds towards its concluding pages, with the chapters becoming ever shorter, one can feel a distinctly ominous undertow beginning to develop, as even the very words themselves begin to cascade over each other, tumbling ever more rapidly and inexorably towards an increasingly threatening ending. <br />While the book is not without its faults - some aspects of the latter parts of the tale feel just a tad out of kilter with its time-setting, for instance - these are more than compensated for by its entirely loveable quirkiness. I suspect it will only be a matter of time before this story is made into a movie - properly handled it would make a very good one - but please don't wait for that to happen before reaping its many rewards firsthand. This has to be one of the best literary offerings of the year. Read it and weep - mostly with laughter!	2002-07-30
US	52377733	R2M28TVM86Q9H1	0679771832	135864042	Orchid Fever: A Horticultural Tale of Love, Lust, and Lunacy	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A compulsive and an essential read!	Whether you happen to be an orchid lover, or merely a curious bystander, \\"Orchid Fever (A Horticultural Tale of Love, Lust and Lunacy)\\" will have you by turns helpless with mirth and seething with indignation, or else simply agog with incredulity from start to finish. For it is, quite simply, an absolutely stunning piece of investigative journalism, dressed up as a tale of personal obsession and eccentricities. Written using plain language and with an outstanding witticism, it makes for compelling reading throughout, whether or not you know anything about orchids, or the orchid-growing and trading communities that it explores.<br />Chapter by chapter, alternating hilarious episodes with the downright unsettling or just plain unbelievable, Eric Hansen gradually lays bare the seedy underbelly of a world that perhaps few of us realise exists. He reveals an alarming world-wide conspiracy, fuelled by greed, protected and upheld by idiotic international bureaucracy and a network of power politics, which daily threaten innocent lives and legitimate livelihoods as well as vast swathes of natural fauna that they purport to be protecting.<br />Populated as it is by gentle, likeable heroes, blackguardly villains, utter buffoons and the most outrageously bizarre of characters, it is sometimes easy to forget that this book is factual, so far-fetched are some of the events and scenarios that its author recounts. And yet, this somehow makes the book all the more scary, for occasionally things happen to make you realise that it is not a work of fiction. And at that point, the anger sets in... anger that things should be this way and are likely to remain so, despite the best efforts of some of the book's obvious heroes.<br />Thoroughly researched over a period of some seven years and never less than fascinating, this book exposes the full and terrifying consequences for anyone who succumbs to orchid fever. It is an essential read for anyone who thinks that orchids are nothing more than beautiful but harmless flowering plants.  Or indeed for anyone who has never heard of fox testicle ice-cream!e than beautiful but harmless flowering plants.  Or indeed for anyone who has never heard of fox testicle ice-cream!	2002-07-26
US	52377733	R20Z10OEOEELW1	1569470154	284084612	The Queen and I	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dated now but still a gem	Reading this book in the Queen's Golden Jubilee Year is a little spooky in some respects. But even though the British Royal Family's circumstances have moved rather during the ten years since &quot;The Queen and I&quot; was written, and three of the characters portrayed here are no longer living, Sue Townsend's send-up of the British political scene and the nation's best-loved family remains a poignantly funny read.<br />To really appreciate the genius of Ms Townsend's satire you will need to have at least a passing knowledge of British Royals and some of the scandals that dogged them in the early 1990s.  Even without that knowledge, though, many parts of this book should have you helpless with laughter. It is all very silly and stereotyped, of course, but that just makes it all so much the funnier!	2002-07-12
US	52377733	R28OWXGV9MXCRR	1567921965	611013939	Missee Lee: The Swallows and Amazons in the China Seas (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Twenty-two gong tale belong velly well all ages bimeby	Subtitled \\"Swallows and Amazons in the South China Seas\\", this tenth volume in Arthur Ransome's Swallows and Amazons series is actually a sequel to the second, \\"Peter Duck\\". Those readers familiar with the background to the earlier volume will not be surprised to learn that the emphasis within this book is on rather wild and exotic high-seas adventuring for a group of six English school children, together with their middle-aged uncle, a parrot and a mischievous monkey, aboard their schooner, Wild Cat.<br />This time around, the crew of the Wild Cat (without Peter Duck) again find themselves face to face with pirates, although under somewhat different circumstances and of a rather different kind from those in their earlier adventure. They also face a fate that English schoolchildren probably once considered worse than death - a life of perpetual Latin lessons!<br />Anyone coming to this book without the benefit of at least the first three volumes of the series (\\"Swallows and Amazons\\", \\"Peter Duck\\" and \\"Swallowdale\\") may struggle a little with just who people are and why things are the way they are, so I don't recommend diving straight into the series here! If you've read the first three books, though, there is absolutely no need to leave this one until its place in the published sequence, as it does not tie into any of the intervening volumes. Anyone familiar with the earlier books will know exactly what to expect here; nor will they be disappointed. Whilst aimed at children, the book remains a delightful read whatever one's age.	2002-07-12
US	52377733	R2CRKPDP0VSR9O	0446405159	564501956	The Devil's Novice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	More of a whydunnit than a whodunnit	The big mystery throughout this eighth of Ellis Peters' Chronicles of Brother Cadfael is not really who, in the depths of the Salop countryside one day in the late summer of the year of Our Lord 1140, committed murder most foul upon the person of Peter Clemence, cleric to Bishop Henry of Bois - but why! And also just what the connection might be between the unfortunate demise of a harmless cleric - seemingly not even relieved of his valuables - and the latest candidate to be accepted into the noviciate of Shrewsbury's abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, the nineteen-year-old, Meriet Aspley. For it is obvious, from the very opening of this book, to both reader and Brother Cadfael alike, that there is some dark secret haunting the latest entrant to the abbey. There is also little doubt that the sad fate of Peter Clemence has some bearing upon it. Equally obvious is that the mediaeval sleuth will need to have not only his wits but also all of his tact about him too, if he is to winkle out the truth behind matters here, both of the circumstances of the cleric's death and of young Meriet Aspley's sudden-found yearning for life within the cloister.<br />In her usual manner, Ellis Peters drip-feeds her hero and her readers alike with tantalising but measured trickles of information, permitting both to proceed but piecemeal (and at about the same pace as each other) towards the final revelation and the story's sudden resolution. Along  the way, we are treated to the author's characteristically over-glamorised view of Mediaeval English life, with her entirely comforting (and rather touching) view of the honest goodness of the (Saxon) poor, as well as the essentially corrupt nature of those who would aspire to power (usually those overbearing Normans, of course).<br />In common with others of this series, this book presents a mix of romance and murder mystery, all set against a back-drop of political intrigue.  In essence, then, we have here another classic from the Cadfael mould - an engaging read that taxes neither imagination nor credulity over much and which provides some fascinating glimpses of how things might have been in twelfth century Salop. It can be recommended to both established Cadfael fans and newcomers alike.mould - an engaging read that taxes neither imagination nor credulity over much and which provides some fascinating glimpses of how things might have been in twelfth century Salop. It can be recommended to both established Cadfael fans and newcomers alike.	2002-07-10
US	52377733	R1WPBDZO3WHOIM	0446404292	154174617	Sanctuary Sparrow (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A finely honed tale of mediaeval intrigue	Barely four weeks past Easter of the Year of Our Lord 1140, with Shrewsbury and all its region secure within the King's peace, the conventual peace of Matins within the great Abbey church of St Peter and St Paul is suddenly and most rudely shattered. Hunted and hounded by an angry mob into the comparative safety of sanctuary within the House of God, a terrified young man, accused of robbery and murder, and closely followed by his accusers and would-be executioners, disturbs the midnight office of the good monks of Shrewsbury. And so starts the seventh Chronicle of Brother Cadfael, in which the mediaeval sleuth finds himself with yet another wrong to right, by once more putting his mind to the solving of one of Shrewsbury's small mysteries.<br />In this particular case, the mystery is no greatly complex affair but it is, in any case, largely subsidiary to Ellis Peters' painting of a finely detailed picture of life in twelfth century England, and more especially here, within a moderately wealthy family household. There are some unexpected twists and developments along the way, though, and there is certainly nothing predictable about the way the story works itself out, although the ending is no particular surprise either.<br />In some respects, this is one of the best of the Cadfael books. Its opening pages contain some of Ellis Peters' finest writing, with her descriptions of the running to ground of young Liliwin and the reactions of Abbot Radulfus being quite hair-raising in their potency. The tale unfolds at a sure and steady pace thereafter, too, ensuring that it is always difficult to put the book down, right up until the final exciting, and rather tear-jerking, denouement.	2001-11-25
US	52377733	R2C0QYLOGCDUKZ	0446404284	70661364	The Virgin in the Ice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	First-rate Mediaeval thriller and murder mystery	This sixth in the series of tales of Brother Cadfael is less obviously a whodunit and much more of a thriller or twelfth century adventure story. It is set in the English Marches, amidst the chaos ensuing from the sacking of Worcester by supporters of the Empress Maud against King Stephen in November 1139. The action takes place in Ludlow (mid-way between Cadfael's normal haunts of Shrewsbury, and the beleaguered city of Worcester) where our hero is ostensibly nursing back to health a Benedictine brother who has seemingly been waylaid by a band of outlaws, stripped and left for dead.<br />Whilst in Ludlow, Cadfael also finds himself embroiled in the hunt for a party of three young persons missing after the attacks on Worcester and known to be heading for Shrewsbury, at which destination they have failed to arrive. With a bitter freeze and the winter's first snows on hand, there are grave concerns for their safety and well-being. One of the three is subsequently found dead - obviously killed and dumped in a watery (now icy) grave on the very night that the good monk's patient was attacked.<br />Unlike many another Cadfael tale, this one moves along with a gripping sense of urgency and with a fair amount of tension and excitement building gradually as things proceed. It contains Ellis Peters' usual meticulous attention to both historical and narrative detail and constitutes as riveting - and entertaining - a story as you are likely to find. As always, Cadfael is aware of details overlooked by others and never once loses sight of the smaller issues that are wont to become subsumed into the larger, weightier ones. He (and the regular reader) is provided with an unlooked-for reward in this volume, too.<br />This book has to be one of the very best of the Cadfael Chronicles and is unreservedly recommended for lovers of the genre. Its story line stands somewhat apart from others in the series, making it fairly unimportant where it is read in the sequence.	2001-11-19
US	52377733	R2JDR33O0ZWM2S	0446404373	341295919	Leper of Saint Giles (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	A confusion of gromwells!	Ellis Peters' fifth Brother Cadfael mystery is set against a backdrop of one of the less savoury aspects of life in Mediaeval Europe - the scourge of leprosy and the terrible disfigurements and consequent social stigmas that its sufferers endured. That is but the backdrop, however; in actuality, this is as typical a romance from the pen of Ellis Peters as it is possible to find!<br />The action of the story takes place just a few months after the setting for the previous Cadfael book, in the autumn of 1139. For once, the on-going civil war between King Stephen and the Empress Maud does not feature in the tale, which is concerned only with the impending marriage of a young, orphaned heiress to an overbearing and insufferable baron, many years her senior. It is quickly obvious that this marriage is no love-match, on either side, and has been arranged purely for the advancement of the girl's guardians and, of course, the bridegroom. It is also obvious from the outset that the would-be bride is more smitten with the squire of her affianced lord than with the baron himself and that this attraction is mutual. Most readers will quickly come to dislike Huon de Domville as much as do the young lovers. Nor will anyone be surprised where suspicion (from everyone except Cadfael) falls when the bridegroom is rather conveniently found murdered on the very morn of his wedding day!<br />But that's about where the clear-cut and obvious end in this plot, which needs someone of Cadfael's shrewd and observant nature to tease out all of the complex pieces of the puzzle and fit them together correctly. And this is one of those classic Cadfael tales in which it is, indeed, only the good Brother (apart, of course, from the reader) who knows the whole truth of events by the end. As in the very first book, he remains quite content to leave the others with their own version of just who is guilty of what, aware that there are times when the justice of the Good Lord and that of Man might not always be in accord.<br />The book is written in Ellis Peters' inimitable prose style and paints her usual vivid picture of mediaeval life, both within the cloister and without. It has its humorous moments, not least of which is the testing of Cadfael's patience and faith by his keen but clumsy new acolyte, Brother Oswin. The book also provides us with new insights into some characters from earlier books, such as Brother Mark answering a new calling amongst the sick and maimed of the lazarhouse, as well as introducing us to a new character who will be important in future books. As always, the author is to be congratulated on achieving an excellent balance between writing for readers new to the Cadfael series as well as for established fans. There should be much here to please those in the latter category without any risk of newcomers becoming confused.<br />The book does contain one of Ellis Peters' few technical mistakes, though, as she confuses the modern gardener's creeping gromwell (Lithodora diffusa) with one of its native relatives. In the times of this tale, creeping gromwell would have been quite unknown in Britain. It is, in any case, an acid loving plant and most definitely would not be found growing in the chalky ground in which Cadfael encounters it. Unfortunately, while its only blue-flowered native relative, the purple gromwell (Lithospermum purpuro-caeruleum) is indeed a lime lover, that plant's flowering season is over by June and so it would not still have been in bloom in October, the time of the good herbalist's investigations. This botanical mix-up need not greatly concern the reader, however. The compelling nature of Ms Peters' storytelling is sufficient to make such nit-picking details entirely unimportant.<br />Enjoy this book the way it was intended: as a good, solid, murder mystery and romantic novel, set in harsher times when, in many ways, life was a lot less complex than it is today.ways be in accord.<br />The book is written in Ellis Peters' inimitable prose style and paints her usual vivid picture of mediaeval life, both within the cloister and without. It has its humorous moments, not least of which is the testing of Cadfael's patience and faith by his keen but clumsy new acolyte, Brother Oswin. The book also provides us with new insights into some characters from earlier books, such as Brother Mark answering a new calling amongst the sick and maimed of the lazarhouse, as well as introducing us to a new character who will be important in future books. As always, the author is to be congratulated on achieving an excellent balance between writing for readers new to the Cadfael series as well as for established fans. There should be much here to please those in the latter category without any risk of newcomers becoming confused.<br />The book does contain one of Ellis Peters' few technical mistakes, though, as she confuses the modern gardener's creeping gromwell (Lithodora diffusa) with one of its native relatives. In the times of this tale, creeping gromwell would have been quite unknown in Britain. It is, in any case, an acid loving plant and most definitely would not be found growing in the chalky ground in which Cadfael encounters it. Unfortunately, while its only blue-flowered native relative, the purple gromwell (Lithospermum purpuro-caeruleum) is indeed a lime lover, that plant's flowering season is over by June and so it would not still have been in bloom in October, the time of the good herbalist's investigations. This botanical mix-up need not greatly concern the reader, however. The compelling nature of Ms Peters' storytelling is sufficient to make such nit-picking details entirely unimportant.<br />Enjoy this book the way it was intended: as a good, solid, murder mystery and romantic novel, set in harsher times when, in many ways, life was a lot less complex than it is today.	2001-10-17
US	52377733	R2PDHV1C573P2M	1567921191	984940996	The Big Six: A Novel (Swallows and Amazons Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A cracking detective yarn for kids everywhere	&quot;Big Six&quot; is Arthur Ransome's ninth book in the Swallows and Amazons series. It features neither Swallows nor Amazons but rather follows once more the adventures of the two D's and their friends of the Coot Club on the Norfolk Broads. In this story, some members of the Coot Club happen to have been in the wrong place at the wrong time and suddenly find themselves accused of certain misdeeds. Unfortunately, the allegations hanging over them are serious enough to threaten the very future of the club unless the true miscreants can be discovered and exposed.  So, rather than spending their time sailing or engaged in acts of bird preservation, the Coot Club has no choice but to turn into a detective agency instead, determined to clear the name and restore the reputations of their friends.<br />The central plot aside, Ransome still finds ways within this story to involve the children in many typical pre-war Norfolk Broads' activities and introduce us to some wonderful Norfolk characters. Indeed, throughout this book, he manages to paint a vivid picture of life on the Broads in a by-gone era; all using language and a writing style that should appeal to both children and grown-ups alike. As usual, the story is presented with intelligence, charm and wit, as well as with an overriding humility and an obvious love for the places and people of whom he writes.<br />Some episodes in this book (especially the smoking of the eels) will have most adults crying with laughter, while for the majority of younger readers the excitement of the detective story will undoubtedly be the overridingly memorable element. Ultimately, though, it is the author's heart-warming respect for children and the way they see the world around them that shines through and makes this book so enjoyable for readers of all ages.	2001-08-15
US	52377733	R370Z83PHJXFGO	0446403016	281605156	St. Peter's Fair (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	More mediaeval goings-on to puzzle over	Ellis Peters' fourth Brother Cadfael mystery is set in the summer of 1139, in a Shrewsbury still recovering from the siege of town and castle by the army of King Stephen the previous summer. To speed the rebuilding of its defences, the townsfolk are eager for financial help from the abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, which, being located just outside the town, came through the episode of the siege without harm. With the lucrative annual three-day St. Peter's fair fast approaching, the burghers of the town are anxious to secure a share of its profits - normally given over entirely to the abbey. The new abbot, however, is far from anxious to set a dangerous precedent by ceding away the abbey's dues.<br />Thus it is that merchants arriving from distant towns for the fair find themselves suddenly embroiled in a dispute between town and cloister - and embroiled rather too deeply for comfort as the town's youth escalate the situation out of hand. And so it is that Shrewsbury (and therefore Brother Cadfael, of course) suddenly finds itself with the mystery of another murder (and various other nefarious goings-on) to solve.<br />With her characteristic meticulous attention to period detail, Ellis Peters weaves an intricate web of deceit and intrigue into this far from obvious murder mystery. As usual, she balances the political manoeuvrings of the principal parties with the playing out of a separate romantic sub-plot. This serves to keep the reader (and, in this case, Cadfael too) guessing almost up to the very end as to the real drama running through the story and, of course, to the identity of the villain of the piece. Indeed, the reader is well into the nail-biting conclusion to the story before realising fully what has been going on.<br />Peters' writing style ensures that this book is as enjoyable as Brother Cadfael books ever are. Fans of the mediaeval sleuth may be somewhat disappointed to find that he actually has very little to do here beyond collating the pieces of others' findings but this does not really detract from the tale over all. If the Cadfael books are new to you, I would really recommend reading the first two volumes before any others to truly get the most from them. On the other hand, if you are not interested in reading the whole series but simply want an evocative tale of mediaeval England, then you need look no further than this.s of others' findings but this does not really detract from the tale over all. If the Cadfael books are new to you, I would really recommend reading the first two volumes before any others to truly get the most from them. On the other hand, if you are not interested in reading the whole series but simply want an evocative tale of mediaeval England, then you need look no further than this.	2001-08-15
US	52377733	R25XM8GT2YLGXP	0224606336	524943710	Peter Duck	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Swashbuckling children's adventure	This volume in Arthur Ransome's &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; series finds the  Swallows and Amazons in rare old adventuring form, sailing off to the distant Caribbean  (together with grown-ups Captain Flint and the original Old Salt Tar himself, Peter Duck) in  search of buried pirate treasure! Along the way, they have to contend with numerous hazards,  from sailing in thick fog in the English Channel, to enduring earthquake and tempest, as well as  fending off a shipload of villainous pirates intent on getting their hands on the same treasure. If  this all sounds rather more daring and far-fetched than can be found in other &quot;Swallows and  Amazons&quot; stories, there is good reason for this - although the explanation is not revealed until  the next book, &quot;Swallowdale&quot;. (This latter was originally published as the second volume of the  series but, for obvious reasons, is best left until after you've read &quot;Peter Duck&quot;!)<br />  Despite its somewhat fanciful content, Ransome keeps the tale eminently believable and builds  the excitement gradually, drawing the reader inexorably into the events that unfold. You really  do just have to keep turning the pages to find out what happens next! By the latter stages, it  becomes impossible to put down.<br />  Sprinkled with numerous delightful pen and ink illustrations (charmingly credited to the  Swallows and Amazons themselves!) this book is a lovely production. In short, it is nothing  short of a little masterpiece that should be on everyone's reading list.	2001-07-23
US	52377733	RNF5M1V26RDLW	0446403008	529886679	Monk's Hood (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Perfectly paced tale of mediaeval intrigue	&quot;Monk's-Hood&quot; is Ellis Peters' third Brother Cadfael mystery, following nicely on from &quot;One Corpse Too Many&quot;. It is set at the close of the year 1138. Almost six months have elapsed since King Stephen's army laid siege to and finally took the English town of Shrewsbury.  But, whilst the King may have withdrawn his forces, and departed the town to impress his claim to the English throne on other areas of the Kingdom, murderous deeds are still afoot on the Welsh Marches. And, once again, Brother Cadfael finds himself firmly in the midst of it all.<br />The tale this time involves the mysterious poisoning of a guest of the Benedictine Abbey of St. Peter and St. Paul, by means, what's more, of one of Brother Cadfael's own healing concoctions. With his own  - as well as the Abbey's  - honour at stake, Cadfael refuses to let matters lie, especially when the sheriff's somewhat over-zealous sergeant appears to be rather hastily leaping to the wrong conclusion as to who is responsible for the dire deed. To add further complications to the task before our mediaeval sleuth, Cadfael suddenly finds himself confined to the Abbey precincts by a more than usually overweening Prior Robert. As always, though, Cadfael's greater humility and wit (aided somewhat by divine providence) win out in the end, with our hero triumphing over arrogant authority of both secular and cloistered varieties.<br />Ellis Peters uses her own flawless wit and easy flowing prose to spin an enchanting and compulsive story around the central mystery, although the book is not really of the classic whodunnit mould. Her ingenious tale of family intrigue unfolds at a wonderfully leisurely pace, with the reader following a tantalising breadcrumb trail of snippets of information, released at just the right rate to ensure that the reader does not solve the mystery before Cadfael himself. Along the way, we learn something of the complex political and social webs common to Mediaeval life on the English/Welsh borders, as well as much more about the past life of the book's central character. As ever, attention to historical detail is meticulous.<br />Whether you read this book in sequence or not depends on how much of a purist you are. Reading later volumes before this one will give away something of the book's very ending, though not so much that it will in any way be spoiled. Reading this (or any later ones) before the first two would be a mistake, though, as that undermines some aspects of the first volumes' mysteries. There is no need to have read any earlier volumes, though, if you just want to pick this one up and enjoy it!glish/Welsh borders, as well as much more about the past life of the book's central character. As ever, attention to historical detail is meticulous.<br />Whether you read this book in sequence or not depends on how much of a purist you are. Reading later volumes before this one will give away something of the book's very ending, though not so much that it will in any way be spoiled. Reading this (or any later ones) before the first two would be a mistake, though, as that undermines some aspects of the first volumes' mysteries. There is no need to have read any earlier volumes, though, if you just want to pick this one up and enjoy it!	2001-05-28
US	52377733	R34OXR8XUCRPHP	0224606387	575618634	Secret Water	Books	4	12	13	N	N	An unassuming little gem	After the excitement of &quot;We Didn't Mean To Go To Sea&quot;, Arthur Ransome's eighth story in the Swallows and Amazons series returns to more comfortable and comforting territory. Set very shortly after the children's ordeal at sea in the previous volume, &quot;Secret Water&quot; finds the Walker children &quot;marooned&quot; on an island in the tidal area of Hamford Water, Essex. Here they spend a week or so, camping and surveying the low-lying islands, tortuous channels and tidal flats, whilst also having to deal with the quandary of whether to make friends with (or wage war upon) the local savage tribesmen. Once, of course, the small matter of one of their number being taken for a human sacrifice has been resolved!<br />This story is something of an attempt to return to the simple style of tale that worked so well with both &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; and &quot;Swallowdale&quot;: a tale of children building a world of their own creation and at the same time learning to deal successfully with the real world in which they find themselves. After some of the more exciting later volumes in the S&amp;A series, though, some readers may find the results just a little flat.<br />As always, though, Ransome weaves his tale through the deftest handling of prose and most adults at least should find this tale as charming as any the others in the series. It is nice, too, to see that the young Bridget is now able to start participating in the activities of her siblings.	2001-04-10
US	52377733	RLRB7ZXXRPHLA	0879239913	559899524	We Didn't Mean to Go to Sea (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	No plain sailing but a great read nevertheless!	Arthur Ransome's seventh &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; adventure is set not long after the action of &quot;Pigeon Post&quot;. The action occurs, this time, in the south of England, rather than in the Lake District, and with just the Swallows alone. They are passing the time on the Rivers Orwell and Stour, while waiting to meet up with their father - due, at any time, on leave from his overseas posting with the Royal Navy.<br />What starts out as a few days quiet sailing, though, quickly turns into something rather more frightening, with the children suddenly drawn into a terrifying and completely unexpected adventure, when they find themselves and their (borrowed) boat being swept out to sea by a fierce tide. For once, the Swallows face a very real and serious danger that is to test their combined courage, fortitude and seamanship to the utmost. It is fascinating (for grown-up readers, at least) to see each of the children's highly individual (and completely characteristic) reactions to their predicament. Younger readers, of course, are more likely just to be carried away by the pure nail-biting suspense of it all!<br />While this is a gripping and enthralling tale throughout, the tensions (arising from the danger and the worries of the older children) are lightened for the reader by the pure infectious glee of the younger pair. They, of course, are less aware of the seriousness of their predicament - especially Roger, who, as usual, is perfectly content so long as there is plenty of food around - and rather enjoy themselves!<br />As in all of the &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; books, Ransome's story-telling abilities are second to none, here. The narrative is at all times feasible and this book is a completely absorbing read for young and old alike. This is an inspired and an inspiring tale. Readers who have worked their way through the earlier volumes will also not be disappointed when they finally do get to meet Daddy in this volume!	2001-03-06
US	52377733	R1D73GK294SEWD	0879236612	565057238	Winter Holiday (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Wonderful children's winter adventure	&quot;Winter Holiday&quot; is the fourth volume of the &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; series. It features the same Lake District setting as the first two but this time, we encounter the lake and its environs in the depths of winter, rather than summer.  The book also introduces two new members to the `gang': the D's. Indeed, the story concentrates more on the newcomers' activities, as they first meet and befriend - and then try their utmost to keep up with - the more experienced (and world-wise) Swallows and Amazons.<br />Once again, Ransome allows the children's views of the world to dominate over the grown-up, outsider's view. Amongst other inventions, an old barn becomes a signalling station for communicating with Mars; the lower fells the wastes of High Greenland; and the frozen lake a training ground for an expedition to the North Pole.<br />This is one of the very best of the S&amp;A stories. It combines all of the fine features of the earlier volumes - beautifully simple (and yet never condescendingly simplified) prose, enchanting line drawings and an espousing of honest and open values - with an elegantly crafted plot and some moments of true excitement. It also has some cleverly disguised educational content, in the form of lessons in field communications techniques. (And the dangers of misinterpretation that can result from their use!) As usual, Ransome knows precisely how to build the excitement as the tale progresses.  From simple beginnings, the book gradually becomes more and more riveting reading, until it is almost impossible to put the book down.<br />It is lovely, too, to see how much the Walker children's characters - as well as their relationships with each other -have developed since the earlier volumes. Seeing them from the perspective of the newcomers makes one realise how much they have grown (and come to function as a team) in the 18 months since the first book!<br />The world was a simpler place when this book was written (1933) and, sadly, the events portrayed within it just could not happen nowadays. But children of all ages can still enjoy tales such as this, to feed their own imaginations and help them to grow into the world as it now is. Who knows? It may yet help lead the world back to times as honest as these.adly, the events portrayed within it just could not happen nowadays. But children of all ages can still enjoy tales such as this, to feed their own imaginations and help them to grow into the world as it now is. Who knows? It may yet help lead the world back to times as honest as these.	2001-01-01
US	52377733	R1FJC05XSBWQ93	0446400513	510904084	One Corpse Too Many (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Exciting Mediaeval Whodunit	&quot;One Corpse Too Many&quot; appeared a couple of years after the earlier, `pilot' book in the Brother Cadfael series. During the intervening period, Ellis Peters (Edith Pargeter) had fleshed out her picture of mediaeval Shrewsbury somewhat - and also clearly formulated a plan for developing her earlier novel into a longer series of stories. This second book skilfully sets the scene and introduces characters for later volumes, so for maximum enjoyment of both this and later volumes, you should read this early in the sequence (indeed, the TV dramatisations of the books features this as the first episode).<br />The action of this book is set in 1138, during the siege of the castle of Shrewsbury - held by parties loyal to the Empress Maud - by King Stephen, anxious to defend and uphold his claim to the throne of England. As in the previous book, Brother Cadfael's interest lies more in seeing to a successful resolution the personal dramas of those innocents caught within the wider political manoeuvrings, than any pursuit of larger goals. Indeed, his dogged pursuit of the truth and justice for the unidentified and unremarked &quot;extra&quot; corpse amongst those slain on Stephen's orders is just one example of this. Throughout the book, though, the solving of the murder mystery takes second place to his concern for those still living. Indeed, the murder is solved almost along the way, as it were. And not by Cadfael, alone.<br />As with others in this series, Peters' use of archaic language (both words and phrasing) in her prose and attention to historical detail draw the reader wholly into the picture of mediaeval Britain that she paints. In addition, she has a fine sense of drama, which makes the book hard to put down from the outset. Even when you know the outcome, the tale remains gripping, so even if you've seen the TV dramatisation, this book remains an excellent and exciting read. Its ending is somewhat different (and rather more satisfying) than the TV version, too., too.	2000-12-26
US	52377733	RH7AO1GRAXUZA	0767901282	539382016	Beans, Greens, and Sweet Georgia Peaches: The Southern Way of Cooking Fruits and Vegetables	Books	5	6	6	N	N	So much more than collards and grits!	Damon Lee Fowler's &quot;Beans, Greens, and Sweet Georgia Peaches&quot; is a follow-up to his successful &quot;Classical Southern Cooking&quot;, concentrating this time on the Southern cook's way with fruit and vegetables. It is, however, much more than merely a book of recipes. Instead, Fowler serves up a delightful treatise on the philosophy and outlook of Southern cooking, in which the recipes act more as examples of his principle arguments, rather than the book's main raison d'être. It is clear that the author is more interested in explaining the `why' of Southern cooking than the `how' - something that is very useful when you find yourself needing to make substitutions because of problems of availability! In addition, his enthusiasm for his subject shines through on every page. In all, this makes for a fascinating read. The book also contains some really wonderful recipes!<br />Throughout, Fowler concentrates on Southern traditional ways, always aiming for the authentic touch to his dishes and methods of preparation. Consequently, even though this book is mainly about vegetable dishes, prepared Southern-style, it is by no means a vegetarian cookbook. Traditional Southern pork dripping or ham, as well as seafood features prominently throughout the book. Nevertheless, Fowler remains sensitive to the fact that its title and subject matter may well draw the attention of those seeking vegetarian recipes and so he thoughtfully (and tastefully!) provides true vegetarian (and even vegan) alternatives wherever possible. While these may not be totally true to their origins, the results are every bit as tasty.<br />My copy of this book was given to me by my wife, as a memento of our first trip to Atlanta. Even though some of the ingredients are a little hard to come by the UK, it has nevertheless come to be one of my favourite sources of inspiration in the kitchen. And it is a wonderfully mouth-watering way to be reminded of the hospitality the Southern States!	2000-12-17
US	52377733	R9YRUPZT34Y4Y	087923864X	164150419	Pigeon Post (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A book to fire the imagination of children of all ages	In this sixth `S &amp; A' adventure, summer has come once more, and the Swallows are back in the Lake District, together with the two D's, on another holiday with their boating friends, the Amazon pirates. This time, the children desert the lake and take instead to the High Topps, prospecting for gold.<br />While adult readers will be unable to do other than admire the children's enthusiasm (sufficiently infectious to draw most young readers into it wholesale), they will probably have a feeling of impending disaster from quite early on, in this book. The Amazons' impetuous natures, combined with the others' general inexperience and limited knowledge of mining and its chemistry, lead them all (except, perhaps, the more sensible Susan!) into more scrapes, as well as rather more dangerous situations, than usual.<br />This leads to a different (but no less absorbing) desire to keep reading this tale than that likely to affect the more naïve younger reader. Both young and old are, nevertheless, likely to spend much of the time on tenterhooks during this book, as the young prospectors explore old mine workings, try their hand at charcoal burning and build and operate a blast furnace in their camp, out on the tinder-dry fells! For once, one can only feel something of a sense of relief that times have changed since 1936, when this was written! One can't help feeling - and being grateful for the fact - that modern children would not be terribly interested in repeating some of the activities undertaken here.<br />In summary, then, &quot;Pigeon Post&quot; is every bit as exciting (and at times far more nerve-wracking) and educational as the other books in this series: another winner from Arthur Ransome.	2000-12-17
US	52377733	R1ZZBHA0VOOC00	0224606352	236179732	Coot Club	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An exciting children's boating adventure	This is the fifth of Arthur Ransome's &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; tales, although, in fact, it features not a single member of either the Swallows or the Amazons. Nor, indeed, is it set anywhere near the English Lake District. Instead, it describes the Norfolk Broads boating adventures of the two D's (first introduced to the reader in the previous book, &quot;Winter Holiday&quot;).<br />The tale is set in the children's Easter holidays, just a few months after the events of the preceding book. In it, Dick and Dorothea are anxious to learn the rudiments of sailing so that they can take a more active part in the fun when they next meet up with the Swallows and Amazons. Dick is also keen to do some bird watching. It is almost inevitable, therefore, that soon after arriving in Norfolk, they find therefore themselves tangled in up in (and helping out with) the troubles of the Coot Club - a group of local (boat-mad) children dedicated to the protection of the Broads' unique bird population.<br />Ransome loved the Norfolk Broads with a passion that possibly even exceeded his love of the Lake District. In this book, he paints a portrait of Norfolk, its waterways and the people who live on or by them, making plain his love for this unique environment and its way of life. The story centres on his concerns over their continuing destruction through ever-increasing tourism (and the increasingly thoughtless actions of its visitors), a major problem even 65 years ago. (It is far worse now, of course!) Unlike his Lake District stories, this one uses the real names of the places that feature in it and revels in describing them. Indeed, the book reads almost like a guidebook at times, although you barely notice this, for it is never anything less that engaging in its content. As always, Ransome combines both narrative and instructive content with consummate ease, tempered here with an excitement to the events that unfold. He weaves a tale that is as enthralling and captivating as ever, that will appeal to lovers of good tales whatever their age. The author's own pen-and-ink drawings are as charming as ever, too.<br />This is one of the few Swallows and Amazons books that can be read earlier in the sequence than it appears (if you really must) without major detriment to either itself or the earlier stories (except, perhaps &quot;Winter Holiday&quot;). You do need to have read it before most of the ones that follow it, however, as the events described here feature heavily in later ones.as ever, that will appeal to lovers of good tales whatever their age. The author's own pen-and-ink drawings are as charming as ever, too.<br />This is one of the few Swallows and Amazons books that can be read earlier in the sequence than it appears (if you really must) without major detriment to either itself or the earlier stories (except, perhaps &quot;Winter Holiday&quot;). You do need to have read it before most of the ones that follow it, however, as the events described here feature heavily in later ones.	2000-12-17
US	52377733	RPGGXKWO3TV80	0879236604	524943710	Peter Duck: A Treasure Hunt in the Caribbees (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Swashbuckling children's adventure!	This volume in Arthur Ransome's &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; series finds the Swallows and Amazons in rare old adventuring form, sailing off to the distant Caribbean (together with grown-ups Captain Flint and the original Old Salt Tar himself, Peter Duck) in search of buried pirate treasure! Along the way, they have to contend with numerous hazards, from sailing in thick fog in the English Channel, to enduring earthquake and tempest, as well as fending off a shipload of villainous pirates intent on getting their hands on the same treasure. If this all sounds rather more daring and far-fetched than can be found in other &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; stories, there is good reason for this - although the explanation is not revealed until the next book, &quot;Swallowdale&quot;. (This latter was originally published as the second volume of the series but, for obvious reasons, is best left until after you've read &quot;Peter Duck&quot;!)<br />Despite its somewhat fanciful content, Ransome keeps the tale eminently believable and builds the excitement gradually, drawing the reader inexorably into the events that unfold. You really do just have to keep turning the pages to find out what happens next! By the latter stages, it becomes impossible to put down.<br />Sprinkled with numerous delightful pen and ink illustrations (charmingly credited to the Swallows and Amazons themselves!) this book is a lovely production. In short, it is nothing short of a little masterpiece that should be on everyone's reading list.	2000-12-10
US	52377733	R22OC7VDLHP0RA	087923573X	449786655	Swallows and Amazons	Books	5	122	126	N	N	Timeless evocation of the way things were	Arthur Ransome's &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; is the first in a classic series of children's stories that will appeal to readers of all ages. The book is set in the English Lake District in the period between the two World Wars, (where the author was living at the time).  It tells of a time when a healthy imagination (and the freedom to take advantage of it) was enough to keep most youngsters both amused and out of mischief. The world was a safer and simpler place back then and this book does much to make us realise just how much has been irretrievably lost since.<br />Not that this was ever Ransome's intention, of course. He was simply drawing upon his own boyhood experiences (from a yet earlier time) as well as contemporary ones of the children of a family friend. He used these to weave an enchanting tale that would remind those same children (by then returned `home' to the deserts of the Middle East) of a happy summer spent sailing in England.<br />The story's strong basis in reality (albeit several separate realities, as it were), tempered with Ransome's love of sailing (and his knowledge of Lake District life), imbue the book with a strong sense of authority. Both the text and the author's own pen-and-ink illustrations also have an endearing charm that comes across even now, some 70 years after the book was first published.  One of the great things about this book (and indeed, the whole series of books that was to follow) is that Ransome avoids most of the stereotypical treatments of children's roles that his contemporaries (as well as later authors) continually espoused. He always manages to treat (nearly!) all of his characters as equal partners in their activities, whatever their age, gender or background. The children are also afforded a greater respect and rather more freedom by the adults than is common these days, too.<br />And while the children's `adventures' are nothing fantastical or extra-ordinary when viewed from an absolute perspective, Ransome manages to convey so much of the children's own excitement at their activities that the reader can't help being drawn into their world and so come to share some of that same excitement. All in all, this a delightful book and should be on everybody's essential reading list, regardless of their age!ome manages to convey so much of the children's own excitement at their activities that the reader can't help being drawn into their world and so come to share some of that same excitement. All in all, this a delightful book and should be on everybody's essential reading list, regardless of their age!	2000-12-10
US	52377733	R2GMDYD5PY5EZJ	0879235721	449786655	Swallowdale (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	57	58	N	N	More an equal than a sequel!	&quot;Swallowdale&quot; continues very much where its predecessor, &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot;, leaves off, with the Walker children returning to &quot;that remote lake in the north of England&quot; one year after the events of the first book and looking forward to another couple of weeks of fun, sailing with their friends, the Amazon pirates. Plans quickly begin to go awry, however, and Ransome turns events away from the anticipated activity of sailing on the lake to an altogether different sort of fun, as the children take off camping and exploring in the surrounding fells and mountains.<br />The book has all of the fine qualities that make its predecessor such an excellent read for children (and adults) of all ages. Ransome's prose is a delight throughout, his characters engaging and the events that befall the children entirely believable. As in all of the other books of this series, simple pen and ink drawings by the author add considerably to the enjoyment. If only the world (and the Lake District!) was still like this!<br />Incidentally, although this was the second of Arthur Ransome's &quot;Swallows and Amazon&quot; books to be published, it is best read after the third volume, &quot;Peter Duck&quot;, because it is set chronologically after the events of that book, and makes occasional back reference to it. You will enjoy &quot;Peter Duck&quot; much more if you read it BEFORE you read &quot;Swallowdale&quot;. And if you enjoyed &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; you will certainly enjoy this.	2000-12-10
US	52377733	RCGV5Y2KC4OL4	0553573985	626236404	Gibbon's Decline and Fall	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Potent but dark Millennial prophecy	In &quot;Gibbon's Decline and Fall&quot; (the joke reveals itself as the book progresses) Sheri Tepper presents her usual dark view of the future of mankind. Set in the year 2000, if it were going to happen, this particular future would be upon us by now, of course. And perhaps, in a way, it is?<br />The book concerns itself with the perennial battle of the sexes but on a scale far greater than in any of Tepper's other books and with an atmosphere of such immediacy that it is far more discomforting and terrifying than in any of her other stories. And yet while the war is global, she portrays the battles as intimate, personal affairs, as indeed life usual is. As usual for Tepper, the book is peppered with the author's perspicacious observations of the way the world works, as well as countless instances of her wry and acerbic humour. It is nice to see Tepper for once giving us a greater insight into what drives her main protagonists than we usually get, though: a nice touch.<br />All of the classic Tepper hallmarks are there, of course. This tale is as potent and as gripping as anything she's ever written. Indeed it tightens its grip relentlessly right up to the very last moment. And it's amazing just how many things one doesn't see coming, even though she's left them out in plain view throughout. Great stuff - unless you're even the slightest bit depressed!	2000-11-08
US	52377733	R1URWUXJSZT8QJ	0380791986	395065543	Six Moon Dance	Books	5	28	28	N	N	An absolute gem	There are those who say that Sheri Tepper has only one story to tell and that she tells it over and over again in her books. There is a degree of truth to that statement. Certainly, in &quot;Six Moon Dance&quot;, Tepper spins her usual futuristic speculative yarn of mankind threatening a wider planetary intelligence through ignorance and greed, in a world run by a matriarchal society rigorously controlled through the creation and manipulation of religious taboos. As usual, her tale is supercharged with gender issues and cultural curiosities, as she holds up her giant mirror for us all to gaze upon. No doubt many readers of her works will feel they've heard it all before...<br />With writing this good, though, I for one will forgive Tepper her constant recycling of ideas (and it has to be admitted that she draws on a good many ideas from her earlier books here). Indeed, I consider this to be her best book to date, featuring an involved and complex plot, crafted with Ms. Tepper's impeccable eye for detail, as well as her uniquely wry sense of humour and wit - to say nothing of her sense of the bizarre! All of the book's many strands fall beautifully into place, constantly luring the reader on, whilst continually keeping one guessing.<br />As always, there is the deep, dark secret - alluded to throughout but kept carefully concealed until the end. And naturally, there are the usual shocks and jolts for the reader along the way, too. Indeed, she manages to keep the surprises coming right through to the very last page, this time.<br />This book may make you mad, or it may make you weep, and even at times laugh, but ultimately its true worth is like that of the special pool it features: impossible to pass through without being altered forever. Highly recommended, whether you're an established Tepper fan or just looking for a cracking read.	2000-10-06
US	52377733	R19HVZRXL1GGBP	0130893986	123060330	Core PHP Programming: Using PHP to Build Dynamic Web Sites (2nd Edition)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent and comprehensive guide to PHP	This is a wonderful book! I've had this nagging background need to learn  PHP for some time and have been putting it off as one of those extra little  tasks I could do without. After reading just a little of this book I  couldn't wait to get started!<br />Leon Atkinson aims his book at both  beginner and advanced users and his writing style manages to score a direct  hit! The basics are covered in sufficient detail to allow the intelligent  beginner to follow along and learn useful stuff pretty quickly.  This is  achieved without talking down to advanced users, or bogging them down in  masses of simple things. The organisation and layout of the book is good  enough to allow most readers to jump straight into the sections that  interest them most, so if you just want to use this book for reference,  rather than have it act as a tutor, you can. Lots of references to more  elementary programming texts are provided for anyone who does find themself  struggling with the concepts, but I can't really imagine anyone needing  them.<br />Coverage is very comprehensive too, so you never find yourself left  in the lurch just as things are about to get really interesting, as I've  had happen in many books aimed at beginners. So far, this book has provided  good solid instruction of every PHP task I've needed or fancied (although a  better index wouldn't go amiss!) and has frequently provided me with a  coded solution all ready to plug in and use! I can see that this volume  will have a place alongside my computer for some time!	2000-09-15
US	52377733	R3C4YIUUAMEHF0	0380791978	346975989	The Family Tree	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Disturbing and thought-provoking; almost a masterpiece...	While I would not argue for &quot;The Family Tree&quot; being Tepper's  most engrossing book, it must surely count as one of her most ambitious to  date - if, that is, one measures such things in terms of complexity of  plot, departure from comfortable suppositions and desire to undermine and  overthrow most readers' pre-conceived ideas and assumptions! Sheri S.  Tepper is, of course, a past master (I should perhaps rather say,  mistress!) of such matters and she handles it here with consummate ease. I  don't believe that anyone could make it to the end of this work without  finding themselves both surprised and shocked at some stage of the journey.  I also found that a deep personal re-evaluation was needed by the end too:  something else that Tepper is always supreme at provoking. The book does  perhaps require a little more effort than most of Tepper's other works  (except, perhaps, &quot;The Revenants&quot;): mostly, I think, because of  the greatly disparate nature of the two parallel story threads and lack of  obvious connections between them. Also, I think that Tepper deliberately  prevents the reader from acquiring too comfortable a toe-hold in either  world, purposefully allowing one to assemble an entirely false set of  assumptions about where, when and who... only to have her take great  delight at demolishing those assumptions, time and time again.<br />Unfortunately, I think that the price that gets paid this time is that  she also fails to make either world (or their coming together) entirely  believable. If you're prepare to suspend belief, though...<br />My only  complaint of this book is that there are some intriguing plot elements  which felt never to come to anything - just why does she go to such lengths  to ensure that Opalears is dressed as a boy, for example?  But then, so  much of this book comes to so much more than one is expecting that I'm  perfectly happy to accept these as smoke screens! Or even to accept that I  missed their resolution in the cataclysmic happens that occur around them.<br />Yes, Ms Tepper has done it again!n in the cataclysmic happens that occur around them.   <br />Yes, Ms Tepper has done it again!	2000-08-22
US	52377733	R33JFAH869K3WD	0812526252	731290029	The Bones	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Unmistakably Tepper	&quot;The Bones&quot; is the sequel to Tepper's earlier horror story,  &quot;Blood Heritage&quot;. It is very similar to the earlier volume, and  while not as biting or ascerbic (although rather more gory) as Tepper's  more mainstream eco-feminist output, it is every bit as well-written, and  certainly very gripping!<br />While this book dates from fairly early in her  output (1987), Tepper brings her considerable imagination and inventiveness  to bear in her own inimitable way and manages (as usual) to put her  particular spin on a subject that one feels ought to be hackneyed by now  but which somehow, in Tepper's hands, proves not to be at all!<br />This is a  horror story for people who do not normally read horror stories, and all  established Tepper fans should try to hunt a copy down!	2000-08-21
US	52377733	ROKNO349KDXKD	0446400157	580002452	A Morbid Taste for Bones	Books	4	107	109	N	N	Good start to an epic pilgramage	Ellis Peter's first Cadfael murder mystery takes as its setting the events surrounding the translation of the holy relics of Saint Winifred from the  remote Welsh village of Gwytherin to the Benedictine Abbey of Saint Peter  and Saint Paul in Shrewsbury in 1138.  Taking this real event as her  starting point, Peters weaves an enchanting if rather overly romanticised  tale of mediaeval rural and monastic life. Naturally, the practical common  sense and basic human decency of her very worldy central character, Brother  Cadfael, win out in the end. Here, he neatly side-steps all of many  power-struggles - secular, political and ecclesiastical - going on around  him, to provide everyone with their heart's desire and solve the inevitable  murder mystery into the bargain! Ellis Peters' writing style is so  wonderfully erudite that one can always forgive her the occasional lapse  into stereotypical characterisation or silliness of plot which tend to  pepper her novels. &quot;A Morbid Taste for Bones&quot; is no exception in  this regard, and whilst the story's central murder mystery is not at all  hard for the reader to solve, the telling of it is so captivating that the  book is hard to put down until it's finished!<br />Incidentally, I would  recommend reading this book before any others in the series, because  otherwise you will know which of the main suspects can be eliminated  immediately! Of course, if you've seen the TV dramatisation, you'll know  the main outcome already, but even then, the book is sufficiently different  to still make it well worth reading.  Recommended.	2000-08-18
