US	52370531	R1DLRVHBNM3C7T	1582341400	86601151	A Cook's Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal	Books	3	4	7	N	N	I Am Not Eating That.	It's subtitled, 'In Search of the Perfect Meal', but really, it should be, 'What's the Grossest Thing You Ever Ate?' The point here is not perfection, nor even exotica. The author does explain later...way later...in the book that a perfect meal is in attitude and not the ingredients, which is reasonable, but that still seems unfair to book-buyers who may be expecting it to actually be about food as opposed to raw snake innards. Just so we understand that the author is a manly sort of chef... his idea of a perfect meal seems to be something freshly slaughtered, something that was someone else's pet, or better still, both. Indeed, his attitude towards food is odd; like an anorexic, he seems to have both a fascination and a revulsion for it. <br />Once you get past expecting him to be a foodie and let him be a story-teller, he's rather entertaining, in the manner of a drunken uncle telling tales of his travels... His disappointment at not getting fugu poisoning struck me as droll and I laughed long and hard over that, but that's probably just me.	2002-08-31
US	52370531	R20I79MO1MUIO8	0140298606	80989159	River-Horse: The Logbook of a Boat Across America	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Muddled, murky...	This book looked so promising. I've a fascination for rivers, and a kind of nostalgia when I think of American rivers and the vibrant part they played in the country's development. A whole book devoted to an exploration of rivers crossing the United States? Rivers have all that history and poetry, blood and romance, all those ghosts just waiting in the mist, to be wrapped in language and rediscovered. <br />That's what I was expecting. Unfortunately the book is way less entertaining than hanging out with your grand-dad while he tuned up his Evinrude. I gave it a chance. Really, I did. I started off, glued to the first pages, determined not to miss a single nuance, and hoping that the trip and the book wouldn't end too quickly. It wasn't long before the author set me straight on that idea. No time for sight-seeing. He was rushed. He had his reasons, having to do with spring melt in the Rockies. I don't care. I hate it when people promise to take you on a tour and then weasel out of it by driving as fast as possible. To add some suspense and adventure, and presumably bulk, to the book, he adds in `worries'. That's the device adventure writers resort to when they aren't really having any problems, but it occurs to them that the TV generation might find their story might be dull without a few. So they create things to worry about. Will they make the next lock or have to wait? Will they find engine parts in the next town? Will their friends meet them at the right dock? It all works out, but hey, they've added that all-important dramatic tension for a paragraph or two. If you're going to do this, you have to do it well, and not too often, or you wind up looking crotchety and nothing else. I wasn't expecting raging adventure. But I wasn't expecting a lifeless swamp of words either. <br />The author's conceit of packaging his companions into one anonymous lump and naming it Pilotis added to the sterility, as if personalities were just way too much trouble. It felt uncomfortable and off, and I began to picture Pilotis as an alien, like the Grays of UFO tales, genderless, ageless, speechless. As we're all aware, adventure writers too often give short shrift to their travel buddies, but this has to be the most extreme case I've ever come across! Anyway, with Pilotis alienated from me, so to speak, that left the author, and I didn't find any reason to like or bond with him. And with nobody to like, it's not an enjoyable trip, not even from my armchair.   <br />The flat-out pedantic language contributes to the overall dullness. Granted, there's lots of information and facts, and if you want to know how efficiently the author could cross the United States, you'll find it in here. That's if you're interested in that sort of thing. I'm not.	2002-02-10
US	52370531	RGREBP9257AC2	0960906495	976988168	Arctic Odyssey: Music, Images & CD-ROM from the Northwest Passage	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Music  Compositions	Presented in an innovative format of book, music, and interactive CD-ROM, Arctic Odyssey was inspired by the journey photographer Richard Olsenius made through the Northwest Passage, a waterway that's still treacherous, mysterious, and alluring to adventurers. It all works very well to capture an authentic feeling for the majesty of the Arctic. The main attraction here is the music, which is beautifully done with a far greater range of melody than I've come to expect from New Age music. Indeed, thankfully it bears no resemblance to that idiotic, monotonous, whiny New Age stuff that makes me psychotic to the point where all I can think about is strangling somebody. The music here is mostly piano-based, and the whole package is well worth seeing and hearing.	2001-02-01
US	52370531	R3SO13B4E3TSQJ	080506284X	686862686	Below Another Sky: A Mountain Adventure in Search of a Lost Father	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Adventure with Heart	This is the recounting of a trip Rick Ridgeway made with Asia Wright through the Himalayas enroute to searching for her father's grave. Her father was Jonathon Wright, who was killed in an avalanche on Minya Konka when she was an infant. Throughout the journey he tells her of her father's life as well as of his own past as a mountaineer and adventurer. This was a difficult book for me to get through, and it was some time before I could pick it up without my hands shaking. I didn't think it would have such an emotional impact on me, and I'm bemused to think that Jonathon can still affect people when he's been dead for twenty years. We knew Jonathon, and I remember vividly the shock of returning from a trip and receiving a telegram saying he'd been killed. Certainly we were familiar with death's capaciousness, but it was a classic case of, \\"Why him, of all people? Where's the meaning in this?\\" It's a curious experience to read a book twenty years later where someone asks those questions about the same person, but we've all known someone who died too soon.   <br />They're difficult questions and Ridgeway does as credible a job of the philosophical answers as anyone can, with his acceptance of life and death, and change. However, his denouement at the end, that we should live each day as if it were our only one, felt flat. We've heard it before and it's been boiled done to a kitchen plaque cliché that I've always found irritating when it's not further explained. I don't think I'd plan on spending my only day on earth wondering if the roof should be redone this year or next and booking dental cleanings, as I'm doing today. My grudge with the cliché is that it seems to imply that we should regret whatever it is we've been doing up to now, rather than accepting that some days are simply going to be filled with the mundane details of living. It also holds an inherent suggestion that we should seek pleasure. But the kind of pleasure that makes life worth living is an elusive phantom and comes only after we've sought experience. Pain or regret may also result, regardless of our intentions. We have to embrace the experience regardless of outcome; if it's pleasurable, it's a bonus and we've earned it. Jonathon tried to focus on the experience rather than the goal or glory at the end, and I think that's what was meant in the book, but perhaps each of us sees it differently.   <br />But Jonathon's effect on people was the result of more than what he did, it was the result of his personality, and Jonathon simply being Jonathon. We all affect the people we contact each day. Whether it's for good or ill is up to us. Partly because of his own innate goodness and partly because of his efforts, Jonathon had a positive effect on the people who know him. The lesson I would take from his life is that we could all have a similar impact if we made the effort to be nice - and I apologize for the lackluster word, but there it is - nice. The circumstances in which I first met him was one where egos could become inflated, inflamed, or deflated in an instant, and the silly posturing and puffy tempers certainly were a contrast to Jonathon's calmness. It's an odd thing, given that I didn't know him that well and it's been a long time, but I am still influenced by him and try (not always successfully!) to behave in difficult situations as he would have. Our lives do indeed affect others.<br />The book focuses on personalities, and that gives it a heart and poignancy which are often lacking in adventure stories. As for his journey with Asia Wright, it begins in Nepal, continues on to Mount Kailas, across the Chang Tang Plateau in Tibet, and ends at Asia's father's grave. The book is nicely-written and over-all the description is strong enough, although there were places where it lacked the vitality that would really bring an area to life for me. I will say (and this truly is surprising, since he recounts a fair number of disasters, not to mention numerous other assorted miseries) that Rick Ridgeway managed the impossible - he made mountain-climbing sound appealing even to me.	2001-01-24
US	52370531	R2TT2R8MHESTJW	029598015X	554519988	Arctic Discoveries: Images from Voyages of Four Decades in the North	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Genuine Feeling for the North	Books of photographs can all too often depict nothing more than a surface prettiness. This is not the case with Arctic Discoveries: Images from Voyages of Four Decades in the North. As well as being beautiful, the images and layout give not only the appearance of the landscape but also the very feel of it, in an emotional sense. Taken from John Bockstoce's many trips the photographs cover the Arctic from the Diomede Islands, between the Chukchi and Bering Seas in the western Arctic, to Spitsbergen, the Faeroe Islands, the Shetland Islands in the eastern Arctic, with Greenland, Iceland, Labrador, and the Canadian Arctic in between. Really, how much more romantic can you get? There is enough description with the photographs to give a clear idea of the locations, and the text enhances and does not overwhelm the eloquence and elegance of the images themselves.	2001-01-09
US	52370531	RQ640YRONOG8D	055324597X	188581428	Skinner	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Finely-Written Entertainment	I'm leery of tales that combine elements associated with fantasy (dragons, in this case) with those of sci-fi. However, it's very credibly done here. On a colonized planet of the future, Chavez Blackstone runs afoul of the ruling elite, the First-Wavers, and is forced into taking the dangerous job of hunting dragons on a neighboring barren planet. Intersecting his story of survival is a depiction of the corporations and the First-Wavers who own them. The quality of the writing, the attention to detail, and the pacing of the book are all strong. The characters are well-developed and the dialogue, which can be a pit-fall for many writers, was a pleasant surprise.	2001-01-09
US	52370531	RNSHSF3E7MPL	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Book on Writing by Someone Who Actually Has Written Books	There are many how-to books on writing written by writers who've never written anything other than a how-to book on writing, so it's delightful to read one by someone as experienced as Stephen King. This is a book I've been wishing he'd write. I found it interesting that he contradicts advice - about plot and pacing, for example - that's been endlessly quoted as gospel in other how-to-write sources. Whether you like King's novels or not, you have to admit he's productive, he has his own voice, and he's down-to-earth. <br />The first part is autobiographical and, with a good dose of humour, he tells us of the passion he's always had for writing, and more importantly, reading. The second part of the book deals with the practical aspects of writing. It's sensible and straight-forward, and stresses the importance of character-driven plot, and of using clear precise language. (Rules of grammar are not a conspiracy to stifle creativity.) If you prefer reading over writing, you can, of course, read it for pleasure. As it should be, this book is easy to read, entertaining, and enlightening.	2000-11-19
US	52370531	R1TWFIU0TRLT8E	0618003916	499150982	Classic Home Desserts: A Treasury of Heirloom and Contemporary Recipes from Around the World	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Best Part of the Meal...Dessert	I really like desserts, and since I like desserts so much I'm fussy and don't want to waste the effort making them and the calories eating them if they aren't good. This book covers the classics in every category - cakes, cookies, puddings, custards, pies, pastries, frozen desserts - so no matter what you're in the mood for you should be able to find something in here. I've had the book for several years and have never had anything fail. The directions are clear and well laid out, although I wouldn't have minded more pictures. Some of my favorites are the White Chocolate Banana Cream Pie, Edna Lewis's Sunday Night Cake, Omaha Caramel Bread Pudding, Boston Cream Pie, and Baked Custard-Style Rice Pudding.	2000-11-14
US	52370531	R3QJJJ08G9NQX8	1573220965	452900713	The Dark Side of the Light Chasers	Books	5	74	81	N	N	Yes, We All Have a Dark Side...	Our shadow side and its projection onto others has been poorly understood, and all but ignored, by current self-help writers, especially those with a New Age 'white-light' slant. It's easy to find fault with others, it's not so easy to find our own. All that stuff we gripe about in others - it's in us too. We all have our petty, small-minded, nasty, and sometimes downright loathsome, aspects. We may admit to a few foibles, but then we draw a line and say something like, \\"oh, I could never be like that,\\" or, \\"at least I'm not as bad as so-and-so.\\" We deny we're capable of being anything other than nice. (Ironically, we're disappointed if people can't find anything to say about us except that we're nice.) If this made us merely hypocritical it wouldn't be a problem, but it makes us feel and behave like victims.  <br />It's not a concept that's easy to grasp, because we do such a thorough job of hiding the ugly bits. Debbie Ford explains it all in a systematic fashion, and the book provides exercises and meditations, but it does require a great deal of honesty. The first step is to find how the qualities we so easily recognize and hate in others manifest in ourselves. The next step is to find the ways these qualities may have unconsciously served us in the past, and then to use them consciously and positively in the future. Our natures do not contain only the blandly cheerful. The aspects we consider dark give us power and can be made to serve us if we claim them as ours. This is not an in-depth book on the subject, and the concepts can be difficult to apply in all situations, but it will give you a basic understanding, and help you to be less judgmental toward others, and yourself. If you've found most of the New Age books relentlessly sweet and nauseating, you'll like this one.	2000-10-31
US	52370531	R10C482UCAI7M4	0152616977	880169320	Pigtails and Froglegs: A Family Cookbook from Neiman Marcus	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ah! Comfort Food!	I was fortunate enough to get a copy of this book for a Christmas gift when it first came out. It's a collection of contributors' favorite family recipes, with the profits going to children's charities, and you can feel the generations of warmth and love that it represents. This is food that someone's kids loved, and there's a good chance you'll find something in here that yours will love. The recipes were tested by Four Seasons chefs for ease of preparation and taste, and they cover the whole gamut, from breakfast to lunch snacks to dinner and desserts. Needless to say, you don't have to be a kid to gobble it up, everybody knows this is the best kind of food.	2000-10-27
US	52370531	R10UG5W8SCHL4F	0898048001	47827721	The Tao of Meow	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Translation by a Master	There have been many translations of the Tao Te Ching, but who better to do it than a cat? Cats just naturally understand the wisdom of the Tao. Although this is categorized as a humour book, and is very funny, it in fact a good interpretation of the Tao. Yes, it is meant to be read by humans. <br />Besides, this book is worth buying just for the sweet picture on the cover.	2000-10-25
US	52370531	R1XZNW70GAAAL1	0312204914	805179604	Medicine Cards: The Discovery of Power Through the Ways of Animals	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Unique Divination Tool	If you have an interest in Native American spirituality and like animals, you'll enjoy using these cards as a meditation tool. The characteristics represented by the animals provide insight into our strengths or weaknesses at any given time. The cards are rather plain, I would have liked a bit more design, but they are charming enough. The accompanying book gives a good basic explanation of both the positive and contrary meanings of the animals. The introduction to the book states that the teachings of the Native American cultures were diverse and complex, and that the cards and their meanings are intended to be a fun way to demonstrate a link between us and all of life, and in that they succeeded very well.	2000-10-22
US	52370531	RVWZ238O7JNZZ	0441005241	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It This is Your Thing, Go For It.	I'm pushing my comfort level a bit with all the nasty stuff in Hamilton's books, but if you're a fan of the horror genre, I'll admit she does it very well. Anita Blake has to be the toughest heroine I've ever run across, yet she maintains her humanity, and it's possible to at least somewhat identify with her. You get a lot happening in an Anita Blake book. The pace is frenzied, although this one takes more time between the action than in her other books. I thought that was okay, I wanted to take the time to get to know the characters a little better. Unfortunately there seemed to be a great many characters, and maybe it's just me but I had a hard time keeping track of who was a human, who was a vampire, who was a werewolf, and who was a wereleopard, let alone who outranked who. But we don't read horror stories to analyze them, we read them for immersion in an alternate and macabre world, and the Anita Blake books do a great job of providing that.	2000-10-21
US	52370531	R2UHKBHHNX32WQ	0945027028	238000789	Mystical Magical Marvelous World of Dreams	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fun and Insightful	By combining basic psychological explanations with interpretive meanings for dream symbols, this book provides a good balance for those who wish to understand their dreams and themselves without delving into a lot of technical jargon. Or, the archaic and downright hilarious guides, as in the \\"dreaming of a teapot means a Gypsy will steal your cow\\" sort. This one does explain that the possible interpretations are subject to the dreamer's own associations, which is the first thing we need to know about dreams. It gives a good range of symbols and is one of the best of its type that I've seen. The basis for the psychology is Jungian, which is simply way more fun for dream interpretive work than Freudian. By the way, there's nothing wrong with approaching dream interpretation with a sense of fun; dreams aren't always weighty psychological things, and we're missing a lot of the entertainment that our minds can provide if we disregard our dreams.	2000-10-19
US	52370531	RRBWMK40I6TIQ	1567184995	575199408	Destiny of Souls: New Case Studies of Life Between Lives	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Journeying Further	We have no way of knowing, of course, if this book, or its predecessor, Journey of Souls, presents an accurate description of souls, although some people claim a sense of dj vu or familiarity when they read them. Both books certainly did make an impression on me; the first one perhaps more than this one, simply because it covered the more immediate basics that we wonder about. This one delves deeper and further. I've read many books on reincarnation, but very few that purport to deal with the time between lives to the extent that this one does. Most books on the subject often appear to be a collection of anecdotes from other sources that have been rehashed and retold until they take on the credibility of urban legends, and the reader is well justified in dismissing them as New Age fluff. This one offers a great deal of new information on aspects that I've not seen before. Although we're not given much detail about the author's research methods, he's obviously put a great deal of time and effort into amassing the material. The information hangs together well, blends well with theories from other sources without plagiarizing from them, and makes systematic and reasonable sense. It gives you a lot to absorb and think about, and it does make fascinating reading.	2000-10-12
US	52370531	REBLPA9M6RNZQ	0060186976	160742687	The Soul of Sex: Cultivating Life as an Act of Love	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Rich Exploration of the Senses	Spiritual writers have always assumed we're trying to get to some loftier plane than this one, where there's lots of love but no sensuality. A sort of endless group hug, perhaps. Without entwining sex with its sentimental partner, love, this book examines the deeper meaning and life-affirming need behind our fascination with sex. Thomas Moore isn't the easiest writer to understand, I find I have to switch to some more lyrical level of my brain to follow him, but his elliptical style fits this subject well. And it's a hidden subject, one that vanishes if you look at it too directly. For all the joy and depth that sex brings to our lives, we treat it rather shoddily, plastering it with coyness, burying it in morality, or handing it off to biologists for dissection. The danger lies not in the concealment, for the elusiveness adds to the intrigue and mystery, but in thinking that we can separate sexuality and sensuality from the fabric of our lives.	2000-10-12
US	52370531	R3V3V50AQUG5JR	0380804557	26552478	Stardust	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Well-Written Fantasy with Humour	With some warped fairy tale conventions, Stardust is a wonderfully escapist story that effortlessly dances into your heart. The cast of peripheral characters and scheming villains are all funny, colorful, nasty, or unusual, in that trademark Neil Gaiman way. This is a quest story; Tristan Durst undertakes one to win the love of a village maid. Quests are supposed to be difficult, of course, but Tristan's single-minded determination in the complex plot makes for some very funny situations. It's a cheerful story, with just enough darkness around the edges to keep it interesting. Perhaps because Gaiman did such a great job of creating characters and side plots, I felt something was lacking in places where we don't learn more about them. Over-all, it has a familiar enough feel to make for comfy fantasy reading, but with ingenious differences that keep you from getting too sure about what's coming next.	2000-10-08
US	52370531	R2A025L3NVC249	0140185232	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Superb Classic	I first read The Razor's Edge when I was 11, when a great deal of its depth, (not to mention a great deal about Isabel's lust, and Sophie's downfall), must have gone right over my head. I've read it several times since. I suppose it was Larry's search for meaning in life after his war experiences that intrigued me the first time, and stayed with me. But as I go through life I more fully understand the parallels between Larry and the other characters. Each of them has hardship and loss in their lives. They handle it according to their abilities, and carry on. His search through mysticism with its ultimate peace of mind was one way of coping. The others, on completely different paths, also find what they're searching for. None of them are without faults and they do not always behave well, but the beauty in the book is that their behavior is always rational for their circumstances. The author displays enormous compassion and does not pass moral judgment on them or impose fictitious punishment. It's a character-driven story, and it's a story that we all, in one form or another, live.	2000-10-05
US	52370531	RF2K4WT32QBCL	0140243402	161858788	Death of the Office Witch (Charlie Greene Mystery)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Wishing They'd All Die	I've finished almost every book I've ever started reading, although every few years there's one that's so tedious that I can't make it through. I may hate `em, but I finish `em. I never imagined I'd not be able to finish a Marlys Millhiser book. I loved her earlier books and had been looking for more by her for years. This one is both boring and irritating, and I just can't continue with it. So far there's a plethora of characters without any personality who are gleeful that the only character with any personality has been murdered, and so far there's nothing to indicate why we're expected to hate the dead victim and sympathize with the brain-dead boors. I got to the part where the protagonist is disappointed that people are discussing the murder rather than her latest business deal, and where she casually plans on getting rid of her daughter's pet cat. (I can only suppose it had too much personality.) I don't know how it all turns out, only that I know as much about Charlie Greene as I can hack.	2000-09-25
US	52370531	R2BMAE4AN9VMHN	0441000916	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Entertaining Gore	This is the first book I've read of the Anita Blake series so I can't compare it to the others. Initially I found, that with one gory or menacing scene following another in rapid succession, I didn't have time to develop much empathy for the characters, and became ho-hum about rotting body parts and scowling bad guys. It's all very much `in your face'. I found the humor to be of the `insults tossed back and forth' type, which is as tiresome to read about as it is to listen to in real life, rather than that of character wit or originality, for which I was hoping. But when the author backed off and gave me space I did get a chance to feel her power and potential as a writer and a story-teller. Some of the characterizations were nicely done, and Jean-Claude was mesmerizing. I'd have liked it better if I'd not felt that the author was simply trying to gross me out.	2000-09-24
US	52370531	R2CGJJR4SW4ADJ	0451197658	938455412	Strangewood	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Distinctive	It took me a while to get into this book about a child's fantasy land gone bad, and I never did develop much fondness for the real life characters. Thomas Randall's `divorced father angst' was reiterated until it got tiresome, and Emily's sexual neediness seemed over-emphasized and out of place, which had the effect of making her mind-numbingly boring. The fantasy land characters were far more interesting and better delineated. Some of the conflict at times became comic book-like, which may please you or not, depending on whether you like your action fast and snappy or descriptive and complex. The plot is imaginative and the story does eventually redeem itself and overcomes some of the weak points. Given the poor quality of the horror genre at the moment, this is one of the better books of its type that I've read recently, and it's nice to see an author trying for creativity rather than another `formula' story.	2000-09-20
US	52370531	R3HR74O8M5OA50	0671578103	262211326	Dragonne's Eg	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Sweet Story	I found this story of a poverty-stricken school-teacher and her quest to  fulfill the terms of a inheritance to be charming and effective, and fun to  read, but it does have some flaws. The pacing is uneven, and although I  enjoyed the lengthy beginning, it speeds up considerably after that; I  would have liked the journey more detailed in places, and not all the  characters are well-developed. Still, it's an effortless read, rather like  a gothic romance, and if you like the lighter fantasies, give it a try.	2000-08-29
US	52370531	R34SVMJXFAFPMB	0742906647	35751566	Something More: Excavating Your Authentic Self	Books	2	30	35	N	N	The Fine Art of Whining	Naively, I misunderstood the `authentic self' in the subtitle, I was thinking in Jungian terms, that is, who we are in our souls and behind the  materialistic layers and personas we wear. That's not what this book is  about, it's about piling on the stuff. Still, never let it be said that I'm  not fun. I looked around my house for magazines with glossy pictures, as  required by the exercises. I found computer, investment, and environmental  magazines...okay, I'm not fun. But still game, I did get as far as tearing  out a few pictures of expensively-attired, skinny, teenaged models. I noted  with some interest that not only did I not look like that, neither did the  models, they were air-brushed. I wasn't sure if this meant my Authentic  Self might be an Anime cartoon character, because around this point I got  lost and just tried to read the book for its wisdom, and got further lost.  It's not that it doesn't have any wisdom, some of the points taken by  themselves are valid enough. I agree with the sentiment that all women  deserve to be treated like queens. I'd also be agreeable if someone said we  deserve to have lightening flashing from our fingertips. But the book is  quite serious in its insistence that we all need to find rich young studs,  who will coincidently also be our soul-mates, to do the treating, and that  we should dump our husbands along with our worn-out undies pronto and get  searching. Finding new underwear is excitement enough for me, I'm confused  as to where we're all going to find rich young studs waiting for us to take  advantage of them. Some alternate reality, perhaps? Besides, I'm extremely  fond of my husband, and since Brad Pitt is now married (and probably leery  of stalkers to boot), I decided to disregard the advice.  <br />This book  presents the type of woman I most loathe, the greedy, self-absorbed,  `gimme-gimme' type. They have a desperation about them that's ugly. I was  especially cynical about some of the buzz-words in the book. \\"Soul-mates'  is one, I've heard too many people claim they've found their `soul-mate'  and had the relationship not last a weekend. And `passion' should have a  deeper meaning than naked lust. I'm not as clueless as to who I really am  as this book would suggest and I can't imagine too many women are, unless  they've been tied for years in a basement or have just awakened with  amnesia. One positive thing about the book - I hated the shallow image so  much that I was forced to look at my own faults, and resolved to be less  demanding and whiny and more appreciative of my husband. In effect, I got  from it the opposite of what I was supposed to.	2000-08-16
US	52370531	R34I0SXY6AD0QR	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Detailed Depiction of a Geisha's Life	Extremely well-written, this is a tale of the making of a country girl into a powerful geisha, and the exacting standards she faced. I'm amused by  the marketing ploy of the testimonial on the back cover that proclaims it  to be erotic, the gist of the book is pretty much of showing how restrained  and regimented a geisha's life was. (Presumably whoever wrote that hadn't  read the book, and knew nothing of the culture.) The book is well worth  reading for the writing and the immersion in the Japanese culture of an era  now past, and it's easy and pleasant to read. It was a terrific achievement  in terms of recreating atmosphere. The ending is sudden and contrived, but  I didn't mind that so much. I did feel that the research shows through a  bit too much, as if after having gone to so much effort, the author wanted  to use as much of it as he could, and the plot feels as if it's been pasted  onto a thesis. Still, it is rich in style and finely drawn detail, and  distinctly different and better than most of the novels out there.	2000-08-14
US	52370531	R60DZAXR55ZLJ	0688044026	857459596	The Cake Bible	Books	5	122	128	N	N	Fantastic	I'm not an experienced baker and although I don't mind baking, I will  admit that I like eating cake more than I do baking it. However the recipes  from The Cake Bible have brought me so many rave reviews that I look  forward to making them. For a special occasion several years ago I made a  three-tiered Golden Genoise with a raspberry buttercream and marzipan  roses, and there are people who still marvel about it. I've also made the  Black Forest cake, the Triple Chocolate cake, and the Cordon Rose Cream  cheesecake with great success. The coffeecake and the blueberry buttermilk  pancakes are now family classics, and for my own birthday I always make the  Perfect All-American Chocolate Butter cake with a Milk Chocolate  buttercream. These are real cakes, similar to great ones I've had in  Vienna, London, and New York, that rely on the flavor of the ingredients  rather than the overwhelming sweetness prevalent in the typical American  cakes. Most of them do use a lot of butter and eggs, and there's no  margarine, powdered icing sugar, or artificial flavourings in these, so be  forewarned. I find them no more difficult than recipes from any other book,  but the end result is light-years ahead. The fancier versions of the  decorated cakes can be intimidating since my manual dexterity is somewhere  below that of a dyslexic orangutan's, but even if my decorations aren't  picture perfect they have a kind of funky charm, and still taste good. In  any case, unless it's for a special event, it's not necessary to make them  fancy. The recipes have been constructed from scratch so that the  ingredients and techniques make perfect sense chemically, rather than  having been recopied from existing ones. It's difficult to look at other  cake recipes now.	2000-08-12
US	52370531	RPEJKH3DDNIJO	0689118449	111987339	The Illustrated Garden Book: A New Anthology by Robin Lane Fox	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Delightful	When we imagine heaven, we picture gardens. If there is a heaven with  gardens, they must surely be like Vita Sackville-West's gardens at  Sissinghurst. Mind you, when I read this book, I'm over-whelmed by a few  sins, like greed and envy, and possibly lust, and I hope that doesn't  disqualify me from heaven. I want gardens like these, never mind that the  only thing green about me is envy, or that most of the plants won't grow in  my climate. <br />This is a selected collection of gardening articles Vita  Sackville-West wrote for The Observer, and charmingly illustrated with  photographs and coloured sketches. Although there are gardening tips, it's  a book to be read for pleasure. She wrote passionately and we can  recklessly follow in our imagination, if not in reality.	2000-08-06
US	52370531	RSEDY6EN4E4NK	1573221449	150396281	A Woman's Journey to God	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Refreshing.	My relationship with God has been one of contempt. Presumably on both sides. The God we're told we must love, and whom we're told loves us unconditionally, is the same one whom we're told hates women and encourages  abuse of them. I'd prefer eternal hell to kowtowing. In any case it's  impossible not to tick Him off. Go about with your hair uncovered, take joy  in anything, duck out of polishing the floors, lip off to a man, and the  `unconditional love' turns to wrath and hellfire. Not to be out-done, I had  not merely smoke, but, I swear, flames coming out of my ears when religion  was mentioned. I did realize I was confusing God with His messengers, but I  thought He could have chosen less disgusting messengers. I did try to fix  the relationship, and have run across lots of ideas. Some of them had merit  but left me expecting more of a God I'd want to know. The idea that women,  being the sweet helpful little things they are, of course God loves them,  made Him sound like a good ole boy who expects the nearest one to bring Him  a beer. The idea of replacing God with a Goddess had appeal, but some  ancient goddess I'd never heard of before reading a book didn't have any  power in my mind. The idea that God was an abstract law of physics made  sense to my logical mind, but left me lonely. The idea that He was my  personal buddy didn't mesh with His bad treatment of women historically.  All right, so I'm irrational and cantankerous, but a lot of women have  similar feelings. Being angry at God is like having a splinter in your  mind.  <br />That Ms. Borysenko was able to over-ride the negative (and crazy)  impressions I've had, without pretending they don't exist, is no small  achievement. She's taken the various paths and searches and fragments and  arranged them into something more panoramic than we've been able to see on  our own, and made sense from all the nonsense. I did feel that she  over-looked an aspect of women, the aspect where we're not always so  feminine. Gathering in prayer and meditation groups, helping the community,  and hanging out together, is all well and good. But sometimes we want to  kick butts and slay monsters all by ourselves, and behave in down-right  unfeminine ways, and I was disappointed that she confined the definition of  `woman' to `feminine' in the traditional sense, and made the path a little  narrow. Nonetheless, the book is healing and refreshing, and she did banish  all those nasty patriarchs with stones in their hands from my head	2000-07-30
US	52370531	R3PWJXV723SYK2	0875164293	492033765	Many Lives, Many Loves	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Recommended.	It's a shame if this one is no longer in print. It's certainly one of the more influential books I've read on reincarnation and I consider it a classic in that field. It gives a well thought-out and balanced view in  contrast to more recent writings, which sometimes can seem gullible and  light-weight. It was first published nearly forty years ago, but the  information still holds up well. I particularly liked the chapter on  animals, it's an aspect many writers on reincarnation disregard. If you're  interested in reincarnation, do try to find a copy of this book.	2000-07-29
US	52370531	R33RJKCR875WMP	0345429133	144220583	I Am Jackie Chan: My Life in Action	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hero	This autobiography reads as easily as a letter from a friend. It focuses more on the person behind the image than on the movie star, it's entertaining, the characters and incidents are brought to life, and the  pace is even throughout. From the harshness of his childhood training,  through all the phases of his career to his international stardom, Mr. Chan  maintains a sense of humor, which is why we like him. His persistent spirit  matches his physical abilities, and he couldn't be anything but a hero.	2000-07-28
US	52370531	R2UVQ2J1LD2T1V	0446525383	881900442	Simple Abundance: A Daybook of Comfort of Joy	Books	4	197	211	N	N	A Satisfying Read.	Looked at one way, this is a collection of cheerful essays with homespun spiritual wisdom and housekeeping advice that satisfies our appetite for the nostalgic. Looked at another way, it's a terrifying reflection of a  society of souls so sterile that we take comfort in being told it's okay to  use scented bath products and buy flowers. Still, thousands of women have  found meaning in the book, and they can't be all wrong.<br />This book is more  about abundance than simplicity. In places Ms. Breathnach does extol the  virtues of simplicity and has you clearing clutter; in others she has you  buying and hoarding and collecting everything, from fabric remnants, just  in case some day you get the urge to staple lace to the pantry shelves, to  autumn leaves for exuberant Victorian tableaus, (aka dust-collectors).  These things are much more fun to read about than to actually do. I don't  want to tie little circles of fabric to the tops of jam jars; even when  they're bought that way, I'm the one who gets to cut them off and throw  them in the garbage. Nor do I want to replace the buttons on all my clothes  with cute ones, I curse enough if I have to replace one where the  manufacturer did a shoddy job. I don't want to know what decoupage is; and  most especially, I really, really, don't want to buy a hat to cheer myself  up. Having hot mulled cider after raking leaves sounds charming (and I  loathe cider), but the reality is that after raking leaves my back hurts,  I'm exhausted and can barely crawl to the shower to wash the sweat and dead  bugs off, and if I had to search for a hot mulled cider recipe I'd whack  the nearest bystander with a poker. <br />Since books are for reading and  pondering, the pleasure in this one is in doing exactly that, and it does  provide a lot of it. The problem I had with it was its overall frenetic  busyness, which is in sharp contrast to its meditative advice. If you  haven't already read it, go ahead, you know you want to, and somewhere in  all its generosity and abundance you'll find ideas that appeal to you and  that you can realistically use. But remember, if you can't keep up with the  suggestions and images given for creating a perfect home, don't feel  guilty. If you can, you're either a Stepford Wife or have a serious  amphetamine problem.	2000-07-26
US	52370531	R3OIMC83A88OVN	0863161715	405719525	Martial Arts for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book, 70)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Useful Fundamentals	Presented in a humorous (all right, so the typos make it funnier than the writers intended) format, this book does explain the fundamentals for many of the martial arts styles, which can be hard to find without buying a lot  of books. It's useful to examine the differences if you're considering  taking one of the martial arts and aren't sure where to start, or if you  are taking one and wondering what the other disciplines teach. It touches  on the styles from various countries, some of the popular martial artists  from the past and present, and it is quite funny and easy to read. Give it  a look, and maybe you'll find a tidbit or two to impress your sifu.	2000-07-26
US	52370531	RD8SWGPM3IWVP	0767900146	556848636	Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Yummy.	My mother and mother-in-law made delicious things with vegetables, and neither used much meat. Out in the real world, that is, the one I'm stuck in, `vegetables' meant overcooked frozen peas and carrots, and iceberg  lettuce salads with bottled dressing, that we shoved out of the way to get  to the meat. Later, nouvelle cuisine did `rediscover' vegetables, and  presented three intimidating pea pods and a kiwi slice on a Villeroy &amp;  Boch plate, not to be devoured, but adored and worshipped. Vegetarianism  itself was downright scary, with dour and greasy nut burgers, and more  recently, Textured Vegetable Protein ersatz turkey. If you say, \\"I hate  vegetables,\\" in a crowd, you'll bond with a lot of people. The unfortunate  thing about this is, most of us actually love vegetables, given half a  chance. Admit it. For example, it's the side dishes, with the mushrooms,  fried onions, herbs, sweet potatoes, garlic, lemon, fresh bread, ginger,  salads, and so forth, that make Thanksgiving or Christmas a glutton's  paradise.<br />This cookbook has mercifully killed off decades worth of  misconceptions. The recipes are delightful, with just enough seasoning to  enhance without overwhelming, or making them unreasonably complicated and  time-consuming. I'm not confident enough on my own to know what to do with  fennel or choy sum when I see it in the stores and I appreciate finally  having a guidebook that gives me the most basic ways to use them, as well  as in more elaborate main dishes. You will likely have to plan ahead and go  shopping, most of us won't have all the ingredients for the more complex  recipes in our pantries, but they are widely available in larger centers. I  haven't tried all the recipes, and there are some I probably never will,  but everything that I have made from it has been delicious. This is one of  the more useful cookbooks I have, and I have way too many.  <br />Since Ms.  Madison refrains from nagging, it's not appropriate for me, but I cannotresist making two points. One, if you become at all aware of factory  farming with its inhumane treatment of animals, toxins, and the impact on  the environment, you're a soulless wretch if you continue to shovel in meat  in the quantities to which we're become accustomed in recent years. Two,  there are many very unpleasant diseases that can be avoided with a  vegetarian or mostly vegetarian diet, or at the least, more vegetables and  grains. And unless you have religious commitments, no one is saying that  you must never, ever, again eat a cheeseburger. But you don't want me to  tell you about all those diseases, now, do you?	2000-07-26
US	52370531	R4AAKVRQIPH8L	0345421884	287990437	Dragonshadow (Winterlands, No. 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dragons &amp; Darkness	This isn't Barbara Hambly's best book, but I still enjoy anything by her more than I do from the majority of fantasy writers. She easily draws the reader into her unreal worlds. I liked Dragonsbane and I liked the  character Jenny Waynest as she was depicted in it, an older woman who could  handle a sword and who was neither unrealistically tough nor ditheringly  feminine. This book did not have the same impact on me. The pacing is  uneven and characters that she went to considerable effort creating, and I  was curious about, are summarily dispensed with. I don't mind a glimpse  into the darkness, not all moral problems are as neatly solved in real life  as they all too often are in stories, and I felt that the adult characters  having to deal with it was the strong point of the book. But I was  uncomfortable with the son's involvement. Still, Morkeleb makes up for a  lot.	2000-07-20
US	52370531	R36IZX91HL2ENN	0804816174	242784310	Hsing-I: Chinese Internal Boxing (Chinese Martial Arts Library)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Simple &amp; Concise	A straight-forward guide, it provides coverage of the five elements and  the twelve animals of Hsing-I and should be useful to beginners. Heaven  knows, my copy has been well-used. The illustrations and descriptions of  the movements are fairly easy to follow. It's not an in-depth coverage and  does not claim to be, but it does present the basics and touches a bit on  the history and philosophy behind the art.	2000-07-19
US	52370531	R2C1OODY31XF0M	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wickedly Funny	This may not be the best book I've ever read but it certainly is the funniest. I rarely read novels a second time, let alone more than that, but with the authors making so much fun of everything, I'd never have been able  to catch it all with just one reading. They take pokes at everything, from  fad diets to computer warranties to the self-righteous. Pratchett and  Gaiman are an inspired duo, sort of like a really warped version of Fred  and Ginger. The characters are terrific, and howling funny, and who hasn't  suspected there may be angels and demons like Aziraphale and Crowley,  perfect English gentlemen that they are, helpfully bollixing things up? If  you don't `get' English humour, or the irreverent, crazy, strange,  sardonic, or ridiculous, give it a pass. (By the way, even though I love  this book, I've never been able to finish a Douglas Adams one, and I'm not  sure what that means.)	2000-07-19
US	52370531	R2MXT5ELH7KYVG	0804816174	242784310	Hsing-I: Chinese Internal Boxing (Chinese Martial Arts Library)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Simple &amp; Concise	A straight-forward guide, it provides coverage of the five elements and  the twelve animals of Hsing-I and should be useful to beginners. Heaven  knows, my copy has been well-used. The illustrations and descriptions of  the movements are fairly easy to follow. It's not an in-depth coverage and  does not claim to be, but it does present the basics and touches a bit on  the history and philosophy behind the art.	2000-07-19
US	52370531	R2GTLXFO4JI30Q	0915230151	227982398	The Mirror	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eerie &amp; Captivating	I first read this book twenty years ago, and am happy to see that it's still available. I've read many novels before and since, most of which I no longer remember, but I've never forgotten this one. All the characters,  even the secondary ones, are realistic, the historical details appear to  have been well-researched, and I especially enjoyed the `woman' ones of  everyday domestic life. The plot is imaginative, and not written to a  typical formula type. But it's much more than anything I can define, it has  a haunting quality that lingers in the mind. It's an unusual book.	2000-07-15
US	52370531	R1ZANJ3IVO5NYE	0295974478	369579463	Whales, Ice, and Men: The History of Whaling in the Western Arctic	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Colourful &amp; Precise	Comprehensively researched, this book provides a complete history of whaling in Alaska, from its inception to its demise. Whaling was an important part of American history, a unique part that is forever gone, and  deserves examination, despite our present sentiments on the subject. Mr.  Bockstoce's history is thorough and provides considerable detail, and  delves into a wide range of issues, from economic factors to the impact on  the Native population. Still, the book is more than history. What makes it  fascinating reading are the anecdotes and personal glimpses into the lives  of the people who were involved. Whatever else they were, they did not lack  for courage and perseverance. It's their stories, funny, strange, gruesome,  or just colorful, that make the lost ships and abandoned harbors and  history come to life. Overall, an great read for anyone with an interest in  a clear and concisely-written history that includes personalities as well  as data.	2000-07-15
US	52370531	R3L4VD2YREMUZ8	0679448799	236837824	Deep Play	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Not Very Deep.	I'm not sure what I was expecting, something that would teach me or affect me, I suppose. Every time I thought the writer was going to say something profound, there she was, off riding her bicycle again. As I was reading I  checked the cover more than once to see if the book was subtitled `The Joy  of Bicycling', or something like that, that I'd overlooked when I bought  it. She's certainly more athletic than I am, and although I am dimly aware  there's joy in using the body, overall it reads like a list of skills, none  of which have anything to do with me. Perhaps the book left me unmoved  because I just couldn't find much common ground with it, and the parts  where I could, I've either read elsewhere, or discovered for myself. It's  pleasant enough to read, but I found nothing that left a lasting  impression. Except for those cussed bicycles.	2000-07-14
US	52370531	R39U3OAI6DWDZI	0380791420	182647482	Soul Between the Lines: Freeing Your Creative Spirit Through Writing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enough Ideas to Keep You Going into Your Wild Old Age	Creativity defines our individuality, it's not an unnecessary decoration, like too many bows on a dress. Of  course it's in writing, painting, music; it's also in baking a cake, building a distribution system for auto parts,  or talking to your cat, and it's in the choices we make in books or music  or bed sheets. You're already creative, whether you admit it or not, or  even if your grade school grammar teacher wanted you dead. Writing doesn't  have to be the goal here, the idea is to use writing to brain-storm your  mind and get it to open, and then turn it to any creative endeavor. Ms.  Gray's book has enough muscle and exercises to drag something out of you.  Even mundane results can provide joy, and you might just create something  extraordinary that may, just for a moment, let someone transcend the  ordinary world. <br />One note of caution, some of the exercises tended to get  me reminiscing about every dreary thing that ever happened to me. Writing  for therapy leads inward and can mire me in self-pity. It may be healing,  but creativity expects you to move beyond the pathos and into a larger  world where it is the therapy itself.	2000-07-13
US	52370531	R1SCZLDFRS8RB	0380791420	182647482	Soul Between the Lines: Freeing Your Creative Spirit Through Writing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enough Ideas to Keep You Going into Your Wild Old Age	Creativity defines our individuality, it's not an unnecessary decoration, like too many bows on a dress. Of  course it's in writing, painting, music; it's also in baking a cake, building a distribution system for auto parts,  or talking to your cat, and it's in the choices we make in books or music  or bed sheets. You're already creative, whether you admit it or not, or  even if your grade school grammar teacher wanted you dead. Writing doesn't  have to be the goal here, the idea is to use writing to brain-storm your  mind and get it to open, and then turn it to any creative endeavor. Ms.  Gray's book has enough muscle and exercises to drag something out of you.  Even mundane results can provide joy, and you might just create something  extraordinary that may, just for a moment, let someone transcend the  ordinary world. <br />One note of caution, some of the exercises tended to get  me reminiscing about every dreary thing that ever happened to me. Writing  for therapy leads inward and can mire me in self-pity. It may be healing,  but creativity expects you to move beyond the pathos and into a larger  world where it is the therapy itself.	2000-07-13
US	52370531	R3NO9BM0R6JSNC	0380791420	182647482	Soul Between the Lines: Freeing Your Creative Spirit Through Writing	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Enough Ideas to Keep You Going into Your Wild Old Age	Creativity defines our individuality, it's not an unnecessary decoration, like too many bows on a dress. Of  course it's in writing, painting, music; it's also in baking a cake, building a distribution system for auto parts,  or talking to your cat, and it's in the choices we make in books or music  or bed sheets. You're already creative, whether you admit it or not, or  even if your grade school grammar teacher wanted you dead. Writing doesn't  have to be the goal here, the idea is to use writing to brain-storm your  mind and get it to open, and then turn it to any creative endeavor. Ms.  Gray's book has enough muscle and exercises to drag something out of you.  Even mundane results can provide joy, and you might just create something  extraordinary that may, just for a moment, let someone transcend the  ordinary world. <br />One note of caution, some of the exercises tended to get  me reminiscing about every dreary thing that ever happened to me. Writing  for therapy leads inward and can mire me in self-pity. It may be healing,  but creativity expects you to move beyond the pathos and into a larger  world where it is the therapy itself.	2000-07-13
US	52370531	R3TK5X5Y94XMH0	076790446X	304616304	North to the Night: A Spiritual Odyssey in the Arctic	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Well-Written &amp; Colorful	All too often people with no experience of the Arctic think it'd be a really nifty idea to have an Arctic adventure. If they're climbers or sailors down south, and equipped with enough high-tech gadgets, they can't  foresee any problems. After all, or so the reasoning seems to be, the  unsophisticated Inuit have been getting by for centuries, and they didn't  even have Gore-Tex. The Arctic hates arrogance and if you insist on  bringing arrogance with you, it will kill you. Many adventurers don't live  to write about their adventures, although their oft-times lugubrious demise  does provide a kind of morbid entertainment for the locals. When  Northerners tell you you're a fool it's because you are a fool, and not  because they're trying to keep all the fun for themselves. <br />Thus, I had  to suspend my judgments of Mr. Simon as not only a fool, but a damned fool.  Naiveté not being enough, he topped it off with an unhealthy taste for  senseless risk-taking. But perhaps because at heart he wasn't an arrogant  fool, the Arctic let him get away with it, so I decided that I could do no  less and let his charm beguile me. His story-telling ability is  entertaining and his sense of humor rises above the flaws in his common  sense. If people did only sensible things then both books and the human  spirit would be awfully dull and that has to be admitted when reading any  true life adventure book. It's not the readers' job to psychoanalyze the  writer, but simply to come along for the ride, and this is a fascinating  ride. His spiritual insights develop naturally from his experiences and  that makes them more meaningful to me than if he'd set out to look for  them, and he succeeded well in making an ultimately uplifting story,  despite the bleak situation.  <br />Oh, by the way, if this is an appealing  book, a lot of credit must go to Halifax the cat, for her part.	2000-07-12
US	52370531	R1P5HW8NO4WPSF	0743400720	913869672	The Camino	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Warm &amp; Open	I've never been on a pilgrimage, and was curious, so I enjoyed taking a vicarious one. I wanted to know the nitty-gritty stuff and I appreciated Ms. MacLaine's openness in writing from the point of view of a woman I  could identify with, and not as someone trying to preserve a glamorous  image. She comes across as warm and rather sisterly. Although the  descriptions of the trek are vivid, it's not intended as an all-inclusive  travel guide and shouldn't be read as such, it's a recounting of a personal  inward journey. I did eventually find something a bit tedious about it, and  the ending feels rushed. As to how much of Ms. MacLaine's mystical  experiences I `believe', I really can't say, I'm skeptical of taking them  literally, but I don't think that is the point anyway. They were hers, and  perhaps if the most we get from them is that the human experience is  stranger and more complex than our day-to-day reality, maybe we've gotten  the point. <br />Ms. MacLaine is to be commended for her courage in making her  experiences public. She doesn't need the money from the book sales and the  publicity is more negative than anything else. But because of who she is,  she has the opportunities for a search that few of the rest of us have, and  I believe her writing of her experiences comes from a genuine desire to  share her findings. She asks only that we listen to them if we wish, and  open our minds a little, she does not claim she has all the answers, nor  that we should follow her. I think that's correct, I believe that although  it's fine to follow in someone else's steps for a while, we're meant to  find our own path. I find her humility touching at a time when anyone who's  ever had a flash of spiritual insight thinks it means they should start a  new church or organization and recruit followers, which traps them in a  dogma that allows for no new insights, which leads to a closed mind. Maybe  when one's mind remains open, there are no limitations to reality or thehuman spirit.	2000-07-12
US	52370531	RLUQIHXSL54KD	034539769X	655812617	Sacred Space: Clearing and Enhancing the Energy of Your Home	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Lots of Fun.	Denise Linn's books are always a pleasure to read. Through her eyes the world comes alive with mysterious enchantments, she sees unseen things, rather like my cat. I'm a little envious of her ability, but her writing  generously provides guidance for opening doors I didn't know were there, so  I bear no grudge. I begin wondering if there is a nature spirit in the  shadiest part of the garden where the ferns are, or if the dank and  neglected basement corner is harboring more than earth-bound spiders and  mildew. You don't have to believe in the whimsical, it all makes perfect  sense and her suggestions are practical as well as mystical. I will admit I  have enough trouble cleaning the house without wondering what the energy is  doing, having run out of energy myself, but there are enough suggestions  that you can choose what suits you best if you'd like to perk up your home  and yourself, and Ms. Linn is never judgmental or prissy. It doesn't hurt  to be more sensitive to the effect our surroundings have on ourselves and  others, and ultimately the idea is to make it more pleasant. Ms. Linn puts  a lot of herself into her writing, resulting in a book filled with personal  and colorful detail, and just reading it is cheering.	2000-07-03
US	52370531	R3NQDCU090NBLV	0924486651	754068000	Northwest Passage Solo	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Read for Adventure Fans	With the world seemingly becoming smaller each day, with less room for new adventures and discoveries, David Cowper's journey will invigorate those who have a yearning for the olden days of the explorers. The Northwest  Passage still has a romantic mystic attached to it, and the difficulties of  crossing it are well described in this book. Enough detail and description  is included to give the reader a genuine feel for the Passage and the scope  of the trip. Even if a reader has no interest in the North, the book offers  a glimpse into the human spirit's desire for adventure and challenge. Yet,  and perhaps the nicest thing about it, Mr. Cowper retains humility and  never self-aggrandizes.	2000-06-23
US	52370531	R3DQ7K2SN7T1FY	1561707228	211610945	God, Creation, and Tools for Life (Journey of the Soul Series: Book 1)	Books	1	27	35	N	N	But Where's the Love?	Initially, I was lulled by the nice stuff  - there's lots of  \\"God loves everybody\\", \\"we're all equal in the eyes of God\\", we're all striving for \\"individual perfection\\", etc. I began to have trouble determining which  passages were meant for the reader and which applied only to Ms. Browne and  wondered if I wasn't an eavesdropper. You know what they say about  eavesdroppers...listen long enough and you'll hear something bad. Yep,  there it was. Seems we're not so lovable and equal after all. There's some  mysterious dividing line between those of us who are good and bound for  glory and those of us (70%) bound for the cosmic trash dump. No reason is  given other than that the majority of us were allowed to evolve to  `darkness' to make life miserable for the good guys, who are expected to  defeat us, and thus achieve perfection. When they've done that, the rest of  us will be erased, as it were. Compassion and tolerance aren't part of the  curriculum.<br />This is a severe upset to the teachings of Jesus and Buddha,  not to mention countless others, but perhaps only Ms. Browne has the truth.  Is 70% of humanity evil, or heading that way? Who are these evil people,  dank and shuffling, and without conscience? I've traveled around the world  and met many people. I've met people I didn't like, and doubtless, those  who didn't like me. Who among them were evil? Perhaps I can't recognize it.  Or have I been incredibly lucky, mathematically speaking, and met only the  good ones? Alas, I think not. Many were rogues and rascals and I loved them  the way they were. I thought a few were sleaze-bags, but I expect one  person's sleaze-bag is someone else's sweetie. Some were hard and bitter, I  suppose because of life circumstances I can only guess at. A few could have  used a decade or two of therapy, or a severe thrashing. Flippancy aside, I  don't doubt there are bad people out there. But 70%? Even the nightly news  isn't that depressing. As for me, in any given group of four people, I'm  unlikely to be the most virtuous one in it. Even if I were among the  'saved', am I supposed to leave behind those I love, or even those I  decidedly don't love, and skip off to blissful other dimensions and golden  temples? The rationale given in another of Ms. Browne's books (not in this  one) that if one has an interest in spirituality or reads her books(!), one  must be good, is not reassuring. Some of the nastiest characters in history  have considered themselves spiritual. I would hope how one lives would take  precedence over one's reading material. <br />Am I going through my own  experiences and lessons simply that the righteous might use me for target  practice and thwack me with their flaming swords? Sounds painful. (By the  way, why does everyone want to be part of an army and stand in front of God  waving weapons? Even if God's a Klingon, He might like to see someone  waving a pan of oatmeal cookies, or verses of bad poetry, just for a  change.)  Actually the idea that God's purpose for me is to be a misery to  the good guys has a certain spiteful appeal. If I can't join `em, I might  as well harass them. And I don't want to join them. I don't want glory  that's bought at the cost of others' souls. That's unbearably mean.<br />Also,  the belief in psychic attack, that is - that problems in life are caused by  someone else's bad thoughts, negates the idea that we're responsible for  our own lives by the decisions and choices that we ourselves have made, and  the effects our own thoughts have on us. What we choose to believe we begin  to create. When we choose paranoia we become victims with no power of our  own other than a fearful defensiveness against imaginary enemies.<br />My not  agreeing with it doesn't make it a bad book. It's a bad book because the  saccharine bits are inconsistent with, and can't make palatable, the hatred  of humanity inherent in it. My own beliefs are reasserting themselves.  That, if we are capable of love andof seeing the good within all others,  why would God be capable of less? That there is no dividing line where some  personify light and others darkness, even if there are days when it can  seem that way. That the darkness we must cope with is our own darkness,  lest we project it onto others. That we will all advance, no matter how  slow and klutzy we may be about it at times, and take steps backwards, or  maybe there are no such things as backward steps. That the world of  ordinary humans is filled with astonishing acts of sweetness and compassion  if we look for them. That, yes, we do cause problems for others. As they do  for us. But we all serve each other. Is 70% of humanity deserving of  annihilation? Good God, no, and I don't care how difficult your co-workers  are.	2000-06-22
