US	52381942	RROYT7954MZSD	0375727205	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Big Thoughts , Highly Recommended	Unraveling the Greatest Mystery of All <br /> <br />Cosmologists are left to piece together the beginnings and workings of the universe from fourteen- billion year old clues.  The author points out that between the two important ideas of, \\"atoms\\" and \\"symmetry\\" , have lead to maybe the beginnings of a \\"Unified Theory of Everything\\".  Between these ideas and physical clues, scientists are making progress, and can infer conditions within the early Universe, the shape of the Universe and even the direction it is evolving.  In the beginning chapters, it discusses that if all motion is relative, why does a whirlpool of water form a concave surface which really identifies it as the moving object.  Why does matter have the property of inertia? Is it the result of the Higgs Ocean?  What mechanism imparts a direction to time and disorder within the Universe?  This reader felt the author was genuinely concerned about leading readers of all levels to the answer, sometimes with exasperatingly small baby steps.  Although this reader could actually pinpoint the step where the reasoning became too complicated, I felt I never made such progress before in this area. Simple statements like, the reason Einstein felt that time dilated in his theory of Relativity is, if the speed of light is a Universal constant and the distance is the same, the only thing left is that time must change, I never heard it put so elegantly.  The author offers a very good and long explanation of the particle v.s. wave controversy, the theory of intertwined particles, where simultaneous effects on both particles take place faster than light could ever communicate the effect. The book explains that Time has a direction, and why.  This book offers perhaps the best explanations, analogies and illustrations of time slicing, excellent explanations of string theory, multi-dimensional universes, in short, after a multitude of space-time books, I feel most authors were parroting explanations of phenomena, with thisbook I feel like I gained a rung or two on the ladder of understanding. Perhaps other readers will do better, but I believe this book contains some of the best explanations of any book dealing with quantum, relativity, parallel universes, string theory and the search for the ultimate theory.  The reader will gain a sense that this branch of science full of handwaving physicists theorizing of what might have been is actually making progress.  I was fortunate to have read Steven Wienberg's \\"The First Three Minutes before tackling this book and I found it beneficial as an intro to this book. <br />	2005-09-18
US	52381942	R346HM1CWV24Z	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Slow starter that catches Fire in the Later Chapters	An uneven presentation. Sometimes the author seems to be straining to talk about what influenced the young William Shakespeare.  The first part of the book covering his early life appears very wordy, grasping for evidence in what influenced young Will. <br />In later chapters of the book, ideas are supported by more scholarship and the ideas presented are more interesting.  The book is probably not the final word, on Shakespeare, but it seems to be a very thorough text covering his whole life.  The author presents many contemporary historical events and relates them to the works of Shakespeare.  A very rewarding book after a slow start.  The author to his credit presents different scholarly theories that he does not always agree with.  Some of the theories suggest there is evidence that young Will was a closet Catholic along with his father, and discusses the mystery of the missing years in Shakespeare's career. Also discussed was the strange downfall of his family's fortunes, a family of lower middle class standing with large civic duties suffered a reverse of fortune that they never recovered from until young Will became a famous playwright. <br />The latter half of the book ties in political events that probably became the germ for his plays.  The scandal where Dr. Lopez, a former Jewish doctor, to Queen Elizabeth  finds its parallel in the merchant of Venice. King James I fascination with witchcraft was mirrored on stage with the play Macbeth in the hope to get royal favors and revenue.  As Shakespeare reached retirement age he wrote the plays \\"A Winter's Tale\\", \\"King Lear \\" <br />And \\"The Tempest which the author relates to an elderly successful William Shakespeare  pondering retirement and bequeathing his wealth to his offspring.  The author did his research, and explained it well. <br /> <br />	2005-07-15
US	52381942	R1LYO6APKUJ5D4	0805076883	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (American Empire Project)	Books	4	11	28	N	N	A new Era of High Stakes Foreign Policy	The author has written a very convincing book with well laid out facts.  The USA has a very successful foreign policy, but is well disliked by a large portion of the globe.  The author contends that the American populace is shielded from the truth from the effects of its foreign policy.  This book, I believe will give the reader the idea that everything historically the USA has done in the area of foreign policy is wrong.  In the future the authors contends that in the era of sophisticated terrorism, there will be a backlash against the world's sole superpower.  The book also explains that in the future the force of world opinion will congeal and be harder to ignore to the point where the USA's course of actions will be limited.  The author definitely presents some good points, he knows his history and discusses points that are difficult to refute.  The future is unknown, but I find the Author's interpretation of the past events of our foreign policy much too negative.   <br />	2005-07-07
US	52381942	R34R96I3EU3VE9	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A Book Chuck Full of Big Ideas	If you have not heard of the theories expounded in this book, it will be a real eye-opener for any reader. Contained within the text is really the mechanism that decided which civilizations were to be successful and which were to remain in the early stages of development.  The author does an excellent job explaining in clear easy to understand terms the reasons for Western European civilization's dominance.  A dominance to the point of colonizing the remaining lesser developed regions of the Earth. <br />In a nutshell the Author's point is that every primitive culture has already leveraged and maximized any advantage the environment has offered.  Western Europe had inherited and developed the gifts bequeathed from Mesopotamian civilizations including, domesticated animals, some optimal grain crops, some fiber crops.  With this springboard combined with the discovery of steel making and by happenstance a society exposed and partially immune to the affects of the major diseases affecting urban populations, it became an invincible combination to subjugate and rule major portions of the globe.  Areas of the world that did not benefit from having all the right ingredients or stepping stones to capitalize their environment and take them to the next level were subdued.  An example would be a culture without a suitable pack animal such as the domesticated horse doomed that culture to manual labor and almost certain losses when their foot soldiers faced mounted cavalry for the first time. Kudos to the author, big ideas,well thought out, and presented well <br />	2005-06-14
US	52381942	R2DKHHD8V167OA	076790513X	839625237	The Broken Hearth: Reversing the Moral Collapse of the American Family	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A Book that Needed to be Written	The author makes some very good points in this book, things that need to be said about the state of the American family in today's society.  William Bennett is of the opinion that the nuclear family is the basic building block of civilization.  The author's concern is that this basic institution of society is responsible for nurturing the next generation and is being besieged on all fronts. Divorces are easier to obtain, the onslaught of teenage pregnancies not resulting in a Marriage commitment, same sex marriages, casual partnering, etc. The book is a good expose' of facts regarding, poverty and single incomes families, and the agendas of certain political groups.  Unfortunately many of the arguments appear weak, drawing conclusions based on intuition or appealing to the reader's gut feeling. Reading the book with a devil's advocate mindset, you feel the arguments are really not that strong.  With that said, it is still an informative book, that underscores a disturbing trend in our society that has been growing for decades.  William Bennett, the author never flinches from controversy and this is a book that needed to be written.	2005-05-13
US	52381942	R3B8T6GPYJ6I5D	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a Compelling Book	john Paul join <br /> <br />A well balanced biography, John Paul Jones, a man of low birth driven by ambition to gain honor and notoriety.  Throughout his career, time and again he displayed first rate skill in naval tactics and warfare.  A naval strategist that favored using America's fledgling navy to reek havoc upon Britain's shore requiring Britain to commit some of its naval resources defensively.  John Paul Jones planned what the young America would require for a blue water navy to protect its interests while the new country was still in dire straits fighting for its independence.  Jones was one of the few American captains successfully squirmishing with Britain's overwhelming sea power. <br />This man should have been let lose upon Britain by the Continental Congress, except his ambition drove every one of his supporters away from him.  His crew, fellow captains, and allies gave him lackluster support and many plotted against him.  Indeed it can be seen in this book that some of the best opportunities to injure the enemy were squandered while Jones had to cajole his crew to follow his lead in the egalitarian ill-disciplined newly formed American navy. <br />Jones is seen as a man that came alive during struggles and was ill at ease during peace.  His remedy was to seek out commands with Russia's Black Sea navy against Turkey and France's continuing struggle with Britain. <br />A praiseworthy biography.  Good research, but the author introduces some of it in a way that interrupts the flow of an otherwise very compelling book.   <br />	2005-05-04
US	52381942	R2JGNGMEDLJJE1	0066620732	490999440	Just for Fun: The Story of an Accidental Revolutionary	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Fast Light Reading	A good book to get a feel for the life of Linus Torvalds, the inventor of Linux, a computer operating system.  The book contains insights into his life, living a frugal computer-geek existence in Finland struggling to make his computer payments to eventually, a mansion in California and getting involved in the \\"American Dream\\".  It comes across in the book that the author did his research actually spending many personable hours with Linus and family.  <br />Aside from an anecdotal biography the book contains some gems. One is Linus's philosophy of the progression of technology.  The introduction of a new invention at first aids survival, then supports social order and efficiency, then as the invention becomes common place, the item is obtained for it entertainment value.  Linux  the operating system, was written, \\"Just for Fun\\" and so provides the title.   <br />  The other strong point of this book is that it contains one of the better explanations of the \\"free software\\" concept, licensing, and copyrights and licensing intellectual property v.s. creativity.  This reader would have liked the book more if it were a little more technical.  I also found the author's conversational style to the reader irritating as if talking to a child.   <br />	2005-04-20
US	52381942	R14DO57XG3OOBJ	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Amusing, Informative and Deep	<br />      I read this book because of repeated word of mouth recommendations and perhaps I expect too much.  I was not familiar with the name Tony Hendra.  As a young teen, Tony was introduced to a monk, Father Joe and his monastic lifestyle. The book is a worthwhile and very amusing biography of Tony growing up in Britain.  He eventually became successful in the States becoming involved on the editorial staff of the National Lampoon magazine and Spinal Tap.  He crossed paths with many celebrities.  This was an easy fast paced book, and the farther one reads the more engrossed one becomes to discover the final outcome.  A man that probably could have found inner peace with a monastic calling is living \\"Life in the Fast Lane\\" in LA and New York and seeks out Father Joe and monastic peace periodically when his life takes a downturn.  I was a little disappointed because I thought the wild, out of control times, would be wilder and more out of control, but that is not fault of the author.  The final chapter does contain a twist giving the book a feeling of completness.  All in All, an story that is at once , amusing, informative, and has some seeds sown in for some deep thinking.  <br />	2005-04-14
US	52381942	R1HO4T0NZEU4S3	0679744088	466363748	Dreams of a Final Theory: The Scientist's Search for the Ultimate Laws of Nature	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Very Good Overview of a Difficult Subject	Dreams of a final theory <br />  I believe this book's main propose was the Author, a Nobel prize winning physicist attempting to weigh in for Congressional funding of the Superconducting Super- Collider  (SSC).  This book is like reading two books in one.  The first part of the book had some very good writing about atomic particle research and excellent explanations of the experiments.  It also contains the author's surprisingly optimistic view that the theories being currently developed are the beginning of the correct path that will lead science to the \\"final theory\\".  The remainder of the book is a promotion of the field of particle physics to show that by reduction all the sciences can benefit and share in what is learned in particle physics. Chemistry, Biology, etc at their lowest levels operate at an atomic level.  Also some philosophical musings.  The author has a knack for explaining complicated ideas for the layman.   <br />	2005-04-08
US	52381942	R3CPXI2RYFHR4M	0465091121	297359242	Rising Tide: The Untold Story Of The Russian Submarines That Fought The Cold War	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Well Researched	This is a must read for anyone interested in submarines.  It concentrates on the USSR submarine fleet.  This book has many things going for it.  It contains a very good background history of the Russian/ USSR navy.  It put many historical news items that one may have only heard in piecemeal fashion, in retrospect, such as the various disabled smouldering USSR subs that literally popped-up.  All in all, I thought this book provided invaluable new information, (at least new to this reader) than has been previously available.  The fact that the Glomar Explorer operation actually succeeded in recovering a USSR submarine codebook, a little more knowledge can be gleaned from this book about  the US Navy's underwater listening system SOSUS , some espionage and tactical information along with the damage the Ames and Walker spy intrigues actually cost the United States in day to day deployment terms.  The book's strong point is that it stresses the fact that the USSR put pressure to bear on getting results from its submarine fleet, but treated it as a poor relation to the overall USSR military budget.  Last in line for funding, maintenance and service.  Unsuccessful patrols would shorten an officer's naval career.  Yet the history shows that poor quality construction and safety procedures, maintenance and supply were the root cause of most of the failures.  The USSR sailors fielded crews subjected to higher risks, therby effecting greater sacrifices, sometimes the ultimate sacrifice was required to save the boat and crew.  The USSR's submarine fleet was actually facing a two front war, One front, the West from the Cold War and a steady technological challenge, the second front, the USSR military, fielding a fleet where the crew was subjected to substandard conditons of safety and a severe lack of supplies. <br />I would also recommend reading the book's appendix where Gorshkov (the USSR's Rickover) explains Russia's and the USSR's naval history in a socialistically pleasingway.  I thought this book was a real eye-opener,  It is evident the authors did their research, occasionally the material overlaps with some repetitions, but in relation to the amount of information provided it really remains a spellbinding read. <br />	2005-04-05
US	52381942	R3NQG27RFL1WL3	0465024378	130677329	The First Three Minutes: A Modern View Of The Origin Of The Universe	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Unique Subject,	There is an acute shortage of the accounts of the early universe for the layman.  This book covers the first few minutes of the universe written by a Nobel prize winning physists, Steven Weinberg.  All in all, this text is a very good expose' and really not outdated for the casual reader. It covers string theory, the pros and cons for an open and closed universe, and dark matter question.  The meat of the book is based on the fact that as the original universe cooled, seconds after the big bang and sub-atomic particles were allowed to form. \\"If\\" the big \\"If\\" this primordial ball attained equilibrium then many assumptions can be made from present day evidence directly back to early primordial conditions.  The cooling proto-universe had particle formation ratios and radiation emitting frequencies that can be evidenced today. As the universe cooled additional particles were allowed to form and various radiation frequencies were allowed to escape. <br />The author Steven Weinberg has a very natural style of writing, translating the extremes of physical theory into a step- by-step progression of the beginning universe.  A very rewarding book.  <br />	2005-04-05
US	52381942	R1NCFCJ6TMYCTO	0312421702	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very Insightful	The author Atul Gawande has become one of the foremost authors in relating the physicians art and the medical field  to the laymen.  The Author still has empathy for the patient.  He has not forgotten the questions that patients struggle with.   This book presents a series of true medical situations.  It is the story of decisions that have to be made by physicians, sometimes fast paced decisions, maybe logical, rational or mundane decisions or forced decisions that have to be made, before all the facts are available.  \\"Complications\\" is really the story of the consequences, the twists and turns of these decisions.  This book will make one think about situations that the medical field faces.   <br />The author seems comfortable on either side of the fence, discussing the problems the physicians face and equally the concerns of the patients.  The author's discussion on the hospital procedure for corrective action is an eye-opener. It certainly does not appear to be as effective as corrective procedures in critical industries.  This book will draw you in, simply stories of medical situations that you'll think about it for a long time afterwards. <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-03-29
US	52381942	R21SL3JEKANL3T	0060572957	94824058	The Great Divorce CD	Books	4	1	1	N	N	thought provoking	This is a fantasy book about a fantasy journey, not what I expected after reading Lewis's \\"Mere Christianity\\" and The Four Loves\\".  This book is like a thinking man's \\"Pilgrims Progress.  C.S. Lewis  has the whole plan of a soul's trip to the after life worked out.  The logic and symbolism is what makes this book.  C.S. Lewis has worked out a neat little belief system.   As a new arriving soul, C.S lewis narrates his journey, he meets other souls with personalities we have all met. Lewis's helpful guide explains away the problems other souls have in reachng the \\"mountains\\".  This book was a very thought provoking book presented in the context of an journey, all the while handling the major questions of life and religion.  One does not necessarily have to subscribe Lewis's reasoning to enjoy this book.  It can be read on the basic level, a simple jouney or as <br />an explanation for the major questions of life and death. One can see why Lewis's works maintain their popularity over the decades.  I thought some of the coversations of newly arriving souls was a litle long winded in some parts and it took away from the flow of the journey.	2005-03-17
US	52381942	R2V0MGPDKUJLN6	0963865005	63719932	Calibration: Philosophy in Practice	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	More Technical than Philosophical	This book was written by the Fluke Corporation, a major manufacturer of quality electronic testing equipment such as digital multi-meters (DMM). Most chapters explain a feature or standard to be measured.  The chapters explain how the standard is traceable to NIST (National Institute of Standards and Testing) and explain how the Fluke Corporation performs its calibration.  This reader believes that if this subject matter appeals to anyone, the chapter overviews and summaries are the most interesting.  The book has many schematics and shows various testing and calibration circuits, enough to cause anyones eyes to glaze over.  This book is not really for someone in the general quality-calibration field interested in the \\"philosophy of calibration\\". I found it a narrow specific technical book that would be of interest to a few people planning to setup up a calibration laboratory for a large company or a service company.  This book really goes in-depth into the calibrating equipment, circuits and various alternative ways to measure the same feature. I reviewed this book to let it be known that the title is a little mis-leading and gives no hint to the onslaught of technical information within. The book is more for someone known as a calibrator's calibrator. It will give some appreciation to why some DMM cost $10.00 and some over <br />$600.00  <br /> <br />	2005-03-06
US	52381942	R3DOROK6C5SVR9	0812973011	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Eye-opening Account  of a Global Problem	The Author Tracy Kidder becomes like Johnson's Boswell and dutifully follows Paul Farmer in his day-to-day life mainly in a Haitian health clinic that he founded..  The result hopefully is a very accurate way to write a biography.  Dr. Paul Farmer, Superman, cannot help but impress any reader.  It sounds as if not only does he work superhuman hours with the poorest of the poor in Haiti, he really gives them his personal time, still he has time for fund-raising, keeping up correspondences, pioneering and affecting world health political agendas, writing books and becoming a world authority on tackling MDR TB (multi-drug resistant Tuberculosis).  In his spare time Dr. Farmer shuttles back to Boston, drops off cultures to testing labs and unbelievably also sees patients while in Boston.  I firmly hope that this guy is for real and unfortunately it also appears that he is one of a kind.  This book is full of hope when it is seen what just one man has done.  If someone like a hands-on Dr. Paul Farmer believes the onslaught of AIDs and new powerful strains of Tuberculosis on impoverished tropical populations can be controlled, who are we to argue and maybe his organization deserves a contribution.	2005-03-01
US	52381942	RNACKUK6ILQBR	0471393401	675583451	The Universal History of Numbers: From Prehistory to the Invention of the Computer	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Like Reading an Encyclopedia	This book is subtitled \\"from Prehistory to the invention of the computer\\", which is a little misleading.  The text really ends about the stage of Europe's adoption of \\"Arabic numerals\\".   <br />This reader thought there were three main trends within the book. <br />1st. A history of how every culture formed its counting system, from Polynesians islanders, to Tierra del Fuego, various African tribes to ancient and extinct cultures, cuneiform, hieroglyphics, knot tying, tally sticks to body counting.  The author's blurb says the author Georges Ifrah spent 10 years in a worldwide quest recording different culture's counting systems.  The author is a truly unique man, nothing escapes this author.   <br />2nd  The overall views are interesting, and the illustrations are suburb. The different systems explained from a historical perspective are though provoking.  The author does a wonderful job explaining how each system works. <br />3rd   This book is really at the encyclopedia level.  The minutiae between the different counting systems of Polynesian body counting systems is of little concern, but this is how precise this book gets.  The info is there if its needed. <br />4th  There is no mention of mathematicians, Pythagoreans, ancient trigonometry or algebra in the book, just an expose' of numbering systems.  Thw author sticks with numbering systems. <br />The reader will be in awe of this book's informational overload.  I found the secret is to know what to read and what to skim and it makes a rewarding book to give one an appreciation of the numbering system we have today, and surprisingly other systems that have not been entirely retired such as tally sticks, and abacuses. <br /> <br />	2005-02-19
US	52381942	RUJTJ9MYN08WL	0684835339	160386834	GREAT BOOKS	Books	2	31	55	N	Y	"Western Cannon" its not	<br />This was not a great book,  This reader envies and admires the author being able to return to Columbia College and partake in the \\"Great Books Program\\".  The author could not maintain this reader's attention.  Many passages from the classics seemed to drone on, peppered with some side-light descriptions of the author's  younger \\"college aged\\" classmates.  I can see by the number of five star reviews that this book was a hit with many readers.  I thought it provided a narrow scope on classic literature.  The book I read previous to this book was Harold Bloom's \\"The Western Cannon\\".  Harold Bloom gives concrete examples and rules why a book should be considered a classic in Western Literature.  This book by David Denby offers a more intuitive approach.  I recommend Harold Bloom's book instead.  <br />	2005-02-09
US	52381942	R1UVJWAG06R3F1	1565927249	675258335	The Cathedral & the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and Open Source by an Accidental Revolutionary	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Is it time for Linux ?	<br />This books starts off with a very good history of the development of the Linux operating software.  This open source development process started the author thinking about the two software development methods, the Cathedral method, where a large corporate structure hires programmers to develop software, keeps the source code secret, and charges large amounts to recoup it costs, not from the original product development, but from the expected legacy problems, technical support, bug fixing, software updates, etc.  On the other hand the bazaar method, encourages open source software.  Open source software encourages a programmer or group within the hacker community to gain ascendancy, to possess and maintain and steer the software to keep it relevant.  The Author's point is that with most business models in the future the Cathedral method (read Microsoft) will not be able to compete with the Bazaar method (read Linux).  In the Cathedral method the programmers must be hired, the bazaar method the hackers are attracted to a problem, become more dedicated, revisions and bugs are handled at internet speed.  The author tells of many real-life business experiences companies have had adopting the open source method.  The middle of the book explains the hacker ethic and how the hacker community operates.   The reader learns the true meaning of \\"hacker\\" v.s. \\"cracker\\" and the true meaning of free software.  The author predicts that open source software will make deep in-roads into the Fortune-500 companies.  That their investments in hardware and records may be dependent on one software company's decision to continue supporting that software revision is the problem.  Open source software would provide a proliferation of hacker communities willing to constantly update older software.  The author appears to know his stuff and progressively throughout the book the author lets it leak out that he is one of the hacker community and is a player/spokesman in this software battleI found this book a real eye-opener, can Microsoft's workforce  continue to support software like Windows 2000 with 60 million lines of code, as opposed to Linux taking advantage of a worldwide army of hackers reporting bugs, writing patches, and keeping hardware drivers updated.  Time will tell. <br /> This book was enough to prompt this reader to obtain a copy of Linux just in case.. <br /> <br />	2005-01-29
US	52381942	R1HBO0DK5LWL3G	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The classics in a different light	The author, Harold Bloom has the distinction of being one of the foremost defenders of the literary classics, and to some of his critics he has become the primary upholder the writings of \\"old dead white men\\".  Mr. Bloom makes quite a case for his literary choice of monumental books that constitute a Western Canon.  Shakespeare reigns supreme in the author's estimation because his writings touched upon so many things universal in human nature. After Shakespeare no other author comes close to having such a widespread appeal to all of human nature and this is the author's point.  The first author to write, touch upon or pioneer the use of literature in a unique way, that has a lasting affect upon society.  The fact that the author's choices are almost all \\"dead white men \\", may have been a product of the society in which they wrote, but it does not diminish the affect their written texts have had upon succeeding generations.  Ignoring this argument this reader thought it was a rewarding experience to discover just what the author thought was noteworthy about some particular classic. A classic, put in the historical perspective of its time.  It spurred this reader onto reading a few classics I had missed.  The books sounded more interesting once I knew the significance of the work... Bloom's criteria and  reasoning for a Western Canon is educational, interesting, and rewarding to the reader.	2005-01-25
US	52381942	R278LU8QIA6IOP	0690012101	882233685	Beaumarchais: The Man Who Was Figaro	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An amazing life, wicked interesting	A well written book, this biography could not fail to hold one's interest  Beaumarchais's life reads like a Hollywood story.  A watchmaker's son, that invents a new escapement for his watches whereupon a renowned watchmaker steals the design and claims it as his own.  Beaumarchais invokes the legal system, justice is done, but the legal case catches the eye of the King, Beaumarchais then becomes watchmaker to the King, later his musical talents are noted and he also becomes the music tutor for the royal family, and thus began a career that included, fortunes made and lost in business speculations, lawsuits, duels, and pamphleteering to defend his honor against his enemies.  He became a most sucessful playwright, author of the classic - \\"The Marriage of Figaro\\".  Beaumarchais was a survior of the French revolution, a government secret agent and a businessman that went deeply into debt to lend money for arms and ammunition to the young United States, a debt that was only begrudgingly repaid to Beaumarchais's heirs many years later. The author appears to have done his research.  There are many references cited. There is a little in Beaumarchais's life to <br />hold anyone's interest. <br />     <br />	2005-01-07
US	52381942	RLOFXJWYG1EJB	1566630150	587357092	Rubens: A Double Life	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Art for Business's Sake	The author did a very good job portraying the life of Peter Paul Rubens from a young Flemish painter in search of a teacher, he struck out for Italy. He develops and refines a style that is a blend of the Northern and Southern European painting styles, Rubens had a head for business also, unlike many other artists of the time. He disdained the court intrigues and being captive to a powerful patron.  Ruben's plan was very modern, he set up a palatial house in Antwerp to attract the best art students as apprentices.  These apprentices would rough out paintings for Rubens to finish, greatly expanding his output.  His house also became a place to entertain the wealthy customers, and as a locale for his art collection.  As the most renowned and prodigious artist of his time, Rubens invested his wealth into a huge art collection. True to his business class ideal, in the midst of Europe's religious conflict, The Thirty Years War, his religion changed with convenience. Another side of Rubens is that because of his contacts and traveling he actually became involved in diplomatic intrigues carrying secret messages to the movers and shakers of the Thirty Years War, under the guise of painting their portraits.  The author is to be commended on this text. She cites many sources especially about Rubens style and technique, besides herown opinion.  The author includes insights into personal life gained mainly through his personal correspondence. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-10
US	52381942	R1012ZFVY69SDI	0517409313	242609892	Diving Bell & Butterfly	Books	4	2	2	N	N	There but for the Grace of God ....	A haunting book written by a victim of a stroke that could only use his left eye to communicate. This is his story, written painstakingly by blinking on the appropriate letter as the alphabet was presented to him  The author portrays the mental toughness to cope with his condition on his \\"down\\" days,  The diving bell is the symbol when his condition weighed heavily upon him, such as when his kids visit him and he is unable to give the slightest response, save his left eye. The butterfly is the symbol of his mind as it is free to escape.  The author is generally upbeat, his mind trying to overcome his condition.  His virtual trips, virtual gourmet Christmas dinners that he visualizes, ignoring the feeding tube thst is actually feeding him.  A total thought provoking book.  132 pages that cannot leave a reader untouched. His condition came upon him suddenly <br />The reader can not help but have a  \\"there, but for the Grace of God go I \\" feeling. <br />       <br />	2004-12-10
US	52381942	R1ASTF9500V1C7	0452268346	394734929	Atom: Journey Across the Subatomic Cosmos	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	True Asimov style	This book is an excellent summation of the progress made in discovering sub-atomic particles, It may not now be up to date (it was printed in 1991), but I would not forgo the learning within, or the Asimov method of presenting it.  Isaac Asimov specialty was explaining difficult subjects to his readers.  He did an admiral job keeping the subject matter interesting.  Each short chapter is dedicated to a particle, ex. mesons, quarks, bosons. Each chapter also gives a little historical background of the search and discovery behind each particle and how it fits within the sub-atomic world. Nuclear physicists may have progressed far beyond this by now, but this is still a good book for piecing together the subatomic puzzle of particles.	2004-12-09
US	52381942	R2S5VDUYYBIYEY	0618246983	254276554	The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Peek is sometimes better than a Good Look	The average science reader can not keep abreast of a dozen fields of science to any great depth. Skimming the best of this year's science and nature writing is often the only way to peek into other areas without being bogged down by the original work.   <br />These books have become so popular simply because they fulfill the timesaver niche.  Basically a science and nature \\"Reader's Digest\\"  When presented with the opportunity to read portions of this book I found I was driven to read it completely. There is a littler here for everybody; the hilarious excerpts of Michael O'Connor's newspaper column \\"Ask the Bird Folks\\", to the serious societal problem of modern mind altering drugs in the pipeline with impacts way beyond that of Prozac that can produce \\"better\\" personalities and citizens. <br />   Some articles are real eye-openers, a historical look at juvenile diabetes in the recent past, when the disease was considered a death sentence, the patient's stark choice, a starvation level Atkins type diet to prolong your life or an \\"enjoy life while you can splurge\\".  Other thought provoking articles cover, parallel universe theory, the smarts of an octopus,surprising when compared to its station on the evolutionary tree.  And some unsolved mysteries, how can a microbe that must be injested by a cat latch onto just the right circuitry of rat's brain to make it unafraid of cats.   <br /> This book is generally a fast read, no math and all the material is well explained.  Kudos to the editors, they did a great job choosing material for this book.  A lot of bang for the buck. <br />	2004-12-09
US	52381942	R3VAUC3L63DY63	0385319460	78754024	Fermat's Last Theorem: Unlocking the Secret of an Ancient Mathematical Problem	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Well Done	An ancient mathematical problem, claimed to be solved by a French mathematician, Fermat, over 300 years ago, but no proof survived.  This problem known as Fermat's last theorem still stymied modern mathematicians until Andrew Wiles armed with modern mathematical techniques and theory demonstrated a proof in 1994. <br />  This is one of Amir Aczel's better books.  A balanced book that succeeds in giving the reader a general idea of the mathematics involved. Mr. Aczel's explanation of a difficult field of math are very good, and keeps the reader's interest.  This author in many of his other works usually expands his text to the point where the story does not agree with the title or purpose of the book, This time he got it right. A short book, fast paced, occasional tidbits of interesting facts to setup a historical background of the problem and its solution.  It finishes with the trials and tribulations and eventual success of Andrew Wiles, a mathematician turned into a recluse being consumed and driven to solve this secret.   <br />	2004-12-07
US	52381942	RPC5DPCC11AGT	1560152583	866967899	Boys and Girls Learn Differently!: A Guide for Teachers and Parents (Wiley Audio)	Books	2	13	27	N	N	Little of Substance	The first part of the book is unbearably slow,  the gender differences of boys and girls are painstakingly boiled down into a litany of \\"boys excel at..., girls excel at.  The list that everybody has heard, sports and spatial tasks = boys,   penmanship, language skills = girls.   The saving grace of this book is that in the 2nd part the author mentions what should actually be done.   Michael Gurian, author/ educator, also has a few pilot projects being run in the state of Missouri. The results sound encouraging.  He encourages teachers to start catering to the needs of both genders in the class. He stresses that to do this teachers will need training.  As for parents the usual \\"be a concerned and supportive parent\\" is always added.  I was generally unimpressed with the book, no real blockbusters. The real world results of his pilot education programs were to me the issue that maybe the author was onto something. Hopefully if it is as good as its portrayed this method will gain some notoriety.	2004-12-07
US	52381942	RAFJNSMXXPVQJ	0786104392	899488895	The Great Pierpont Morgan	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Sympathic Biography ?	A surprisingly sympathetic biography of J.P. Morgan.  He was a steadying force in the marketplace, especially in the area of the railroads where the competition was cut-throat.   The author tells of cases where Morgan would re-acquire ownership of a Railroad at a loss, because Morgan thought the owner was not running it correctly.  Time and again Morgan would risk money to uphold his business principals often losing money in the deal.  Eventually in later years the government stepped in with their regulatory agencies and performed much the same task that Morgan was performing.  The author gives some personal insights such as his style of art collecting and his lifestyle.  It is very well written, interesting, and appears to be well researched,  Morgan's scandals are also mentioned, but overall I am surprised at how straightforward and upright J.P. Morgan appears.  I had scant knowledge of J.P. Morgan, and this is the first book I have read by this author, but the viewpoint of this book is so different from what I expected it left me a little skeptical. This book will make the reader think twice that maybe J.P. Morgan is receiving a bum wrap from the reputation he has with the average man on the street's opinion of him. Call it cynicism, but this reader can not shake the feeling that there must more to this guy. <br />	2004-11-19
US	52381942	R1BIFXAPM0Q07Z	0800848195	541972782	The Life That Lives on Man	Books	5	2	3	N	N	interesting & eerie	<br />The book is both excellent and eerie.  If you are one that just has to know what kind of zoo we are carrying around and why, then this is the book.  An easy read, it won't be boring, becasue the life described in the book is very close at hand.  This is a book that will provide you with new incites.  The section about mites was truly fascinating.    Kudos to the author's interesting style and the fact that he picked up a subject not much discussed and ran with it <br />	2004-10-29
US	52381942	R382C7ODG5USCY	0788788663	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish That Changed the World	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Interesting and informative , but ...	This book is another interesting and informative, but narrow subject history book of the type this author prefers to write.  In some sections it poses as a cookbook.  I was irritated by the amount of text actually devoted to Codfish recipes, when what I purchased was a historical type book .  The author has a very good writing style.  The book covers the early history of some cultures that took advantage of this bottom dwelling fish prized for its unique white meat.  The Codfish affected these early cultures as it still does today, where regional and national economies are suffering from the impact of worldwide diminishing Codfish stocks in spite of some sporadic conservation measures.<BR>      This reader recommends ignoring the all too frequent codfish recipes interspersed with the good historical information. This book makes for a fine compact interesting history of man's relationship with the Codfish.  Ignore the historical section and I suppose it would be a passable Codfish cookbook.	2004-06-16
US	52381942	R1O0N9U0B7ODYB	1590072499	367419940	The Basque History of the World	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Cookbook or History	This book as well as this author's other book, \\"COD\\", contain a wealth of information about cooking recipes, and it does not mix well with the historical section.  This author has to decide if he wants to write a cookbook or a history book. It makes this reader hesitant to take on another book by this author entitled  &quot;Salt\\" ,  because a history of salt may bring an overwhelming list of recipes.  If the reader can ignore the history v.s. cookbook controversy, then the historical section is good writing, very interesting and informative.  It seems civilizations, and conquerors may come and go, but the Basques remain, always attempting to remain true to their laws and traditions. A small fringe Basque group employs violent terrorist tactics with the aim of forming a separate Basque nation.  The author conveys historical sympathy with majority of peaceful Basque people against the failed policies of the central Spanish government.  His view is that they are often portrayed as scapegoats.  I thought this sympathy may be a case of the author becoming a little too close to his subject matter and losing his objectivity, until the recent spate of train bombings in Spain.  The Spanish government's first suspect was announced to be the Basque separatist movement, but later it was discovered to be Islamic extremists.  All in all, it was a very worthwhile book dealing to inform oneself about the Basques and Basque history.	2004-06-11
US	52381942	R1KNHN6BV8Y0AK	0813398169	314673888	One Hundred Centuries of Solitude Redire	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A book of limited and narrow scope	This book's main point which it drives home continuously from almost all the contributory authors was the flawed decision making process to site the nation's HLNW (high level nuclear waste) at Yucca Mountain.  Because of number of contributors, the information is a little repetitious and each author strayed a little into the other's subject area. What should have been a decision based on science and economics became heavily weighted down with political considerations.  The facts show it was a flawed decision making process.  Some of the contributing authors seem to say that the optimum place for Nuclear storage was not found, that the Yucca Mountain site was a political decision. If there had been a free exchange of knowledge and facts, then the correct site would have been chosen.  The public furor is the result of a bad decision making process, totally ignoring the strongest sentiment that drives the public with projects of this nature, \\"Not In My Backyard\\", no matter what the scientific facts may show.  Can science and some theoretical hand waving be relied upon to safely judge one site better than another for the duration of the next 10,000 years?<BR>  The book's chapter on how other countries are dealing with their nuclear waste was the most beneficial part of the book and also very succinct.  The authors lead the reader to topics about Carbon 14 leakage, other country's storage systems, and \\"engineered barriers\\", but after leading the reader to these terms little or no explanation is given. This is good book to get a slice of information about the Yucca Mountain decision process. This reader believes the subject matter is too narrow to really inform most readers about the process of storing nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain	2004-06-08
US	52381942	R17KOAW5KHB7DT	0965081915	682329490	Parallel Port Complete: Programming, Interfacing, & Using the PC’s Parallel Printer Port	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Title says it All	I cannot recommend this book highly enough for the home gageteer. The author Jan Axelson is a rare example of someone that knows her stuff, explains it well to novices, and provides excellent generic examples of code. The examples provided cover situations such as; exporting data bits out thru the parallel port, reading info from the data port, searching for data ports and addresses, and using the parallel port to communicate pc to pc.  Seldom do you find a  \\"can-do\\" person that provides excellent instruction at a beginner's level.   The fascination of this book is that as home computers become more powerful, they are still limited in their effect on the external environment, except through dedicated peripherals, such as printers, scanners, etc. With this book, a pc port relay kit (purchased off the internet), and maybe a semester of Visual Basic instruction and &quot; you da man &quot;.  Once you can open and close a relay connected to your parallel port from a visual basic program you are off and running.  Most electrical devices in you home become fair game.  This book needs an update, except for a Tour-de Force in the beginning chapters of code segments in Pascal, Assembler And Quick-Basic, the remainder of the book is in Visual basic 4.0.   This reader had no problem importing the examples provided on the enclosed floppy disk into Visual Basic 5.0 .  This author has also written a sister book \\"The Complete Serial Port \\", and it is on my &quot;must read \\" list.	2004-06-07
US	52381942	R2Y4B7GRA9JXSJ	0268031541	910724991	Inventing Irish America: Generation, Class, and Ethnic Identity in a New England City, 1880–1928 (IRISH IN AMERICA)	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	The city is Worcester, Ma.	This book should really contain the name of the city (Worcester, Massachusetts ) in the subtitle. This reader believes an intimate knowledge of the city of Worcester is central to appreciating this book, otherwise the locations mentioned within the text will just appear as an unconnected litany of place names..  The book painstakingly plots the spread of the Irish immigrant community across the city landscape, parish by parish. It explains the political tightrope walk the Irish-American and the American-Irish developed with the host culture and with the newer immigrant cultures also attempting to assimilate.  The author has done his homework.  Quotes from leading figures, Irish community newspapers and political speeches are exhaustive. One interesting point that agrees with Andrew Greely's book on Irish-Americans is that the Irish outside of New York City and the Boston area. assimilated quickly into the melting pot, but the ethnic identity and more mature, less vibrant, industrial economies of the Northeast cities made the immigrant battle for a \\"piece of  pie\\" more difficult, than in cities to the West. .The book shows that the history of the St. Patrick's Day  Parade in Worcester is a pretty effective barometer that highlighted the conflicts within the Irish-American community. The author is to be commended on the research, but any purchaser of this book should know that a knowledge of the city of Worcester and its institutions would be especially helpful to appreciate this book fully.  I gave it a three star rating because the quotes and research became a little too tedious in some sections.	2004-05-20
US	52381942	R3IE708QQ29A62	0060956399	723179563	The White Nile	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Destined to be a Classic	This book and its companion book &quot;The Blue Nile&quot; will not disappoint anyone looking for an interesting story of equatorial exploration, in the days when the interior of Africa was still the \\"great unknown \\" to the world at large.  This book has  fallen into or is teetering on the brink of political incorrectness in some circles, but it is amazing that that is what is drawn from this book. It is one of the best accounts of the exploration for the source of the Nile river.  The source was not known by the world at large until a series of explorations and conquests took place. Taking an overall view, armies still clashed with the native inhabitants, explorers still faced hardships and ordeals. A portion of World History took place in this area,.in what was probably the last equatorial \\"Man against Nature exploration struggles  The book is extremely well written. A very entertaining style. I rate the Blue and White Nile together.  The White Nile led me to the Blue Nile book and a plan for some follow-up reading on the explorer, Richard Francis Burton.  The main point is the shocking realization that that source of one of the world most historic<BR>rivers was not common knowledge until fairly recent times.	2004-05-19
US	52381942	R1KRYJXJK9LGUO	0060956402	723179563	The Blue Nile	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Blue Nile	This book and its companion book The White Nile are both some of the more enjoyable and interesting  history books available.  They will not disappoint anyone looking for an interesting story of equatorial exploration, in the days when the interior of African was still the \\"great unknown \\" to the world at large. One should read both the Blue and White Nile books by this  author to really get a feel for the history that concentrates on the era of European involvemnt into the Nile area and of course the discovery of the source of the Nile.  It also gives a good background into the roots of modern history of Egypt and Ethiopia with respect to the European powers in light of todays events.	2004-05-19
US	52381942	R3540C9QS03UUV	1590073541	263289727	Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Zero is  not just a number, its a  way of life	A very interesting book. The Author shows    how mindsets, philosophies and cultures had to change to enable the Zero to be accepted.    The West overlooked then resisted the idea of zero.<BR>  When the zero idea took hold and was finally accepted it affected everything from Aristoteloism, to commerce, to Art. Even the biblical creation stories took on a different light.<BR>Art in the West during the Renaissance gained a major improvement<BR>as the sense of perspective was developed.  This vanishing point within a painting is the equivalnt of the introduction of Zero into the art world .<BR>  I would read other books by this author, interesting history, The book moves right along, I like the Author's style, plenty of background, but always stayed the coure.  I believe an audio book<BR>is probably not the correct format for this information.  I would have liked to have seen the test portraying some of the<BR>equtions.	2004-05-12
US	52381942	R31TFN6VH9U1CS	0743422996	9400276	The Mystery of the Aleph: Mathematics, the Kabbalah, and the Search for Infinity	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Where's the beef ?	A very wordy, but interesting book.  The author intertwines the subject matter around a very well developed background, in fact a little too well developed.  The main story is about the human mind's inability to contemplate infinity .  The author points out that there are warnings in the Kabbalah, the Jewish book of mysticism, about peering into this aspect of mathematics. The famous mathematician Georg Cantor is credited with discovering and pioneering this area of mathematics.  Mysteriously every time Cantor attempted to seriously delve into infinity theory he experienced a mental breakdown.  Kurt Goebel another famous mathematician was also mentally affected by working in this area.  The very basics of what they were considering was performing mathematical operations on magnitudes of infinities.  Infinities of different sizes.  It is a strange concept but something akin to asking, \\"what set has more members, a set of all the integers or the set of odd integers \\"?  Once infinities are ordered then they may be ranked and considered eligible for mathematical operations.  This is the second book I have read by Mr. Aczel.  I believe the title of this book should have lead to the \\"meat\\" of the story, but the background history and the biography of Georg Cantor is given the same weight as the &quot;mystery of the Aleph&quot;.  The same was true of another book by Mr.Aczel, &quot;God's Equation&quot; the background material overshadowed the story. I would prefer a little more in-depth text about the heart of the matter.	2004-04-21
US	52381942	R3TMEVTW0OA3SA	1586603957	958447868	William Wilberforce: Exceptional Lay Leaders (Heroes of the Faith)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Wilberforce should not be such a historical unknown	No book that mentions the dawning of Darwin's theory of evolution is complete without a story of the debate between Thomas Huxley and William Wilberforce.  Thomas Huxley used a devastating one liner to Wilberforce's detriment and so it seems Darwin's theory of evolution was unleashed to become a commonly accepted fact or so these books seem to suggest.  When I saw this book I just had to read it. I discovered that William Wilberforce had a long political career as a MP in England. Mr. Wilberforce devoted most of his political career, over 40 years to abolishing slavery.  Wilberforce was almost single-handedly responsible for England's repudiation of slavery within its empire and forbidding British ships to engage in the slave trade.  He is also credited with creating a religious revival in British society as a result of his policies based upon a high moral code.  Wilberforce's life ends with a Hollywood flair, receiving news of his political success within hours before his death. But what about the debate?  Darwinism, evolutionism, and the Thomas Huxley debate? It was not mentioned at all.  I was a little disapppointd that the debate was not mentioned, but on second thought in the perspective of Wilberforce's life it probably does not rate mentioning. This book is well written, compact; it is this reader's type of book, short and to the point.  The author explained Wilberforce's accomplishments and his guiding principals.  More importanltly the Author in outline form sums up Wilberforce's life achievements in the last chapter, a very good technique that more authors should use to help instill the major points of a text.  The appendix consists of the a chapter of a book that Wilberforce's wrote.  This book had a great effect upon the British upper class and gives the reader a chance to sample the personal style of Wilberforce himself, in case the reader wants to read some of his original works. Very well done.	2004-04-19
US	52381942	R13GT5170IA3YM	0028643259	397938186	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Ethics	Books	5	13	16	N	N	This is the book for an Intro  to Ethics	I thought this book was a jewel wrapped in an Idiot's Guide cover.  It is the standard length of most Idiot's Guide books , but it packs a lot of information in a few pages.  The history of ethics and philosophy generally degenerates into a short boring expose' of the ancients, early Christian, Kant, Hegel, and then the modern Existentialists.  What is unique about this book was the explanations of real life situations.  The authors discuss Affirmative Action , abortion, and discrimination.  After each ethical system is discussed in Idiot's Guide format, memorable points are liberally highlighted in side bars, which is really not too bad a gimmick for learning, a theoretical situation is discussed that the critics use to highlight the weak points of that system. I always thought of ethics and philosophy as static fields, making no progress, but it does show that though we may not be getting more ethical through the ages that there has been an evolution of sorts in the field of Ethics	2004-03-26
US	52381942	RLZ14N274HHU0	0380754320	770966976	001: In Memory Yet Green: The Autobiography of Isaac Asimov	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A Book only his Fans will Love	I have heard it claimed that Isaac Assimov is the only author that has at least one book in every major classification of the Library's Dewey decimal system.  Mr. Assimov was a prodigious workaholic author. In this book, written I suppose so he can get a book in the Autobiographical section. Isaac tells of his early life as the son of Russian-Jewish emigrants living in Brooklyn.  Work and study became his regiment early on in life.  I would recommend this book only if you have enjoyed his regular fare.  One can see the seeds of his future books as he goes about trying to select a career path. Assimov goes onto explain his activities during WWII and surprisingly the struggle he had to become an author.  Even a budding author with his talent needed mentoring. This is definitely a low-key verbose book that will appeal mainly to his fans. This book includes only his early career.  One of his memories was his father's look of surprise when he saw the ocean after they stood on their apartment building roof for the first time.  His family had been so intent on running their candy store business that years after arriving in New York they had never realized the ocean was so near.  The book is a series of these types of memories, no blockbusters, some would even say \\"its nothing to write about \\" but he did and it makes for passable entertainment.	2004-03-25
US	52381942	R1S5GQ1TOB6WD7	0801850479	715296609	The Baldwin Locomotive Works, 1831-1915: A Study in American Industrial Practice (Studies in Industry and Society)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Complete and Thorough Study	This reader did not see any blurb about the author on this edition, but the author shows a strong bent for letting the historical research speak for itself and obviously knowledgble about current trends in manufacturing. It is an amazingly thorough book . Some readers may find lessons here, some just a litany of facts.<BR> The Baldwin Locomotive Works was the dominant Locomotive manufacturer and capital equipment maker in the U.S. during the Gilded Age.  The company's experiences are still the experiences of today's manufacturing firms, especially the heavy equipment manufacturers.  The company began in the 1830's and closed its doors for good in 1956. In the decades close to the 1900's it was the dominant locomotive and heavy equipment maker in the country.  The author brings forth the following<BR>themes and issues this company dealt with are still very current with manufacturer today<BR> 1)balancing skilled and unskilled labor, running an apprentice program<BR> 2)concentrating on manger-producers, the company scorned professional or middle  <BR>    managent  to the point where foreman did the hiring for their departments.<BR>3) Labor strife was mostly non-existent for decades, the company's stated position  was <BR>      to make the company's goal the workers goal also.<BR>4) factory floor production control relied on a card and list tickler system to expedite job orders<BR>5) Located in the industrial down town of Philadelphia, it had a cadre of local close-knit <BR>      suppliers<BR>6) To spur productivity the company introduced piecework and often a group of workers would  band behind a foreman to act as in-house contractors. The workers would strive to perform the necessary cost cutting to produce a set number of parts for a set price  and if successful the profits from the savings would be split among the contracting group.<BR>7) A strong &quot;not invented here culture&quot; caused it to disdain efficiency work studies <BR>requiring professional middle management.<BR>   8) The impact of the paradigm shift from steam to diesel locomotive power.<br />  The Baldwin locomotive company also bridged the era of the introduction of gas and then  electric lights,  it boosted productivity as the same assets, buildings and equipemnt could now produce 24 hours a day.   In 1906 the company produced 2,666 locomotives, In the era around World War I the inevitable decline started.  It was a partnership company in world of corporations with their professional management.  Baldwin had a historically low profit margin making customer designed products. The custom designing took an army of draftsmen,and skilled labor at assembly.  The final nail in the coffin was General Motors entry into the market.  With a corporate structure, and years of experince in the American System of Manufacturing (mass production), GM lured the railroads over to standard design  diesel locomotives from Baldwin's custom built steam engines on price alone.  Baldwin's low profit margins prevented it from entering the Diesel market and effectively competing.  Instead the company went the way of the steam locomotive and closed in 1956.<BR>My hat is off to this author, he not only touched upon every issue, he excelled at  the explanations.  The style of using subchapters with titles reinforces the organization of the information brought forth.  This is not a book for everybody, but most people involved in manufactuirng or management will find something of interest.  Still the book is geared for the researcher.  A little explanation of locomotive design terminology would have been helpful.	2004-03-25
US	52381942	R2NXSYJUJ0RY1J	0486252396	111006772	The Ten Books of Architecture: The 1755 Leoni Edition	Books	2	12	17	N	Y	A Classic with in  a Classic font	The author of this book is often cited as the ideal of a Renaissance man, an architect, writer, musician, painter and by some accounts an amazing athlete.    This book is based upon the Leone edition, a 1755 English translation of Alberti's original work from the 1400's.  Alberta has a very modern succinct style. The chapters include many subchapters to help organize the information. He covers all the aspects of architecture and construction from laying the foundations to the wood joinery in the rafters, to adding the classical facade.  He reduces classical design to a series of rules, and proportions, most of which are still followed today when a classical facade is desired.  Alberti wrote with one foot in the modern world and one foot in the Renaissance world.  He still respects some of the superstitions of his time, but all in all it is a dry book?  I would not recommend this book to anybody unless they have a strong desire to learn about classical or Renaissance architecture.  The Leone edition also includes many very good plates of his drawings. These drawing are incredible for their time period and more informative than the majority of pictures in most modern architectural books.  I became interested in this book because of the plates portraying the construction of construction crane, but the font ruined the book for me. The publisher kept to the original 1755 font style.  I'm sure there is some value to this, but it cut the readability factor in half.  What could have been an enjoyable book was reduced to slogging through paragraph by paragraph, so (lector caveat) reader bewares?	2004-03-25
US	52381942	RN7MF6EZ5B4TW	0671622544	980392655	The Chip	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Excellent Account	An excellent account of the two Americans who ushered in the Intergrated Circuit (IC) age. It is said that the average American on a typical day encounters more than fifty microprocessors before lunch , from the alarm clock, to the microwave, to the daily commute in the automobile.  The transistor was a temporary godsend that made the vacuum tube obsolete. The limitation of transistor circuits was the soldering time and accuracy.  As circuit complexity exploded the number of soldered connections had to be increased accordingly. If a modern Pentium IC chip has over 60-million transistors, one can see that it would have been unattainable to obtain the required accuracy, time, and area need for these soldered joints.  Without these two men we could be at the transistor level.  Jack Kilby and Robert Noyce are the two men who developed the method of taking everything that was on a printed circuit and  etching it into a wafer of silicon (CHIP) making the device many magnitudes smaller in the process.  This breakthrough allows the complex circuits and microprocessors  with the myriad of battery operated electronic devices to exist. What we now accept as civilization. .The book is well written, no knowledge of electronics is required or explained.  It is just the history of two men developing a new idea to fruition.	2004-03-23
US	52381942	REFQKS35W2PZQ	019283410X	833642418	The Lives of the Artists (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Better than many  Modern Art History Books	If you were to read a modern art history book of the high Renaissance, chances are the author of the book drew at least some of his information from this book written by Giorgio Vasari.  Giorgio Vasari was an Italian Renaissance artist who also wrote about the various artists of his time.  A contemporary of Michangelo, Georgi Vasari's book reads like a Who's Who of Renaissance artists.  For a book more than four hundred years old, the style is amazingly modern and interesting.<BR>Vasari has an artist's eye for critiquing another artist's work. His writing style is not boring, whereas many would be reduced to general descriptions like \\"beautiful\\" and \\"amateurish\\", he dissects the artist's work between strong and weak points, pigments and flesh tones or landscapes vs. portraits or the use of light and perspective. He states the reason why some art or one artist is renowned and others ignored.  His judgments have generally stood the test of time.  Vasari also weaves in some interesting tidbits and anecdotes of the Artist's life.  I found this book more interesting than many modern day Art History books.	2004-03-23
US	52381942	R3LG425QG4L2RD	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Unique and Pointless	This book is not this reader's genre of book, but it was recommended to me and left within my reach.  The first few pages and I admit I was hooked.  It is almost a single sitting book. The style was very interesting and it being a short book, it moves right along towards the ending.  Except the ending appears, the book is over, and you are left scratching your head saying what was the point of the story.	2004-03-22
US	52381942	R2S1HRPL321S0Q	1887010122	111436474	Thomas Andrews, Voyage into History : Titanic Secrets Revealed Through the Eyes of Her Builder	Books	1	6	16	N	Y	Don't  Judge a Book by its Tilte	This book subtitled &quot;Titanic Secrets Revealed Thru The Eyes Of Her Builder&quot; was enough for this reader to purchase this book.  Don't make the same mistake.  This book is really just a historical novel. Ths clincher with this book is.  &quot;Revealed thru the eyes of her builder&quot; means some American from Cleveland has become a shipbuilder's &quot;Bridey Murphy&quot;.  Receivng information about the defects in the Titanic from the long dead builder speaking through this author.  Coincendently the &quot;builder's conclusion as to why the Titanic sank is the same as the episode on the Discovery Channel's Titanic Documentary.I recommend the Discovery Channel on this one.  My main gripe is the title gave no hint that the source of information is on shakey ground to say the least.	2004-03-21
US	52381942	RYE77JWHUIS9S	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Rewarding Reading	This reader highly recommends this work to show the complexity involved in answering the question, \\"How much does a glass of water cost in the American Southwest \\"?  The author wrote a well-researched book in an attempt to show the factors involved in answering that question.  The author portrays a complex web of jurisdictions on the state local and federal levels that are involved in various projects.  Every policy has its winners and losers.  The book contains a little history of the Southwest, some personal interviews, many stories of the pork barrel politics involved to make sure the rest of the country buys into these irrigation and dam projects.  This book will be an eye-opener for most Easterners in this country where battling over water rights is generally not on the local political agenda.  A very rewarding book.	2004-03-20
US	52381942	R1RAR47X4YHJ53	0738204005	621059543	Coal: A Human History	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Well balanced book	A very good account of the history of coal,  The author explains the basics, the different types of coal and how they are formed,  The book progresses  onto early societies and their treatment of the &quot;burning stones&quot;. As can be expected the major part of the book is about the industrial revolution and the struggle of cities such as London and Pittsburg to maintain a habital city..The coal industry became &quot;King Coal&quot; and became the industrial lifeblood in many countries.  A vital industry over which industrial sectors were formed and labor rights were gained. The Final chapters of the book deal with the pollution problems brought on by the burning coal.  Two serious points are brought up; <BR>1)  Society can engineer away most of the  pollution problems to the point where coal approaches almost perfect combustion. It will result in a much higher cost to utilize coal, and perfect combustion will still leave us with a massive Carbon dioxide output problem.  Perhaps accelerating the global warming scenarios <BR>2)The China question, as a large developing nation China is also heavily dependent on coal as a cheap and readily available energy source, and because of China's scarce resources it applies minimal polution control.<BR> This combination does not bode well for the future.  This reader thought the material was presented in a very professional manner.  It was not a \\"the sky is falling\\" type of book.  It is in fact a good book to obtain a balanced view. It explains how humans have lived with coal in the past and states that societies may have major decisions to make in the future.	2004-03-19
US	52381942	R2ZZES21AX2N0D	0345295528	143419015	The Inklings: C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, and their Friends	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Very Well Done	Perhaps the best book to glimpse an overall picture of a world famous literary group that formed at Oxford University, around the era of World War II.    The author, Humphrey Carpenter performed an admirable job weaving the highlights of a University literary club dominated by C.S. Lewis, but also including members such as J.R.R. Tolkien, and Charles Williams and other lesser known contributors over a span of three decades.  Many of the members had literary works in progress  and used this group as a sounding board.  The members of the Inklings acting as critics. It was in this time period that Charles Williams perfected his poetical style, and Tolkien wrote most of his \\"Lord of the Rings Trilogy\\".  This group was responsible for the inspiration and final output of many of its member's best works. The author would tell of the member's part within the group and tidbits of their lives outside the group.  Humphrey Carpenter, the author has mastered the technique of balancing the highlights of the Inklings as a literary group and also managed to include a little personal background on each of its members. A quick scan of the authors previous works will show that he could do this because he has written about some of the members individually.  The reader will feel that in this one book one has gained a true idea of the nature of the Inklings along with a neat biography of some of its members.  The Inklings as a group paralleled the life of C.S.Lewis, The group was at the height of its influence when Lewis`s career was at its  peak and then as different writing styles became fashionable, members of the group also  died or were replaced.  This book is worth the read, one sees the spark of an idea formulated by this group later brought out as a book by one of its members.	2004-03-19
US	52381942	R99532P24SETT	0060929634	620658898	The Yard: Building a Destroyer at the Bath Iron Works	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	&quot;Bath Built is Best Built&quot;	&quot;Bath Built is Best Built&quot;.  a saying among the workers at the historic Bath Iron Works (BIW), Bath Maine. This book analyzes a modern-day shipyard in Maine in a unique way.  The Bath Iron Works shipyard has a long history that mirrors this nation's shipbuilding legacy. The author gives a brief history of the shipyard, with its economic ups and downs. The meat of the book explains how a U.S&gt; Naval order for a new Arleigh-Burke class destroyer is fabricated.  The components literally snake their way through the shipyard over months. The book weaves a little personal history of some individual workers and their duties and how it ties into the final end-product.  BIW is a modern shipyard, using modular construction and a BIW pioneered upside down fabrication technique. The description of the launching<BR>process is intriguing. This book is an easy read.  A short book with a lot of information packed into it, that will reward the reader looking for a little information in a areas most people are excluded from.	2004-03-18
US	52381942	R1TJ30H7N9X424	0007163061	351414171	Dreams of Iron and Steel: Seven Wonders of the Nineteenth Century, from the Building of the London Sewers to the Panama Canal	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly Recommended	A very well written book that covers what the author has chosen to be subtitled  ?The Seven Wonders of the Industrial World.? The basis of this book is that, worldwide the knowledge and the production of iron and steel had reached the point where certain engineering visionaries dared to start considering the material?s properties to build on a grander scale than traditional wood and stone would allow.  In little more than the span of a century these diverse engineering projects set a new world standard in their respective fields, and it became the basis for catapulting Western civilization into the modern era of undertaking grand projects. Deborah Cadbury, the author has a very nice writing style. The subject is easily understood, and there is no math.  The author evidently did a large amount of research, she includes a bit of background material, but keeps the subject relevant to the central theme. The author does not delve into the engineering details of the problems, but generally strives to give the reader an overall view of the main problems encountered, usually a collection of engineering, financial and political obstacles.<BR>As with most books explaining engineering techniques, a few more diagrams would have been helpful. One consistent pattern throughout many of the projects is that the Engineer/Visionary generally were obsessive control freaks when it came to their projects, and as their project came to life it manifested itself as exacting an equal toll on their health.  The title is a little misleading, three of the projects, London Sewers, Bell rock Lighthouse, and the Hoover Dam deal mainly with stone or concrete.   The subtitle would be better suited to be the title of this book.  This reader highly recommends this enjoyable book	2004-03-15
US	52381942	R57WEU9FY0KKY	0786197668	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: A New Concept of Egoism  (Library Edition)	Books	4	12	23	N	N	Cut out the Middleman	I recommend this book over Ayn Rand's novels.  You don't have to put up with hundreds of pages of the conversations of Howard Roark, Dominique and John Galt.  This reader is always surprised by the perennial claim that the author's Fountainhead novel is rated second on the all time best seller list after the Bible. For the reader who wants some exposure to Ayn Rand's philosophy called Objectivism,  this book, &quot;The Virtue of Selfishness&quot; is the way to go. This way the reader can cut out the middleman and get the philosophy  straight from the author. You actually get a more well rounded view of her philosophy. As a reader who  tackled both the Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged, I consider my time was better spent with this book.   My problem with this book is that I feel the author could have done a better job explaining how Objectivism would work within a society, not just the individual. Ayn Rand extols pure capitalism and the U.S.A. was her adopted country, and the country closest to her ideal. Why didn't she mention or explain away examples such as J.P. Morgan, Andrew Carnegie or John D. Rockefeller where the big winners can actually change the rules of the game from &quot;free for all capitalism&quot; to monopoly.  The book is also<BR>silent on the segment of society requiring charity.  What would be the effect on a society based solely on Ayn Rand's philosophy ?	2004-03-12
US	52381942	R3DEU8Q2OT0LZQ	0465036732	413412337	Just Six Numbers: The Deep Forces That Shape The Universe	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	a Cosmological &quot; What If&quot; book	For the universe to be as the universe is, the author traces this fact to the happenstance of six numbers or ratios, of forces.  Examples of this forces are, gravity, nuclear binding force, weak and strong force, density of the universe  etc.  The author's thinking is something like this, If gravity was stronger the big bang would have spent its outward force already and be contracting.  A two-billion year cyclical universe would not have the time to form planets, or for life to form. If gravity was less strong then planets would not have appeared.  The author proceeds through each ratio, considering the  min and max values.  Vary too much from the present ratio and we would not exist, or life, the earth or the universe would not exist.  Interesting concept. The surprising thing is the narrow range of some of  the values. It shows that we exist from a combination of these numbers within such a narrow range that it borders on the miraculous that we exist at all.  Is this. an argument for infinite universes with infinite chances to form or a universe built upon a  master plan ?	2004-03-10
US	52381942	R1SCRPO5DG3990	0385334850	762384767	God's Equation: Einstein, Relativity, and the Expanding Universe	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good Explanation of a Mind Boggling Theory	A meandering book that undertakes to explain the one recently observed fact that the universe appears to be expanding with increasing speed, with the historical fact that one of the results of Einstein's cosmology formulas predicted this expansion of the Universe.  Einstein thought he was mistaken and corrected the formulas.  The author does an admirable job keeping the subject interesting .  The reader is exposed to the history of the experiments to prove Einstein's theory along with a large amount of anecdotal and biographical material of the main characters involved.  No math is really discussed in this book, just the conclusions of mathematical formulas.  I think the author included a little too much extraneous background. The reader should be prepared for an onslaught of material that makes one wonder if the author is begging for material to fill the pages.That point aside, I consider this author still one of the best at explaining science to the layman.  On a par with  Isaac Assimov in that respect.	2004-03-05
US	52381942	R1LH14W9KKJ1TH	0875842445	206297386	When the Machine Stopped: A Cautionary Tale from Industrial America	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Story of  Burgmaster	This is a sad but common story of an old and respected member of the American machine tool builders association that produced a quality machine. but eventually had to close its doors.  Another victim of the ills that plagued that sector of American manufacturing.   The original owner had a better idea, started a company, grew the company, carved out a market niche, built machines to order as the industry as a whole had done for years to survive the natural boom and bust cycles.  The Burgmaster Company was ill equipped for the foreign invasion especially of the Japanese machine tool industry, building standard machines, promising fast installations, losing control of their patented technology even though it was licensed.  Burgmaster was typical of the industry and experienced it all.  The squeeze between developing new technology and keeping the bread and butter production machines moving., losing control of its operations and planning by joining a conglomerate. As a former employee for what was formerly the largest American machine tool maker and is now a downsized and dismantled holding company, this book gave a good overall historical summary of what was happening then, which you don't realize when you are experiencing global and national trends day by day on a local level.  Optimistically one can also see just how far the industry survivors from the 60's, 70's and 80's  have progressed.	2004-02-26
US	52381942	R148OWFFUDWKA7	0736621695	963690652	The Dancing Wu Li Masters : An Overview of the New Physics	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Diffucult Subject make Palatable	This has to be one of the best books to gain an overall history of the atomic era quantum mechanics and providing a low math general synopsis of what seems to be the totally irrational field of Quantum mechanics.  The author provides a little background on each featured scientist along with an excellent explanation of their part in the unfolding quantum mysteries. The author has an interesting style that makes the book an easy read.	2004-02-25
US	52381942	R2G2OG79QSE8MM	0739307363	190302909	Mozart's Brain and the Fighter Pilot: Unleashing Your Brain's Potential	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Audio Version not the Correct Format	I found this book difficult to absorb because I had the audio version.  An audio book is a disadvantage to a reader trying to participate in the brain exercises while on the daily commute. The book format would have allowed a sedentary reader to take advantage of the information provided.  I was not able to flip back and forth easily or mark pages to return to.  I thought the book (tape) would be more about brain architecture and how Mozart's brain actually would differ from a fighter pilot's brain.  There is a little speculation about how the brains of the MTV generation cope with image overload versus the previous generation's method of acquiring information.  The title is a little misleading.  It really is a book about brain exercises, because the author believes these exercises help keep the brain young and healthy.  It is the old theory of \\"use it or lose it\\" adapted to the brain. I do not know if I totally subscribe to this theory, avid readers seem to be the first to wear glasses, hockey and football players retire with injured knees.  The book on the whole is interesting.  Definitely worth it.  It presents some unique ideas and it's a noble goal to keep your brain active even if the exercises were to have no effect.	2004-02-17
US	52381942	RJ6CEDL34G7C1	0060528192	797565686	Terrorist Hunter: The Extraordinary Story of a Woman Who Went Undercover to Infiltrate the Radical Islamic Groups Operating in America	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Food for Thought	The moral of this book is; that a civilian with intimate familiarity with the culture can ferret out clues better than numerous Government trained anti-terrorist agents can.  The author researched public documentation to provide evidence of the money trail from some quasi-charities to fund Islamic terrorist groups. The author's point is that there is plenty of information that can be gleaned from public records that is not being noticed.  If  the info. was effectively utilized, it would provide greater protection by shutting off a source of funding.  The author was originally a young girl from an Iraqi Jewish family, whose father was accused on spying for Israel and executed.  Her family fled Iraq, and she eventually made her way to New York City.  The author's knowledge of Arabic, chutzpah in infiltrating Islamic fundraisers and extensively researching public records has resulted in a vast database. One constant theme throughout the latter half of the book is her low esteem of the anti-terrorist measures being taken by the U.S. government.  The author's main target is the FBI, which is portrayed as being inept. One hopes the author is mistaken, but since the U.S government does not shed any light on this, it is a one-sided view, but a view supported by many examples of what appear to be mistakes and oversights. <BR>A very interesting book and an easy read that also provides food for thought.	2004-01-28
US	52381942	R6CP8H0JAYYJ9	0684871599	110011583	Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Excellent Account	I read this book for the purpose of gaining an understanding of the dangers of bio-terrorism and wanted to be more informed on national preparedness to this threat.   This book was well written, well researched, balanced, and informative. It showed the increasing importance bio-terrorism is playing on public decisions.  The first part of the book gives a little history of germ warfare already instigated by radical terrorist groups, and the role it played in the Cold War.  In more recent history, concerns about possible germ warfare and/or bio terrorist attacks led to certain actions  in the era of Desert Storm.   I would have desired the book progress from giving an excellent historical account to explaining the current public debate,  Is there protection to be afforded by spending money on public health measures ?  Is protection feasible given the variety of microbes that can be created in a world where gene splicing is becoming commonplace? Is a good defense possible in the future?	2004-01-21
US	52381942	RY61GTIS2QEEP	0156329301	450659252	The Four Loves	Books	3	4	11	N	N	interesting &amp; unique	An interesting and rewarding read, but difficult in sections.  Overall the good points, and unique views were worth it.  I thought the author had some well thought-out ideas but meandered on the supporting arguments.   The main idea being the ancient Greeks had four words for love depending on the type of love.  C.S.Lewis analyses these types of love; Affection, Friendship Eros, and Charity. I suspect most readers will be surprised when they read what is included in each classification.    I would recommend an audio version of book.  The supporting arguments are better suited to the ears, which are more adept and can selectively tune-in.  I plan on reading other books by C.S. Lewis.  Hopefully the main thoughts put forth in the next book will also outweigh a writing style that does not seem to agree with me.	2004-01-14
US	52381942	R1SPQZ11KD2IWK	0881730149	502158903	Plant engineers and managers guide to energy conservation	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent &quot;how to&quot; book  very informative	This book is a very good guide to explaining the micro and macroeconomics of energy conservation.  The author uses a well thought out progression of chapters; the Role of the Plant Engineer in Energy Management, onto perhaps the most important chapter, Energy Economic Decision Making, which includes sample solved problems. Later chapters progress to electrical system optimization, utility optimization, heat transfer and losses, HVAC systems and cogeneration, and finally the future of energy conservation, where the macroeconomic effect of implementing current technology is discussed.  The DOE is currently sponsoring projects in various common industrial processes that consume much of the nations energy, such as petroleum refining, and pulp processing where conservation and the latest technology will shave quads of BTU's off the nation's energy consumption.  The early chapters in the book tell how to prioritize the conservation measures in a particular plant, the value of the present expenditures v.s. the future for estimating payback periods.  The text is very well written, but it is surprising that a book on its sixth edition should be so full of typos, the grammatical ones can be figured out, but the ones concerning the solved problems should be corrected.  A seventh edition with corrections and this would be a 5 star book.	2004-01-04
US	52381942	R11QDWO1QUJRCP	0370003276	656152900	A Sort of Life	Books	2	4	7	N	N	psychological non-thriller	My main complaint with this book is that a depressed author does not write a stimulating biography.  When all instances in the time period covered by the book are downplayed, the reader loses a sense of what is important.  Graham Greene's experimentation with Russian roulette, and a flirtation with foreign espionage are told in an attitude that makes it difficult to sense its importance. Was his spy work unimportant, or was it Greene's ho-hum attitude toward spying coming through.  The tint of boredom and failure extends over every aspect of his very fortunate and privileged life.  An Oxford education, career editor on the London times, courtship, marriage and a religious convert to Catholicism all seem to be performed robotically without any passion.  It definitely is an apt title.  The book really does stop short in his career as a successful author.  I am unfamiliar with his later writings, but this book mentions the fact that he feels alive when traveling throughout the world's danger spots.  In this autobiography, Greene mentioned in later years he would cover a local insurrection in Mexico, and viewed first hand the troubled years in Vietnam, Liberia and the Mau-Mau insurrection.     I would rather have skipped this book and read his later works about his experiences.  I would recommend this book only to someone interested in the psychological background of Graham Greene.	2003-12-22
US	52381942	R25BCWDVOB6K7C	0385482493	460076600	The Gifts of the Jews: How a Tribe of Desert Nomads Changed the Way Everyone Thinks and Feels (Hinges of History)	Books	3	4	10	N	Y	Background for the Old Testament Reader	The blurb about the author on the dust jacket shows this author knows his stuff. He has very good credentials for writing this book.  He has a writing style that keeps the material interesting, and he appears to have a very good knowledge of the interpretation of Hebrew scripture.  With all this, the reader will wonder why the author ever came up with the title &quot;Gift of the Jews&quot;.  The title is misleading when compared to the contents of the book.  Every chapter except the final chapter of the book consists of background explanantions of major events in the Old Testament. His interpretation is interesting, but it is the final chapter that deals with the intended subject.  How a nomadic desert tribe's world view came to be the dominant idea in Western culture.  I would not agree with the<br /> sub-title  ...Changed the way EVERYONE thinks and feels.  I believe the ideas are deeply ingrained in the Western world, but this did not affect every culture. Still I enjoyed the book as as average book. It is a fast enjoyable read with no real eyeopening ideas.	2003-12-08
US	52381942	RO6PTERXT4UG3	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	1	1	N	N	optimistic eyeopener	You can not read this book without thinking this author just might be on to something big.   The central question or &quot;mystery&quot; of the book as the title suggests is why  the developed countries of the world have become so good at producing capital and the majority of countries are unable to emulate them.  The optimistic point of view of this book is that the amount of unutilized capital in even in the poorest of countries still dwarfs the amount of annual foreign aid they receive.  The author contends that when the riddle of how to release this untapped resource is solved the market dynamics will take over and the benefits will be reaped. The major economic power for most of the poorer countries of the world is in the underground economy.  Keeping the underground economy outside the legal system and the protection it provides stifles the country's growth.  The populace of every country has already maximized their competitive advantage within the rules of their local marketplace. What remains to be done is to legalize the marketplace laws over that particular nation as a whole.  A national system that incorporates this underground market and legalizes it will obtain the market dynamics that the developed countries enjoy.  The author is a noted economist from a third world country, the fact that he is from a third world country may have helped him question the idea of capital production.  The author feels that economists from developed countries have forgotten their own economic history and gloss over the importance of a legalized marketplace.  This was a very well written book, with the ideas well thought out and many examples of what happened in the USA as it progressed from a former colony, a third world country, to take a position among the developed industrialized countries of the world.	2003-12-01
US	52381942	R84XKRCEBWF6O	0415935369	867759289	Special Providence: American Foreign Policy and How It Changed the World	Books	4	3	3	N	N	excellent analysis of  the history of American policy making	The USA is often portrayed as not having a comprehensive foreign policy.  Detractors from every quarter denounce the lack of cohesiveness when compared to other country's foreign policies.  The author's main points are;<BR> 1) That in spite of this stumbling and bumbling, historically the USA has had one of the  most successful foreign policies of any country, especially when the country was developing in a world of powerful meddling European states. The success of the US foreign policy may have been successful just because as the Author alludes to a analogy of many countries having a foreign policy like a ship, it sails in one direction, with speed, but if it hits a rock it sinks, The US foreign policy is likened to a raft, everybody gets their feet wet, but a raft doesn't sink when it hits an obstruction.<BR>  2) The book examines the history of the four main viewpoints of American foreign policy that are still active today.  The author incorporates numerous examples of why certain actions were taken throughout the history of America.  The final foreign policy action is actually a resultant of the clash of beliefs within various segments of the USA.<BR>    This book is highly recommended as an overview of the history and present state of American foreign policy.  The book is well written and unbiased.  If the reader wants a better understanding of the foreign policy of the USA, this book is the answer.  It dissects and explains the various forces in American policy making.	2003-11-25
US	52381942	R9VFR0YKZ8EGW	1568361084	30699200	Yanoama: The Story of Helena Valero, a Girl Kidnapped by Amazonian Indians (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A must read	An incredible first hand story of a world probably gone forever.  In the 1930's a White Amazon river trader's daughter is kidnapped by the Yanoama, a tribe of Amazonian Indians.  This pre-teen is adopted by the tribe and assimilates into the Stone Age culture over the succeeding twenty years.  The lifestyle, experiences, and culture are fascinating and bizarre.  Helena Valero never forgot her roots.  She eventually escaped along with one of her children to a Salesion mission.   Her original white family rejected her. She lived her life doing menial work at the mission, making sure her child received an education at the mission school.  She had had a hard life in the forest, beaten, and bartered, but effected her own rescue only to be rejected by her original family and told to get a job and start supporting herself and child.  At the mission she was looked upon as just another native inhabitant trying to acquire western ways.  I am a little suspicious of this story because there seems to be a total lack of notoriety.  If a Helena Valero were to walk out of the Amazonian forest today she would be deluged with book and movie deals.  I believe the truth of the story comes out in the details.  The facts of her story and her intimate knowledge of tribal life seem to bear out the truth.	2003-11-19
US	52381942	RZAGK2V7ZEH8L	0071374906	791324708	The World According To Pimm: A Scientist Audits the Earth	Books	2	8	35	N	N	Great title wrong book	An audit of the Earth sounded like the kind of book you would read to gain an overall view of the present state of the environment.  This book subtitled, \\"A Scientist Audits the Earth \\", sounded like the charm. I would generalize by saying Pimm's audit of the earth contains much of the \\"same old same old \\" and a lot of subjectivity.  Factual information is hard to come by.  In this book it requires over 100 pages to explain the process of estimating the amount of arable land available for crops.  His explanation of his travels are interesting, but is this audit material ?<BR>For a real audit of the environment I recommend The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World by Bjorn Lomborg.  Lomborg's is a statistician and this book I feel really performed a audit of the environment.  Stuart Pimm's  book, The World According to Pimm pales in comparison to the factual information presented in Lomborg's book.	2003-11-11
US	52381942	R21CTT2G7HWYE1	0671240404	852050695	Sonya: The Life of Countess Tolstoy	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A rare insight  of a  famous person	In reading this book I was reminded of the joke &quot;behind every successful man there is a woman telling him he is wrong&quot;<BR>This is the history of the marriage and life of Sonja, the Countess Tolstoy. It is a case where a well to do Russian family whose 19 year old daughter Sonja is courted and eventually marries Count Leo Tolstoy, a worldly middle-aged aristocrat and soon to be successful author.  Count Tolstoy takes his young bride back to his family estate where she becomes a loving loyal wife and they start a family.  <BR>The marriage and family endures various flare-ups as Sonja remains the loving loyal wife, whereas Count Tolstoy evolves from novelist to pacifist to espousing strict monastic type rules for living the proper life as he attempts to achieve the life of a religious ascetic.  <BR>Count Lev Tolstoy had a reputation at that time as Russia's greatest interlectual before finally achieving a lifestyle as a sort of Russian holy-man, a wandering religious ascetic, just months before he died.  The world saw him with his disciples, Tolstoyans, as they were called, championing the lot of the Russian serfs, running schools for the serf's children, and espousing doctrines comparable to strict monastic rules for living.  Count Tolstoy over time became more dogmatic, revolutionary and estranged to family life, Sonya, by contrast remained fiercely loyal to her husband, and family throughout the marriage.  She wrestled with the management of the estate, fought to preserve literary rights to provide income for the children, while her husband was becoming less worldly, dividing the estate among the serfs and assigning his royalties to his followers.  Sonya was using her influence and contacts in the Czar's court to keep her husband from being arrested for political agitation. Count Tolstoy publicly had the sympathy of the people. Sonja appears as the reason behind Tolstoy's failures.  This book makes one sympathize with Sonja as she copes with an increasingly dogmatic difficult vacillating husband.  Nevertheless, a strong love was present throughout the marriage and the sad farewell death-bed drama of the Count as he lingered on in a railway station was a scene that Hollywood would envy.  <BR>The book was very well written.  The private story of this marriage is divulged through an incredible amount of research, gleaned from interviews of surviving members of the household and largely the personal diaries of both the Count and Countess Tolstoy.  The same family events and flare-ups are seen from the perspective of both sides largely from their respective diaries or letters. It makes one see Count Tolstoy in a different light.	2003-10-24
US	52381942	RHFQHP4MW4DBE	1566631084	147726240	Presidents' Secret Wars: CIA and Pentagon Covert Operations from World War II Through the Persian Gulf War (Elephant Paperbacks)	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	excellent overview	Every voter should read this book.  This is perhaps the best book to give an overview on the major covert activities of the CIA and its ancestor agencies.  A very well researched book.  The author appears to have done an immense amount of research to write this book.  Very informative and an easy read. The author appears to be unbiased and without an agenda.  Every tidbit of covert CIA activity that I read about in past years was discussed in this book, plus many more activities new to me were discussed. Drawing upon this text I believe the average American can get a better feel for the sucess and failure rate of covert activities, risks v.s. advantages.<br />  These covert activities ofter are the first steps that leads the U.S. into succeedingly hostile overt activities. The process is complicated by the fact that a covert operation has some loose oversight within our democracy.  The author gives the reader a good feel for the past endeavors of the agency and analyzes the results.<br /> I would recommend this book to any American because wherever the CIA is most active will generally be a place where crucial and influential American foreign policy decisions will follow. It is beneficial to have the past record of covert activity available. Covert activity is as the author states probably the most convenient and easiest way to accomplish a short term foreign policy objective and always a temptation to every U.S. administration, but it often comes with the price of a longterm political backlash from the populace involved.	2003-06-23
US	52381942	R3BTLY0STM0EFQ	0385471998	342697601	Come As You Are: The Story of Nirvana	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	BALANCED OVERVIEW	Good all around intro book about the indie band Nirvana. Taking the book at face value, I believe the author has presented the facts truthfully.  The author who also contributes to the Rolling Stone Magazine claims to have followed them on some tours and appears to have been on good terms with the band members. He shows evidence of cross checking stories and sources and notes discrepancies when they appear.  I believe its one of the better and fair judgments of this band.  Although the bands career follows the usual, struggle, hard times, brief honeymoon period, then indulgent self-destructive period\\", the book portrays the events that were going on in the life of Nirvanas leader Kurt Cobain.  I would say this book's strongest attribute is portraying the personal struggle of Kurt Cobain on a roller coaster ride of fame with Nirvana.<BR>   A weak point may be that the songs origins and lyrics are not explained well.  It may be because Kurt Cobain many times wrote the lyrics almost impromptu just before a recording session almost at a  stream of consciousness rate.  Maybe the origin of the songs has no deep meaning or origins.  Besides being an interesting story, the other highlights are the bands relationship with corporate bands, boomer music, heavy metal bands, and other Northwest so called Grunge bands.  I would definably recommend this book as an overview of Nirvana.  I know some die-hard fans have blamed Courtney or the corporate record company feverish touring dates for Kurts eventual suicide, but as the book amply points out Kurt and the band had some problems all stages of notoriety, and Kurt as the Band's leader was a time bomb waiting to explode. I think the book portrays the best<BR>non judgemental view of Kurt Cobain's life.  The particular edition I read include a final chapter added to include some<BR>info on Kurts farewell note and service.	2003-06-23
US	52381942	R3871QVRDJIXKE	0312039166	848190005	ProfScam: Professors and the Demise of Higher Education	Books	4	3	6	N	N	good title	A good book at explaining the trends and pressures universities and professors experience.  America should better define what it wants its institutes of higher learnig to accomplish; to impart a better foundation in Western cultures?  Less lucrative, tenure free professorships?  This book is an expose' of higher education in America.  Do we really want professors to concentrate on research and publishing while performing minimal teaching tasks?  The book gives examples of what happens to professors that concentrate on teaching, and forgo the research, or a professor that is not politically correct.  Do we want most of the student body being taught by postgraduate student, many times unable to impart their knowledge because of a bad command of the English language?  Definitely a book that makes one think about the proper place and use of a valuable asset like our universities.  The book is strong on singular examples, but I beleive it was a little weak trying to portray the extent of many of the problems in higher education. definitley worth the read just to know what the trends are in higher education and I believe it would help one select a college based on the facts within this books.	2003-06-23
US	52381942	R37ZPUONF3FX5Z	0442260326	713039554	Design of Automatic Machinery	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Rare Find	This book really is a rare find.  It does not help that it has sort of a mis-leading title. It is not a drafting and design book.  This book is full of gems of knowledge for anyone interested in specing-out manufacturing machinery.  The book is full of pointers on how to run a project, explains common costing techniques, how to avoiding common pitfalls and the latter half of the book discusses the pros and cons of various motor drives, control systems, sensors, stepper motors versus servo motors.<BR>    It is rare to get all this information in one book. A quick overview that allows one to quickly grasp the basics and decide what is the proper mechanism for the &quot;design&quot;. A very valuable book to obtain the basics of automated machinery. Very well written with good illustrations.	2003-05-29
US	52381942	R17RPECYT411UN	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Very Inspiring and Assuring	The subtitle is  &quot;Measuring the Real State of the World&quot; and this is what this statistician/author did.  The author states that there are only a few sources accepted for worldwide statistics, mainly UN, USGS or Nasa studies. Using these studies the author shows how some studies are misused, and misquoted to portend impending environmental doom.<br /> I read this book because as one who lived through the sixties, I have not seen the environmental disasters that were predicted, come true. The world population did not outrun the food supply of the green revolution by the mid- seventies; basic foodstuffs are not even on a rising price trend. I have not seen it with our basic metals or oil for that matter.  The costs of these have not kept pace with inflation.  The author attempts to show where the error lies in these environmental dire predictions. One is inclined to believe this book, the original source is cited, numerous graphs are used and the historical results seem to jive with reality.  Many of the past-predicted environmental scares did not pan out.<br />One example would be the scarcity of oil in the seventies and the beginning of a continuous oil scarcity. In reality, oil prices have not kept pace with inflation.<br />  One main point of the book is that as a country becomes richer it puts less pressure on the environment and its population levels off.  The author puts much faith in this because statistics show that the percentage of the world's population considered poor is steadily diminishing. The author's research seems to be immense, and his reasoning very well thought out.  He leads you through the main points of environmental crisis's, scarcity of resources, energy, food, the rainforest, global warming, etc.  This book puts many things in perspective.  One wants to believe this book, because it offers a future that is not going to be one of stark choices, but reasonable choices and trade-offs. The conclusions are based on the data given and seem very logical.  I recommend this book as an eye-opener.  The author's explanation of what is happening environmentally, certainly bears more resemblance to reality than can be shown throughout the history of the environmentalist scares of the recent past.  One can only hope the future is also as consistent.m very logical.  I recommend this book as an eye-opener.  The author's explanation of what is happening environmentally, certainly bears more resemblance to reality than can be shown throughout the history of the environmentalist scares of the recent past.  One can only hope the future is also as consistent.	2003-05-26
US	52381942	R2W7OB026PLLJR	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Very Inspiring and Assuring	The subtitle is  &quot;Measuring the Real State of the World&quot; and this is what this statistician/author did.  The author states that there are only a few sources accepted for worldwide statistics, mainly UN, USGS or Nasal studies. Using these studies the author shows how some studies are misused, and misquoted to portend impending environmental doom.<BR> I read this book because as one who lived through the sixties, I have not seen the environmental disasters that were predicted, come true. The world population did not outrun the food supply of the green revolution by the mid- seventies; basic foodstuffs are not even on a rising price trend. I have not seen it with our basic metals or oil for that matter.  The costs of these have not kept pace with inflation.  The author attempts to show where the error lies in these environmental dire predictions. One is inclined to believe this book, the original source is cited, numerous graphs are used and the historical results seem to jive with reality.  Many of the past-predicted environmental scares did not pan out. <BR>One example would be the scarcity of oil in the seventies and the beginning of a continuous oil scarcity. In reality, oil prices have not kept pace with inflation.   <BR>   One main point of the book is that as a country becomes richer it puts less pressure on the environment and its population levels off.  The author puts much faith in this because statistics show that the percentage of the world's population considered poor is steadily diminishing. The author's research seems to be immense, and his reasoning very well thought out.  He leads you through the main points of environmental crisis's, scarcity of resources, energy, food, the rainforest, global warming, etc.  This book puts many things in perspective.  One wants to believe this book, because it offers a future that is not going to be one of stark choices, but reasonable choices and trade-offs. The conclusions are based on the data given and seem very logical.  I recommend this book as an eye-opener.  The author's explanation of what is happening environmentally, certainly bears more resemblance to reality than can be shown throughout the history of the environmentalist scares of the recent past.  One can only hope the future is also as consistent.	2003-05-26
US	52381942	R2BCLXJCTMG9R0	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Very Inspiring and Assuring	The subtitle is  &quot;Measuring the Real State of the World&quot; and this is what this statistician/author did.  The author states that there are only a few sources accepted for worldwide statistics, mainly UN, USGS or Nasa studies. Using these studies the author shows how some studies are misused, and misquoted to portend impending environmental doom.<BR> I read this book because as one who lived through the sixties, I have not seen the environmental disasters that were predicted, come true. The world population did not outrun the food supply of the green revolution by the mid- seventies; basic foodstuffs are not even on a rising price trend. I have not seen it with our basic metals or oil for that matter.  The costs of these have not kept pace with inflation.  The author attempts to show where the error lies in these environmental dire predictions. One is inclined to believe this book, the original source is cited, numerous graphs are used and the historical results seem to jive with reality.  Many of the past-predicted environmental scares did not pan out. <BR>One example would be the scarcity of oil in the seventies and the beginning of a continuous oil scarcity. In reality, oil prices have not kept pace with inflation.   <BR>   One main point of the book is that as a country becomes richer it puts less pressure on the environment and its population levels off.  The author puts much faith in this because statistics show that the percentage of the world's population considered poor is steadily diminishing. The author's research seems to be immense, and his reasoning very well thought out.  He leads you through the main points of environmental crisis's, scarcity of resources, energy, food, the rainforest, global warming, etc.  This book puts many things in perspective.  One wants to believe this book, because it offers a future that is not going to be one of stark choices, but reasonable choices and trade-offs. The conclusions are based on the data given and seem very logical.  I recommend this book as an eye-opener.  The author's explanation of what is happening environmentally, certainly bears more resemblance to reality than can be shown throughout the history of the environmentalist scares of the recent past.  One can only hope the future is also as consistent.	2003-05-26
US	52381942	R2AFS48QK62EXK	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Very Inspiring and Assuring	The subtitle is  &quot;Measuring the Real State of the World&quot; and this is what this statistician/author did.  The author states that there are only a few sources accepted for worldwide statistics, mainly UN, USGS or Nasal studies. Using these studies the author shows how some studies are misused, and misquoted to portend impending environmental doom.<BR> I read this book because as one who lived through the sixties, I have not seen the environmental disasters that were predicted, come true. The world population did not outrun the food supply of the green revolution by the mid- seventies; basic foodstuffs are not even on a rising price trend. I have not seen it with our basic metals or oil for that matter.  The costs of these have not kept pace with inflation.  The author attempts to show where the error lies in these environmental dire predictions. One is inclined to believe this book, the original source is cited, numerous graphs are used and the historical results seem to jive with reality.  Many of the past-predicted environmental scares did not pan out. <BR>One example would be the scarcity of oil in the seventies and the beginning of a continuous oil scarcity. In reality, oil prices have not kept pace with inflation.   <BR>   One main point of the book is that as a country becomes richer it puts less pressure on the environment and its population levels off.  The author puts much faith in this because statistics show that the percentage of the world's population considered poor is steadily diminishing. The author's research seems to be immense, and his reasoning very well thought out.  He leads you through the main points of environmental crisis's, scarcity of resources, energy, food, the rainforest, global warming, etc.  This book puts many things in perspective.  One wants to believe this book, because it offers a future that is not going to be one of stark choices, but reasonable choices and trade-offs. The conclusions are based on the data given and seem very logical.  I recommend this book as an eye-opener.  The author's explanation of what is happening environmentally, certainly bears more resemblance to reality than can be shown throughout the history of the environmentalist scares of the recent past.  One can only hope the future is also as consistent.	2003-05-26
US	52381942	R3OXNS72VYAXHP	0525128387	963521462	How and Why of Mechanical Movements	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	the title says it all	This is the perfect book to scan the basics of mechanical movements.  If you work in a factory environment, in maintenance or Engineering you will want to keep this book by your side.  The combinations of excellent illustrations and the direct text make for one of the most comprehensible books of this subject.  <BR>  |Although not as in-depth as other books such as \\"Mechanisms and Mechanical Devices Source Book \\"and the four book series \\"Ingenious Mechanisms\\", this book with its illustrations allow one to intuitively grasp the idea of how the particular mechanism works.  There is almost no math.  The book covers many of the same movements that maintenance personnel would see on a daily basis in a factory floor environment, as well as explaining classic movements such as variations of Geneva movements and the model T transmission.<BR> There are basic tried and true reliable designs that are used repeatedly in machinery.  <BR> This book does an excellent job in presenting the basics.	2003-05-01
US	52381942	R2K09NNRMSHNK6	1563271737	883710633	Becoming Lean: Inside Stories of U.S. Manufacturers	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	PRACTICAL	BECOMING LEAN<BR>             Probably one of the better &quot;lean&quot; production books, because most books will tell you what lean production is.  We have all heard the buzzwords, kaizen, quality circles, empowerment, kanban, benchmarking. but one is still left with their peculiar situation. There is always the thought that this particular company or industry is does not lend itself to lean production and is the exception to the rule.  \\"Becoming Lean\\" is the account of some diverse companies on the road to lean production. The attempt of make each company fit a certain production model and achieve its goal.  I recommend this book for teaching by example, instead of dealing with just theory.	2003-04-30
US	52381942	RXJ2D0WDNPM9P	0060974176	256728176	The Machine That Changed the World : The Story of Lean Production	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	a Manufacturing Mustread	The Machine That Changed the World; The Story of Lean Production <BR>    A great book that although becoming a little outdated portrays the ongoing trends in the automobile production industry in three major cultural areas.  <BR>The three areas are;the Asian lean production (Toyota) v.s. the American system,(mass production) v.s. the European craftsman system.  On a larger scale it will and is affecting manufacturing everywhere.<BR> Henry Ford was the founder of the American mass production system, and Ford was very successful adopting it to the aircraft and steel industries. American companies adopted this system and it is one of the main reasons for American pre-eminence in many industries worldwide.  Toyota has become the founder of the Lean system of manufacturing.   Most of the<BR>early adherents to this system were other large Japanese companies, and responsible for the Japanese manufacturing miracle since the 1960's, as it was adapted from automotive to all manner of industries.<BR>     The book is well written and interesting even though it is based on an MIT study of global trends in the auto industry.   I would like to see an update to this book.  The one anomaly I see is the German Automobile industry.  If Japan and Korea have some of the most efficient auto manufacturing plants in the world and<BR>North America is becoming more competitive, what is happening in Europe comes as no surprise.  Many European automakers have yet to fully embrace American mass production techniques and are now faced with the greater efficiencies of Lean <BR>production.  The book does not explain in my mind the success of the German Auto industry.  It seems to be the one exception to the rule.	2003-04-24
US	52381942	R18TYHP4H5RK0K	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	0	0	N	N	very informative	Very informative.  This book was almost perfect.  It explained the history of Bruno Brunelleschi to enclose the area<BR>left open when the cathedral of Florence Italy was being built.  There is a little history of previous domes trying to enclose large areas.  The book was very informative, a little about architecture, Renaissance Florence, and of course the architect Brunelleschi.<BR>  The only drawback is the book could have used some more sketches and photos of the machinery used in building the dome<BR>and the techniques used so that the whole dome did not fall in upon itself.  Brunelleschi built the world's largest dome and finished the cathredral of Florence with out centering. Meaning<BR>there was no support from below the dome to hold it up while<BR>the dome was being built.  The reader will have nothing but admiration for the architect that has to invent a process of construction along with designing most of the heavy machines to construct the dome itself.	2003-03-07
US	52381942	RKP5A0HXXGF07	0140250913	753226033	The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unsettling	This book is an excellent book. It explains a little of the history of a disease and a frightening scenario becomes all too common with each disease that is discussed.  In almost every case because of rampant and uncontrolled use of antobiotics along with global travel.  Many of mankinds worst diseases are on the verge of becoming uncontrollable.  We are spiraling toward the use of ever more rare and expensive medicines while the rate that dangerous diseases become immune to the present barrage of medicines is accelerating.  The book is very well written.  It is not written in a doomsday or alarmist style.  It is factual, and answered mamy questions I had on diseases.  The unsettling part is the conclusions the reader will draw from the present trends many diseases are taking.	2003-03-07
US	52381942	R6CC7QOVD1AR2	0896034356	488486828	Discoveries in the Human Brain: Neuroscience Prehistory, Brain Structure, and Function	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	not an introduction	I would not recommend this book unless the areas of the brain are already known to the reader.  It was well written and the history of the discoveries are well explained.  I had trouble when, for example, the book would say a certain section of the brain was at one time thought to be the seat of all emotions. It would list various experiments that would take place.  You ended up knowing the history, but not necessarily the location within the brain, or what the final verdict of that area of the brain actually turned out to be.  I am sure with a little introductory background reading about the brain this book would have made more of an impact on me. I believe the author should have expended with a few more paragraphs to tie-in and explain the final result or today's best guess about that area of the brain.	2003-03-06
US	52381942	R1KO6KRNY0M8IW	048626145X	896037395	The Seven Lamps of Architecture (Dover Architecture)	Books	2	9	36	N	Y	outdated	I found that tying in human traits to different styles of architecture was not interesting at all. There is no discussion of building techniques or the practical side of architecture.  This would be more for the artist that is trying to project different human feelings into the structure.  If you are looking for a techincal guide to architecture this is not it.	2003-03-05
US	52381942	R37LBKD7MD9W5W	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	4	6	12	N	Y	Probablity v.s. man's intuition	This book pits the incomphrehensiblity of the human mind to<br />grasp large numbers of chances over billions of years and form conclusions about whether the complexity of life on this planet is the result of a grand and intelligent design or the result of molecules bonding together randomly until a viable solution is found.  It stems from the fact that as the Author mentions, in the case of blood clotting to close a simple skin wound involves 268 different chemical processes to turn on and off at the proper time.  The Author's point is that it is too much to believe that in the eons leading up to the development of life that countless life forms bled to death because they had perhaps one, two, or 267 of the processes developed by random, but not neccessarily the correct 268 processes needed.  The Author then points out that if all of the critical life processes needed hundreds of processes with numerous complex biochemicals what are the chances of life developing without adhering to a grand plan,  Example, If the life form that developed the perfect blood clotting process did not develop a correct digestive or reproduction system then that blood clotting<br />process was all for naught.  The large numbers involved cripple our ability to obtain a gut feeling for the probablities.  After all if the sun was to not shine one day every 100,000 years, the people that experienced it would consider it a miracle, eventhough it may have happened 45,000 times since the earth had formed.  This book will force you to think.<br /> Did life spring from tidal pools of biochemical soups where an almost infinite number of chances over billions of years actually succeeded, or is there a push, a plan of Life for this planet.	2003-03-05
US	52381942	R2GM1GU2C7V8V7	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Confirms  Television -land	I would start reading this book 1/3 of the way through. It is a pretty good book once one gets past most of the anti-Dan Rather<BR>intro section.<BR>  The book makes some good points, gives some examples and that is that.  This book is a fast read, and it is worth this fast read because it makes one realize the thought processes behind the large network News organization. Readers will find themselves watching the network News with this book in mind. <BR>     The author is quite repetitious, and makes the same points throughout the book.  The main fact of the book is that the News organizations of the large television networks became money making operations.  In order to hang onto this income, the News<BR>stories do not always portray the facts, but are shaded to appeal to the target audience.  The same audience that the avertising sponsors are appealing to.<BR>This book wasn't a real eyeopener after all this is the television industry.  It will probably not open up a whole new<BR>world of facts to the reader.  It just delved and verified  some unsavory facts about how the network News is prepared and served up for it intended audience.<BR>This book is worth the read because of its unique insight offered by a network News insider.	2002-10-03
US	52381942	R383YZ7T8Y9SGW	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	right on the money	If you read the international News before progressing to the national News then this book is for you. This book is well written and backed up by recent events.<br />  A very timely book.  Now that the cold war is over their was/is a feeling in the West that the non-west of the world will, as they modernize become westernized.  This author points out the fallacy of this argument. Europe borrowed incessently throughout its history before the industrial revolution and<br />stayed unique and true to itself.<br />  The Non-Western civilizations are going to import Western technology and some of the ideas, but conform it to their civilization.  He proves by citing recent events how the world is actually aligning along civilizational lines.  Historically, people felt allegiance to their clan or tribe which later progressed to the feeling of a nation-state.  Now the stage is set where the population of the world will align themselves with the major civilzations of this world. There is a scarcity of resources, and the world is a more crowded place the tensions between civilzations will intensify.<br />  This is another eyeopener book, one that will make you view world events in a different light. The author backs up his points with ample recent historical evidence.<br />  An example is the world alignment in the recent Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo conflict.  The second and third tier supporters of the combatants all aligned along their historicial civilizational supports.  The West mainly back Western Christiandom.  The Muslims gained the support of the Islamic countries and Russia supported Serbia, an eastern orthodox country.  This book I believe will give one an insight into the future of the worlds conflicts.  You will look upon these conflicts in a new light and understanding and differentiate between intra and inter-civilzational conflicts.	2002-10-02
US	52381942	RONLHCRT102GM	0520006755	149726543	Ishi in Two Worlds: A Biography of the Last Wild Indian in North America	Books	5	16	17	N	N	excellent book	This book tells a true story of a common science fiction theme, How would a Stone Age person acclimate himself to modern civilization, if suddenly transported there.  Ishi was the last remnant of a California hunter-gatherer tribe.  He was starving and near death when discovered by a California rancher.  Thus began his journey from primitive beginnings, to journalistic sensation, to scientific curiosity, and finally as a working member of society in the California of the 1920's. and `30's.  As the subject of scientific study, Ishi shows that basically people everywhere and for all time are the same, but it is the differences that of course makes it interesting. One example is that at first anthropologists thought Ishi could not count above the number ten.  It was later found that he saw no reason to count abstractly.  He had a numbering system that extended quite high when physical objects were present. One of the most shocking revelations for Ishi,  were not the buildings, cars, trains or machinery of modern life, but the number of people that existed. This is a man who had never seen a crowd of people, he had watched his remote lingering tribe-members die off when he was a child .  A hunter-gather lifestyle can only support a sparse population.  From Ishi's perspective the largest crowd and perhaps the world consisted of those fifty tribe members when he was a young boy. The book gives a humorous account of Ishi's shock of seeing a crowded San Francisco Beach on a hot summer day.  The book is very well written, an easy read and very entertaining. It is surprising that this book is not more popular.	2002-08-06
US	52381942	R1HMQY22D64U5B	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent job	Another eye-opener book, whereby it opens up another world of unique ideas. An introductory type book that does an excellent job of giving an overall view of what the genome project is discovering and what the human DNA code contain. Each chapter deals with a specific segment of our genetic code.  It is not a deep Chemistry or Biology text, but generalizes in what the specific area of each gene segment controls or affects. This book will challenge you to consider the wider ramifications of the genetic code and to consider the whole picture.  It is very well written, and informative.<BR>     It is very interesting that the code is so flawed,full of repetitions, repairs, and fragments of genetic battles in our evolutionary history.       <BR>    This is a book that one thinks about long after reading it because of its unique information.	2001-12-03
US	52381942	R3JLTJ9D48174U	0070544824	770693305	Why Buildings Stand Up	Books	5	12	12	N	N	clear and understandable	This is a book that sums-up alot of material about loads, properties of building materials, beams and columns, and translates it into the strength of modern structures.  I found the book fascinating and it answered many questions, among them why the height vs base of the pyramids automatically contain the value of PI.  This book discussed the anchoring of todays skyscrapers and large structures.  This is a book that explains where the forces and loads are projected and how they are contained and countered without getting into the mathematical aspect of it.  This author did an excellent job in conveying<BR>the logic behind structural engineering.  Well done.	2001-11-26
US	52381942	RPZSZMAVS5J15	0553345842	238681133	The Mind's I: Fantasies and Reflections on Self and Soul	Books	3	12	20	N	N	limited subject matter	I was spoiled by the author's other book, Godel Escher Bach.<BR> It was very wide ranging and thought provoking.  This book<BR>deal a smaller subject area and is interesting for that one<BR>area.  It deals with the nature of thoughts, memories and consciousness in the physical world.  If everything is structured of atoms and molecules where are thoughts located.<BR>Could physical representations of thoughts and memories be created ?  If you had a wiring schematic for a certain person's brain could you read their thoughts. Although the subject material is unique, I thought the book was a little long winded.<BR>Once the idea or point is grasped there is only so much the can be conjectured about it.	2001-11-16
US	52381942	R14ADI2CU3X4W7	0306801515	624612613	Structures: Or Why Things Don't Fall Down	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Clear, Concise, It makes the Complex easily Understood	This book could even give Stress Analysis a good name. The author does an exceedingly good job of explaining the property or behavior of a material. He then proceeds to demonstrate the direct relationship between the properties and how the material is utilized and how it affects of the overall design of the structure.  The book discusses why construction steel really is the preferred material for most large structures.  Comparisons of soft metal chain vs. high tensile strength suspension bridges or bi-plane vs. monoplane design are discussed. I would recommend this for anybody that wants a well rounded basic understanding of why structures are the designed the way they are. The math is at a minimum, the concepts are very well explained and real world examples are used frequently to keep it interesting.  The author's career has exposed him to a multitude of design failures and successes. He readily explains them along with his philosophy of design and accident prevention.    This is another one of those books that can in a few chapters explain the major goals and problems in the modern field of design and materials science.	2001-07-11
US	52381942	RETR7DU38HG24	0553455923	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not to Expectations	An amusing book about two non-hikers walking the Appalachian Trail.  This book contains many good sections dealing with the history of the Trail, its geology, ecology, famous hikers and folklore. These are the high points, and its quite good. The author makes one realize the beauty we have missed from the effects of acid rain, the decimation of the Elm and Chestnut trees to disease and the loss of the virgin forest in general. The problem with the story is that it dwells the majority of the time on the inane and tedious conversation of  two hikers.   Another disappointment with this book is that they sampled the Appalachian Trail and did not actually hike the whole trail.  I thought I was going to read about the tenacity and mental toughness it would take to tackle the whole Trail.   All in all, it was a worthwhile read for some of the knowledge gained, but it must be gleaned from the passages in between the conversational sections.	2001-06-28
US	52381942	R11I5PZJL1L2NC	1570751560	534465652	Loaves and Fishes: The Inspiring Story of the Catholic Worker Movement	Books	5	55	60	N	Y	inspiring	This book contains the highlights and experiences of Dorothy Day,  the founder of the Catholic Worker Movement. It is a very enjoyable book. The philosophy and beliefs are brought out in a series of experiences, many of them humorous, about the unique characters, role models and lessons learned in trying to adopt an early Christian communal attitude to charity and bring it to the streets of New York City. Dorothy Day lived her beliefs intently.  Over the decades it resulted in running many urban soup kitchens, Hospitality houses, a farm or two, along with publishing the Catholic Worker Newspaper and authoring this very inspiring book.. This book will make you think,	2001-06-28
US	52381942	R20BZ5JLCKYU0F	0029320402	909620419	New Manufacturing Challenge: Techniques for Continuous Improvement	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	5 stars plus	This is THE book for hands-on actual implementation of lean production techniques. This book answers the difficult problems accompaning implementation of the Toyota Production System.  It is written in an easily understood straight-forward style. In my opinion this is the best book on boosting shopfloor efficiency. It does not shy away from discussing the problem areas. The author proves he has &quot;been there and done it&quot;.      An example is the Kanban system usually described in most books as a sytem where cards control the shop floor work flow.  This book describes in detail various Kanban systems to handle the situations where the work flow is interrupted by processes requiring outside vendors or where an operation such as heat treating will slow the process.   I rated this book five stars because it discusses real problems and solutions.	2001-05-17
US	52381942	R1Q960K6LHF5FM	0465026567	296214142	Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Brilliantly Done,	This is a unique book written by an even more unique author. If you are one who likes to dwell on the big idea of this world this is the book.      Like a modern day Pythagoras, the author shows how mathematical properties or themes are expressed in various media. The title shows it is mainly concerned with the underlying relationship in the works of Godel, a mathematician, Escher, an artist, and the composer, J.S. Bach.      This book also intertwines a host of other fields to demonstrate the same underlying concepts are prominent in such areas as the genetic coding, fractals, computer language, logic and philosophy.     This is definitely a book that will leave an impression. The author, Douglas R. Hofstadter has developed well thought out concepts.  He demonstrates a deep and intimate knowledge in many diverse fields. Only a modern Renaissance person could realize the connections and write this book.     Heraclitus should have said you cannot read the same book twice. I read this book in the early eighties and it astounded me. I had the same impression reading it twenty years later.  Although this book is well written, because of the subject matter it is not always light reading.  It is helpful to have a pencil ready to work out the logic problems. The artwork must be viewed and the related concepts considered. A second reading of this book has spurred me onto purchasing his other books.	2001-05-01
US	52381942	R9MEO064JRZDE	0786100753	386838195	Against All Hope	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Real Eyeopener	I tend to prefer a good nonfiction survival story, and this was one of the best I have ever read.  Most people in survival situations are there without choice,  Armando Validares along with a segment of Cuban society were imprisoned because they valued their freedom of thought in a Cuban society intolerant of dissent.  These political prisoners have only to accept the garb of a common prisoner or attend political re-education classes to receive better treatment. The author and fellow prisoners endured inhumane tortures because of their belief and values. The prisoners have maintained their courage, defiance, and solidarity for years while undergoing all that Castro's regime can bear upon them to make them yield.  It is truly heroic. During many of the beatings the prisoners would still manage to yell an anti-communist slogan or quote a Bible verse to the enraged guards.  This book demonstrates the willpower a human being has to value an idea or goal above life itself. The ordeal, while completed by the author is continuing for many of his comrades and fellow citizens.  Other interesting aspects of this book show a wider view of the struggle such as, the  inner workings of the Castro regime, and highlights the deception of  his political statements denying the existence of political prisoners.  It also shows the force of world opinion and organizations such as the UN and Amnesty International upon Totalitarian governments. All in all, the main effect of this book was a deep admiration for these prisoners holding to a principle while enduring all that a modern totalitarian government can bring to bear upon them.  These men routinely have the basics of life withheld, clothing, warmth, food, water, and sleep, but still they endure and refuse to buckle under. They remain true to their conscience.  Common criminals and civilians employed in the prisons routinely are touched enough to help these political prisoners because their condition is so pathetic.  The Castro Regime's answer to this is to have these prisoners isolated and tended to by militant party members only.   Still threads of news managed to reach the outside world to inform it of the existence of these political prisoners and their actions.  The fact that this has gone on and is continuing close to American shores really hits home.  This book is now my standard for judging all other survival books.   I give it the highest rating.  Very well done. It is a story that had to be told.  World notoriety made it very unlikely that the author could quietly die in a Cuban prison and world appeals to release him finally made Castro relent.  This is his story of twenty-two years in the Cuban penal system.	2001-04-17
US	52381942	R204AX3Y5WR2B4	0963043935	527331261	All I Need to Know About Manufacturing I Learned in Joe's Garage: World Class Manufacturing Made Simple	Books	2	8	12	N	Y	Almost there	This book had the potential to be a great instructive book. Its main problem is that it stopped short of attaining this goal. Coming as it does on the verge of the third decade of America's realization that the American Production System is not the ultimate manufacturing system it highlighted manufacturing problems, but not their solutions.  The idea behind the book was excellent. Building a neighborhood project within a  close neighborhood highlighted problems with the common American Mfg. system. It allowed one to easily attain the concept and the Japanese catch-word that defines the solution.  If you want a book that will help you relate catch-words this is it.  If you are interested in a solution, search elsewhere.  It needs a little further development on the reverse side of the coin. Such as the following week the group should have had a project at Ralph's or Sato's garage and with the same style demonstrate how the project should have been handled.    I did not like this book because it is only one side of the story. It offers nothing on the problem solving or &quot;How to&quot; side of manufacturing.	2001-04-04
