US	52387274	RA8EAHJ9TRGDG	0878301364	432758745	New Playwriting Strategies: A Language-Based Approach to Playwriting (A Theatre Arts Book)	Books	2	30	33	N	N	A necessary but mediocre book	I have completely mixed feelings about this book.  Part of me wants to celebrate anyone who brings more attention to writers such as Mac Wellman, Len Jenkin, and Suzan-Lori Parks -- some of the most exciting playwrights in America -- but another part of me is deeply uncomfortable with the clunky, jargon-filled sentences and often obtuse ideas herein.<br />The best element of this book is the exercises sprinkled through each chapter.  In fact, it's tempting to say: Get the book for the exercises, read nothing else.  They won't make you a great playwright, but they will get you thinking about the possibilities of the theatre in ways that no other handbook will.<br />There are some good ideas within the text itself, too, but there are far more ideas which are either unnecessarily &quot;academic&quot; or so reductive as to be humorous.  Castagno doesn't seem to understand that the theatre is a fundamentally pragmatic art form -- he ends up trying to explain far too many things which are self-evident if you don't view them through the distorting lens of postmodern literary and cultural theory.  Why do Jenkin and Wellman, for instance, use various levels of language?  Not because they're trying to prove a theory of Bakhtin's, but rather because it's fun.  Anyone who has seen a good production of a Len Jenkin play knows that it is first and foremost a lot of fun.  Castagno is like an analyzer of comedy who is more interested in trying to explain how jokes work than in simply enjoying that they do.<br />The fundamental premise of the book is, in many ways, false.  These are not new strategies -- most are variations on ancient strategies, and the most radical can be traced back to the early modernists (Gertrude Stein's plays are more radical than any mentioned in the book) -- the plays mentioned are, rather, new manifestations of strategies which have been around for quite a while.  The idea that the writers discussed are the theatrical version of the Language Poets is alsoflawed -- though Wellman and others certainly value language and use it in a different way from more traditional playwrights, there are so many other elements to even the most basic theatrical production that &quot;language playwrights&quot; is a misnomer.<br />For someone who proclaims to know so much about &quot;new&quot; strategies, Castagno seems amazingly ignorant of a lot of current theatre -- the playwrights he discusses are all ones he apparently met at a conference.  For a book such as this to ignore the techniques of writers like David Greenspan and Erik Ehn, to mention only two, is a tremendous shortcoming.  Another problem is Castagno's strong desire to apparently create rules and guidelines for what is or isn't &quot;new&quot;, which leads him to miss the most interesting thing about contemporary theatre: the grey areas.    Writers use whatever techniques meet their needs, and this has led &quot;traditional&quot; writers to try various innovative techniques and writers known as &quot;experimental&quot; to write plays which are more or less traditional.  In his haste to label and box the works he discusses, Castagno frequently simplifies magnificently complex writings.<br />At the moment, this is the only book which really looks at playwrighting from a perspective other than the tired and cliched tenets of what Mac Wellman calls &quot;geezer theatre&quot;.  I hope that more books for playwrights will explore innovative writing techniques with a bit more subtlety and nuance than this book achieves, but for the moment this is all there is.  With any luck, some actual playwrights will soon decide to publish their own books.  Perhaps the best thing to do right now is not to read this book, but rather to read the plays themselves.	2002-11-20
US	52387274	R3VHMDHIXS3FBF	0743203860	150672936	The Best American Poetry 2002	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A wonderful, quirky selection	The Best American Poetry series can never live up to its title (just about every editor has said in their introduction, &quot;These may not really be your idea of 'the best' -- they're just the poems I most liked this year&quot;), but by having different editors each year, the books offer an interesting view of what eminent poets consider work of note.<br />For me, the books work best when the editor is someone with a specific and, most likely, controversial vision -- a person who isn't afraid of manifestos and subjectivity.  Thus, up until now, my favorite volume in the series was the 1996 edition edited by Adrienne Rich -- not because I think all of the poems she chose were brilliant (many weren't), but rather because the choices were unpredictable and, though diverse, held together by a clear philosophical intent on the editor's part.  (It was exactly this philosophical intent which made the book the most controversial one in the series, with Harold Bloom deliberately excluding any of Rich's choices from the ten-year retrospective volume.)<br />Robert Creeley's volume seems even better to me than Rich's (partly because I like Creeley's view of poetry more than Rich's).  I expect, though, that the book will either be loved or hated by readers, for though there are some old favorites such as Donald Hall and Sharon Olds included, the majority of the poems are innovative and &quot;difficult&quot;.<br />Approached with an open mind, a high tolerance for ambiguity and confusion, and a certain sense of humor, though, and this book reveals itself to be full of wonders.  I couldn't tell you what the exact meaning of Forrest Gander's magnificent &quot;Carried Across&quot; is, but I can say that reading it was one of the most powerful and rewarding experiences I've had while reading contemporary poetry.  None of the other poems had quite the same effect on me, but why should they?  Jenny Boully's footnotes-to-blank-space &quot;The Body&quot; had me laughing and thinking andwondering and rethinking as I wandered through it, a bit lost but also amused, and many other poems had similar effects.  <br />Frank O'Hara maintained that poetry should at least be as interesting as movies, and, with the proper willingness on the reader's part to stay open to oddity, just about all of these poems meet that test.	2002-09-10
US	52387274	R1VA42YKGHU72O	1564780740	226064120	AVA	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Deeply and mysteriously resonant	At first, this novel seems incomprehensible and pointless, nothing more than a collection of random phrases and information, but after a while the phrases find echoes, the information finds order, and the ultimate effect is haunting and devastating.  (Indeed, I soon found myself incapable of reading more than 20 pages or so at a time because it was emotionally overwhelming, though I've yet to figure out the exact source of this power.)<br />Maso has said elsewhere that this book is, in some ways, related to Virginia Woolf's &quot;The Waves&quot;, and I would agree, though in many ways I think Maso's is a more compelling and perhaps even richer book than Woolf's.  &quot;Ava&quot; bears a certain relationship to &quot;Mrs. Dalloway&quot; and &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; as well, for Maso, like Woolf, has subsumed her narrative within the perspective of her protagonist.  The story lies between the lines.<br />This book can't be read impatiently, nor can it be skimmed or speed-read or soundbyted, for its effect relies upon accumulation: the accumulation of ideas, events, and even the sound of the words.  It requires an active reader, one willing to put forth effort of both thought and feeling.  The effort is rewarded a thousandfold.	2002-08-22
US	52387274	R3MQ549E18OKRO	0916583104	962360222	Accident	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An enigmatic, resonant novel	A plot description of \\"Accident\\" might make it seem like a conventional mystery/thriller novel, and yet it is not that at all.  It's not a thriller (though it is a sort of moral and metaphysical mystery) and it is certainly not conventional.  Mosley's use of language is innovative without being obscure -- he uses the rhythms of his words, sentences, and sentence fragments both to create suspense and to force the reader to pay as much attention to what is not being said and thought as what is (it's no surprise that the book was made into a film with a script by Harold Pinter).<br />\\"Accident\\" begins with a car accident.  The narrator of the book, who we soon discover is a professor of philosophy at Oxford, lives near the accident site and is the first person on the scene.  He discovers in the car a half-conscious woman and a dead man, both of whom are students of his.  He carries the woman to his house, then calls the police.  But he doesn't tell them about the woman.<br />The book moves backwards in time from there, and we get to know who these characters are and their tangled relationships to each other.  At the end, we return to the accident, now fully understanding all of the forces playing into the situation.<br />The book is not quite 200 pages long, and yet its texture is so rich, its moral and philosophical questions so difficult, its language so perfect that it lives in the reader's (or, at least, this reader's) mind as books of twice its length do not.	2002-06-06
US	52387274	R1517Z1K4LJSES	0394701259	628451112	Seven Famous Greek Plays	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Great selection, antiquated translations	I considered assigning this book in a high school Advanced Placement Literature class because the selection of plays is a perfect introduction to Greek drama, but I decided against inflicting it on students because most of the plays are translated into very awkward faux-Elizabethan English, making them nearly impenetrable for the uninitiated.<br />Is there no publisher out there who will create an affordable anthology of Greek plays in modern translations?	2002-06-06
US	52387274	R3O6FBEW85DTL	0802138187	212363383	Kubrick	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A glimpse of genius	Michael Herr wrote this book to restore some balance to the discussions of Stanley Kubrick after his death -- as Herr notes, \\"The strangely contentious and extremely disrespectful tone that lurked inside so many of the obituaries and tributes was unpleasant to the many people who loved Stanley, but not surprising.\\"  The reviews of Kubrick's final, and probably unfinished, film Eyes Wide Shut didn't help -- with a few exceptions, the critics seemed happy to use the film to confirm all of their preconceived notions of Kubrick's life and art.<br />Herr's book offers a pleasant defense of his friend, as well as some interesting and amusing anecdotes, but little more than that.  Personally, I'd hoped he would reveal more about how he and Kubrick worked on Full Metal Jacket, but the film is seldom talked about directly, though it is often mentioned, tantalizingly, in passing.  Ultimately, the book is little more than a long magazine article put into hardcover; it's nice to have, and would make a fine gift for a Kubrick fan, but it's definitely not a \\"must-have\\" book.	2002-04-12
US	52387274	R2PCNNVSMFWLVL	1565843592	433091924	"Exterminate All the Brutes": One Man's Odyssey into the Heart of Darkness and the Origins of European Genocide	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Disturbing and provocative	Sven Lindqvist has created here a fascinating, disturbing collage of history, journalism, and memoir -- a sometimes surreal exploration of the European impulse toward genocide.<br />Lindqvist develops a few theses, but his primary one is that imperialism leads to genocidal actions, and that no slaughter is completely unique when viewed in the context of history.  He writes, \\"Auschwitz was the modern industrial application of a policy of extermination on which European world domination had long since rested.\\"<br />This is an invaluable book for anyone looking for perspective on Joseph Conrad's \\"Heart of Darkness\\" or 19th century European attitudes toward race and colonialism.  It gives a damning picture not only of European actions in Africa, but of the educated European public's indifference to inhumanity.  The writing is extremely clear and readable, compulsively so, because Lindqvist's technique is to offer tantalizing strands of ideas, all seemingly unrelated, and then slowly and shockingly bring them together as a whole.  The organization and balance of the book's many pieces is magnificent.<br />There are no clear answers here.  Lindqvist digs up a history most people would rather let lie.  Its implications about humanity, all of humanity, are dark.  But without facing them, we will never cease being accomplices to slaughter.	2002-03-12
US	52387274	R3I7Q4GSIUFZPJ	081956270X	181495342	Tales of Neveryon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enigmatic, lovely, and atypical	Samuel Delany's Tales of Neveryon is a book which accomplishes something few ever have: it takes all of the basic elements of cliched sword &amp; sorcery fantasy  stories and weaves them into a suggestive, thought-provoking, allusive, and even haunting series of tales.<br />None of these stories follows any sort of traditional plot structure -- some of them have only the barest hint of plot at all.  And yet they are deeply compelling, for Delany has infused so many of the situations with intellectual substructures, simultaneously evoking a carefully-imagined fantasy world, well-developed characters, and profound philosophical speculations (and aggravations) touching on everything from economics to literary theory to political and social science.  None of it is heavy-handed, though, and certainly not dogmatic -- if not for some slyly suggestive epigraphs at the beginning of each tale, the deeper implications of many of the stories would be easy to miss.  The tales build on each other, and by the second half of the book, if you can juggle all of the echoes in your mind, the process of accumulation makes the experience of reading all the richer.<br />By the end, the book feels a bit incomplete, because it has raised so many questions and introduced so many journeys that the reader is likely to hit the last page and think, &quot;Where's the rest?&quot;  The rest is in the other books in the Neveryon series, and so though Tales of Neveryon is not complete in itself, there is a certain pleasure in knowing that the marvelous experience of reading this first book does not have to end.	2002-02-12
US	52387274	R2AHSWZDDGJP6R	0151005745	327855127	Master Class: Scenes from a Fiction Workshop	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A breathtaking book	No other book which is marketed as a guide for writers is like this book, partly because the marketing isn't exactly accurate, but mostly because there isn't another writer like Paul West.<br />If you're looking for the standard sort of 10-Steps to Better Writing manual (the kind which Writer's Digest Books churns out with remarkable speed), then this is not the book for you.  While there is tremendously powerful advice for all writers within Master Class, you can't use the book for easy reference, and most of the suggestions offered are of the earthshakingly metaphysical sort (the kind you find in, for instance, Rilke's Letters to a Young Poet).<br />This book will also frustrate you if you don't particularly like to think, and don't particularly like to read anything written by someone who is smarter and better-read than you are.  If you think such people are naturally pretentious, then you will find Paul West pretentious.  Continue on in ignorant bliss.<br />But if you're willing to surrender yourself to a brilliant mind and brilliant writing, if you want to dig deep into the biggest questions any writer should think about (questions of motive and meaning, of language and history, of responsibility and truth), if you don't mind obscure references and difficult concepts, then here's your book.<br />In Master Class, Paul West gives his own account of one semester of a particularly brilliant fiction writing seminar.  Since it's from his point of view, and since he was hired to be a teacher and mentor and expert, we get an awful lot of his opinions, stray thoughts, and tangential anecdotes.  He doesn't, for the most part, sum them up, and certainly doesn't offer any easy formulas.  But his thoughts are so insightful, his erudition so remarkable, and his perspective so clear and refreshing -- no woo-woo New Age mysticism, no &quot;writing is the expression of the inner child&quot; drivel, no simplifications or simple-mindedness -- that this book is one of the very fewwhich live up to Kafka's dictum that a book should be an axe to cut through the frozen sea within us.	2002-02-12
US	52387274	R1RP9APFGPNU3V	156478259X	694191196	Magic Kingdom (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	59	64	N	N	Love, death, and a malevolent Mickey	There's nothing quite like the experience of readiing a Stanley Elkin novel.  The bizarre events, the over-the-top characters, and the sentences -- long, winding sentences filled with tangential details and parenthetical clauses, sentences which tumble and turn, drunk on themselves, but which somehow by the end all manage to add up.<br />The Magic Kingdom has all of the virtues of Elkin's other great books, as well as an irresistible premise: a man who mourns his dead son by taking a group of terminally ill children to Disney World.  It's as unsentimental as such a story could possibly be, and though the characters all certainly have annoying qualities, by the end the children possess a nobility which is far truer than the superficial good intentions of the adults around them.<br />Certainly, this will not be a book for everyone.  If you only want a straightforward story with sympathetic and coherent characters, look elsewhere, for The Magic Kingdom is a sort of cross between Virginia Woolf and Monty Python.  If, however, you are able to keep your imagination open, appreciate wild flights of language, and don't mind moments where you aren't sure whether to laugh, cry, or throw up, then this book is for you.	2001-12-31
US	52387274	R18LHZNF6V3CFR	1564781682	807909763	20 Lines a Day (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Interesting insights into a writer's life and thoughts	Harry Mathews gave himself a writing assignment: before going to work on the last chapters of the novel he was writing at the time (Cigarettes), he would write at least 20 lines of something, anything.  He mostly tried to avoid automatic writing and forced himself to stick to whatever subject he started out with, but he made no demands on himself of quality or insightfulness.  The exercises produced surprising results, work of much better quality than he expected, and they are collected here in chronological order.<br />This is not the sort of book you will finish reading and say, &quot;That was one of the great reading experiences of my life.&quot;  The pleasures here are not earth-shaking or mind-blowing.  But there are pleasures here, quite a few.  The book reads like a journal, because many times Mathews wrote about what was going on in his life (a few people who were close to him had died just before he began the exercises), and the entries which stick to his everyday life can become dull and repetitive for a reader -- its when Mathews lets his imagination wander, or puts down some of his ideas about writing, that these pages really come alive.<br />The book is highly readable, whether you know Mathews's other work or not, because the exercises are short and the language clear.  It's easy enough to skip around in the book, reading it on different days, looking for entries which appeal to whatever mood you happen to be in at the moment.  Reading them in order produces a certain feeling of intimacy with the author, though, and the book is oddly moving by the end.	2001-12-31
US	52387274	R3HBRKHRVN1JE0	1564781909	36276259	Monstrous Possibility: An Invitation to Literary Politics (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Brilliant and even fun to read	Curtis White is a rarity among writers of the sort of academic articles which generally fall until the title of &quot;Cultural Studies&quot; -- he is a able to write clear, insightful sentences and put them together to create coherent and compelling arguments.  I read this book in one sitting, spellbound and exhilarated, and though it's only 118 pages, that same amount written by some more prominent cultural studier would take weeks to read, if it got read at all.<br />White's perspective, though, is fascinating -- he seeks to link social politics and cultural politics, something which has been done by right-wing anti-intellectual culture warriors such as Dinesh D'Souza and William Bennett, but has seldom been accomplished by leftist academics, who generally wanted to divorce the social and cultural realms.  Before reading this book, I was so disgusted with academic literary theory, so tired of its apparent irrelevance to anything other than doctoral dissertations, that I swore never to read anything with the words &quot;literary&quot; and &quot;theory&quot; together on any page for the rest of my life.  Now, though I may not be rushing out to find the latest tract on post-post-structuralism, I'm also not closing my mind to the possibility that literary theory may have some value.<br />The pieces collected in this book were published between 1984 and 1997, with the majority having been published in the mid-1990s.  The questions White raises are consistent, however: what is the place of literature (particularly fiction) in our society, what is the function of academic literary scholarship for both the artist and society, and what do both literature and theory have to do with the world at large.  White's bias is clearly in favor of innovative fiction, small press publishers, and social activism (broadly defined), and many of the joys in the book come from his iconoclastic clashings with various know-nothing pundits and overinflated egos.  <br />White is remarkably erudite, but seldom parades his erudition.  His perspective is unique: he is not only a critic and an academic, but also a publisher and a novelist and memoirist himself.  He deserves a larger audience, for the pleasures in his texts are many.	2001-12-20
US	52387274	R3BE45ZDDA5I98	0807085197	861056347	Finding Home: Writing on Nature and Culture from Orion Magazine	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A provocative collection	No matter what you think about environmentalism, nature, and ecology, this book has an essay to challenge your assumptions.  More than that, though: these essays don't merely challenge, but rather expand your viewpoint.<br />The essays are arranged under five categories: Finding Home; The Geographies of Home; Other Walls, Other Wildness; A Child's Sense of Wildness; and Metaphors of Desire.  There are magnificent and evocative essays by such well-known writers as Barry Lopez, Scott Russell Sanders, Terry Tempest Williams, and David Ehrenfeld, but also some wonderful pieces by writers who are less known.  One of my own favorites is Wallace Kaufman's &quot;Confessions of a Developer&quot;, an essay I found so fascinating that I wanted it to be an entire book of its own.<br />As can be expected from any work originally published by Orion Magazine, the writing here is uniformly excellent.  Even if you have no interest in the ideas and philosophies behind these essays, you can revel in the beautiful language of most of them.  It would be a shame, though, to ignore what these writers have to say.	2001-12-20
US	52387274	R3PCDN8C7BUHE1	0375506683	537009300	Reading Chekhov: A Critical Journey	Books	4	50	51	N	N	A fine meditation on a great writer	&quot;Reading Chekhov&quot; is a beautifully written book, with sparkling insights on Chekhov's work in every chapter. It is less an academic or scholarly investigation than a meditation and exploration, which might have been titled, &quot;Travels Through Russia While Thinking About Chekhov&quot;. Chekhov is certainly a writer who has been thought about quite a bit, and I was skeptical at first about how much Janet Malcolm would be able to contribute to a field which is glutted with critical studies and appreciations, but her book is unique (though at its best it shares qualities with V.S. Pritchett's fine study from 1988).<br />Malcolm offers just enough biographical information for the reader who knows little about Chekhov to be able to appreciate this book, and she is also able to give an interesting enough perspective for her book to be worthwhile for someone who knows as much about Chekhov as she does. Aside from the short story &quot;The Lady with the Dog&quot;, which serves as a touchstone for the book's narrative, Malcolm doesn't explore any of Chekhov's work in depth. The beauty of what she has created here, though, is that she is able to give a sense of Chekhov as a whole: his life, his writings, and the varied responses to his works and life. For instance, one of the most fascinating passages of the book compares how various biographers have portrayed Chekhov's last moments and death, and then what these portrayals might say about how Chekhov's entire life is portrayed, and how his works are interpreted.<br />Unlike many studies of writers and their work, this one is subtle and repays rereading. Malcolm wastes no words, which is, on the whole, admirable (particularly when writing about such an efficient writer as Chekhov), but at times is tantalizing -- some of her ideas could be spun into entire books of their own. Nonetheless, this is a fine book, a pleasure to read,resonant and even Chekhovian.	2001-12-20
US	52387274	R2U47F70DBI0VB	0486292746	488931815	The Classic Tradition of Haiku: An Anthology (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	67	69	N	N	A surprisingly good collection	Despite a misleading definition of haiku on the back of this book (continued in the introduction), and despite the tendency of Dover Thrift Editions to use the worst possible translations for other books they have published, this is an authoritative and valuable collection which offers translations of quite a few works otherwise difficult to find.  One of the most valuable elements of the book is its printing of multiple translations of one poem -- while some of the translations (particularly from the early part of the 20th century) are execrable, it is fascinating and instructive to see how various poems have been approached.<br />This book is a great addition to any library, but don't let it be your only haiku book -- be sure to read William Higginson's &quot;Haiku Handbook&quot; as well as &quot;The Essential Haiku&quot; edited by Robert Hass and &quot;The Haiku Anthology&quot; edited by Cor van den Heuvel.	2001-12-20
US	52387274	R3BD7X6JJXCFH9	1582430403	324011010	Anarchy!: An Anthology of Emma Goldman's Mother Earth	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A magnficent and long-overdue collection	Emma Goldman's magazine Mother Earth was one of the best and liveliest anarchist publications at the beginning of the 20th Century, but until this book was published almost everything which ever appeared in Mother Earth was nearly impossible to find. Peter Glassgold has done a fine job of culling some of the best works from the 5,000 or so pages of Mother Earth into this generous and fascinating collection.<br />The book is separated into six sections: Anarchism, The Woman Question, Literature, Civil Liberties, The Social War, and War and Peace. Within these sections are articles by classic anarchist writers such as Alexander Berkman, Ben Reitman, Voltairine de Cleyre, Peter Kropotkin, and Goldman herself. There are also a number of works by writers you might not expect to appear in such a book: Eugene O'Neill (what is suspected to be his first publication), Ben Hecht, Louise Bryant, Margaret Sanger, and Maxim Gorky. Peter Glassgold provides an informative and readable introduction, and there is a comprehensive index as well as a section of photographs, mostly of the covers of issues of Mother Earth (some by Man Ray).<br />Everyone interested in the history of anarchism, radical politics, and 20th-century thought should own this book.	2001-12-02
US	52387274	R1R9E4UBIYPL97	0198117353	50421430	The Oxford Companion to Shakespeare	Books	5	35	39	N	N	A beautiful and authoritative guide	This guide is beautifully illustrated and carefully written by many of the finest Shakespeare scholars alive (there are entries by Helen Vendler, Park Honan, Jonathan Bate,  Stephen Orgel, and many others).  It is a joy to simply open it to a random page and read.  There is an admitted and fairly strong bias toward British Shakespearians and productions, but this helps focus the book and give it a depth many similar guides lack.  That doesn't mean it's a provincial book, however, for there are numerous entries surveying Shakespeare across the world and in a variety of contexts.  One of the most helpful aspects of the book is an outline of categories and entries at the beginning, a remarkably useful aid when terminology or names slip your mind.  It is helpful, but not necessary, to have a copy of the Oxford Shakespeare to refer to, since titles, chronologies, and line references are all keyed to it.	2001-12-02
US	52387274	R2O972ZBCKY5OC	0811200973	315614483	Gandhi on Non-Violence: A Selection From the Writings of Mahatma Gandi	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good, but hardly comprehensive	This is a useful book in times such as ours if you find yourself in need of a short, pithy statement on nonviolence.  It is a sort of &quot;wit and wisdom&quot; collection, with no passage longer than a few sentences.  While that certainly doesn't allow the reader any in-depth study of Gandhi's philosophy, it is useful for readers already familiar with that philosophy who are seeking simple and quick access to essential statements.	2001-11-23
US	52387274	R2D6A0Y8K1GZVG	0374525358	245768131	Four Plays: A Thought in Three Parts, Marie and Bruce, Aunt Dan and Lemon, The Fever	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Unique and disturbing	There is not, and to my knowledge has never been, a playwright like Wallace Shawn.  His plays are not the least bit entertaining, nor were they intended to be.  They are the intellectual equivalent of dining on razor blades.<br />This collection is a nice balance of his early, sexually and emotionally explicit plays -- imagine &quot;Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf&quot; meets &quot;Oh, Calcutta&quot; -- along with his two great works of political and moral philosophy, &quot;Aunt Dan and Lemon&quot; and &quot;The Fever&quot;.  <br />It's hard to describe the latter works, hard to convey their brilliance, difficulty, and, finally, their tremendous ability to disturb.  &quot;The Fever&quot; is a monologue and &quot;Aunt Dan and Lemon&quot; relies as much on monologue as dialogue, so neither has ever been much of a hit with audiences used to soundbites and smash cuts.  Both could also be said to be assaults on the audience, for you cannot sit through productions of them or read them without having some fundamental beliefs questioned and, if you've really paid attention, upset.  At their heart, these works seek to undermine a simple belief which most of us take for granted: that we live a relatively moral, decent life and that we are, at heart, a good person.<br />There are very few writers who I think are truly necessary, writers without whose voices I would feel absolutely bereft, even less human.  Wallace Shawn is one of those writers.	2001-11-21
US	52387274	R34ZHIONJNS9HM	0385499191	384612198	Beyond the Writers' Workshop: New Ways to Write Creative Nonfiction	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fascinating, frustrating, necessary	It is frustrating for such a necessary, provocative, and compelling book to also be badly organized and often clumsily written.  Carol Bly has some truly powerful ideas about how to write and teach writing, as well as why.  Indeed, she is the most forceful voice for morality in writing since John Gardner, and many of her ideas should be taken seriously, debated in the pages of literary journals, the classrooms of universities and writing workshops, the hallways of teachers' conventions.  But the reader can also regret that Bly did not take the time to organize her thoughts into a more coherent form, or to express them with more care and elegance.  It is sad that such a valuable book about writing is itself so often badly written.<br />Few books for writers, though, are as full of useful advice and provocative philosophy.  Despite the subtitle, this book isn't simply for writers of creative nonfiction -- it is for anyone who wants to put words on paper in any genre whatsoever, because the questions Bly probes are universal ones.  Few of her chapters address creative nonfiction specifically in a way that excludes other genres, and the exercises she provides at the end of the book are useful for any sort of writer, at any skill level.<br />Perhaps the most valuable audience for this book is teachers of writing, whether they are elementary school teachers or instructors in MFA programs.  There are specific chapters for all levels of teachers, but the most useful discussions take place outside those chapters -- discussions of the ethics of writing and teaching writing, as well as the processes.<br />Bly links writing to ideas from neuropsychologists, social workers, philosophers, and moral psychologists such as Lawrence Kohlberg to broaden the context of writing beyond that of the American &quot;junk culture&quot;.  While at times this viewpoint leads her toward self-contradiction or a reductive orneriness, on the whole she makes a convincing argument for passionate, committed writing which doesn't slink away from questions of morality and metaphysics.	2001-11-13
US	52387274	R12SZ5IKZRL0FV	1893959031	985282690	A New Resonance: Emerging Voices in English-Language Haiku	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A diverse and generous collection	A New Resonance provides a fine presentation of the work of 20 haiku poets from around the world who are just beginning to gain recognition.  Most of these poets have not been substantially anthologized before, and it's nice to have the opportunity to get to know their work through these generous selections.<br />The book includes a short, vague introduction and brief introductions to each author.  It would have been more helpful to learn of the editors' goals and criteria for selection in the general introduction, and it might have been nice to learn more about the poets or their aesthetics in the introduction to each selection of poems, but what really matters here are the poems themselves, and they are consistently excellent.<br />This book is not intended as an introduction to the art of haiku -- it presupposes a certain familiarity with the genre, and so if you're looking for an introduction, look to The Haiku Anthology edited by Cor van den Heuvel or The Haiku Handbook by William J. Higginson.  A New Resonance is, though, a wonderful addition to any serious haiku library.	2001-05-28
US	52387274	R3EIBG86GS5JW9	0374525803	443648609	The Artist of the Missing: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A beautiful tale fabulously told	While The Artist of the Missing will not be for all tastes, no-one could honestly deny that Paul LaFarge has real skill with the English language -- marvelous skill, for the book is full of marvels.<br />If you like surrealism and fantasy, if you are seeking dreamworlds to explore, then you will love this book.  Every page holds a surprise, a lilt or a tilt in an unseen direction, or at least an unexpected turn of phrase.  It's all done with an old world sensibility, and in the end it leaves the reader feeling like he or she has sat through a performance by a master of legerdemain, someone who glories in the art of pulling beautiful handkerchiefs out of thin air and then turning them into butterflies or rabbits or flames.<br />For a first novel, this is magnificent accomplishment.  My only reservation is a minor one, for by the end I was enchanted and enthralled.  But the techniques felt familiar, for though the landscape here is unique, the path to it is one that has been crossed by many great writers, from the Grimm brothers to Italo Calvino to Stephen Millhauser.  LaFarge does it just about as well as anyone, and there's nothing wrong with doing well things which have been done before (realistic novelists build their careers on it), but I have a nagging suspicion that LaFarge is good enough to do even more, to stake out territory which is completely and undeniably unique to him, and I expect that with his future works he will.<br />Until then, The Artist of the Missing will do just fine, for it is a book to treasure and adore.	2001-05-28
US	52387274	R39MT3LQ3J6QEL	0393321185	275234414	The Haiku Anthology (Third Edition)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A beautiful collection of contemporary haiku	I have not seen a more comprehensive collection of contemporary English-language haiku than Cor van den Heuvel's remarkable anthology.  The book presents over 800 poems, and the introductions (the ones from the previous editions are included) give helpful direction to the overwhelmed reader.<br />The greatest beauty of this collection, though, is that you can carry it around with you and open randomly to any page and discover something surprising, exciting, wondrous, even breathtaking.<br />If you think of haiku as silly poems you wrote in elementary school, those three line ditties in a syllable pattern of 5-7-5, then you need this book to purge your preconceptions and demonstrate the many possibilities of the haiku form.	2001-05-05
US	52387274	R10EII76LWSBKM	0312168640	983084819	Holy Land: A Suburban Memoir	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A unique and moving chronicle of Americana	Though subtitled &quot;a suburban memoir&quot;, D.J. Waldie's Holy Land is a lot more than that.  It is a history of the concept of suburbia, a portrait of a specific place, a chronicle of one man's relationship to that place.  Formally, it is a collection of 316 prose poems, plus photographs.  There is no other book like it.<br />You don't have to be a suburbanite or a suburban exile to appreciate Waldie's incisive and insightful writing, nor do you need to be particularly interested in the tale being told.  Like most truly great books, Holy Land fuses itself to your mind regardless of what is already there.  The tiny chapters accumulate, and once you have read a few, reverberations begin, harmonies and discords, and soon the whole becomes much greater than the single parts.  It is a thrilling reading experience.	2001-03-14
US	52387274	R32GFN8EORMAGM	0966491351	818295192	To a Distant Island	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An elegant, affecting book	In 1890, Anton Chekhov traveled across Russia to the island of Sakhalin to visit a prison colony there and write a book about what he found.  The trip was so arduous as to be almost suicidal, and no-one has ever clearly understood why Chekhov desired such a journey.<br />James McConkey's To a Distant Island is partially a chronicle of Chekhov's journey, but there is much more to the book than that.  McConkey uses Chekhov's letters, the book he wrote when he returned, and various biographies to weave a speculative narrative.  There are many gaps in the documentary evidence, and McConkey fills these gaps in with fictional scenes and suppositions, adding color and depth where previously there have only been shadows.  He links moments in the journey to Chekhov's own stories and plays with tremendous insight -- indeed, McConkey's odd book offers some of the best literary criticism of Chekhov written in English.  <br />Additionally, the book is a sort of memoir.  McConkey first discovered Chekhov's Sakhalin letters while traveling in Florence and fleeing depression and discontent with his life, a confluence of psychology and situation which allowed him to be particularly empathetic to Chekhov's journey.  At first, his discussion of himself within the book seemed anachronistic and intrusive, but I came to enjoy and even relish the memoiristic elements of To a Distant Island as much as I did the material about Chekhov.<br />I don't know of another book like To a Distant Island.  It is lyrical, surprising, informative, and deeply affecting.  Chekhov comes alive far more in this slim volume than in all the hundreds of pages of Donald Rayfield's exhaustive recent biography.  This book could serve as a fine introduction to Chekhov's life and works, it could be tremendously fascinating to people who are already familiar with Chekhov, and I expect it would even prove to be a rewarding read for lovers of literature in general who have no particular interest in Chekhov.  At the very least, if you appreciate fine writing, you will appreciate this book.	2001-02-24
US	52387274	RD0MVX6EU3761	0435088491	889872528	Time for Meaning: Crafting Literate Lives in Middle & High School	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A good next step	Time for Meaning is a good book to read once you are familiar with the writing and reading workshop techniques of Linda Rief, Nancy Atwell, and Lucy Calkins, for Bomer pitches much of his book as a variation on their techniques and refers back to their work throughout.  His book is a thoughtful supplement to and expansion of the standard texts on workshops and portfolio-based teaching.<br />Bomer's honesty is refreshing -- he admits that many of the standard techniques he tried to put to use in his classroom didn't work well, and he tells us how he came to adapt and revise other teachers' tools to fit the needs of his students.  Especially helpful is his understanding of older adolescents, a group which is frequently not addressed by writers such as Rief and Atwell, who are middle school teachers.<br />Bomer's chapter on writers' notebooks, and how to get students to use them productively, is worth the price of the book alone.  How many teachers have tried to implement journals and notebooks, only to find them awkward and frustrating for the students?  Bomer has a number of useful ideas on how to integrate them into a full curriculum, how to motivate students to use them as valuable tools, and how to encourage students to write in a variety of styles.<br />Also helpful are the chapters at the end which discuss the teaching of genres, both for reading and writing.  Bomer covers the major genres in depth, offering a number of helpful ideas and practices.<br />The biggest weakness of the book is that it doesn't offer enough discussion of assessment.  So many authors of books about teaching writing forget that one of the greatest hurdles any teacher faces is how to turn all the fascinating projects you do in a term into letter and number grades to please the administration and parents.  Bomer discusses assessment briefly, but a more in-depth and practical discussion would have made his book not merely valuable, but indispensible.	2001-02-20
US	52387274	R2S1RREGSBAF0R	1859951406	169139503	Levitan (Great Painters)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fine representation of a great artist's work	Isaac Levitan was one of 19th Century Russia's greatest landscape painters, and this book offers beautiful reproductions of his paintings and drawing, most in full color.  There is also a long introduction providing biographical and historical information, as well as numerous photographs of Levitan, his friends and colleagues, and the Russia he portrayed.  <br />I don't know of another book in English which represents Levitan so well, or a book which offers a more palpable view of the Russia written about by Turgenev, Tolstoy, and, especially, Chekhov (who was friends with Levitan and may have based a few of his characters on him).	2001-02-06
US	52387274	RNMQYX40BL4XC	0932440657	769170724	The Tunnel: Selected Poems of Russell Edson	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great fun, and sometimes profound	Don't let yourself get all tangled in the arguments over what is and isn't a prose poem, or even if such an oxymoronic creature is possible.  It doesn't matter what you call them, these things by Russell Edson are great fun and great reading.<br />Most of these pieces are about a page long, and many are considerably shorter.  They are moments of dreams, newsreels from some surreal purgatory, portraits of impossibility.  In this world, &quot;Mr Is went into the woods to think about his wooden head,&quot; and &quot;A woman had given birth to an old man.&quot;  Within the oddity and amidst the strangeness are moments of tenderness, passion, horror.  Read slowly and carefully, these words somehow seem to reflect the world we trudge through and the life we lead, and so add contours to our boring reality.  There is a lot of melancholy here; it comes perhaps from the confusions and juxtapositions, but there is nothing to fear, and plenty to love, for, as Edson writes, &quot;In such a world there is much sadness which, of course, is joy...&quot;	2001-02-03
US	52387274	R1QUU090OXDHCA	0060921080	186682494	Declarations of Independence: Cross-Examining American Ideology	Books	5	49	52	N	N	An essential manual for understanding the world	Declarations of Independence is one of those few books with the power to change your life and blow your mind if you read it at the right time.  There is no better introduction to modern progressive philosophy. When I stumbled on the book (soon after it first came out in 1990, in the midst of the Gulf War), I was in high school and trying to figure out some way of understanding the world beyond myself, and this was the book that helped me begin exploring.  I found the insights so fresh, exciting, and provocative that I devoured the book in a few days, then returned to read it again and more carefully.  I have returned to it many times since, and with every reading I am amazed at the clarity of Zinn's writing and the common sense and great decency which fills his thinking.<br />Declarations of Independence seeks to uncover the motives and hypocrisies in many of the ideas Americans take for granted.  As a historian and the reknowned author of A People's History of the United States, Zinn is in a position to offer an incisive perspective on our present from someone who understands so much of our past.  In one elegant chapter after another, Zinn meditates on American foreign policy, violence and human nature, law and justice, the American class system, just and unjust war, Communism and anti-Communism, and, of course, the use and abuse of history.  In many ways, this is a broader and even more accessible book than A People's History of the United States, and just as necessary for anyone concerned with thinking their own thoughts and living a humane life.	2001-02-03
US	52387274	RAGCDP1NQQMV5	0820320072	897831865	Divided Planet: The Ecology of Rich and Poor	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A far-ranging, essential work	Divided Planet accomplishes what hundreds of other books about environmental politics don't: it digs into the big questions of the complicated web of relationships between economy and ecology, and so gets to the heart of most of the troubles facing the planet.  Athanasiou writes clearly and coherently about various approaches to environmental problems, and he measures them against a wide view of the world's resources which has more in common with Oxfam than the Sierra Club.<br />The book offers a cogent analysis of our troubles and an almost unique vision of where we need to go from here, but also serves as a reliable history of the environmental movement and various environmental philosophies, from moderate pragmatism to Deep Ecology.  Athanasiou is honest and fair about the strengths and limits of past approaches, while at the same time offering his own radical point of view.  (And I don't mean radical as a demeaning term -- one of the benefits of this book is that Athanasiou recognizes the need for big, systemic changes.)<br />Unlike many books on similar subjects, this is not a manifesto of doom and gloom or two hundred pages of blame, blame, blame.  Yes, Athanasiou admits the situation doesn't look good, but he's interested in figuring out what to do, not in sitting around and whining.  Divided Planet offers an excellent and humane critique, but it also offers some paths forward.  We could all stand to listen to the critique, and take a step onto one of the paths.	2001-02-03
US	52387274	R3L87FAEB1HZS6	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tragic, yet beautiful book	We Were the Mulvaneys was the first novel I read by Joyce Carol Oates, and I have continued reading her work ever since, desperately trying to catch up with all that I'd missed (she is a tremendously prolific and varied author).  Though I've read many of her works since Mulvaneys, in many ways it is the one I am fondest of.  It's not perfect, but there is a passion and energy to the story, the language, and the characters which is as strong as anything else Oates has written.<br />It is a gripping story, though often not a pleasant one.  As in all of Oates's novels, there is plenty of violence and many scenes of nearly unbearable intensity.  However, this is also one of her most cathartic novels -- the ending is the most unambiguously happy one that I've ever read by her.  Some readers and critics have found the ending unconvincing, but for me it was an emotional necessity.  The novel earns the note of hope that it ends on.<br />What is remarkable about this book is Oates's ability to create vivid, individual characters and to weave the loose (and often frayed) ends of their lives over 30 years into a tapestry which is coherent and satisfying.  Even after all their troubles and tragedies, I was glad to have spent time with the Mulvaneys, for in some way their imaginary lives enriched my own real one, and introduced me to the works of a writer I've never considered perfect, but have always found fascinating.	2001-01-25
US	52387274	R1A10T4W4S6Z5W	0060182946	989104739	Mara and Dann: An Adventure	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An elegant, compelling tale	Doris Lessing is a tremendously accomplished writer, and this novel is one of her best, as well as one of her most accessible.  The story is compelling, the characters are carefully developed, and the setting is remarkably vivid.  For months after finishing Mara and Dann, scenes from it were still playing through my mind and the title characters continued to haunt me.<br />Lessing is not a great stylist; she uses language as a means to an end.  And yet she creates a unique effect with her rather plain sentences because she is a brilliant observer of life and humanity -- her choice of details rarely fails to render a scene whole and convincing in the reader's mind.  With a novel like this, which takes place during a future ice age in Africa, such details are vital to the success of the tale.<br />There are slow spots in the story, so it's not exactly a page-turner, but for the most part this is a book which carries the reader along rather effortlessly -- we want to know what becomes of Mara and Dann, we want to continue to explore this strange terrain, we yearn to see how Lessing will illuminate our lives with her imaginative leaps.  The only book I can think of which compares to Mara and Dann is Walter Miller's A Canticle for Liebowitz; but Lessing's novel is even richer, even more profound, even more stunning by the end.	2001-01-25
US	52387274	R16X0RQF652G4J	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Magic to be savored	When The Hours won the Pulitzer Prize, I shouted out a hoot of joy.  I don't usually hoot for Pulitzer winners -- usually, I quibble with them, since it's always fun to quibble with the taste of judges and the idea of giving an award to just one novel in a year generally seems absurd -- but I read The Hours when it first came out and was blown away.  Few works of literature have ever affected me so deeply.<br />The Hours is directly related to, and intertwined with, the life and work of Virginia Woolf, so the big question is, do you have to love Virginia Woolf to love The Hours?  The answer will probably be different for different people.  Cunningham does not write like Woolf, nor does he attempt to.  He's just riffing on some of her themes and characters, as well as moments in her life.  (I happen to find her life far more interesting than most of her novels, though I am more fond of Mrs. Dalloway than the others.)   I expect you could get as much from The Hours having read nothing by Woolf as you could after having read all of her works, for though Cunningham's novel is a sort of homage, it is also a whole lot more than that.<br />It is a meditation on art and life, on time and death, on fame and reality.  The prose is so perfectly written (there is truly not a single unnecessary sentence in the whole book), the observations so acute and eloquent, that you could read this book simply for the wonder of its words.<br />A  warning, though.  If you are looking for a plot, this is not your novel.  The story is about the relationships between the parts, the harmony and counterpoint of images and settings and characters and ideas -- it is not so much about any great event.  You do have to read carefully.  However, compared to Woolf's own work, The Hours is a model of clarity and suspense.<br />A bigger warning: don't read the book too quickly.  It's short, and the pages may breeze by if you're not careful.  If you read it too quickly, it will feel thin and inconsequential.  It is not.  You need to let the words drift into you.  Read as slowly as possible.<br />Few novels of the last decade, and perhaps even the last half century, are so full of beauty, wonder, and life.	2001-01-23
US	52387274	R33JMU0SK0IEHU	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A fun read	Leviathan is the first book I have read by Paul Auster, and I found it absorbing and compelling, if a bit thin.  It would be hard for this subject and structure NOT to be suspenseful -- the narrator is writing against time, trying to get the book finished before the FBI figures out what he knows, and we are told enough about the situation in the beginning to make us wonder how it all happened.  How does a man who had been a successful writer end up killing himself while building a bomb?  And what part does the narrator play in it all?  These questions carry us through, and Auster's brisk, spare writing serves the suspense well.<br />Unfortunately, the writing doesn't serve the characters very well.  This is not a novel which will leave you with piercing portraits of unique people.  Nor will it give you any great insights into modern life, or the meaning of the universe.  That's okay, there are other books which do that, writers who are capable of tackling bigger stuff than Auster (check out Norman Rush,  Catherine Bush, or the person to whom Auster has dedicated Leviathan, Don DeLillo).  The virtues of Leviathan are its oddities; it's an entertaining novel with literary aspirations which it can't deliver on, but that doesn't mean the book's not entertaining.<br />The novel's greatest virtue, perhaps, is its cleverness.  It is a book about coincidences, about the improbable connections which zap through our lives.  It is fruitless to criticize the book for being improbable, because that very improbability is its whole reason for being.  Auster is audacious in his plotting, and he moves with speed and suspense through the narrative's many convolutions.	2001-01-16
US	52387274	R4EEJ76S1B84Y	0553095285	957910286	Thunder and Lightning: Cracking Open the Writer's Craft	Books	1	37	52	N	N	Confessions of an egomaniac	If you're a die-hard Natalie Goldberg fan (or worshipper), you will love this book, but if you're looking for help with your writing, look elsewhere.  Thunder &amp; Lightning is an unorganized collection of mostly banal stories and sermons about Goldberg's life and brilliance told with what might be termed passive-aggressive egomania -- throughout the book she tells us how hard she has worked to suppress her ego through studying Zen, and all the while she is celebrating her own amazing accomplishments and insights and kindly passing these pearls on to us.<br />Except there aren't any pearls.  There's only Goldberg's self-indulgence.  Her earlier books Writing Down the Bones and Wild Mind had some useful stuff to say about writing (in amidst all the New Age blather), and Wild Mind had plenty of exercises which would be helpful to writers trying to overcome a block or become more fluent.  None of that is present in this book.<br />If you want good advice (both spiritual and practical) on writing, then get Peter Elbow's Writing with Power.  If you want to learn what a wonderful person Natalie Goldberg is, get this book.	2001-01-07
US	52387274	R11C03SX8DGDCD	0130257133	887073743	Writing with Style: Conversations on the Art of Writing (2nd Edition)	Books	4	90	95	N	N	Excellent (though not perfect)	This is a fine book, and I'm surprised it's not better known.  More useful than Strunk &amp; White, less intimidating than Joseph Williams, it is the single best book for someone who is looking to improve their writing beyond spelling and grammar.  With clear, succinct, and witty chapters on subjects which other books go overboard on -- beginnings, middles,  and ends; diction; punctuation; revising and proofreading -- there is no better introduction to the art (beyond the craft) of writing.  There are useful tips on usage and superstitions (&quot;never use contractions&quot;, &quot;never split an infinitive&quot;, etc.) as well as a twenty-five-page collection of quotes from writers about writing.  Many of the points which Trimble considers most important are highlighted in boxes separate from the text, so if you're in a hurry and looking for the meat of a chapter, it's easy to find.<br />This is not a perfect book, though, an it's not intended to be encyclopedic, so you won't find answers to all your questions.  The chapter on writing a critical analysis is tantalizingly useless and seems like an afterthought (although it was included in the first edition).  The &quot;Quoting&quot; chapter is useful if you're not doing academic writing, but the book seems aimed at an academic audience, and such audiences mostly need to know the details of citing sources through the MLA , APA, or Chicago styles.  (On the other hand, Trimble has some interesting tips on using quotes in your writing.) <br />If you're an experienced writer, you won't find anything new here.  That's okay, though.  Few of the ideas Trimble explores have ever been stated more clearly or gracefully.  What he lacks in depth he makes up for in style, and since many books which are about style are not written with it, it's nice to encounter a text which is so pleasant to read.  The best chapter, to my mind, is the first: &quot;Thinking Well&quot;.  Plenty of books talk about this subject, or pass over it quickly, or allude to it, but I don't know of any which give it the importance it deserves aside from this book, and I've never seen the case stated with, simultaneously, such practicality and eloquence.  It is the meeting of those two qualities which makes Trimble's book unique.	2001-01-06
US	52387274	R1VNN51JU1MHGG	0791406830	683353518	Gender and the Journal: Diaries and Academic Discourse (S U N Y SERIES, LITERACY, CULTURE, AND LEARNING)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An essential study	What do you think of when you hear the word &quot;diary&quot;?  Scribbling women?  A secret book kept by young girls?  Certainly not something written by men.  After all, that thing Thoreau did all his writing in was a journal.  Journals are serious.  Diaries are juvenile, embarrassing.<br />It is these attitudes and assumptions which Cinthia Gannett explores in this fascinating and comprehensive book.  Where do our ideas of journals and diaries come from?  Who has used them, and how?  How has the language we've adopted affected our use of these tools as writers, teachers, and readers?<br />This may be the most lucidly written scholarly book I've ever read, though I must admit I tend to avoid scholarly books because so few of them are lucidly written.  Gannett is not afraid to put herself into these pages, to explore her own history and attitudes, and that's one of great qualities which makes this book so compelling to read.  (Her ideas, and her presentation of those ideas, helps as well.)<br />Any teacher of any level -- college, secondary, elementary -- who uses journals or diaries in their classroom needs to read this book.  You won't regret it.	2001-01-04
US	52387274	R1L1N6C6484LJR	0435085980	732196775	Seeking Diversity: Language Arts with Adolescents (Perspectives in Neural Computing)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Great for all levels of teachers	If you're looking for the perfect book for a new English teacher, this is it.  But it's also great if you're looking for inspiration yourself -- and by no means do you need to be a middle school teacher to benefit from it.<br />My copy of this book is falling apart, because I have fled to it more frequently in times of woe than any other text on teaching.  Nancie Atwell's In the Middle is also close to my heart, but Rief's book is more direct and less overwhelming and so more useful in emergencies.<br />I teach 11th and 12th grade English, but never has this kept Seeking Diversity from being useful, even though Rief is describing her middle school classes.  The environment that helps students reach their potential is the same at almost all levels, regardless of who your students are, where they're from, or how old they are.  (A qualifier: I know nothing about elementary education, and so won't presume to speak to that.)<br />If you're looking for lots of theory and post-structuralist analysis, this is the wrong book.  But if you're after nuts and bolts, and lots of them, then Seeking Diversity is what you want.  It's inspiring, empowering, and tremendously useful.	2001-01-04
US	52387274	R1I97UGYPC2ZZO	1565846435	594224155	When the Kissing Had to Stop: Cult Studs, Khmer Newts, Langley Spooks, Techno-Geeks, Video Drones, Author Gods, Serial Killers, Vampire Media, Alien Sperm-Suckers, Satanic therapis	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Genius	It's not a word I use lightly, but there's no better way to describe John Leonard than to say he's a genius.  He certainly won't appeal to everyone's taste, but if you like essays written by a man whose mind ranges over the whole course of human history and knowledge, and who isn't afraid to bring all that knowledge together in a single sentence, then here's the guy for you.  Not only is he a genius, but he's also terribly witty, and you don't get that from a lot of geniuses.<br />But you won't like Leonard if all you want from an essay about a book is an answer to the question, &quot;Should I read it?&quot; or if you are a fan of such folks as Newt Gingrich, Ronald Reagan, or Attila the Hun.  (But don't think Leonard's leftism is knee-jerk; there's a wonderful essay in here about smoking, in which he confesses, &quot;I stick burning leaves in my foodhole,&quot; and goes on to explore his life as a social pariah among all of his purer-than-thou lefty friends.)<br />Every page herein is suffused with a stunning literacy, and Leonard drops titles the way most of us shed skin.  I would love to spy on him for a day, because I don't know how he has crammed so much knowledge into himself.  He writes brilliantly about the whole history of cyberpunk, then goes on to fine surveys of African literature, Israeli literature, and everything that ever hit a page in the USA.  But Leonard knows more than books, for he seems to have seen at least one episode of every television show ever created and made it to all of the major movies of the past fifty years or so.  He's got a good grasp of American political history, and he seems to have some sort of social life.  He's even got time for AA meetings.<br />I don't know how he does it, but thank whatever deity you can imagine for him.  He's a wizard with words, an encyclopedia of everything, but more than that he's got vision, scruples, morality.  And he wants to find the same in other people.  He writes, &quot;I like to be reminded that once there were writers for whom the convulsions of our time were a revelation, an insult or a wound, instead of a thesis topic cross-linked in a Nexis search to syndicate a rant.&quot;<br />Sure, Leonard's references sometimes cross themselves into a feedback loop, and he's got a love of paragraph-long lists, and he has a tendency to recycle himself from previous books and articles (having read all of Leonard's collections of essays over the years, I've heard that satire means &quot;never having to say you're sorry&quot;, as does arch-conservatism, while standard liberalism means &quot;always having to say you're sorry&quot;, but the phrase is so great I don't mind Leonard's apparent determination to keep it in perpetual print).  His indulgences and habits are a part of his charm, and I wouldn't want him to lose any of it.  There is not and has never been a critic like John Leonard -- perhaps there has never even been any sort of writer like him.  But I haven't read quite enough to speak authoritatively on every writer who ever lived; Leonard has, though, so I'll defer to him.	2000-12-28
US	52387274	RP4HPAX6QMZRH	067973709X	513448067	Mating: A Novel	Books	5	132	145	N	N	Stunning, but not for everyone	I took forever deciding whether I should read Mating, whether I wanted to commit my time to such a long and apparently difficult book, whether it would be worth it in the end.  I thought about buying it a number of times, but couldn't get up the courage -- what if it just gathered dust on a shelf?  I borrowed a copy from the library, finally, and promised myself that if I hated it (as a number of my friends had) I would abandon it quickly.<br />Now Mating is one of the few books I would want to have with me on a desert island.  I can easily, happily say it was one of the great reading experiences of my life so far.  But it's also a book that seems tailor-made to my sensibilities, as if somebody asked me, &quot;What would you like a big novel to contain?&quot; and then set out to write it.<br />There's a compelling narrative voice.  There's tremendous erudition, so I felt like I learned something about the world on every page.  There's a careful attention to language, and yet the language is free and full to bursting.  There's all sorts of talk about politics, the history of leftist political movements (particularly anarcho-syndicalism, my own favorite), and utopia.  There's a love story, but it's written about without mushy romantic spewings.  There's an exotic locale.   I'm a happy reader!<br />But you won't like this book if you're looking for a standard storyline and if you don't have patience for intellectual dialogues scattered throughout the action and if you want clean and unambiguous answers to everything.  You also won't like it if you demand that first person narrators be always appealing.  I found the narrator often annoying, but in the end was quite glad to have known her.<br />To have known her -- yes, by the end you speak of the narrator and her obsession and love, Nelson Denoon, as people you have known.  (Or perhaps I shouldn't use the second-person here, since I know people who do not agree with me, who found the characters simply exasperating.  Solet me rephrase: I felt like I had known them.)<br />If you're fairly well-read, you can test whether you're going to find this book stunning or frustrating by playing a cross-referencing mindgame of this sort: Imagine that James Joyce finished Ulysses and was annoyed that his writing hadn't tackled all of the problems of human civilizations.  Just then, a time warp appeared, and Paulo Freire and Emma Goldman stepped out and lectured Joyce for 40 days and 40 nights.  He was thrilled.  He began to write and discovered that a small part of his talent had been taken over by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and another part by Don DeLillo.  Ben Okri had found his way in there somewhere, too.  Writing was hard with all those different voices pulling at him, but he got through, and the book he produced was Mating.<br />If the names above are unfamiliar to you, then ask yourself how you felt while reading it.  If you made it through to this paragraph, and you're not mad at me for inserting the above (in fact, you found it piqued your curiosity), then you'll do just fine with Mating, and you may be deeply grateful, as I am, that Norman Rush had the courage and genius to write it.	2000-12-28
US	52387274	REVZERGRXDSUG	0374252807	34228653	The Rules of Engagement	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fascinating and elegant	The Rules of Engagement is a fine novel, written in icily beautiful language, precise in its observations and the psychological development of its narrator, Arcadia Hearne.  It's also a lot of fun to read.<br />Bush's use of war metaphors to develop a love story may seem a bit obvious once the set-up becomes clear, but at the same time it's all odd enough to stay consistently interesting, and none of the conclusions hit you over the head.  To the novel's credit, the information about world conflicts and War Studies (Arcadia's area of expertise) doesn't exist only to be a metaphor -- it has tremendous significance in the narrative itself, and lends the everyday events of the story a global perspective.  This is a tremendously worldly book, a book which expects an intelligent and aware reader, but which is never oblique or obtuse.<br />The story of Arcadia's past is handled deftly and woven into the present-day events with great skill.  As the past and present converge, the novel becomes truly exciting -- it's fun to try to second-guess Bush and figure out where everything is leading, as in a mystery story.  But here, the mystery and suspense lies not so much in the plot as in the character, for by the end we have come to care about Arcadia and her fate.	2000-12-23
US	52387274	R1BIWN9BD9G5X7	0801846889	104354241	The Bad Infinity: Eight Plays	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Beautifully bizarre	Mac Wellman is the closest thing to a reincarnation of Gertrude Stein that we've got.  Much of his writing frustrates any sort of analysis, and yet it is mesmerizing and beautiful.  The monologue &quot;Terminal Hip&quot;, which won an Obie award and is included in this collection, is a perfect example of Wellman at his best -- here, the detritus of our common languages converges in a mesmerizing tone poem which begins, &quot;Strange the Y all bent up and dented/ Blew the who to tragic eightball. . .&quot;  It's certainly not easy to read, or to sit through in a theatre, but it's worth the effort of attention, for few people have ever been as talented as Wellman at discerning the hidden beauties in the pure sound of language.<br />But it's not all just about language.  There's substance here, though sometimes you really do have to search for it.  There's a fascinating adaptation of Dracula (vampires are a common theme in Wellman's work), and some marvelous political satire -- Jesse Helms is a favorite target of Wellman's wit.  (Alas, Wellman's best satire, and perhaps his best play, &quot;Sincerity Forever&quot;, is not included here, though it is available in the anthology Grove New American Theater edited by MIchael Feingold.)<br />It's probably fair to say that Mac Wellman is America's leading avant-garde playwright, for though his name is certainly not a household word, his career has been long and broad enough for him to have had many important productions throughout the world, and to have influenced a whole generation of young theatre artists.  He is to his own generation what Richard Foreman was (and is) to his, and what I expect Suzan-Lori Parks will be to hers: a formidable imagination, a great artist, an inspiration, and a necessary provocateur.	2000-12-23
US	52387274	RSIO7BAJMD7EH	0075535386	419495617	Reading, Writing and The Study of Literature	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A brief and accessible guide	This book is a good introduction and guide to the basic skills needed for any college humanities student.  And it's not really limited to college humanities students -- I use it as a text for high school seniors, who have found it generally helpful and illuminating.  One of the most helpful aspects of the book is the frank testimony of actual college students which is sprinkled through the chapters. <br />Arthur Biddle and Toby Fulwiler are colleagues at the University of Vermont, and they asked fellow instructors in the English department there to contribute chapters to this book, so there is a nice range of opinion and expertise.  The book begins with a general overview of attitudes toward reading and writing in college, then continues with chapters on using journal writing (Fulwiler's favorite subject); reading fiction, poetry, and drama; and a brief overview of major schools of literary theory.  The second part of the book is about writing, with chapters on writing critical essays, personal essays, essay tests, and research reports.  All of the chapters are clear and concise, though at times more depth would have been helpful.<br />Overall, the book is the most direct, accessible, and affordable introduction to college reading and writing that I've seen.	2000-12-20
US	52387274	R1HL4S5N6NHTD3	0874519640	55245296	The New American Poets: A Bread Loaf Anthology	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A treasure chest for the poetry lover	You probably haven't heard of any of the poets collected in this exciting anthology.  That's okay.  They publish their poems in little literary journals and their books are mostly published by obscure presses.  Most of these poets haven't published more than one book.  I'm pretty familiar with contemporary poetry, but the majority of the writers collected here were unknown names to me.<br />Now I know their names, and better than that, I know their poems.  My life is fuller, and I'm grateful to Michael Collier for creating such a diverse and vibrant collection.  There is truly something for just about everyone here, from the lover of the bizarre and experimental to the traditionalist yearning for poets who know what meter is (there's not much rhyming, though).<br />Where do you start with a book like this?  You could just dip in somewhere at random and see what you find; with this collection, you're probably going to pull out a moment of wonder no matter which page you flip to.  If you've got to start somewhere, check out Olena Kalytiak Davis -- she's one of the most amazing poets alive, I think, and Collier has collected some brilliant recent work which didn't make it into her book And Her Soul Out of Nothing.  But maybe you prefer something a little less daring for your first try -- check out the amusing, thought-provoking poems by Roger Fanning, written with perfectly accessible diction and syntax.  You'd certainly like the poems by Richard Blanco, for I've shown his work to a number of very different people, all of whom liked it very much.  If you want something which makes you feel like you're really reading cutting-edge poetry, check out D.A. Powell -- you'll have to hold the book sideways to read his poems.  Don't miss Nick Flynn's &quot;Bag of Mice&quot; or Adrienne Su's &quot;I Can't Become a Buddhist&quot;, or Campbell McGrath's wonderful &quot;Capitalist Poem #36&quot;, which begins, &quot;We've got this cheese down here to give away,/ tens of thousands of pounds of cheese.&quot; <br />The New American Poets was published in celebration of the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference's 75th anniversary, and I can't think of a better tribute to the conference which has played such an important role in the lives of many of the greatest poets in the U.S. than this anthology, a wonderful gift to all readers of poetry.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	R35FQMJHD9T31G	1555973035	191999680	Some Ether: Poems	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Powerful poems which reach beyond confession	When I first heard that Nick Flynn's book Some Ether was a collection of poems which dealt mostly which his mother's suicide, I decided I would probably avoid it.  Yet another confessional poet writing about how awful his life has been just didn't appeal to me.<br />But then I looked at a copy.  And immediately bought it.  Because Flynn does something far more than just write about his childhood trauma -- he transforms this awful experience into a series of dry, deeply affecting meditations.  It isn't  unnecessarily depressing, and it certainly isn't self-pitying.  These are poems which dig into the core of human experience and emotion.<br />Many of the poems are fragmentary or collage-like bursts of imagery, memory, reflection, dreams.  A quick first reading lets you notice many beautiful or quirky lines (&quot;I'm sick of God &amp; his teaspoons&quot;), but also makes you feel a bit like the reader of a collection of postcards and shopping lists sent from a psychiatric ward.  It's a unique feeling.  A closer reading, though, reveals the art.  Reading the poems together, slowly, listening for the harmonies and discords, becomes an overwhelming experience.  By the time you reach the last lines of the last poem -- &quot;My fingers/ tangle your hair, trace/ your skull, your face so radiant// I can barely look into it.&quot; -- you have been through a full emotional journey, a sensual quest for meaning.<br />It's not a perfect collection, but it shouldn't be.  Despite the high quality of their crafting, these poems are raw.  There are gaps and crevices between them.  Terrain such as this needs to be rough.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	RPTG8O3ZVV2O8	1557531587	618721573	Exactly What Happened	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Accessible, lively, thoughtful poetry	Joel Brouwer begins this marvelous collection with an epigraph from the Marx Brothers' movie Duck Soup: &quot;Who are you going to believe, me or your own eyes?&quot;  And so the themes of illusion and perception are unleashed in the most appropriate possible way for this poet.<br />Brouwer's collection is the best book I know of to give to people who say they hate poetry.  You can't hate these poems.  They manage a brillaint balancing act between light absurdity and deep seriousness, and they do so without obfuscation or abstract verbal cartwheels.<br />A number of the poems take for their titles (and, I assume, their original inspiration) bizarre or provocative headlines from newspapers, such as this one from the New York Times: &quot;Former Kenyan Parliament Member Arrested for 'Imagining the Death' of President Daniel Arap Moi&quot;.  The poem plays delightfully with the concept, and touches on the strengths and weakenesses of imagination, then ends with a breathtaking, horrifying return to reality.  It is, as so many of these poems, a tour de force.<br />My personal favorite (for the moment, at least), is one of the last poems, a crazy &quot;Last Request&quot;.  Here the narrator asks to be buried in something which won't last, and he gives his mourners very specific instructions such as, &quot;You may smoke.  Talk quietly/ if you must talk.  Be very sad.&quot;  Where the poem goes from there -- with grace and efficiency, for this is a writer of great technical skill -- is startling, unexpected, and simultaneously beautiful and frightening.<br />That this is a first book is amazing, for Brouwer is so skilled, so imaginative, and so much fun to read that it is hard to imagine he could get any better with his future work.  I'm sure, however, that there are many more surprises and delights in store for us.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	R2Q4FXJFYJJM0X	0299157148	98519949	And Her Soul Out Of Nothing (Wisconsin Poetry Series)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Stunning and unique	I've never read a poet who writes like Olena Kalytiak Davis.  I suppose if some crazy geneticist managed to meld the minds of Poe, Longfellow, Ogden Nash, Dylan Thomas, Gwendolyn Brooks, Stevie Smith, and Sylvia Plath, then a writer similar to Davis might appear, but that's about what it would take.<br />She uses language unlike anyone else -- as a playground, a laboratory, a room with rubber walls.  Her imagery is idiosyncratic, but always powerful, always somehow just right.  Her rhythms pull her words to and fro, clattering and clashing together, bouncing off each other, bounding and rebounding across landscapes of dreams and portents.  With any other poet, I'd quote some lines, but that wouldn't do Davis justice, for her poems need elbow room and time for their wonders to accumulate.  With any other poet, I'd tell you, If you like X, you'll like this one -- but for Davis there is no X.  She is her own equation, sui generis.<br />Few collections of poetry have so much to offer, so much depth and substance, so much sustenance for the reader ready to listen.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	R3J1CGZD7N3VWG	0452265819	534383675	Because It Is Bitter, and Because It Is My Heart (Plume)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	One of Oates's best	This gripping, powerful novel is one of the best Joyce Carol Oates has written -- and that's saying a lot, since she has published about 30 novels, some of them as good as anything by an American in the last fifty years (and, to be honest, some of them as bad).<br />You can read the novel simply to become absorbed in the events and characters, or you can read it as a study of morality, of the implications of race and gender, of violence and American dreams.  I've read it three times, and each time I have come away more impressed with Oates's achievement.  This is a stunningly vivid work -- her command of English prose here is at a level reached with her earlier realistic novels, Wonderland and them.  Give yourself over to the writing, and you will truly feel every page of this book.<br />A warning, though: It's not an uplifting story, despite an ostensibly happy ending.  The characters suffer, and the world they inhabit is brutal and unforgiving.  But the pain is not without meaning, and moments in this story reach heights of tragedy which few American writers have scaled.<br />Even if you've hated things you've by Joyce Carol Oates in the past, don't dismiss this novel.  It will dig itself into your consciousness.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	R2GN5LKE0EU59J	0819560863	795346038	The White Rose: Munich, 19421943	Books	5	75	80	N	N	A chronicle of heroism	In this slim book, Inge Scholl chronicles the heroism of her brother and sister, Hans and Sophie Scholl, and their friends in Germany during World War II.  The Scholls were students at the University of Munich who had slowly become aware of the horrors their government was perpetrating.  They decided that they had to do something, anything to stop the Nazis, and so they printed leaflets denouncing the government and providing information about atrocities.  They distributed these leaflets throughout the University and the city, and created a network to distribute them even farther.  They identified themselves only as The White Rose.  The Nazis eventually tracked down the Scholls and their collaborators and executed them.<br />Inge Scholl tells the story beautifully, in spare and simple prose.  She wrote the book originally for German youth after the war, so it is not a scholarly book, but it is even more affecting because of that.  After Scholl's narrative are the texts of the six leaflets themselves, as well as a series of fascinating documents -- the Nazi indictments and sentences of the White Rose group, contemporary newspaper accounts (&quot;Just Punishment of Traitors to the Nation at War&quot;), and some deeply affecting testimonials, including a powerful letter written by a fellow prisoner of Sophie Scholl.  There are also a number of photographs of the primary members of the White Rose group.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	R2WXWDMD1Q5OW	0743201647	529957238	The Pleasing Hour	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Lyrical and affecting	When a friend recommended this book to me, I fully expected to hate it.  A girl who goes to France to live with a family on a houseboat and escape her troubles at home?  It's got to be either banal or sappy, I thought.  Maybe even both.<br />It's neither.  From the first few pages, Lily King's gorgeous prose and sharp psychological insight won me over.  For a novel which is, essentially, a character study, it is also surprisingly suspenseful.  We want to know what is going on with these characters, we want to understand them, to feel our way through their lives.<br />The language is sumptuous, sensual, but not ornate.  We see, hear, smell this world.  For a young writer, King has a remarkable ability to fashion just the right sentence at just the right moment, to discern the unique and telling detail.  There are hardly any spare words in this book, and not a single sentence which it could do without.  It reads like a prose poem.  An exciting prose poem.<br />I've given copies of this book to a number of people.  When I told them what it was about, their reaction was similar to my own first one: &quot;Probably not my kind of book.  Sounds boring.&quot;  Read it, I said, you'll be surprised.  They did, and they were.	2000-12-19
US	52387274	ROC7LY3MBGK0T	1557132941	421776140	Threadsuns (German and English Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sharp, accurate translations	Paul Celan is one of the greatest poets of the century, but also one of the most difficult to translate.  His writing is incredibly condensed and full of difficult vocabulary, including numerous neologisms.  Yet the poetry is so beautiful, so deeply rewarding that we should be grateful to anyone who attempts to translate it.<br />Perhaps we should be most grateful to Pierre Joris, the only translator I know of to tackle whole books by Celan, rather than making selections (such as the very fine selection by Michael Hamburger).  Not only does Joris take on the complete books, but he has taken on two of the most difficult books -- Breathturn and, now, Threadsuns.<br />His translation of Breathturn was a stunning accomplishment, for he managed to stay both accurate and readable, or at least as readable as the original was to the average reader of German when it first appeared.  All of the great qualities displayed in Breathturn are also on display in Threadsuns.<br />Joris provides a comprehensive introduction to the book and many helpful notes along the way.  The German originals of the poems are provided on the left-hand pages.  The production quality is high -- the book is beautifully designed.  This is not the best introduction to Celan (for that, see either Michael Hamburger's or John Felstiner's selections from his complete works), but if you want to get to know Celan better, and if you want to really sink your mind's teeth into the marrow of his dreamworlds, then Joris's translations are what you want to read.	2000-12-14
US	52387274	R15IP2ZTPYGTYM	0679762787	723928504	Reasonable Creatures: Essays on Women and Feminism	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Brilliant Collection	No writer has better clarified issues of women's lives in America and the world for me than Katha Pollitt.  I first read an essay of hers in The Nation when I was in high school, and it blew me away -- here was a voice so reasonable, so logical, so obviously correct that it shook my world and made me reexamine my place in the universe.  I've calmed down a bit since high school, but I still love Katha Pollitt, and I've given copies of this book to numerous friends, male and female, and all have come back to me with the same response: &quot;She really made me think.&quot;<br />While parts of this collection are somewhat dated now, a surprising amount of the essays are as fresh as they ever were.  Pollitt has a tremendous ability to punch holes in propaganda and dig through walls of pretention to get to the heart of her subject.  An essay on wars over required readings in colleges is less about college than the meaning of reading in a democracy, and an amazing essay addressing the question &quot;Are women morally superior to men?&quot; manages to be not just a study of human nature, but a manifesto of humanity sure to annoy ideologues on many sides of many different debates.<br />Pollitt is great not just because she is a brilliant thinker, but because she is a wonderful writer.  She presents her ideas clearly, in well-balanced prose, and with plenty of humor.  This is an accessible book, and an invigorating one.  It will make you angry sometimes, excited at others, and it will always make you think.	2000-12-14
US	52387274	R3B8WQ4VXW9Y3L	0553381008	865881389	Stories of Anton Chekhov	Books	5	279	285	N	N	Good selection, great translations	Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky have established themselves as the preeminent living translators of Russian into English.  Their translations of Dostoyevsky  and Gogol are simply unparalleled, and now they have finally gotten around to Chekhov.<br />It's not so bad that they've taken their time with Chekhov, for he has had numerous distinguished translators.  Indeed, Constance Garnett is much-maligned (perhaps unfairly) for her many translations at the beginning of the 20th century of Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky, but even her detractors tend to agree that she did good work with Chekhov.  (Indeed, until now the best all-around collection of Chekhov stories was The Chekhov Omnibus, edited by Donald Rayfield, who used the Garnett translations, though he did revise them.)<br />But now we have the best.  It's not perfect, but if you can have only one collection of Chekhov stories, this is the one to have.  The selection covers Chekhov's entire career, and includes such masterpieces as &quot;Ward No. 6&quot;, &quot;The Lady with the Little Dog&quot;, &quot;Gusev&quot;, &quot;The House with the Mezzanine&quot;,  &quot;In the Ravine&quot;, and many others (30 stories total).<br />It is a delight to read Chekhov in these translations, because the translators have stuck close to many of the idiosyncracies of Chekhov's style which most other translators ignore or smooth over.  Chekhov's world -- a land of moping aristocrats and disenchanted peasants, of former serfs seeking dignity and everyday workers searching for the meaning of life, of lovers and painters and doctors and thieves -- is unique and haunting, and all of its dry absurdities and bleak terrains are rendered here with care and skill and sensitivity.  Reading Chekhov is not easy, for he always wanted his readers to work as hard as he did, but it is endlessly, endlessly rewarding.<br />Of course, Chekhov wrote hundreds and hundreds of stories, so this book provides only a tiny sampling, and any Chekhovian will find favorites missing here (the biggest omission from my point of view is &quot;Dreams&quot; or &quot;Daydreams&quot;, which is most readily available in The Portable Chekhov), but the only truly odd omission is of the story &quot;About Love&quot;, which is part of a trilogy of stories with &quot;The Man in the Case&quot; and &quot;Gooseberries&quot;, both of which are included here.<br />The novellas (over 50 pages) are also omitted, so there is no &quot;Steppe&quot;, no &quot;My Life&quot;, no &quot;Three Years&quot; or &quot;The Duel&quot;.  In a note, the translators suggest that they may do a second book of these.<br />The stories are arranged chronologically, and a useful introduction and endnotes are also provided.  No better introduction to Chekhov's stories is available.  (If you're looking for good translations of the plays, check out those of Carol Rocamora and Paul Schmidt.)<br />In his notebook, Chekhov wrote, &quot;I hope that in the next world I shall be able to look back upon this life and say, 'Those were beautiful dreams.'&quot;  Thankfully, we all have the beautiful dreams of his stories.	2000-12-14
US	52387274	R2FWR0DUGDN8LZ	0880015306	810206933	Arcadia	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A vivid, beautiful novel	Jim Crace uses words as van Gogh used paint -- they are thick, sensual, palpable.  Read this book for the descriptions of the market alone, for few writers are so capable of manipulating the reader's senses.<br />But there's more to this book than stunning language.  The story is engaging and powerful, the characters almost mythic.  It's as if Dickens were rewritten by Hemingway trying to write like Faulkner.<br />You won't, however, enjoy this book if you are in the mood for a rousing entertainment full of suspense and intrigue.  It's far more languid than that, far more thoughtful.  For Crace is after something here; he's following a hunch and digging up the dirt, trying to describe us all in our everyday purchases and accumulations, our bets and hedges and love of tall buildings, for there is a scheme behind these beautiful words, and ultimately the book shines a laser into the heart of market capitalism.  Perhaps you should read it while reading Thorstein Veblen, too.<br />Or perhaps not.  No, don't worry about the deep implications and mirrors on reality.  Sink your mind's teeth into this book, and let the juices flow where they may.  <br />It's Crace's third book, and his best up to this point, but there's a greater gift here, too, for once you have finished it don't despair: his later work is even better.	2000-12-13
US	52387274	R29BNIR4YRK23X	0060198389	667742548	Writings on an Ethical Life	Books	4	74	77	N	N	Fascinating, frustrating, and thought-provoking	Peter Singer is a master of taking an idea to its logical conclusion, and sometimes farther.  He is controversial because he is willing to examine some of our most basic and cherished beliefs, and find the contradictions in the values which inform our everyday lives.  While it is not comfortable to be so challenged, reading Singer with as open a mind as possible will help you clarify your own ethics, whether you subscribe to his or not.<br />Singer is not a monster, and though some of his ideas are disturbingly cold and mechanical, the majority of his ideas, and his philosophy as a whole, are deeply humane.  To understand this, you must read him.  Not agree with him, but read him.<br />How dull our lives would be if we were only exposed to comfortable ideas which reinforced our own beliefs.  My beliefs have become clearer and stronger because of Singer's challenges, and I am grateful to his writings for helping me think less hypocritically about the world.  I've still got leather shoes, and I still value a newborn human more than a newborn rodent, but  I am also much more aware of how I spend my money and about what the choices I make in life really mean.  This book is a well-edited survey of Singer's thoughts and ideas, his challenges and critiques, his justifications and juxtapositions, his philosophies.	2000-12-09
US	52387274	R1O30SCTI7ITPG	014118003X	188536548	The Book of Lamentations (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	A powerful epic	I had only vague knowledge of the history of the Chiapas region of Mexico before I read this novel, which tells the story of a fictional uprising (based on a couple of real ones) with many stunning similarities to the Zapatista uprising of 1994.  But you don't need to be interested in the social and political history of Chiapas to appreciate this novel -- indeed, too much awareness may cause you to miss the book's many fine qualities beyond its political prescience.<br />Castellanos masterfully weaves the lives of numerous people together in a narrative which is often captivating.  Keeping the characters straight is only a problem at first, for soon you have in your head a remarkably clear picture of them all.  I found myself caring equally for the fates of characters I knew would clash with each other, and this is one of the great accomplishments of the novel.<br />Some of the language and imagery, based on Mayan mythology, gets obscure and occasionally tedious, but this is a minor complaint, for the majority of the tale is stunningly clear and suspenseful.  The book is filled with Mexican and Mayan words, which may seem off-putting at first, but their sense can usually be discovered through the context and a glossary of the most obscure words is provided at the end of the book.  I found myself enjoying having some of the words left untranslated, for it strengthened the immediate poetry in the writing, and the sense of place inherent throughout.  There are also an introduction and an afterword which provide useful information about Castellanos and the history of Chiapas.	2000-11-30
US	52387274	RHGZGW7QTUUQ0	0679434550	370171962	Light Action in the Caribbean: Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A strong, though mixed, collection	Barry Lopez is probably best known for his nonfiction writings, but the majority of his published books are fiction.  His latest collection of stories may be his most diverse, and offers some of the best writing of his career.  It's not a perfect  mix -- some of the stories are less than the sum of their parts, others are a bit too heavy-handed or obscure -- but the best of the works here are stunningly good in ways few American writers have achieved.<br />Lopez's usual technique is to create a first-person narrative of an encounter with the natural world which opens up and broadens the narrator's understanding of humanity and the universe.  (There are a few sharp departures, most notably the almost nihilistic title story, though even it is tied closely to a fine attention to natural details and processes.)  When this technique works, as in the remarkable and Borgesian &quot;The Mappist&quot;, the story has the depth and power of a novel.<br />For all of Lopez's concern for the natural environment his characters inhabit, he is also astute in his presentation of his characters as thinkers and scholars.  The titles of books fill these pages, for many of his characters are bibliophiles and scholars -- one &quot;story&quot; is a paragraph followed by pages of endnotes and a bibliography -- and one of Lopez's great gifts as a storyteller is his ability to show the conjunctions between the imagined world of the page (the environment of the word) and the physical reality of gravel beneath feet and horse hair beneath hands.<br />Lopez takes risks as a writer, and we should celebrate him for that, for the risks pay off more than not.  Perhaps his greatest risk, and the one we should celebrate the most, is his unyielding desire to find decency, honesty, and even nobility in attention to the everday details of living.	2000-11-09
US	52387274	R4BFWKPCUIY68	0156619121	460318099	A Moment's Liberty: The Shorter Diary	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A fine distillation of Woolf's diary	Virginia Woolf's diaries contain much of her most accessible and interesting writing, but the average reader is not likely to wade through all five volumes of the complete diary.  This book, edited by the editor of  the full diary, Anne Olivier Bell, presents most of the best of Woolf's  reflections on her daily life and times, the people she knew, the struggles  and joys of her days.  Each year is prefaced with a helpful biographical  sketch, and the index of names gives not only page references, but a quick  description of the person's connection to Woolf.<br />It's important to know,  however, that the book was meant as a sort of companion to the previous  selection from Woolf's diaries created by her husband, Leonard, and  published as A Writer's Diary.  This earlier book printed the diary entries  concerning Woolf's writings, and it is a marvelous selection.  However, it  was published at a time when many of the people Woolf mentioned were still  alive, and so it wasn't until the full diary was published that readers got  to see how dangerously witty and sharp Woolf could be about her colleagues  and compatriots.  A Moment's Liberty benefits from being able to draw from  the full diary without need of censorship.	2000-06-27
US	52387274	R3VFZVWJMNI2B6	155713247X	550019305	From the Other Side of the Century II: A New American Drama 1960-1995 (Sun & Moon Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A unique and necessary anthology	If you're curious about the path of American drama in the past thirty years -- that is, American drama other than what Broadway had to offer -- then this is the anthology to get.  It's huge, diverse, and full of  surprises.  If you haven't been paying close attention to off-Broadway,  off-off-Broadway, and nowhere-near-Broadway theatre, then there are likely  to be unfamiliar names here.  That's okay; the editors are knowledgeable  and have made their choices carefully (Mac Wellman is himself an excellent  playwright).  Yes, you'll discover some familiar names, since many of the  major American playwrights of the past few decades are included here --  Tennessee Williams, Edward Albee, Tony Kushner, etc.  However, the  excitement in this anthology is how much you will discover: there's Maria  Irene Fornes, perhaps the greatest of the avant-garde playwrights to emerge  in the '60s; and Len Jenkin, whose plays tend to be a cross between all the  good parts of Philosophy 101 and the X-Files; and Suzan-Lori Parks, who is,  simply, a genius.  <br />It's certainly not all easy reading, for these are  plays by playwrights who love to explore the boundaries of language, of  imagery, of theatrical imagination, but if you're adventurous and willing  to have your conceptions of the theatre's possibilities be expanded, then  this book will be a treasure-trove for you.<br />The only anthology to rival  this one is Michael Feingold's Grove New American Theatre, which includes  six wonderful scripts.  From the Other Side of the Century includes over  thirty.  Get both if you can, but if you can only have one, then this is  the anthology to buy.	2000-06-27
US	52387274	R2UAYW0TI3OJH7	0931122406	550178987	A Nation of Poets: Writings from the Poetry Workshops of Nicaragua	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A poetic glimpse of revolutionary Nicaragua	After the Sandinistas took control of Nicaragua from the Somoza family's dictatorship, they named the country's most famous poet, Ernesto Cardinal, as Minister of Culture.  One of the most ambitious programs Cardinal  created was a series of poetry workshops that would bring teachers and  poets to every corner of Nicaragua.  In the towns and cities of a nation  torn apart by years of oppression -- and, indeed, years of illiteracy --  suddenly, poetry began to be written.  The people gained a voice.<br />This  book is a bilingual collection of the people's poems.  Here are the voices  of the everyday -- voices of hope, of pain, of yearning.  Here are images  of war and suffering, but also images of daily life in an extraordinary  place.  In Nicaragua, to call someone a poet is a high form of praise and  respect.  Within these pages, you can read the words of people who once  were allowed no words at all, but who briefly, for a revolutionary moment,  each earned the title of poet.  <br />While Nicaragua may not have actually  become a nation of poets, there was a time when that vision didn't seem so  idealistic.  This book is a vivid testament to that vision and that time.	2000-06-04
US	52387274	R1JVOJ5A8TKJ55	1886427100	971381985	Sophomores: Tales of Reality, Conflict, and the Road by Tenth Grade Writers (American Teen Writer Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fiction for teens, by teens	First, I should admit a bias: I wrote one of the stories in this book.  But it's not as an author that I want to recommend it (though I do think, seven years after writing it, that the story is pretty good).  I am now a  high school English teacher and have seen what a great effect these stories  can have on other teenagers.<br />These stories -- honest, funny, moving,  exciting -- show the world from a teenager's point of view, and no adult  author would be able to get it exactly right the way these stories get it  exactly right.  I've also found that these stories can be wonderful models  and inspiration for other teen writers.  These are great works of fiction,  but they aren't intimidating, they aren't Great Works of Art that have to  be read in a quiet, reverent tone.<br />I can't imagine anything that would  more inspire teens to be writers and readers than excellent stories written  by people in the midst of adolescence themselves.  This book, and all the  books of the American Teen Writer series, belong in every school and home  library.	1999-03-18
