US	52399299	R1OD1QW5L51MVH	0811812359	207308304	The Food and Flavors of Haute Provence	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful kitchen companion	This is really a wonderful cookbook.  The recipes are delicious, and whenever ingredients would be hard to find in the U.S., Brennan talks about more-readily available options and how they change preparation.  Even better, though, are the descriptive essays that precede each section in the book.  Brennan describes how the food fits into the culture of Haute Provence.  It's not only pleasant reading, but you learn how the natives mix flavors, so you can begin to develop recipes on your own that have provencal flavors.  I'm sorry to see it currently unavailable, so snap it up used if you see it!	2003-12-27
US	52399299	R13JDP8ZJGHZ18	1576831434	600954045	Faith Has Its Reasons : An Integrative Approach to Defending Christianity	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A good metapologetic, but not great for beginners	This book bills itself as a handbook of apologetics, and at times it seems like a textbook.  In the end, though, I think the authors would agree that it is (to use a word from the book) a metapologetic:  it is about apologetics rather than an example or even a summary of apologetics.<br />The authors divide apologetics into 4 broad classes:  The classical (which uses deductive logic); the Evidential (which uses inductive proofs); the Reformed (which relies on Transcendental arguments; and the Fideist (which uses indirect arguments and may not be an apologetic at all).  The authors are quick to point out that few people fit neatly into any one category.  In the final section of the book, they attempt to move toward an integrated approach that capitalizes on the strength of each model.<br />I would have gotten more out of the book if they had given more thorough examples of how these various apologetic systems work.  How do evidentialists use history to argue for the probability of Christ's Resurrection?  How do writers like Van Til avoid logic in making the Transcendental argument?  These are questions that aren't addressed directly in the book.  This isn't a criticism, but I make the point in case others are looking for a more descriptive approach to various apologetic systems.  <br />To my mind, the end of the book is the weakest part.  The attempt to integrate the approaches is interesting, and I agree that different apologetics will resonate better with different people.  However, I think the authors go too far in trying to pinpoint which method--even which Gospel account--will best apply to certain types of people.  I was surprised to discover the NFs (in the famous personality test) respond better to Mark's Gospel--I'm an NF, and I find Mark the account that resonates least with me.  Maybe I'm an unusual NF, or maybe the authors were just pushing their theories a bit too far.  I think it's probably the latter.<br />In any case, I think this is a good book, butit's probably more useful to people who have some background in apologetic thought than to beginners.	2003-02-21
US	52399299	R1AI4UATNHHEDH	0140244867	55568030	Small World	Books	4	31	35	N	N	More than an academic satire	I approached this book with a bit of trepidation, which I ought to explain before my review. Small World is sort of a sequel to Nice Work (it has some of the same characters and locations, but doesn't rely on knowledge of its predecessor). I read Nice Work a few years ago and was put off by it. It wasn't that I didn't find the satire on academia to be humorous. Rather, I thought it was a bit tasteless for someone who had spent most of his adult life employed by universities to turn around and write a satire that was (IMO) often bitter to the point of being unfair.<br />So, I wasn't sure I wanted to read Small World, though I had been assured it was a better book. I am glad I finally overcame my resistance and read it, because it is a much better book; indeed I think it is a very good book.<br />Small World is also a satire on academia, and while all the jacket blurbs talk about how biting the satire is, I didn't find that to be the case. Lodge seemed much more in tune and sympathetic with his characters, even as he skewers their antics. Also, the attacks in this novel seem less personal and more on literary studies as a profession.<br />I actually think Lodge has much bigger ambitions in this novel than writing an academic satire. His goal, it seems to me, is to package the history of the novel into a story in the form of an academic satire. So instead of a relatively simple, satirical plot (as in Nice Work), Lodge gives us a multitude of interwoven plots. He has a standard comic plot, but he also has a thriller plot, several varieties of romantic plots, a few mistaken identity plots, a foundling plot, a reunion plot and probably several others I'm forgetting. As the characters move around the world, they move in and out of the various plots. Some of the great moments in the book are watching how the characters react and change as they move from the comic plot to the thriller plot to one of the romance plots.<br />Because Lodge is writing about Literature academicsand has designed the novel to borrow from many different genres and eras, he gets to show off his extensive literary knowledge as well. The novel is littered with quotations (attributed and unattributed) and allusions (acknowledge and unacknowledged). I had fun trying to pick out these bits as I was reading, but you don't need to catch the allusions to enjoy the book. Overall, I highly recommend the book.	2003-01-15
US	52399299	R392DP17ZF3KLY	1564780503	849087029	Amalgamemnon (British Literature)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A virtuoso monologue	To give a plot synopsis of this novel would be almost pointless because the book is all about voice.  The narrator spills out words and puns and jams them together (as in the title) to make new words, thus forcing the reader to think in new ways about how the words relate.  It is also a novel of ideas, and in many ways, a novel about power.  The narrator posits herself as Cassandra to the various Agamemnon's (thus amalgamemnon) that ignore her.  Technnology, capitalism, and Wester, male-dominated society are all forces that she struggles with.  Interestingly, Brooke-Rose also foresees the power of terrorism and the threat of fundamentalism that responds to these same sources of powers.  To be sure, though, this is mostly a novel about language, and if you don't enjoy playful, postmodern punning, then skip this one.	2003-01-09
US	52399299	R1MYRO7T2QIC2L	0684807319	516111368	The Collected Poems of W.B. Yeats	Books	5	182	184	N	N	A good edition of a great poet	There isn't much question whether Yeats was a great poet, just where on the all time great list he falls.  Whether you call him the greatest poet of the 20th century, or the greatest since Wordsworth, Milton or Shakespeare, his accomplishments are clear.<br />Beyond that, why should anyone buy this edition as opposed to any of the other available?  First, the collected poems gives you a sense of his development and interests, not just the highlights of his greates poems.  Second, and more importantly, this edition is well-annotated by Finneran.  The notes are thorough without being unduly interpretive--they tell you what an allusion refers to, not how it affects the meaning of the poem.  The notes aim to be useful to any reader, regardless of background.  As a result, western readers will come across odd sounding notes such as \\"Jesus Christ is the founder of Christianity\\" or \\"Hamlet is the hero of William Shakespeare's tragedy of the same name.\\"  Still, you'll be thankful for such prosaic entries as they explain Irish myth and locate historical allusions.  All in all, it's an edition that belongs on any poetry lover's shelf.	2002-10-04
US	52399299	R2P0BOTQ0QKU0Z	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Painful but Worthwhile Reading	&quot;Blindness&quot; is a gut-wrenching, draining read, but it is worth every bit of time spent, every wince at painful details. The plot is fairly simple: a mysterious, trasmittable disease that causes blindness suddenly appears in a city. It spreads quickly, and the authorities attempt to stop it by placing a quarantine on the initial cases and those who had contact with them. Society is understandably paranoid about the cases, and there is some hysteria. The novel follows a small group of the initial cases as they go blind and then deal with that blindness. <br />In a sense, the novel is like a work of science fiction in that it lays out a premise (contagious blindness plagues a city) and then follows it logically. The difference between this novel and most works of science fiction is the ruthlessness with which Saramago follows his premise. The &quot;society&quot; that evolves among the blind in quarantine is savage, though it isn't clear that it's much better on the outside. Conditions quickly degenerate into unimaginable horror--dirt, illness, human waste, human cruelty all multiply as quickly as the cases of violence. Saramago adopts a very spare prose style with a matter of fact tone to describe the conditions. It would have been easy for his narratorial voice to get emotionally involved in the plight of the characters, but by resisting that temptation, he has made the novel all the more powerful. Similarly, by leaving the characters and location nameless, he allows the novel a more universal feel and yet allows the characters to distinguish themselves through their responses (rather than their backgrounds). There are times when the narrative voice takes on a &quot;post-modernist&quot; point of view (questioning how it could know certain things, etc.) which I did not think were necessary, though they didn't detract from the novel. Based solely on this work, it is little wonder that Saramago has such a good international reputation; if he has other works ofthis quality, one would have to include him among the best writers of the 20th century.	2002-10-02
US	52399299	R37T68E7FFUTOI	006097611X	756206777	Operation Wandering Soul	Books	4	9	10	N	N	One of our Best Living Authors	The more I read of Powers' work, the more I believe that he is a writer people will be studying a century from now. While I don't think this novel is quite as good as Plowing the Dark, it is still better than most contemporary novels I read by several orders of magnitude. <br />The plot follows a doctor named Kraft who is in rotations and serving as a surgeon in a children's ward in a poor section of Los Angeles. Most of the action concerns him and his interactions with Linda--a physical therapist and his love interest--and several patients, including mostly Joy Stepaneevong, a refugee on whom he operates. Kraft is as mentally wounded as his patients are physically, and is near a breakdown through most of the novel. His psychological situation is partly explained by his surroundings and partly by extended flashbacks into his childhood. He was raised in several different countries where his father was apparently part of raising instabilities for the U.S. government. As a result, Kraft has almost no sense of connectedness to anything. Amid all this, Powers weaves allusions to virtually every story involving children--from historical events like the Children's Crusade and the evacuation of London to fictional works like Peter Pan and the Pied Piper of Hamelin. <br />Stylistically, Powers writes lush, vivid prose. If your ideal prose writer is Hemingway, with his spare and well-honed sentences, then Powers isn't for you. He is more like John Barth or even Sir Philip Sidney than plain style authors. Here's a representative passage, in which Powers describes Kraft and how someone who likes post-modern fiction has latched on to him: <br />Something about him must emanate this Mr. Potato Head plasticity. Chief of Surgery Burgess, dying a slow, half-century death in this city where reading span is sorely stretched by the instructions on microwave popcorn, instantly imagines that in Kraft he has found a kindred literate spirit, a simile son. Dr. Purgative, as Plummer rechristens him, keeps farming out these convoluted, epistemological novels by Kraft's obscure, young contemporaries. Plow through and report on, over sherry this afternoon, a postmodernist mystery thicker than the Index Medicus where the butler kills the author and kidnaps the narration. Damn thing includes its own explanatory Cliffs Notes halfway through, although the gloss is even more opaque than the story...<br />That combination of stylistic virtuosity and dead-on humor is Powers' signature, and to my mind he writes this brand of fiction as well or better than anyone writing today.	2002-09-19
US	52399299	RNBQD07PM0BIN	0687090334	890541527	Calling & Character: Virtues of the Ordained Life	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	Clear and Concise view of the Ethical Life	This is a book about clergy ethics, but Willimon does not take the normal path of ethical discussion, trying to determine right and wrong actions, setting up situations and discussing the ethical choices involved.  Instead, for Willimon, ethics in general and clergy ethics in particular are all about one's relationship with the Lord.  Rather than asking &quot;what should I do?&quot; in a given situation, Willimon argues that we need to ask &quot;Who am I to be?&quot;  This doesn't seem like an earth-shatteringly original thesis, but in the legalistic world in which we live, it's refreshing to see someone focussing on the Big Picture rather than on the quotidian minutiae of finely split hairs.<br />For Willimon, an ethical life comes from habits of biblical study, submission to the will of God and the church, living in community with one's flock and one's colleagues, bearing the crosses of ministry faithfully and patiently, and developing a humble sense of humor in one's ministry.  This last one is interesting, because he isn't calling on ministers to be entertaining (though that might come through the use of humor); instead he encourages ministers to develop a sense of irony and satire that serves the counter-cultural calling of the church.  In other words, we should develop a sense of humor like Jesus'.  After all, if the Church cannot highlight the foibles and follies of modern life, then what institution can?	2002-09-12
US	52399299	R258OM1UHR2SF4	0310213274	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Choosing a Life of Grace	It has long been amazing to me that you can hear Christians talk for hours and never hear the word &quot;grace.&quot;  Yancey's book is an important tonic to our tendancy to ignore grace and gracefulness in our own lives.  He reminds us how astonishing it is that God loves us no matter what, and that &quot;there is nothing we can do to make God love us more, and nothing we can do to make God love us less.&quot;<br />The book would be worth reading if all Yancey did was remind us of this fact.  Instead, though, he goes on to encourage us to live graciously to look at life as an abject sinner who needs God's forgiveness, and to treat others the same way.  Rather than condemning both sin and sinner, he reminds us to love.  Grace and love:  what could be more important?	2001-09-04
US	52399299	R2K92RBXNON06K	0684823780	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A Classic Apologetic	In &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot; Lewis sets out to explain what Christianity is in its most basic forms (i.e., &quot;merely&quot; what Christianity is).  Avoiding controversy as much as possible, he lays out basic tenants that all Christians believe.  As such, it is a wonderful book for seekers and new Christians to read.  The work has dated a bit, and some of Lewis' illustrations seem quaint now, but that does not decrease the usefulness of this book.	2001-09-04
US	52399299	R3A1Z5J8A14RCB	0374146837	308815901	Electric Light: Poems	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Turn to Literary History	Like any collection, there are highs and lows, but there are a few poems that would rank among Heaney's best in this collection.  Moreso than his other collections, this one seems heavily weighted with the literary past.  Heaney has always been interested in Irish history, but in this collection, he changes his focus to literary history and the immediate poetic past.  In the last section of the book, 5 of the 9 poems are explicitly addressed to poets of Heaney's generation who have passed away.  In that sense, the book is a bit pensive in tone, but it is enlivened by anecdote and word play.  For Heaney fans, I recommend it, but if you are new to his work, you'd be better off with one of his Selected Works (I think he's published 3), or an early to mid-career book.	2001-06-14
US	52399299	RCYM40PKFXNE4	0553268473	380161256	The Farthest Shore (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Classic of YA Fiction	Having recently re-read all of the volumes of the original trilogy, I feel comfortable in saying that &quot;The Farthest Shore&quot; is the masterwork of the set.  After a somewhat disappointing volume 2 (&quot;Tombs of Atuan&quot;), LeGuin writes a fantasy classic about a magical world that is having its magic mysteriously disappear.  Like &quot;Tombs,&quot; the hero of the trilogy, Sparrowhawk/Ged, is not the main focus of the novel.  In this case, though, our focal point is an interesting and heroic character in his own right.<br />The book is not without weaknesses, however.  The villain is never very well defined, and though the threat of losing magic is very real, the figure behind the threat is less compelling.  Even with this weakness, though, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this book to a young reader--or even an adult afficionado--of fantasy literature.	2001-03-29
US	52399299	R3D0HEWT065LSC	0618064141	725972268	The Boys at Twilight : Poems 1990 - 1995	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Development of a Career	I sometimes wonder why young writers allow their publishers to talk them into releasing a &quot;selected poems&quot; volume.  Almost invariably, they will come to see much of their earliest work as a development, not a finished product.  That fact is very much in evidence in this work.  Maxwell makes selections from his first 3 books, and each book is more accomplished than the one before.  His formalism becomes more assured with each successive book.  As such, I recommend this book to people interested in Maxwell from his other works, or who are interested in neo-formal poetry in general.  Be aware, though, that you can't judge the whole book by the first few poems.	2001-03-29
US	52399299	R15W5RUDIFK91H	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Classic Young-Adult Fantasy Novel	I first read this book as a teenager, and recently re-read it as an adult.  The book has held up wonderfully!  The prose is crisp and clear, the story compelling, and the characters interesting.  Sparrowhawk/Ged is a wonderful apprentice-hero...he has to learn not only how to be a wizard (hmmm, a school for wizards...sound familiar?), but more importantly, he has to learn how to become a hero.  That quest, which is much more important than any of the steps he takes to achieve it, is the true focus of the book.  A coming of age stories with magic, dragons and fearsome monsters...what more could you ask for?	2001-03-14
US	52399299	R9JPDF3BRE2L7	0553273310	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sparrowhawk's Quest	In A Wizard of Earthsea, we read a coming of age story about a boy who learns to become a wizard and a hero.  Though it was a short book, there are really 3 quests that together turn Sparrowhawk/Ged into a great hero.  In The Tombs of Atuan, we have a more traditional quest narrative.  There is a single quest that our Hero must complete in order to cement his reputation as the greates wizard of Earthsea.  The novel doesn't focus on him for much of the first third, however, and I think this is its main weakness, and why I didn't like it as much as the first in the series.  Nevertheless, I did enjoy it, and think it's worth reading...but when following a classic (which Wizard of Earthsea definitely is), it's often hard to measure up.	2001-03-14
US	52399299	R31GN170QKEJXI	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Masterwork of World Lit.	There is much to love in this book.  While there are many &quot;main&quot; characters, to me the book is dominated by two in particular:  Andre and Pierre.  Andre is one of the great characters I've ever encountered.  Pierre's character is also truly brilliant, and becomes more interesting with each episode. I was fascinated by the way Tolstoy plays Pierre's character against Andre's, whether in parallel (both fall in love ), or in contrast (Pierre's early duel vs. Andre's desire to duel later; or Pierre's sheer luck in battle vs. Andre's bad luck, etc.).<br />I have to say, though, that there are some things I didn't love too. First, let's be honest: Tolstoy is as didactic as they come. People complain that Henry James can write for pages without anything happening, but Tolstoy can writer for pages without characters! Some of his digressions on historical laws and historiography in general were clearly warranted, but eventually I grew impatient with them. I found the entire epilogue disappointing: the section on the philosophy of history I found mostly unconvincing, but I was even more troubled by the section on his characters 7 years later. I felt like he became patronizing toward most of them, which is something he never did in the main story. Pierre and Marya come off OK, but the 2 Rostov's really come of poorly, particularly poor Natasha.<br />Overall, though, I enjoyed reading .  It's clear why this is considered one of the masterworks of world literature--I can't think of many works that have better characters or that incorporate history and society more seamlessly into the narrative.	2001-03-12
US	52399299	R3GMPPU5TFQQ0F	0891099093	177883844	The Trivialization of God: The Dangerous Illusion of a Manageable Deity	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting but not always Clear	I agree with the other reviewers that this book makes some interesting points, and overall, I think it is worth reading.  I wish, though, that I could recommend McCullough more as a *writer*.  As a thinker, he clearly has good ideas, but he sometimes has trouble expressing them clearly.  There are points in this book that read as though they were written by a college sophomore--awkward sentence structure, lurching thoughts, unclear metaphors.  There are other sections that sound almost like poor translations (&quot;Wholly-Other-in-Love&quot; sounds like an untranslatable idea from some German theologian!).  Other parts of the book, especially the last few pages, are crystal clear.  It's the lack of clarity that keeps me from giving this very good book 5 stars.	2001-02-20
US	52399299	R269P8TUU5MAG3	0914946978	387711796	After the Rain (Cleveland State University Poetry Series: XXXVII) (Cleveland State University Poetry Series Xxxvii) (Cleveland State University Poetry ... State University Poetry Series Xxxvii)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Better at form than at free verse	Jared Carter's second collection shows him growing more and more comfortable writing as a formal poet.  There are stanzas that show the control of great contemporary formalists like Hollander is Wilbur.  While none of his poems as a whole reach that stature, he seems well on his way.<br />It is when he turns to free verse that he seems to stumble.  Rather than finding it liberating, he oftens seems to lose his rhythm, have trouble determining where to break lines ... in other words, he has the same problem all but the best free verse poets have.  Not that he is asking, but if he asked me, I'd tell him to stick to formal verse.  I would similarly recommend this book to people who enjoy neoformalism.	2001-01-18
US	52399299	RPGSWWJOY7TEV	0822955679	460655467	The Art Of Drowning (Pitt Poetry Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Poetry without Pain	If you are asking yourself &quot;how can drowning be an art?&quot; you have sensed some of the wry humor that he includes in his poetry. I've only read a handful of poems, but I can already sense the way he puts a plain style to an often comic end. He hasn't been &quot;laugh out loud&quot; funny yet, but he still offers more humor than most contemporary poets. This isn't by chance, either. He knows it: <br />I am swaying now in the hour after dinner,/ a citizen tilted back on his chair, / a creature with a full stomach-- / something you don't hear much about in poetry, / the sanctuary of hunger and deprivation. / You know: the driving rain, the boots by the door, / small birds searching for berries in winter.  (&quot;Osso Buco&quot;) <br />I think that is a wonderful description of much contemporary poetry which many people feel must stem from pain rather than pleasure. <br />Collins is also willing to be... well... quirky. Here is his description of the types of paintings he likes, from a poem called &quot;Metropolis:&quot; <br />I like the calm rustic ones: a surface of lake, / the low bough of an oak like a long arm, / a blue smudge of distant hills, / anything with cows, especially if they are standing / in a stream, their large, vacuous faces / staring into the warm nineteenth-century afternoon. / And if one has lowered her head to drink / and the painter has indicated with flecks of white / the water pouring down from the animal's mouth, / then the day, I feel, has achieved a modest crest. //<br />. . . . . . . . . <br />You can have that bronze sculpture by the elevators: / &quot;Revolution Holding the Head of Error / and Standing Over the Cadaver of Monarchy.&quot; / My place is here, leaning forward, wandering / through the microscopic eyelash details of / &quot;Still Life with Herring, Wine and Cheese,&quot; / &quot;Still Life with Tobacco, Grapes and a Pocket Watch,&quot; / &quot;Still Life with Porcelain Vase, Silver Tray, and Glasses,&quot; <br />The line that begins &quot;anything with cows&quot; is as close as I've come to laughing out loud. I don't know why, but something about the honest incongruity I find funny. And I love the parodic title of the sculpture (I assume it's a parody) as a counterpoint to the simplicity of the still life pictures. I think it is clear that his poetry is more in the vein of the still life than the epic or allegorical, and I find his voice refreshing. <br />The best poem in the collection is &quot;The Invention of the Saxophone&quot; which brings together all of the concerns he develops in this wonderful collection.	2001-01-09
US	52399299	R2YWA69HM7FU7C	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Strong on Character, Weak on Plot	Based on this novel, I would say that plot is not Stendahl's strong point. He doesn't seem to be much interested in the plot, or in having the various scenes and episodes build in any definitive way. The overall love triangle between Julien and his 2 loves does eventually get a shape, but only after many false starts. To give but one example, the barmaid Julien meets looks to be someone who will show up in the novel again, maybe causing some problems in the Seminary. But, after an interesting scene, Julien never meets her again. <br />On the other hand, though, I think Stendahl is very interested in the psychology of his characters. Obviously, he focusses mostly on Julien, but since Stendahl clearly isn't above narratorial intrusions, he comments heavily on other characters as well. I think he is interested in what causes people to make certain decisions, particularly in moments of emotional stress. The novel is full of such moments, and characters are always making decisions that might &quot;ruin&quot; them--either reputations for women or chances for advancement for men. <br />Because Stendahl seems to focus on these moments of emotional decisions, he also seems to me to be a master ironist. As readers, we often know what decision the character should make to either benefit them or to fit in most with their stated beliefs, but it isn't at all unusual for the character to choose otherwise. How many times does Julien--after some such emotional decision--say &quot;would Napoleon have acted thus?&quot; We knew all along that this is how he would react to his decision. This happens so often in the novel that I think Stendahl must relish this type of psychological irony. <br />So I think my frustration was often due to failing to see a shape or thematic center for the novel, but I enjoyed many of the &quot;emotional decision&quot; scenes I've described for the way they explored character psychology.	2000-12-29
US	52399299	R3VFWMLIX16SV1	0684823764	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	No &quot;Marriage of Heaven and Hell&quot;	Lewis' title would seem to be an answer to Blake's work &quot;The Marriage of Heaven and Hell,&quot; but his method is Dantean.  Like Dante, Lewis attempts to portray the spiritual existence of souls in Heaven and Hell in a physical manner.  The vision of Hell as a somewhat dingy city is inspired, and the idea that the souls there don't even recognize that they are separated from God is a grand revision of Dante.<br />Still, like many allegories, the work gets heavy handed at times.  It is always clear who is right in any discussion--and that's fine, but to me there are about 2 too many such colloquys.  Nevertheless, this is yet another venue into Lewis' theology, and though it isn't as forthright as some of his other works, the addition of fictional ideas makes it an enjoyable read.	2000-12-29
US	52399299	R1XAUAF8BIYI9I	0060660376	213938646	Confessions of a Twentieth Century Pilgrim	Books	2	3	41	N	N	Too much name dropping, too little pilgrimaging	My title explains much of my reaction to this book.  I felt like Muggeridge was simply trying to capitalize on his career and his association with Mother Teresa.  He regularly tries to convince the reader that he has difficulties and temptations to overcome, but far more of the time in this book is spent on non-spiritual matters.<br />I should also say that Muggeridge has some fairly conservative views on issues, particularly abortion, and if you don't share them, he doesn't give any room for disagreement.  While I acknowledge his rights to have those beliefs, I will exercise my right not to read his works further.	2000-12-29
US	52399299	R18QLQ2H4XSW8K	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	3	7	12	N	N	An Honest Conversion Story	This short book takes us from Lewis' early atheism to his later belief in God and ultimately, we know, to his belief in Christianity.  Like all of his works, this book is clear and engaging to read, and often thought-provoking.<br />Unfortunately, I cannot give it my highest recommendation.  Though I enjoy most of Lewis' works, this one fell a bit short for me.  I had trouble believing Lewis was ever really an atheist, or even an agnostic.  Perhaps that is partly by design, but I rather think that Lewis was trying to make his conversion seem a greater alteration than it was.  Compared to the &quot;great&quot; conversions of St. Paul or St. Augustine, this one pales in comparison.<br />Also, this book is rather unfairly included with religious works, and while religion is one of its topics--and its organizing principle--Lewis is interested in other ideas, including education and child rearing.  So much has changed in these 2 areas over the last 50 years or so, that I found much of those sections in the book uninteresting.  Still, for Lewis fans, this is a book you should read.  However, if you are looking for an introduction to Lewis' Christian thought, you'd be better of with Mere Christianity.	2000-12-29
US	52399299	R3EIJM8TFEF950	0805420460	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	4	15	19	N	N	An Intellectually Honest Attempt	Lewis has good habits as a writer.  He tells you his assumptions, his biases and the steps in his logic.  It is up to you whether you find his arguments convincing.  In this book, he tries to show logically not only that a god exists, but that it is the Christian God in particular which exists.  As we would expect, some arguments are better than others.<br />Of course, people who already believe in the Christian God are much more likely to be convinced, but his arguments on the existence of God--particularly in sections concerning morality--are often quite strong.  As the divinity of Christ is a much harder fact for some people to swallow, his proofs there also tend to be less convincing.  Overall though--and I am a beliver--I found this about as good a &quot;proof&quot; of Christianity as there is.<br />The book has aged well, and apart from what looks now like a quaint view of women and marriage, one could hardly imagine it was written in the first half of the 20th century.	2000-12-29
US	52399299	R2O9ZSN9UC7IQQ	0374234612	106059277	Plowing the Dark: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Modern Tour-de-Force	The novel is set in the late 1980's and early 90's, and has as its backdrop the astonishing worldwide events of those years--the Berlin Wall, Tianneman Square, etc. The main plot concerns a group of people working on a virtual reality project, and the team consists of everyone from stereotypical anti-social geeks to a crochety mathmetician, from a wannabe poet turned programmer to a former painter turned logo designer turned graphical designer. Though it doesn't sound like much of a plot, their struggles with what they are creating, set against the political background and motivated by their personal interactions is very compelling. The descriptions of what they are trying to create are breathtaking--Powers' writing is more beautiful in these sections than I can imagine &quot;real&quot; VR will be for decades. <br />There is a parallel plot that has as little &quot;action,&quot; but is more harrowing--it is the story of a man taken hostage by middle-eastern extremists. What he goes through is still resonating in my mind. I won't tell you how these plots work together, but to my mind, Powers succeeds in bringing them together. <br />Having praised this book so much--and it is one of the best new novels I've read in a long time--I should say that it probably isn't for everyone. While it isn't extremely &quot;post-modern&quot; (there are no characters named &quot;Richard Powers;&quot; no extended discussion about textuality; the only idiosyncracy of printing is the placing of quotations in italics), it certainly is in a post-modern mode. The book isn't terribly depressing, but it is gut-wrenching at times, so I wouldn't read it if you are looking for a pick-me-up. That said, though, I highly recommend it.	2000-12-08
US	52399299	R1MN7CCLJZ1QU5	0811200671	373869874	Second Skin	Books	4	22	26	N	N	More than skin deep	Second Skin is a lyrical, difficult but ultimately rewarding novel.  It focuses on Skipper, the narrator, who simply tries to survive a series of life tragedies ranging from being the victim of a mutiny to losing his wife  and daughter to suicide.<br />To say these things is not to give away the  plot.  Because Skipper does not tell his story in a linear fashion, we know  what will happen from the beginning.  The pleasure is in listening to the  narrative voice tell his &quot;naked history&quot; (as Skipper calls  it).<br />John Hawkes is an under-appreciated writer and a brilliant prose  stylists.  For anyone who loves to read beautiful sentences, this book is  highly recommended.	2000-04-12
US	52399299	R3IUTMO0LA8NE	0140432256	364473979	The Bostonians (English Library)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	James' Satiric Vision	Though James is certainly not known for his sense of humor, he displays a keen sense of satire in this novel.  The two senses are not identical--many readers expect satire to make them laugh out loud, and those readers will  be disappointed in this book.  James' satire is more likely to make readers  feel uncomfortable.  He repeatedly mocks the two main characters and their  struggle to control a young woman who hardly seems worth the effort that  these two egoists put into her pursuit.  James allows Olive Chancellor  and Basil Ransom (whose names evoke the satiricomic tradition in which he  is writing) to take themselves seriously while allowing the readers to see  them as stereotypes.  While satire depends on such stereotypes, James'  fiction typically delves into the psychological.  At times, he is able to  keep this balance, but often the tension is too great and the characters  seem to fall flat.  Verena Tarrant--the object of Olive and Basil's  affection--is virtually absent psychologically (as others have noted), but  her lack of character is built into the novel.  She begins as her father's  possession, and the novel hinges on whether Olive or Basil get to own her  next.  While the novel is certainly not without faults, it is  interesting to watch a novelist as self-conscious as James attempt to write  a novel of this type.  While he wasn't destined to become a comic genius,  this novel is a step toward the psychological, satirical and comic success  he was to have in a novel such as &quot;The Ambassadors.&quot;	1999-03-12
