US	52397281	RCJVVX9KME39G	044900371X	429783385	The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Orchids, Florida, biology, Indian tribes . . . and orchids!	At some point, a reader of Susan Orlean's \\"The Orchid Thief\\" has to ask \\"what is this book about?!\\"  That's a justified question, to which there are some good answers.  Numerous themes run through the book, as Orlean writes about various topics that surround a strange mid-1990s theft of rare and protected orchids from a South Florida swamp.  At first the reader is led to think that the theft of these orchids is the real story.  But not so fast . . . Orlean's own on-scene investigation into the incident reveals a deep, exciting and unexpected layer of sub-topics! <br /> <br />Orlean starts off by writing about John LaRoche, the actual \\"Orchid Thief,\\" who is always working some angle in hopes of getting rich quick.  His aim, for much of the book, is cultivating and reproducing a rare orchid known as the Ghost Orchid.  As Orlean gets to known LaRoche, she comes into contact with the personalities that inhabit the orchid world - an odd and eccentric assortment of individuals who will do anything to purchase, sell, smuggle, collect, cultivate and even clone orchids.  She enters this world herself and braves the murky swamps of the Everglades in hopes of finding a rare Ghost Orchid. <br /> <br />During her time in Florida, Orlean delves into the history of orchid collecting and cultivation - how orchids were \\"hunted\\" in various exotic locales and the extent to which upper-class and well-to-do collectors would seek to obtain them.  She also gets into the genetics of orchids - how orchids have been pollinated and cross-pollonated to produce exquisite and fascinating new kinds of orchids.  Later, she writes about how Florida became one of the hotbeds of orchid collecting.  In a way, Florida becomes one of the major sub-topics, as she writes about Florida's climate, the swamps, the landscape, the history and the people.  She describes, in detail, the famous land-scams of the 1950s and 60s, the growth of the Seminole Indian Nation and its current successes, the urbanization ofSouth Florida and its lifestyle, and the attempts at preserving and reclaiming the Everglades. <br /> <br />Readers will enjoy \\"The Orchid Thief\\" for all of these topics and sub-topics.  In the end, some might still wonder what the book is really about.  But for the imaginative reader, the wide selection of topics provided by Orlean allows one to make that a personal choice.  That is, the book is about whatever you want it to be about - orchids, Florida, biology, Indian tribes, history, and . . . again, orchids.	2004-12-02
US	52397281	RAYPQO8B496F4	0312311702	124910607	The Neptune Strategy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A fun read!	John J. Gobbell's &quot;The Neptune Strategy&quot; is another great read that follows three previous books featuring war hero Todd Ingram. The action and suspense never stops. And the historical setting, in this case the Normandy landings and the Battle of the Philippine Sea, gives the reader a great history lesson. Compared to the previous books, &quot;The Neptune Strategy&quot; contains more international intrigue. I would not have thought that Gobbell would have ventured to Europe, but he does with a gold-hungry Nazi submariner who finds his way from the Pacific to the Atlantic. And Ingram is along for the ride! I hope that Gobbell has enough ideas for a final installment for the war's finale. In all, a really fun book to read!	2004-07-31
US	52397281	R2VQ0BT4DJWNA9	0743216458	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ordinary individuals doing extraordinary things	&quot;Band of Brothers&quot; is very well-researched and well-written.  But I'm giving it five stars mainly for the reason that the subject matter is so fascinating and worthy of notice.  Ambrose, as usual, skillfully tells the personal story of those who fought the war in Europe, particularly the members of the 101st Airborne.  It really takes the written word to convey just what these men endured, both in training and in battle, to help achieve victory.  In essence, Ambrose tells the story of ordinary individuals doing extraordinary things.  He consistently tells the reader that these soldiers were pushed beyond the limits of what they thought they could endure.  As such, we learn what these men went through for our country and our freedom.  We also learn that there is something within each of us, something that the men of Easy Company were able to find, that helps us to overcome any trials that come our way.  For this, I thank Stephen Ambrose for writing this book, in addition to his other books.  In fact, I would say that this is a theme in his other books, and not just his World War Two books.  He mentions in &quot;Undaunted Courage&quot; how Lewis and Clark were able to push themselves to the limits of human endurance throughout their trek across North America.  I recommend the HBO mini-series based on &quot;Band of Brothers.&quot;  However, by reading the book first, the reader will have a better understanding of the battles and the individuals who fought in them.	2003-09-08
US	52397281	R131ZKDCE782LP	0195110382	435467343	War at Sea: A Naval History of World War II	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best history on WWII naval warfare	I must concur with other reviewers that Nathan Miller's \\"War at Sea: A Naval History of World War II\\" is the best history on naval warfare during the Second World War.  The book reads like a novel without getting bogged down in details.  What I enjoyed most was Miller's recounting of the naval battles that took place during the European war's early years.  When most individuals think of naval warfare in the Second World War, they tend to think of the Pacific war - Pearl Harbor, Midway, Leyte Gulf, etc. (for the simple and correct reasoning that the Pacific Ocean's great expanse required strong and large navies to ferry troops, equipment, aircraft, etc.).  But Miller does an excellent job of educating the reader about the tremendous naval battles that took place in the Atlantic and Mediterranean.  For instance, Britain's pursuit of the Bismark, the destruction of the Italian fleet and, importantly, the U-boat war.  Thus, in essence, the European war was as much of a naval war as was the Pacific war.  I highly recommend this history to all World War II history readers.	2002-06-19
US	52397281	R1B7QXRKYE6LSV	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An exciting read - hats off to the men who flew the B-24	Celebrity historian Stephen E. Ambrose couldn't have gone wrong with \\"The Wild Blue,\\" for the subject matter is just so incredibly fascinating.  I agree with other reviewers that the book doesn't measure up to his earlier works (I highly recommend \\"Undaunted Courage,\\" \\"D-Day,\\" and \\"Citizen Soldiers.\\").  First of all, it doesn't contain very much material (the first thing I noticed when it came out was how thin it is).  Second, I couldn't understand if it was a book about George McGovern's experiences flying B-24s over Europe, or about B-24 crews in general - Ambrose awkwardly flip-flops between the two.  Nonetheless, the experiences about which he writes are incredible.  I can't imagine the sheer terror of flying through flak bursts or forming such tight formations that invite inevitable mid-air collisions.  Ambrose aptly describes the B-24 as a bomber that could take a pounding and still deliver.  I appreciated his description of the flight training that was required before air crews could get over to Europe - I had no idea it was so thorough.  I have a very high regard for the men (boys, really) who were able to help defeat Nazi Germany from the air.  All in all, this book is a exciting read, though not necessarily because Ambrose wrote it.	2002-05-29
US	52397281	RACN95RDWB4UX	0140185321	204127765	Stamboul Train: An Entertainment (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An entertaining &quot;Entertainment&quot;	As an &quot;Entertainment,&quot; &quot;Stamboul Train&quot; is quite entertaining.  Graham Greene writes with a strong sense of humor as he describes an interesting assortment of individuals riding the Orient Express across Europe to Istanbul.  Though there isn't much of a plot, the odd and unpredictable occurs on this journey.  Greene develops his characters to the point that the reader can't help but eagerly wonder how each individual will react to the many bizarre encounters on and off the train.  Not one of Greene's better known works, but a pleasure to read nonetheless.	2002-04-23
US	52397281	R2PY0E1TGU9E3M	0312971427	41025536	A Code For Tomorrow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting and fun to read	Like Gobbell's first book &quot;The Last Lieutenant,&quot; &quot;A Code for Tomorrow&quot; is exciting and fun to read.  The story moves at a quick pace and the action never stops.  And any book that teaches me more about World War II is, in my opinion, a good book.  &quot;A Code for Tomorrow&quot; accomplishes this, as Gobbell places Lt. Todd Ingram at the center of fierce naval battles at Santa Cruz and Cape Esperance.  <br />Though the story is exciting and full of intrigue, I could not help but think that Gobbell based it on a James Bond movie.  There are too many quick escapes and bizarre coincidences.  For instance, a scene towards the end when Ingram and others are placed on a barge to be killed in a Japense torpedo practice exercise.  That sounds more like a James Bond movie than anything have to do with World War II.<br />Still, I eagerly await Gobbell's next book &quot;When Duty Whispers Low.&quot;  Gobbell has a gift with his story-telling ability and knowledge of naval history.  I very much recommend his books.	2002-03-11
US	52397281	RANA8Q483DCUL	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The violent collision of desire and duty	&quot;The Heart of the Matter&quot; - I couldn't quite understand why Graham Greene chose this title.  But a few weeks after reading the book, I now think I know.  The main character, Scobie, is confused when his life is turned upside down by events that seem to be beyond his control - his sincere desire to make his wife happy, and the sincere comfort he finds in his relationship with another woman.  This emotional dilemma crosses over into his professional life, where he finds his obligation to duty overcome by his desire to cover-up the confusion he finds in his personal life.  He has no problem with sincerity, except that he has too much of it.  Thus, the title, &quot;The Heart of the Matter,&quot; seems to represent the violent collision of desire and duty that ultimately leads Scobie to take extraordinary measures.<br />Greene's performance in writing this work is stunning, as it is in many of his other novels.  (I would compare &quot;The Heart of the Matter&quot; to &quot;The End of the Affair&quot; and &quot;The Quiet American,&quot; both very powerful novels.)  He is able to paint a perfect setting, and his description of the human psyche resonates in a strong way with one's inner soul.  How he is able to achieve this very much amazes me.	2002-02-06
US	52397281	REN76QDEXC02Z	0380814110	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, and the Man Who Won the War	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very touching	I was very touched by Bob Greene's book &quot;Duty: A Father, His Son and the Man Who Won the War.&quot;  Greene writes with an amazing eloquence and is able to maintain a smooth balance among his reflections of his father, his conversations with General Paul Tibbets and his own thoughts about war, family and life.  As a result, he produces what I consider to be one of the best insights into the &quot;Greatest Generation.&quot;  He examines what motivated them to win the war by looking at their childhoods, their backgrounds and the values they were taught.  He shows how both his father, Tibbets and many other servicemen were able to rely on their values to achieve victory against Germany and Japan.  For instance, Tibbets was able to organize a bomber squadron that consisted of 1,800 men in order to complete his mission in delivering the atomic bomb to Hiroshima.  He was able organize this group with incredible efficiency and secrecy.  Could many 29 year-olds do that today?  In the end, these men were honorable individuals who followed orders, did the best they could and did it right.  I thank Bob Greene for saluting his father, Tibbets and all other World War Two veterans with this fine book.  I read it in one day . . . I just couldn't put it down.	2001-12-26
US	52397281	RFUVOS3X36B9K	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	3	11	28	N	N	An enjoyable read	Kurt Vonnegut's &quot;Slaughterhouse Five&quot; is an enjoyable read.  Vonnegut writes with a smooth and witty writing style.  The story of Billy Pilgrim's experiences as a POW during World War Two, including his time traveling adventures, are shocking and amusing at the same time.  Confronting horror and death with humor is an age-old concept, and Vonnegut finds a good balance between the two.<br />One thing that I kept asking myself as I read the book was &quot;what is this book about?&quot;  I think Vonnegut may have succeeded in writing a book where the reader can make up his or her own mind concerning the book's meaning.  Yes, it addresses the horrors of war and makes light of authority, but there were so many subliminal and idiosyncratic references to various things, places, events, people, etc., that I couldnt help but think that I would just have to use my own creativity and ideas to figure out the book's real message.<br />What really disturbed me about the book was Vonnegut's constant use of sarcasm and irreverent humor.  Many people in modern society equate cynicism with sophistication.  I respectfully disagree; I think that Vonnegut's numerous disparaging references to various institutions got old after a while.<br />All in all, I recommend it . . . but I won't exalt it to the extent that other readers have.	2001-11-26
US	52397281	R2U3JVECK0TLII	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Well worth reading	&quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; is well worth reading, even if just to learn more about the incredible battle for Iwo Jima.  What makes this book special is the extent to which Bradley focuses on the individuals involved in the famous flag raising on the top of Mt. Suribachi.  Who were these men?  Where did they come from?  What did they think?  These are the kinds of questions Bradley is asking.  And I think he finds some good answers.  Researching their childhoods and backgrounds, he puts a human face on these six Marines.  This is what I desire to know when I read about World War II.  I'm not so much interested in memorizing battle tactics or maneuvers.  I want to know what people who experienced the war thought about it, then and now.  Bradley catches the essence of these questions with this work.	2001-10-22
US	52397281	RHLN2MTBDJ1FO	0451204476	476746763	Ordeal by Sea: The Tragedy of the U.S.S. Indianapolis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hauntingly vivid	For history and naval enthusiasts, reading doesn't get much better than &quot;Ordeal by Sea.&quot;  The sinking of the USS Indianapolis was a tragic event, considering that the war was practically days away from its termination.  Thomas Helm's description of the ship, its final minutes and the five-day ordeal that sailors endured after the sinking is hauntingly vivid.  With the turn of each page, I found myself wanting to know more and more.  Helm writes with a superior knowledge of the ship, having served on her before the war.  He also provides a fascinating description of survivor accounts.  That anyone could survive the sinking, five days under a scorching sun without food and fresh water, and the numerous shark attacks is amazing enough.  Helm brings all this up and close to the reader.<br />Though Helm spends much time describing the ship, its sinking and the story of survival and the rescue, he brushes over the investigation and the court martial of Captain McVay.  This area could have used more text.  The foreword and afterword by Captain Toti put the book in a modern context by explaining what has become of survivors' efforts to clear McVay's name.  All in all, &quot;Ordeal by Sea&quot; is a must read for those interested in history and naval matters.	2001-10-18
US	52397281	R2IFPMU6YLHGY5	1570085633	742257545	All Is Well: A Historical Novel (Work and the Glory)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable and informative about early LDS Church history	I've enjoyed reading Gerald Lund's The Work and the Glory series.  Having just finished All is Well (Volume 9), I now know more about LDS Church history and I've come to better appreciate the sacrifices that my ancestors made for their faith and beliefs.  As a member of the LDS Church and as a history buff, I believe that The Work and the Glory series is a valuable means by which one can learn more about Church history.<br />All is Well (Volume 9) deals with the initial migration of the Sainits to the Salt Lake Valley in 1847.  I knew very little about the details of this historic event until I read this book.  For instance, I didn't know that the number of Saints making the initial entrance into the Salt Lake Valley was so few in number.  I also knew little about the Mormon Battalion and the Donner-Reed party's disaster.  Because of this book, I now feel compelled to learn more about the West's rich history, in addition to the history of early Mormon Utah.<br />I agree with other reviews that The Work and the Glory series lacks a certain authentic element.  In a way, the characters seem to be modern LDS Church members transported back in time.  And I think Lund could have made more of an effort to make the characters not come across so perfect.  However, I do understand that the context in which Lund wrote these books is one that is faith promoting, and I have no problem with that.	2001-09-28
US	52397281	R1HB3R30Y37HXF	0965808858	634307520	After the Mud: Stories of the U.S. Navy and World War II	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A simply, humbly written World War II memoir	I very much enjoyed this memoir.  Bill Shrout vividly describes his experience as a young man leaving his home for the first time to fight in World War II.  He is one of the youngest of remaining World War II veterans, for he joined the Navy towards the end of the war.  After spending several months in training, he was sent to participate in the last great battle of the war - Okinawa.<br />What I enjoyed most was his description of what it was like to leave home for the first time.  He had never been out of his small hometown in Indiana until joining the Navy.  His reactions to the differences he finds in people and new places do not resonate with my generation.  For instance, he had never had a milkshake until he joined the Navy because his hometown cafe didn't have a milkshake machine.  He had never heard Southern accents, and he had never really seen black people.  That people lived in such isolated surroundings caused me to think heavily about what he must have gone through as he left home.<br />I also enjoyed reading about how he retained his values throughout his Navy experience.  While other sailors went off carousing, he remained true to his upbringing.  Instead of visiting dingy bars and associating with loose women, he'd go to the USO to play ping-pong and eat doughnuts.  Such strength to resist temptation was not always displayed amongst young men at the time.  I commend him for it.<br />I was saddened to read about the personal loss he suffered when he was thousands of miles from home.  I instantly began to feel grateful for my family and friends when I read this part.<br />All in all, this book will make you laugh, and it might make you cry.  It is written in a simple, humble manner.  I highly recommend it.	2001-05-04
US	52397281	R2FHW4UO2O70C9	1557501386	714291576	Crossing the Line: A Bluejacket's World War II Odyssey	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A wonderful memoir of the life of a young Navy sailor during	Alvin Kernan's &quot;Crossing the Line: A Bluejacket's World War II Odyssey&quot; is a wonderful memoir of the life of a young Navy sailor during World War II.  Written in a humorous and sophisticated writing style, it provides the reader with a strong sense of what it was like for a young boy to leave his home and spend four years growing up in the midst of a war at sea.  I am sure that Kernan's experience parallels that of my grandfather, who left rural Arkansas for the first time ever as a young 17-year old to take part in large Pacific invasions.  If only young people today could understand the sacrifice and hard work that these young men faced.  Kernan vividly makes his youth come to life with &quot;Crossing the Line.&quot;  A must read for avid readers of Navy and World War II subjects.	2001-03-05
US	52397281	R2HV9F2LAEWIRN	0813109868	84733931	Behind Japanese Lines: An American Guerrilla in the Philippines	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A riveting account of courage and sacrifice	The Philippines' role as a major battleground in World War II must not be forgotten.  Thus, Ray Hunt and Bernard Norling provide an important service in &quot;Behind Japanese Lines: An American Guerrilla in the Philippines.&quot;  The story of American servicemen fighting as guerillas during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines is an amazing one.  Hunt's personal experience is just one of many such riveting experiences. <br />&quot;Behind Japanese Lines&quot; provides the reader with a vivid portrayal of Mr. Hunt's three-year ordeal as a guerilla on the island of Luzon, an ordeal he did not expect to survive.  It also contains detailed analysis of the history of the Philippines and its complex relationship with the United States.  The only drawback is that Mr. Hunt's narrative is abruptly and inconveniently interrupted by such analysis, presumably by Mr. Norling.<br />Importantly, Mr. Hunt gives much regard to the Filipino people, who suffered so much during the war.  With their help and sacrifice, he was able to stay alive and fight to help liberate the Philippines.  Very few other people of any nation gave so much in fighting for freedom during the war.<br />Also, Mr. Hunt is honest in his account of guerilla life.  It was anything but easy, as rival guerilla gangs fought each other almost as often as they fought the Japanese.  Even American guerillas fell under the spell of a near-anarchy situation and over-stepped their bounds.  But such were the circumstances, and guerillas did what they could to survive.  In any event, Japan's conduct in the Philippines was far worse than that of the guerillas.<br />All in all, the book is a good read and contributes much in the way of the history of the Philippines in World War II.  Another similar book worth reading is &quot;Lieutenant Ramsey's War: From Horse Soldier to Guerrilla Commander,&quot; by Edwin P. Ramsey and Stephen J. Rivele.	2001-02-23
US	52397281	R2BB0H5YX496O8	0688172229	554803602	Double Billing: A Young Lawyer's Tale Of Greed, Sex, Lies, And The Pursuit Of A Swivel Chair	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A good description of the legal industry	In Double Billing: A Young Lawyer's Tale of Greed, Sex, Lies, and the Pursuit of a Swivel Chair, author Cameron Stracher provides the reader with an in-depth look at working in a prominent New York firm based on his real life experiences.  Stracher's main character is an unnamed attorney recently graduated from Harvard Law who is starting as a first year associate at the fictional firm of Crowley &amp; Cavanaugh (C&amp;C).  But before proceeding with his character's experiences from day one, he provides the reader with the basic layout of our litigious society.  Indeed, that the legal industry exists for itself is a sub-theme of his book.  \\"[P]eace is bad business for the peacemakers,\\" he writes.<br />Starting in C&amp;C's litigation department, Stracher's character faces mountainous discovery tasks and endless workweeks.  He accurately explains that much of his work is completely unnecessary, and that the only reason he performs it is because his prominent firm can afford it, just in case it needs it.  \\"If one associate could do the research, why not two?  If one motion might succeed, what about a second?  We threw everything into the pot and hoped something would rise.  If it didn't, at least our bills would be paid.\\"  He adds that \\"because C&amp;C's fees were paid out of an insurance policy, with each payment reducing the amount that would be left for settlement, the insurance company had little incentive to insist on a settlement now.\\"  Hence, given that much of his work was really unnecessary, he genuinely felt detached from the general and important issues in his cases.  He also expresses disappointment at not having the opportunity to argue in court.  However, his disappointment subsides when he learns that the partner in charge of the case has never argued in court at all.<br />Stracher's character holds no bitterness or animosity towards his work.  Rather, his on-the-job experiences bewilder and constantly amuse him as he labors for hours on end.  He strikes a chord with law students and lawyers when he laments that \\"[t]he more you learn about a case, the more you need to know,\\" and, \\"if only I could understand what I've been reading.\\"  Such musings remind me of a frustrated classmate who, trying to understand a concept in Civil Procedure, cried \\"I'm confused about what I'm confused about.\\"  As Stracher's character expresses his frustrations, he discovers that he \\"doesn't know what he doesn't know.\\"  Such expressions abound throughout the book.<br />Stracher strikes another chord when he analyzes his decision to attend law school.  \\"[I] believe the law school migration is equally widespread, and peculiar to my generation,\\" he writes.  \\"Law school has become the graduate school for the great unwashed, the final resting place for a plurality of college graduates without an employable degree.\\"  He further writes that \\"law school is the most hospitable locale for undergraduates with no specific expertise.\\"  Indeed, students with life-long goals of working in fields such as medicine, engineering, architecture and other professions greatly outweigh those who grow up desiring to attend law school and enter the legal world.<br />Stracher's character experiences other frustrations at C&amp;C, such as a constant lack of feedback, difficult coworkers and working throughout weekends.  That the smell of late night Chinese food brings back instant memories of a conference room full of boxes of documents only accentuates the monotony and besieged mentality he feels at C&amp;C.  Hence, his sense of constantly being overwhelmed is another theme of the book.<br />As Stracher's character leaves C&amp;C as a third-year associate, Stracher concludes, \\"law, particularly as it was practiced at C&amp;C and other big corporate firms, was also unique among capitalist enterprises.  It produced no goods, rarely addressed substantive issues, almost never provided closure, pitted lawyers against each other in the struggle for partnership, isolatedlawyers in the library and their offices, tended to weed out the sociable and genial.\\"  In essence, Stracher describes the big firm life as a surreal existence, where lawyers thrive on tediousness and ambiguity.  However, he feels no disdain towards law.  He soon begins working \\"in a different legal setting, where I was in court more often and confronting the merits of cases rather than the procedural grind, [where] my work would be more meaningful.\\"  He embraces his new work experience, which invokes more of a human element and where \\"they praise rigorous work, not take it for granted.\\"<br />Stracher applies much humor into his writing style, which gives the book a healthy rhythm.  For instance, he mentions how he finds a rival attorney's office for a deposition when his eye catches a sign \\"that warns: Attorneys-at-Law.\\"  Overall, he writes with an engaging determination to \\"tell it like it was.\\"  This makes the book even harder to put down.  The only problem is that the title is somewhat misleading.  There isn't any sex, and no one really lies about anything.  Moreover, there really isn't any double billing in the sense that most people would assume.  Where most people might think of double billing as improperly billing twice for work performed, Stracher explains that the dedication to winning the war of attrition that is discovery, where as many associates as possible are used to labor unceasingly in a battle of documents and depositions, constitutes real double billing.  He thoroughly explains this when he paraphrase a partner crying \\"Give them something to do, anything; make them bill!\\"  For law students desiring a big firm experience, Stracher's book provides a reasonable idea of what to expect.	2001-02-05
US	52397281	RNUJ1FEQG91FD	0688172229	554803602	Double Billing: A Young Lawyer's Tale Of Greed, Sex, Lies, And The Pursuit Of A Swivel Chair	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good description of the legal industry	In Double Billing: A Young Lawyer's Tale of Greed, Sex, Lies, and the Pursuit of a Swivel Chair, author Cameron Stracher provides the reader with an in-depth look at working in a prominent New York firm based on his real life experiences. Stracher's main character is an unnamed attorney recently graduated from Harvard Law who is starting as a first year associate at the fictional firm of Crowley &amp; Cavanaugh (C&amp;C). But before proceeding with his character's experiences from day one, he provides the reader with the basic layout of our litigious society. Indeed, that the legal industry exists for itself is a sub-theme of his book. &quot;[P]eace is bad business for the peacemakers,&quot; he writes.<br />Starting in C&amp;C's litigation department, Stracher's character faces mountainous discovery tasks and endless workweeks. He accurately explains that much of his work is completely unnecessary, and that the only reason he performs it is because his prominent firm can afford it, just in case it needs it. &quot;If one associate could do the research, why not two? If one motion might succeed, what about a second? We threw everything into the pot and hoped something would rise. If it didn't, at least our bills would be paid.&quot; He adds that &quot;because C&amp;C's fees were paid out of an insurance policy, with each payment reducing the amount that would be left for settlement, the insurance company had little incentive to insist on a settlement now.&quot; Hence, given that much of his work was really unnecessary, he genuinely felt detached from the general and important issues in his cases. He also expresses disappointment at not having the opportunity to argue in court. However, his disappointment subsides when he learns that the partner in charge of the case has never argued in court at all.<br />Stracher's character holds no bitterness or animosity towards his work. Rather, his on-the-job experiences bewilder and constantly amuse him as he labors for hours onend. He strikes a chord with law students and lawyers when he laments that &quot;[t]he more you learn about a case, the more you need to know,&quot; and, &quot;if only I could understand what I've been reading.&quot; Such musings remind me of a frustrated classmate who, trying to understand a concept in Civil Procedure, cried &quot;I'm confused about what I'm confused about.&quot; As Stracher's character expresses his frustrations, he discovers that he &quot;doesn't know what he doesn't know.&quot; Such expressions abound throughout the book.<br />Stracher strikes another chord when he analyzes his decision to attend law school. &quot;[I] believe the law school migration is equally widespread, and peculiar to my generation,&quot; he writes. &quot;Law school has become the graduate school for the great unwashed, the final resting place for a plurality of college graduates without an employable degree.&quot; He further writes that &quot;law school is the most hospitable locale for undergraduates with no specific expertise.&quot; Indeed, students with life-long goals of working in fields such as medicine, engineering, architecture and other professions greatly outweigh those who grow up desiring to attend law school and enter the legal world.<br />Stracher's character experiences other frustrations at C&amp;C, such as a constant lack of feedback, difficult coworkers and working throughout weekends. That the smell of late night Chinese food brings back instant memories of a conference room full of boxes of documents only accentuates the monotony and besieged mentality he feels at C&amp;C. Hence, his sense of constantly being overwhelmed is another theme of the book. As Stracher¡¦s character leaves C&amp;C as a third-year associate, Stracher concludes, &quot;law, particularly as it was practiced at C&amp;C and other big corporate firms, was also unique among capitalist enterprises. It produced no goods, rarely addressed substantive issues, almost never provided closure, pitted lawyers against each other in the struggle for partnership, isolated lawyers in the library and their offices, tended to weed out the sociable and genial.&quot; In essence, Stracher describes the big firm life as a surreal existence, where lawyers thrive on tediousness and ambiguity. However, he feels no disdain towards law. He soon begins working &quot;in a different legal setting, where I was in court more often and confronting the merits of cases rather than the procedural grind, [where] my work would be more meaningful.&quot; He embraces his new work experience, which invokes more of a human element and where &quot;they praise rigorous work, not take it for granted.&quot;<br />Stracher applies much humor into his writing style, which gives the book a healthy rhythm. For instance, he mentions how he finds a rival attorney's office for a deposition when his eye catches a sign &quot;that warns: Attorneys-at-Law.&quot; Overall, he writes with an engaging determination to &quot;tell it like it was.&quot; This makes the book even harder to put down. The only problem is that the title is somewhat misleading. There isn't any sex, and no one really lies about anything. Moreover, there really isn¡¦t any double billing in the sense that most people would assume. Where most people might think of double billing as improperly billing twice for work performed, Stracher explains that the dedication to winning the war of attrition that is discovery, where as many associates as possible are used to labor unceasingly in a battle of documents and depositions, constitutes real double billing. He thoroughly explains this when he paraphrase a partner crying &quot;Give them something to do, anything; make them bill!&quot; For law students desiring a big firm experience, Stracher's book provides a reasonable idea of what to expect.	2001-02-05
US	52397281	R1G9D32B70NFDN	0405121709	914071938	Doolittle's Tokyo Raiders (Flight, its first seventy-five years)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good description of the famous 1942 Doolittle Raid	\\"Doolittle's Tokyo Raiders,\\" by Carroll V. Glines, provides a good description of the famous 1942 Doolittle Raid.  At a time when America was on the defensive, sixteeen medium-size bombers took off from the aircraft carrier USS Hornet and bombed industrial targets in Japan.  Led by the well-known Jimmy Doolittle, the raid had a profound psychological impact on the early American war effort.  From Glines' work, one can understand the general aspects of this mission.<br />At times, Glines uses somewhat simplified and under-technical wording.  Accordingly, the book reads like a wartime morale booster, which is rather fitting because that was the mission's purpose.  Some of the quotes found in the book are heavy in 1940s lingo.  For instance, pilots preparing for the raid did not know many details due to secrecy, but they knew that \\"something big was cooking!\\"  This made the book much more enjoyable to read.  The events of the Doolittle Raid need to be told and remembered.  For those having no knowledge of the raid, this book is a good place to start.	2001-01-21
US	52397281	R26427480R5Z05	0060957867	637630453	Faith of My Fathers: A Family Memoir	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An in-depth and humble personal memoir	Senator John McCains Faith of my Fathers is worth reading, especially for those interested in learning more about the POW experience.  I very much appreciated the praise he gives to his father and grandfather, both high ranking Navy admirals who set an example that would later help sustain him through his six year ordeal as a POW in North Vietnam.  While he gives the reader an inside look at his life before and during Vietnam, his humility masks much of the extent of his early behavior, from his youth and throughout his POW captivity.  His rebelliousness at Annapolis and his antics during the first nine years of his naval career go deeper than he wishes to disclose.  For instance, he neglects to mention his back talking to an upper classman who was cruelly and improperly abusing a lower classman friend.  This type of stubbornness and individuality, frowned upon at the Academy, served him well at the Hanoi Hilton as he often refused to cooperate with his captors.  His reluctance to mention these and other incidents in his book is understandable.  For a more detailed understanding of these and other occurrences, I highly recommend Robert Timbergs The Nightingales Song.	2001-01-11
US	52397281	R1LVAI3CHCTRWV	0688167551	501272377	Bill and Hillary: The Marriage	Books	3	3	4	N	N	In in-depth look at a partnership of power	Christopher Anderson's \\"Bill and Hillary: The Marriage\\" provides the reader with an in-depth look at Clinton's and Rodham's pasts, how they came to know each other and how they have schemed together in their rise to power.  Indeed, power has always been their ultimate aim.  Rather than providing the reader with a psychological analysis of the complex partnership, Anderson aptly describes that power acquisition is the root of all that Clinton and Rodham do.  It's what makes their partnership work.<br />While Clinton's quest for power is reflected by his boyhood meeting with JFK, Rodham's is underscored by her post-law school ambitions.  On page 100, Anderson explains Rodham's desire to effect social change at a loftier level, rather than by working at the grassroots levels where one is closest to those in need.  &quot;[O]rganizing the poor for community actions to improve their own lives may have short-term benefits for the poor but would never solve their major problems.  You need much more than that.  You need leadership programs, constitutional doctrines.&quot;  Rodham also stated that &quot;[t]he only way to make a real difference is to acquire power.&quot;  Anyone who reads this tyrannical rant and thinks that Rodham will not be running for president in 2004 is grossly mistaken.  <br />Throughout the book, Anderson gives acute attention to Clinton's reckless and violent behavior with women.  At times, I felt like I was reading some sort of hardcore porno novel.  Strangely, Anderson writes that Rodham was shocked to learn that Clinton had been lying to her throughout 1998 about his affair with Lewinsky.  While Anderson shows that Rodham knew much about Clinton's sexual recklessness, he insults the reader's intelligence by suggesting that she was truly shocked about Lewinsky.  (I guess that tells us much about the level of intelligence of Clinton's cabinet, which publicly avowed a belief that he did not have &quot;sexual relations&quot; with Lewinsky).  Nevertheless, the book reads well and gives a good foundation for why Clinton and Rodham are the way they are.	2001-01-05
US	52397281	RP14YLFFJQC2B	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An engaging social commentary	David Brooks' \\"Bobos in Paradise\\" paints an accurate picture of today's upper class.  His analysis of the New York Times wedding announcements, found early in the book, pretty much describes the entire \\"Bobo\\" phenomenon.  Indeed, it is a phenomenon worthy of examination.  That the bohemian and bourgeois cultures have merged is clearly evident in modern America.  The days of the preppy bourgeois remain only in Polo/Ralph Lauren advertisements, while any bohemian unwilling to accept the fruits of capitalism and gain no longer exists.  <br />Brooks does repeat himself often, and he does get bogged down in his examination of the origins of modern intellectualism.  Though the subject matter represents merely a fraction of today's America, the book is very much worth reading as an engaging social commentary.  Accordingly, Brooks deserves praise for his efforts to explain the \\"Bobos.\\"	2000-12-29
US	52397281	R2JGYSYYHJGHNN	0140068147	725749247	Miracle at Midway	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Midway - an inspired victory	The Battle of Midway was truly an inspired victory for the United States.  Facing a larger, more powerful Japanese fleet, the United States overcame tremendous odds to turn the tide of the Pacific War.  In some ways, the battle was a lesson in management.  While Yamamoto micromanaged the battle from preparation until defeat, Nimitz properly delegated responsibilities to those involved in planning and fighting.  He relied on Naval Intelligence's deciphering of Japanese codes when others were dismissive of their accuracy.  He also provided Admirals Fletcher and Spruance room to maneuver and strategize during the battle.  Prange does a wonderful job of explaining these and other components to the battle.  He describes in vivid detail both the Japanese and American approach to Midway.<br />In some ways, the 1942 Battle of Midway resembled the 1940 Battle of Britain - both the United Kingdom and the United States overcame tremendous odds in these two clashes to emerge victorious.  While much war was left to fight, the Battle of Britain and the Battle of Midway were pivotal in their importance and represent the conviction that, in the end, freedom always wins.  Thus, Midway was one of those moments in history when things went right for the right reason.	2000-12-28
US	52397281	RK0MIFWNYVFE6	0061014591	57293859	The Terrible Hours	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thanks to Swede Momsen	What I enjoyed most about \\"The Terrible Hours\\" was Peter Maas' comprehensive accounting of the events leading up to the rescue of the sailors trapped on the sunken USS Squalus.  In particular, Maas focuses on Swede Momsen's untiring efforts to find a way to rescue sunken submariners.  Thus, this book is really about Swede Momsen.<br />We are in need of individuals such as Swede Momsen in today's America.  While I am confidant that such individuals are among us, I cannot help but think that our culture of celebrity has skewed the meter upon which we measure our heroes.  I remember the movie \\"Ed TV,\\" where the main character becomes famous for merely having his life broadcast live on national television.  At the end of the movie, he states \\"It used to be that you were famous because you were important.  Now, you're important because you're famous.\\"  True words.  In the case of Swede Momsen, his important accomplishments will go largely unnoticed.  However, thanks to Peter Maas' efforts, I can now understand and appreciate Momsen's role in sacrificing his career and personal safety in the name of progress. <br />Maas' description of the rescue and salvage of the USS Squalus is technical to the extent that I periodically had trouble following the procedures used during the rescue and salvage operations.  To assist my shortcomings in these technical fields, I would have benefited from diagrams and photographs.	2000-11-17
US	52397281	R36SHJAY4WMPSP	1859842844	676518692	No One Left To Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family	Books	4	8	11	N	N	An accurate account of despicable people	Christopher Hitchens takes dead aim at the Clintons and hits his target - Clinton and his partner Hillary have damaged the presidency and our country far and beyond the understanding of most people.  While Hitchens' left-wing diatribe makes for a good laugh (it is disturbing that such an informed and educated person accepts and preaches the tyrannical notion that government exists to take care of people), he accurately exposes the Clintons for who they are - power hungry egomaniacs who will do anything for themselves, even if that means firing cruise missiles to destroy medicine factories and kill innocent Arabs.  Hitchens writes with power in explaining Clinton's trigger-happy tendencies, not just during the height of the Lewinsky scandal and impeachment proceedings, but also during his 1992 presidential campaign, when he ordered Rickey Ray Rector's execution.  According to Hitchens, Rector's execution number conveniently coincided with the drop in poll numbers that Clinton suffered during the Gennifer Flowers fiasco.  \\"What?!\\" cries Clinton, upon hearing that Rector is still alive after a short delay in the execution.  Hitchens' detailed description of these and other events left me shaking my head, not only at the Clintons, but also at the American people.  However, in our media/entertainment saturated society, the misdoings of the Clintons make no evident mark on the American people.  Most Americans view modern politics through a distorted lens, as if it actually were entertainment or some sort of game.  Thus, Hitchens' title \\"No One Left to Lie to\\" implies that you can't lie to someone who doesn't care.  This is the legacy of Bill and Hillary Clinton, and Hitchens captures it with an eloquent and articulate writing style worthy of praise.	2000-10-19
US	52397281	RKW77URZNG2A8	0385496184	46180247	A Real Good War	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Thanks for telling it like it was	Sam Halpert vividly describes the sheer terror faced by B-17 bomber crews  flying over Germany during World War II.  Indeed, dodging flak bursts and  German fighter planes was only part of the horror.  Flying in formations so  tight that any given bomber was likely to crash and burn in each mission  was another part.  Mr. Halpert's striking account of such terror scared  even me.<br />Mr. Halpert also does a wonderful job of putting into words the  thoughts and feelings of those who flew the missions.  From the early  morning wake-up calls, to crazy off-base antics, few books or movies have  allowed me such an intimate glimpse of the life of a World War II soldier.   One such book that I recommend is \\"Rendezvous in the Coral Sea,\\" by  Randolph Chitwood.<br />And so I say thanks to Mr. Halpert for writing this  story.  Thanks for your sacrifice and for telling it like it was.  And  thanks to the men who didn't make it back.	2000-09-17
US	52397281	R1I5C0BM5X6BL3	0785274308	425047162	Failing Forward: Turning Mistakes Into Stepping Stones for Success	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Very motivating	After a number of recent &quot;failures,&quot; I found comfort in John Maxwell's Failing Forward.  With fifteen simple steps, Maxwell effectively  demonstrates how one can overcome failure and find real success . . . by  embracing failure.  He shows the reader how there is a bigger picture, and  that one must learn from failure.  He also teaches that one must  de-personalize failure.  That can be hard at times, but Maxwell explains  that it can be done.  Now that I've read this book, I feel more confident  in striving to reach my goals . . . even if that means that I encounter  failures along the way.	2000-08-02
US	52397281	RX9RMGFRIKKMZ	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Leher focuses on the human response to the horrors of war	I very much enjoyed The Special Prisoner.  Having lived in the Philippines  and Japan as a young boy, I have a great interest in the story of POWs held  by the Japanese.  I remember visiting Bataan and Corregidor, places of  which most Americans today have no knowledge.<br />While The Special Prisoner  is about a man still suffering from his fifty year-old ordeal as a POW in  Japan, it is not a book about POWs.  Certainly, a reader without any  knowledge of the Japanese treatment of American POWs would learn much from  this work.  However, for a better understanding of American POWs in Asia,  read &quot;Prisoners of the Japanese: POWs of World War II in the  Pacific&quot; by Gavan Daws.  <br />Jim Leher writes with power and  effectiveness in causing the reader to understand and feel the physical and  emotional pain that is impossible for a POW survivor to forget.  A reader  should approach this book not to learn more about POWs and World War II,  but to reflect on the struggle to survive the horrors of war and the  difficulty of forgiveness.	2000-07-08
US	52397281	R1MW1WM93VQL34	0786865105	391011908	The War Journal of Major Damon "Rocky" Gause	Books	4	15	16	N	N	An exciting record of adventure, courage and sacrifice	I couldn't put down this book.  As a World War II history buff, and having lived in the Philippines as a young child, I was fascinated with Rocky Gause's escape from the Japanese occupation of the Philippines in  1942.<br />Gause attributed his successful escape to the Filippinos who helped  him along the way.  He acknowledged their courage and sacrifice in not only  helping him, but in fighting for freedom.  I have always considered  Filippinos to be the friendliest people in the world.  No doubt, their  willingness to help soldiers like Gause stems from wonderful and powerful  attribute.<br />I hope that more people read this book.  Gause's record, along  with the history of the Philippines in World War II, is one that needs to  be heard.	1999-12-12
