US	52401076	RHDN516JWD8DF	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	1	28	57	N	N	Denial....	All I can say after reading this book is - complete denial. <br />So... the author thinks that pumping 6 billon tons of CO2 into the atmosphere every year, does absolutly nothing! <br />The author is right, in effect, we should just go on buring fossil fuels (a finite resource that we use to make tons of useful items) and pretend everything happening around us is an illusion. <br /> <br />The author should stick to writing fiction. <br />	2005-09-29
US	52401076	R1Z23QMWNMIKUP	1840374047	828245166	The Geology of Britain: An Introduction	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Where it all started...	Geologists in Britain were the first to recognize the importance of fossils and the geological record.  This books does a magnificent job laying out the 2 billion year geology of this small island. You can clearly see why 19th century scientists in Britain could no longer deny the  billion year old history of the Earth.  Beautifully illustrated and well written.	2005-05-01
US	52401076	R36Y4HWTUW2WJC	0802828159	82431211	The Science of God	Books	1	15	87	N	N	Little New	McGrath presents many side issues in a pleasantly readable fashion but he dodges the biggest question of all, is there a God? He presents alll the same old dispoved arguments and tries to bring science to the defense of religion.  He fails and all we get is a defense if the supernaturalistic.	2005-04-21
US	52401076	R3KI0WPVGSGE2C	1581344589	829818560	Total Truth: Liberating Christianity from Its Cultural Captivity	Books	1	29	164	N	N	Same Old Arguments	For thousands of years supernaturalists have been using the same arguments. The IDers have followed in their footsteps.  This book puts forward the same illogical and unscientific claims in an attempt to support ID.  The author fails by all standarsds to make a case.  The bottom line is that there is no evidence for any of the assumptions or conclusions reached in this book. The truth has slowly made its way to the front and no fanatic whinning will stop it.	2005-04-21
US	52401076	R4WD36FDTLYYG	140512539X	237239778	Dawkins' GOD: Genes, Memes, and the Meaning of Life	Books	1	43	113	N	N	Theistic Apologetics	McGrath gives us yet another dry meaningles attempt to justify blind faith.  Why blind, because McGrath and other simply fail to understand that the argument that, there is no credible evidence that a supernatural being exists in some supernatural domain.  No reputable Christian thinker has ever provided a viable case why such a being is anything more than human wish fullfilment. McGrath's book could have been reduced to a few short pages saying I think Dawkins is wrong because I can't believe there is no God.	2005-04-20
US	52401076	RHLW9AAMVTPEM	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	1	40	162	N	N	Fascist Propaganda	This book tries to convince you that is a \\"extremist left wing\\" element that is using the supreme court to legislate.  The arguments in this book though come from an extreme right wing perspective.  The author would have us believe that there is no separation of church and state.  That Americans should accept the religious right's theology.  How many Americans really believe that the government should force a specific religion on all Americans.  That is exactly what Levin wants.  This book tries to justify the religious right's extreme theocratic desires, by pretending the US Constitution is silent on the issue of separation of church and state.  It's not.  It's clear that we where founded as a secular nation.  Yes, there are a majority of Christians in America, and they all have the right to pray where and when they want and can hold any beliefs they want.  However, it is also clear that the government and its officials while acting in their official role, represent all of us and are obliged by the law of the land ( and common sense) to keep their religious view to themselves.  If you believe that government should force a specific religion on Americans, then buy this book and help support Levin.  Otherwise, spend your money on something more useful. There can be no \\"freedom of religion\\" without \\"freedom from government promoted religion\\".	2005-03-16
US	52401076	R3T9WR9DXP1ESA	1581345615	360495942	I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist	Books	1	50	120	N	N	A Flawed Case	This book is flawed for many reasons, but most of all because the authors have no idea how to think like an atheist. If theists were to start from a blank slate thinking about the world they see, most of the smart ones would arrive at the same conclusion millions of atheists arrived before: no evidence, no need to believe, no need for a god, much less proof of the Christian religion. It does not take faith to believe that; all that exists, exists in the natural world.  The proof and reality is all around you.  This book and the theists are living in a fantasy world.	2004-12-25
US	52401076	R28JRF61H795OX	0763721964	115543781	Missing Links: Evolutionary Concepts And Transitions Through Time (Jones and Bartlett Series in Biology)	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Fills in the Gaps	This is a compact answer to creationist's demands to show them  just one transitional fossil. This book has over 300 pages of them.  <br />	2004-10-29
US	52401076	R3NTR7QAMXDFR1	0385500610	994003380	The Twilight of Atheism: The Rise and Fall of Disbelief in the Modern World	Books	1	32	63	N	N	Blind to reality?	Author Alistar McGrath proclaims atheism to be on the wane, its heyday having spanned the 200 years between the fall of the Bastille and the fall of the Berlin Wall. However, McGrath uses some rather astounding (and highly questionable) demographics and faullty assumptions.  He is seemingly oblivious to the present-day situation and is totally unaware of a large number of organizations (Humanists, Brights, etc).  In fact, most recent polls show the catagory of \\"non-religious is the fastest growinggroup of all \\"religions\\".	2004-08-19
US	52401076	RTNERTYIPHGUH	1564762475	710974328	Different by Design: Discovering God's Will for Today's Man and Woman (MacArthur Study Series)	Books	1	7	63	N	N	Different by Natural Selection	Unless you are a creationist, and accept that we were created by a supernatural being 6000 years ago, even the $4 for this book is too much. All the assumptions and conclusions the author states, are based on some words from &quot;God&quot;. The author thinks he knows what God thinks and wants. The nonesense in this book is at least good for a laugh, but you should wait till the price drops to $0.	2004-07-26
US	52401076	RNLO3GTNVJ5VZ	B0000CAR5M	301810439	Lost Discoveries : The Ancient Roots of Modern Science--from the Babylonians to the Maya	Books	1	32	55	N	N	Lost Nonsense	This book is constructed on false premises and with little connection to reality.  In addition, Teresi shows a total lack of scientific literacy.  For example here are just a few, out of several dozen, totally erroneous statements:  On page 285, he says, &quot;...helium is safer because it has two electrons...hydrogen has only one.&quot; This is an absurd statement. Hydrogen gas (H2) has two electrons not one. The problem is that it is flammable because it reacts with oxygen to form water, an exothermic reaction. Page 183, he is wrong, the Mayan civilization did not emerge around the time of Christ and abruptly disappear.  The Maya were in the region from 2000 BCE and were still present when the Spanish arrived! Their decline took place over 200 years. Page 288, he writes &quot;...Kem came to mean `land of the black'...&quot; Wrong, kemet means &quot;black land&quot; as deshret means &quot;red land&quot;, the color of the soil .  On page 342, he writes &quot;...the Aztec knew a lot about human anatomy, had names for all the organs, and understood the circulatory system...&quot;  Total baloney!  As any competent archeologist will tell you, they did not have names for all the organs and did not know about the circulatory system.  For those of you who do not know him, his obsession is to find ways to denigrate or criticize western or modern science.  How can you trust anyone this scientifically and historically illiterate....	2004-01-01
US	52401076	R2ITPORNRBVGVJ	1588271552	249110141	Lectures on Biblical Healing	Books	1	1	8	N	N	Yet another book ....	I had heard someone mention Cheung with a phrase, he is beyond belief, so I was very curious to see what he had to say. Well, his total lack of rational thinking is frightening beyond belief all right. This book and all his writings clearly show how possessed by the supernatural one can become, basically losing all sense of reality. Cheung and others like him, have rejected reason and find no problem with rejecting 2000 years of accumulated scientific knowledge. The philosophy that Cheung propounds is one that would promote the idea that we are simply passing through this sin stained world on our way to God's kingdom. This is the same philosophy responsible for the 9/11 terrorism.	2003-12-31
US	52401076	RB9PAPASZI9O0	1401023975	791499064	The Parables of Jesus	Books	1	0	8	N	N	Yet another book...	I had heard someone mention Cheung with a phrase, he is beyond belief, so I was very curious to see what he had to say. Well, his total lack of rational thinking is frightening beyond belief all right. This book and all his writings clearly show how possessed by the supernatural one can become, basically losing all sense of reality. Cheung and others like him, have rejected reason and find no problem with rejecting 2000 years of accumulated scientific knowledge. The philosophy that Cheung propounds is one that would promote the idea that we are simply passing through this sin stained world on our way to God's kingdom. This is the same philosophy responsible for the 9/11 terrorism.	2003-12-31
US	52401076	RKX4EA0JS7C7U	1588270459	170213705	For the Glory of God: Articles on Christian Living	Books	1	1	9	N	N	Yetr another book...	I had heard someone mention Cheung with a phrase, he is beyond belief, so I was very curious to see what he had to say. Well, his total lack of rational thinking is frightening beyond belief all right. This book and all his writings clearly show how possessed by the supernatural one can become, basically losing all sense of reality. Cheung and others like him, have rejected reason and find no problem with rejecting 2000 years of accumulated scientific knowledge. The philosophy that Cheung propounds is one that would promote the idea that we are simply passing through this sin stained world on our way to God's kingdom. This is the same philosophy responsible for the 9/11 terrorism.	2003-12-31
US	52401076	R2CSU5CU7ZPH7C	0192804243	689014669	Atheism: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Short and to the point.	This is definitely a jewel of a little book.  Clear rational thinking and to the point.  It presents the arguments for the non-existence of a supernatural being in simple language.  It shows why there is abundant evidence that everything exists within the natural world and why the arguments for a supernatural domain are utterly flawed.<br />As for the one negative review below, just take it at face value. It's most likely writen by Rev. Cheung himself.  I took his advice and checked out some of his books.  Well, his total lack of rational thinking is frightening.  His writing clearly show how possessed by the supernatural one can become, basically losing all sense of reality.  His book ( and all his writings) is based on the assumption that the Bible is the infallible word of God.  Why? Just because he says so! He writes page after page based on this alone, and thus every argument he makes is utterly flawed.   He claims that  -- \\"the power of the dogmatically argument is such that it conclusively establishes the entire Christian faith as true, and simultaneously serves as a conclusive refutation to all non-Christian ideas and worldviews, whether known or unknown\\" -- He uses this type argument to prove such points as --  \\"since evolution contradicts Scripture, then evolution is automatically false\\" -- !  Need I go on .  I have never had such a good laugh reading fundamentalist \\"philosophy\\".  Reading his books leads one to clearly understand why supernaturalistic systems of belief can not be taken seriously as a world view or philosophy for society today.  As their foundation, Cheung and others like him, have rejected reason and find no problem with rejecting 2000 years of accumulated scientific knowledge.  The philosophy that Cheung propounds is one that would promote the idea that we are simply passing through this sin stained world on our way to God's kingdom. This is the same philosophy responsible for the 9/11 terrorism.	2003-12-29
US	52401076	R1BGO7RGE4POU9	1588270408	746035598	Christian Apologetics	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Fundamentalism ad Absurdum	I had heard someone mention Cheung with a phrase, he is beyond belief, so I was very curious to see what he had to say.  Well, his total lack of rational thinking is frightening beyond belief all right.  His writing clearly show how possessed by the supernatural one can become, basically losing all sense of reality.  His book ( and all his writings) is based on the assumption that the Bible is the infallible word of God.  Why? Just because he says so! He writes page after page based on this alone, and thus every argument he makes is utterly flawed.   He claims that  -- \\"the power of the dogmatically argument is such that it conclusively establishes the entire Christian faith as true, and simultaneously serves as a conclusive refutation to all non-Christian ideas and worldviews, whether known or unknown\\" -- He uses this type argument to prove such points as --  \\"since evolution contradicts Scripture, then evolution is automatically false\\" -- !  Need I go on .  I have never had such a good laugh reading fundamentalist \\"philosophy\\".  Reading his books leads one to clearly understand why supernaturalistic systems of belief can not be taken seriously as a world view or philosophy for society today.  As their foundation, Cheung and others like him, have rejected reason and find no problem with rejecting 2000 years of accumulated scientific knowledge.  The philosophy that Cheung propounds is one that would promote the idea that we are simply passing through this sin stained world on our way to God's kingdom. This is the same philosophy responsible for the 9/11 terrorism.	2003-12-29
US	52401076	R1EPJ5OC6Z29FU	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	1	10	20	N	N	Disappointing is an Understatement	After reading so many positive reviews of this book, I went right out and purchased it. It was a mistake.  I kept thinking there had to be some redeeming quality. After reading about a goat being given in sacrifice to a large predator to teach children a lesson, a zebra with a broken leg being eaten alive from the inside out and a detailed description of collecting and eating tiger feces by Pi, I think the author should take up another line of work and the people who gave it the Man Brooker Prize should be fired.	2003-12-02
US	52401076	R3SD9JWRRAZSE8	0471264822	314307211	America Declares Independence	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Clear View	Many may not agree with what this author has to say, but as an historian, I think he has done a superb job delineating the true origins and motivations that went into the writing of America's founding documents. this is an excelent resource to have around if you are confronting right wing fundamentalists who think God founded America.	2003-11-25
US	52401076	RT7YTJLC216NL	1587060442	33906533	The Genomic Potential Hypothesis: A Chemist's View of the Origins, Evolution and Unfolding of Life (Molecular Biology Intelligence Unit, 16)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Embryos swimming in a fresh water pond!	To overthrow the ruling paradigm in a scientific discipline one needs a much more solid critique than Schwabe offered in this 114-page book. Schwabe thinks it is easy to overthrow Darwinism because all the evidence is against Darwinism and there is no evidence in favour of Darwinism. But anyone trying to do this must not only be an expert on the paradigm at hand, neo-Darwinism, but must also possess a fairly good knowledge of the relevant disciplines, in this case evolutionary biology, genetics, cell-biology, ecology, palaeontology, systematics and developmental biology. Schwabe fails most seriously in the biological disciplines. And chemical reductionism cannot compensate for this. His goal to derive as many as possible properties of life from the laws of chemistry is good mainstream science, and a DNA/gene-centred view is common in the age of genomics. However when organism and its environment entirely disappear from the stage, reductionism is counter-productive. This is especially obvious with his science fiction alternative (embryos in a fresh water pond). At times Schwabe is a good critic of Darwinism, but at other times he just repeats the 15-year-old example of Michael Denton, ignoring that Denton recently adopted common descent and evolution. Multiple origins of life (in a restricted form) is creeping into the textbooks of evolution. To deal with Schwabe's theory kept me busy for months with a mixture of excitement, amazement and a growing disappointment and brought me into every area of biology. It is useful to have an alternative scientific theory for Darwinism, but Schwabe's theory in its extreme form is no viable alternative to natural selection and common descent. Dissenters such as Schwabe maybe critical but not more self-critical than the average mainstream scientist. Both just follow a different paradigm to wherever it leads them. Evolution may have its anomalies and puzzles, I prefer it above science fiction. Gert Korthof	2003-06-16
US	52401076	RBYRDN3QDE0U3	1931232741	723993131	And God Created Darwin	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Anti-evolution Distortion	The author tries to debunk Darwin's theory of evolution. He states that he has a sweeping case against Darwin, and will show the flaws of his arguments and the lack of supporting evidence.  Amazingly he not only fails, but in all 13 error-ridden chapters makes a fool of himself by showing his ignorance about science and evolution.  The other amazing thing is that Phillip Johnson, the ID guru, endorsed it.  It clearly raises the issue of whether Johnson is really interested in the truth.  This is the worst book I've ever read.  People like this should not be allow to write such time wasting drivel.	2003-06-09
US	52401076	R573HJSPCJAOB	0849976138	321728250	God Said It And Bang! It Happened: The Believable Explanation Of Creation	Books	1	11	38	N	N	Who Said It?	About half of the pages in this book are devoted to theology for kids proselytizing Christianity.  The other half tries to show how history and science are compressed into Genesis.  Overall the book is badly written, and tries to convince the reader that old Earth creationism has been proven compatible with science.  Don't waste your money.	2003-06-09
US	52401076	R1GL5D2O8UJSN1	0785265228	307074481	The Name	Books	1	3	36	N	N	Self Deluded	Graham writes \\"the God of Islam is not the God of the Christian faith\\".  Oh really?  Graham has obviously not read the Christian Bible.  The Name is Graham's attempt to give himself a aura of legitimacy.  Most of the book is devoted to describing his recent \\"great moments\\".  Graham Jr. has some big shoes to fill and this book and his inflamatory public statements proves he hasn't a clue how to do it.	2003-04-02
US	52401076	R2XCIHVEIWH525	0195156056	733422552	Life Evolving: Molecules, Mind, and Meaning	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Intellectually Engaging	De Duve exhibits an extraordinary skill in conveying his deep knowledge of biology. He again demonstrates that he is both a first-rate scholar and an accomplished popularizer of science. His style does not overshadow the book's content; de Duve moves with equal familiarity and elegance from scientific papers to French poets, never losing his grip on a deterministic description of the history of life. A straightforward story line starts with the origin of life and continues through the evolution of humans, mind, and language. Intertwined with the narrative are the author's thoughts on the willful world of biotechnology and our potential for determining our future as a species. It is not surprising that de Duve's biography of the biosphere includes sweeping generalizations, but his gripping chronicle could have been aided by diagrams and additional illustrations. The author's treatment of issues such as language, consciousness, and the development of pluricellularity may be unsatisfactory to some. And readers interested in the origin and earliest evolution of life would probably prefer more detailed discussions of the RNA world and what may have preceded it.<br />However, evolutionary convergence shows that the history of life is not as contingent as some critics of de Duve's positions would argue. Quite surprisingly, the author does not discuss any cases of molecular convergence in Life Evolving. The small, but very revealing, list of known examples includes the independent development of biosynthetic pathways for molecules such as lysine or the imizadole moiety found in purines and histidine as well as the polyphyletic origin of several nonhomologous classes of nucleic acid polymerases. With only one example of biology (Earth's own) we cannot calculate probabilities, but the search for extraterrestrial life may assist us in evaluating the evolutionary odds of life and consciousness. The idea that life on Earth is the result of a miracle or of a rare chance event hasbeen replaced by an evolutionary narrative. Still, as William Blake wrote in There Is No Natural Religion, &quot;Reason, or the ratio of all we have already known, is not the same that it shall be when we know more.&quot; The discovery of dozens of planets orbiting nearby stars and the prospect of searching for compounds of possible biological origin in their atmospheres suggest that in the not-so-distant future we may have more factors to consider when addressing the issues de Duve raises.<br />Whether or not one agrees with de Duve's strong statements, Life Evolving forces the reader to avoid intellectual complacency and to articulate one's own arguments to effectively address his position. These are, in themselves, major reasons to appreciate the book.	2003-01-27
US	52401076	RCLZNP31CZCLL	0875524834	990584647	Defense of the Faith	Books	1	11	116	N	N	Empty Assertions	It appears obvious to me, and should to any reader, that there are a lot of problems with Van Til's views, thesis and defense in this book.  His most outstanding being his use and defense of presuppositionalism, that is, the fallacy known as petitio principii or commonly known as begging the question.  <BR>He apparently is convinced that circular reasoning is the only reasoning that is possible to finite man and sees no alternative to informal fallacy.  With these words he commits his entire system to cognitive error and makes no attempt to conceal this, as this appears to be his ultimate presupposition and treats his conclusion as his primary.   He is in fact talking about knowledge and its validation in general.  Thus he has to include - either implicitly or explicitly - some reference to the nature of the being to which this matter applies. That being is, in this case, man himself. Before we can make any knowledge statements about God, we would have to first achieve some understanding about our nature and our ability to acquire and validate knowledge. <BR>Van Til  makes no attempt  to justify his assessment of man's nature.  He believes that circular reasoning is the only reasoning that is possible to finite man.&quot; Van Til makes his reference to the nature of the being to which his proceeding statements will apply: he offers a brief assessment of man and his ability to reason. He does not argue here for this conclusion; he merely asserts it as a primary that no reasoning but circular reasoning is possible to man. How does he come to that conclusion? Reference to his argument for such a conclusion is not given. Is this true simply because he writes it in a book? No, I don't buy it, at this point it is just an empty assertion and a flawed argument.  Since all other proofs have failed for theists, the end result is faulty argument.	2002-12-30
US	52401076	R1Y8H8YV2V3WWD	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	1	80	115	N	N	If you can't refute the evidence refute the author!	This is an excellent anthology of an ex-Christian who has found the path to reality.  Most of the critical reviews below appear to come from devout Christians who have not taken the time to even read this book.  Barker has already answered most of their questions and arguments.  His book takes the reader through the tortuous journey from Christian to Atheist.  In spite of the ludicrous arguments from Christians claiming that anyone who deconverts was never a \\"real\\" Christian, Barker was a \\"real\\"  Christian.  He does a rather good job showing the fraudulent world of the supernatural pushers.  His bottom line is - where is the evidence? His answer is - there is none.	2002-12-16
US	52401076	R2H7IWSIY7H0W0	0738204935	437680873	The Spark Of Life: Darwin And The Primeval Soup	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Overview of Scientific Origin of Life Hypotheses	This is a good popular book on the current hypotheses of how the first complex molecules may have combined to form the fundamental structures of early replicating systems. After a good brief historical survey that shows some of the problems previous encountered, the authors examine a variety of possible scenarios as to how a \\"primordial\\" chemical soup could have given rise to more complex structures, metabolism, and genetic information containing molecules. The authors, both of whom are well known and respected known scientists have a writing style that is easy to read and the level of the material should be reasonably accessible to even high school level readers. A couple of minor errors that anyone could make on the first edition were corrected in the later editions.	2002-11-15
US	52401076	R13SJX0QYFP5FE	084235266X	401210290	Bringing Up Boys: Practical Advice and Encouragement for Those Shaping the Next Generation of Men	Books	1	39	84	N	N	The Bible Tells You So	I bought this book because I have a 15 year old son.  After I began reading it I realized that Dobson had a specific religious agenda.  This book is a training manual for fundamentalist right wing Christians on how to apply literalist Bible teachings to bringing up young boys.  It ignores years of scientific findings and common sense.  If you are a fundamentalist Christian you'll find this book reinforcing to your already accepted beliefs, otherwise this is a deceptive and misinformed book.	2002-08-26
US	52401076	RXYEECAJ0RDAE	0830816860	670450647	Can We Be Good Without God? A Conversation About Truth, Morality, Culture & a Few Other Things That Matter	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Simplistic and Weak Arguments	I have to agree 100% with the previous reviewer. I found this authors intent to be deceitful..  the weakest arguments from the opposing viewpoints are stated and then refuted.  It is common sense that if you want your argument to be taken seriously you should always attack your opponents strongest points.  On this the author fails.  The author has also failed to show where  objective morals come from?? Do we have an authenticated record in Gods own writing?  Failing this, all documents are men's words, and men being fallible means there are no objective morals.	2002-07-26
US	52401076	RFHX5533KAHTW	0890512582	521961568	Refuting Evolution: A Handbook for Students, Parents, and Teachers Countering the Latest Arguments for Evolution	Books	1	82	122	N	N	Evbidence of Creationist Incompetence	Like most creationist books that I've read, this one is full of elementary errors in astronomy, chemistry, geology and the nature of science.  For example, when arguing for a &quot;young&quot; Universe, Sarfati (p. 113) claims that no stage 3 supernova remnants exist in our or neighboring galaxies.  However, 166.2+2.5, 180.0-1.7, 189.1+3.0, 279.0+1.1, and 290.1-0.8 are just five undisputed examples of these &quot;nonexistent&quot; remnants.<br />Sarfati (p. 113) also claims that a &quot;lack&quot; of helium escape from the atmosphere supports its &quot;youth.&quot;  However, recent NASA images show helium and other gases being SWEPT from the Earth's atmosphere into deep space.  One event occurred on September 24-25, 1998 after a solar coronal mass emission. <br />So, why don't creationists use heavier gases (e.g. argon) that won't readily escape into space when they try to date the Earth's atmosphere?  Perhaps, it's because the atmospheric 40argon/36argon is consistent with an ancient Earth (Dalrymple, 1984, p. 83; Krauskopf and Bird, 1995, p. 576) and it cannot be distorted to support their interpretations of Genesis. <br />Using poorly known numbers from his allies, Sarfati (p. 114) argues that salt concentrations in ocean water should be much higher if the oceans were billions of years old.  This argument also fails.  When hot basaltic lavas erupt onto the seafloor, they remove sodium from seawater as they quench.   This process, called albitization, refers to the accumulation of sodium in the cooling rocks during quenching.  Because creationists ignore this important sodium-removal mechanism, their salinity calculations underestimate the age of the oceans. <br />Sarfati (p. 110) also claims that radioactive potassium and uranium are &quot;easily dissolved&quot; in water and that the leaching of these parent radionuclides from rocks supposedly can disrupt radiometric dating calculations.  However, as taught in any introductory chemistry course, (doesn't Sarfati hold degrees in chemistry?) water solubility and the ability of uranium, potassium, and other elements to weather out of minerals depend on the compounds that contain the elements and the oxidation state of the elements.  For example, uranium (IV) is generally insoluble in water, but (UO2)+2 is highly soluble (Langmuir, 1997, p. 495-496).  Potassium chloride is very soluble in water, but potassium muscovite is not and it's low on Goldich's weathering series.  Even if Sarfati's accusations were true, they're irrelevant to radiometric dates on rocks from the airless and waterless Moon.	2001-10-18
US	52401076	RSIIKM3E172N2	0060199067	396649281	Evolution: The Triumph of an Idea	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Beautifully Done	There are more technical books out there but this one makes the workings of evolution accessible to everyone.  It presents the overwhelming evidence for evolution in simple well written language and is well illustrated.  I especially enjoyed the cover photo showing the variety of eyes found in nature, from the simplest to the most complex.  The recent discovery of even more transitional whale fossils, adds to those presented in this book and shows how little by little the evidence has amassed over the century.  It's tragic that so many people have no idea how well supported evolution is. I hope this book finds its way into every school and helps everyone see the beauty of it and of science.	2001-10-03
US	52401076	R3KUH0GTL00JEG	0521631440	705023368	Can a Darwinian be a Christian?: The Relationship between Science and Religion	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Creationist Sour Grapes	[....]<br />Ruse does an excellent job showing that science and the Bible are indeed compatible. He clearly shows why the scientific evidence is clear and overwhelming.  As he point out, other than a few creation \\"scientists\\" 99,999% of the scientific community considered YEC crackpot science. <br />Ruse's arguments are devastating to the creationist philosophy, hence the disparate attack by creationists. This is an excellent read and fits in well with thoes by Ken Miller (Finding Darwin&#8217;s God), Steve Jones (Darwin's Gohst) and John F. Haught (God After Darwin)<br />Fellow Christians, I highly recommend this if you want to stay away from the extremes of Fundamentalism and Atheism.	2001-08-17
US	52401076	R23LKO024QMMXU	0393958493	531258014	Darwin (Norton Critical Editions) (3rd Edition)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A Must Read	I agree with Gould that this is the best Darwin anthology on the market.  It contains a significant amount of new material and details the profound change in scientific and intellectual thought in the past few decades.  Darwin is constantly misquoted by creationists, but this book sets the record straight.  For example, the chapter on &quot;mainstream Religious Support for Evolution&quot; includes leading religious opinions on evolution, illustrating that many mainline Christians and Jews do NOT subscribe to the antiscientific propaganda of the fundamentalists and creationists.  New threats to Darwinism and science are also covered. This is an enthralling read and I highly recommend it.	2001-07-22
US	52401076	R1WIQCZCXY52YB	0517123207	796780795	The Origin of Species	Books	5	21	30	N	N	Darwin Has Been Vindicated	Creationists often state categorically that &quot;there are no transitional fossils&quot;. This is simply not true. In fact, ALL fossils are transitional. One of Darwins main points was that evolution is an on-going process.  It may speed up and slow down, but on it goes. This book is a must read.  Even after 120 years it's still selling and still being read.<br />Darwins point in The Origin of Species has been overwhelmingly proven over and over. There are abundant transitional fossils of both the &quot;chain of genera&quot; type and the &quot;species-to-species transition&quot; type. There are documented speciations that cross genus lines and family lines. You cannot simply say that there are no transitional fossils, because there are.   As Gould said (1994): &quot;The supposed lack of intermediary forms in the fossil record remains the fundamental canard of current antievolutionists. Such transitional forms are scarce, to be sure, and for two sets of reasons - geological (the gappiness of the fossil record) and biological (the episodic nature of evolutionary change, including patterns of punctuated equilibrium and transition within small populations of limited geological extenet). But paleontologists have discovered several superb examples of intermediary forms and sequences, more than enough to convince any fair-minded skeptic about the reality of life's physical geneology.&quot; <br />Darwin has been vindicated by the remarkable temporal pattern of fossil morphology, with &quot;an obvious tendency for successively higher and more recent fossil assemblages to resemble modern floras and faunas ever more closely&quot; (Gingerich, 1985) and with animal groups appearing in a certain unmistakable order. For example, primitive fish appear first, amphibians later, then reptiles, then primitive mammals, then (for example) legged whales, then legless whales. This temporal- morphological correlation is very striking, and appears to point overwhelmingly toward an origin ofall vertebrates from a common ancestor. Creationist can say whatever they want to and practice all the deceit they want, but the clear evidence in the geological record is not in dispute by any one except fundamentalists.<br />Numerous &quot;chains of genera&quot; that appear to link early, primitive genera with much more recent, radically different genera (e.g. reptile- mammal transition, hyenids, horses, elephants), and through which major morphological changes can be traced. Even for the spottiest gaps, there are a few isolated intermediates that show how two apparently very different groups could, in fact, be related to each other (ex. Archeopteryx, linking reptiles to birds). <br />Many known species-to-species transitions (primarily known for the relatively recent Cenozoic mammals), often crossing genus lines and occasionally family lines, and often resulting in substantial adaptive changes. <br />Even the gaps are easy to explain, since for stratigraphic reasons alone there must always be gaps. In fact, no current evolutionary model predicts or requires a complete fossil record, and no one expects that the fossil record will ever be even close to complete. As a rule of thumb, however, creationists think the gaps show fundamental biological discontinuities, while anyne who has studied the evidence knows they are the inevitable result of chance fossilizations, chance discoveries, and immigration events. <br />Darwins revolution will continue, even if there are a few setbacks, because the evidence is real and overwhelming.	2001-07-22
US	52401076	R2FBU4CHM2RTDI	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	1	43	79	N	N	Icons of Creationist Deciet	Wells's book rests entirely on a flawed syllogism that because some bilogy textbooks illustrate evolution with examples that are sometimes presented in incorrect or misleading ways THUS evolution is a fiction. The second premise is not generally true, and even if it were, the conclusion would not follow. To compound the absurdity, Wells concludes that a cabal of evil scientists, &quot;the Darwinian establishment&quot;, uses fraud and distortion to buttress the crumbling edifice of evolution. Wells' final chapter urges his readers to lobby the US government to eliminate research funding for evolutionary biology.<br />Creationists seem to be totally blind to the fact that the  current theory of evolution is much more than just a &quot;speculation&quot;.  It's the product of 200 years of modern scientific study by thousands of research groups from all over the world.  It is supported by overwhelming evidence from geology, biology, and biochemistry.  It is for all intents and purposes, a fact.  Creationism is not an alternative to the scientific theory of evolution and never can be because it's pure religion.  Some of its tenets, such as a 10,000 year old earth, are clearly false.  Finally, there are many religions, including Christianity, that accept evolution and also a belief in a God. Evolution says nothing about the origin of the Universe nor about the existence or non-existence of any deity.<br />To see Wells flawed arguments at work, let's look at development, which he has referred to elsewhere as &quot;the Achilles' heel of Darwinism&quot;. As Darwin first realized, some aspects of vertebrate development - especially transitory features - provide strong evidence for common ancestry and evolution. Embryos of different vertebrates tend to resemble one another in early stages, but diverge as development proceeds, with more closely related species diverging less widely. This conclusion has been supported by 150 years of research.Finally, Wells's main theme about the collusion of evolutionary biologists is simply wrong. Authors of some biology texts may occasionally be sloppy, or slow to incorporate new research, but they are not duplicitous. And, far from representing a conspiracy, it is invariably evolutionists who have noted problems with some classic icons of evolution. Wells has it backwards. It is creationists like him who are conspiring to purge evolution from American education. They hide their own differences about issues such as the fossil record and the age of the Earth, they pretend to be disinterested seekers after truth, they fail to do their own scientific research, and, like Wells, they avoid at all costs revealing their own theories about the history of life. Icons is exactly as even-handed and intellectually honest as one would expect from someone who in 1976 while a student at Rev. Moon's seminary, said &quot;prayers convinced me that I should devote my life to destroying Darwinism&quot;.collusion of evolutionary biologists is simply wrong. Authors of some biology texts may occasionally be sloppy, or slow to incorporate new research, but they are not duplicitous. And, far from representing a conspiracy, it is invariably evolutionists who have noted problems with some classic icons of evolution. Wells has it backwards. It is creationists like him who are conspiring to purge evolution from American education. They hide their own differences about issues such as the fossil record and the age of the Earth, they pretend to be disinterested seekers after truth, they fail to do their own scientific research, and, like Wells, they avoid at all costs revealing their own theories about the history of life. Icons is exactly as even-handed and intellectually honest as one would expect from someone who in 1976 while a student at Rev. Moon's seminary, said &quot;prayers convinced me that I should devote my life to destroying Darwinism&quot;.	2001-07-20
US	52401076	RDLKP95NCZDD8	0262661659	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence Against the New Creationism (A Bradford Book)	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Excellent Refutation of Creationism	Pennock's book is a lively, readable and current account of the ideas and recent history of creationism, or &quot;creation science&quot;. It is comprehensive in its scope and provides an excellent introduction to the issues and events of modern anti-Darwinism. Pennock's book has three virtues: he brings the subject up to date; he provides another way to deal with anti-evolutionism through a nice discussion of the evolution of languages; and more than any other book, he deals with the &quot;Intelligent Design&quot; movement that is currently having some success resurrecting Paleyesque arguments from design in the intellectual arena in America. Increasingly, that influence is being felt elsewhere, particularly in Catholic circles. <br />Pennock takes an unusual tack. Rather than trying, yet again, to explain Darwinian theory in biology and its implications and uses, he chooses instead to discuss another story from Genesis, from which the book gets its name. The biblical etiology of language at the tower of Babel in Genesis 11:1-9 immediately follows the Noachian flood stories that figure so prominently in creationist accounts. The parallels are instructive. Languages were realised to be the result of an evolutionary process of common descent long before Darwin, when &quot;homological&quot; words showed the affinity of Sanskrit to modern European languages. A &quot;higher taxon&quot; was diagnosed, the Indo-European family of languages, and its discoverer, Sir William Jones, supposed in 1786 that the best explanation was that all had evolved from a common ancestral tongue, which he called Indo-European, thus founding comparative linguistics. Like species and higher biological taxa, languages blur at the edges, and like them too, there are sub-taxon variants, dialects. And like biological evolution, linguistic evolution contradicts the biblical account, and has been similarly attacked by biblical literalists. Pennock uses August Schleicher's elaboration of Jones' hypothesis to illustrate common difficulties some have with evolution such as the &quot;missing link&quot; objection and the heuristic issues of a science dealing with past events, particularly the lack of direct observation and the status of (linguistic) evolution as both factual and theoretical, the latter being an explanation of the former. <br />Creationists often claim that evolutionary theory is &quot;just a faith&quot;, uncannily echoing the views of postmodern critics of science. Indeed, the more erudite creationists often cite Kuhn and, more rarely but more appropriately, Feyerabend. Pennock discusses the &quot;faith objection&quot;, but I would have liked to see creationism placed in the broader context of late twentieth century anti-science reaction. One point he does make is that what distinguishes postmodern and relativistic sociological accounts of science from creationism is that the latter is ultimately absolutist. They do not think, as Feyerabend does, that a thousand flowers should bloom. They think that they have it right - their faith is the True Faith and all else, particularly evolution, is Bad Faith. But apart from this, the similarities are instructive. Both rely upon textual discourse in preference to empirical data, both exhibit ahistorical interpretation of texts, both deny that unaided human cognitive enterprise can approach the truth. Still, is it fair to place the &quot;new creationists&quot;, the IDCs, in the same boat as the rest? Here we have respectable philosophers such as Alvin Plantinga, Paul Nelson and William Dembski, along with scientists like Michael Behe, and a professor of law at Berkeley, Philip Johnson, all arguing a sophisticated line based on a seemingly good knowledge of history, probability theory, and epistemology, biochemistry, information theory and many other fields. Pennock amply demonstrates that they are in that boat, and how their arguments swerve from being philosophical to explicitly or implicitly theological. <br/>Recent claims by Behe that systems that are &quot;irreducibly complex&quot; cannot evolve through Darwinian processes have generated rebuttals from biologists and philosophers alike. Pennock's treatment is clear, although not as sophisticated as theirs, but he reworks one of Behe's parables to good effect. Behe illustrates his views by the probability that a groundhog would mate across an eight-lane highway (rebutting speciation and adaptation). Pennock's version memorably demolishes Behe's, substituting a population of groundhogs, some of whom make it to lane dividers and reproduce before tackling the next lane, illustrating Darwinian processes admirably. Behe's claims are then related to Dembski's notion of &quot;complex specified information&quot; (CSI) which is a reiteration of Aquinas' argument from design and attempts to turn information theory against Darwin. Pennock aims at explaining what is wrong with CSI without overwhelming the reader with calculus or technical terms. <br />The political aspect of creationism in America is crucial to understanding it, and here Pennock is at his best. The various manoeuvres creationists use to avoid being seen as pushing a theological agenda rather than a scientific one are exposed in detail. This is vital for them in the United States, where school boards are democratically elected, not appointed, and have control over the curriculum standards of a state, and where the constitution and several higher court rulings prohibit publicly-funded state schools from favouring a particular religious position. Again and again Pennock shows how the arguments used against science by the creationists resolve to reliance upon biblical hermeneutics or a disavowal of scientific methodology or justification. Elsewhere in the world creationists find this strategy less effective, for example in Australia or Europe, and there their influence is restricted to media exposure or - as in Queensland in the 1980s - personal influence with a government comprised of Protestant conservatives. <br />The creationist movement, and in particular the ID movement, represents a general decline of trust in science and support for it in the western world. Tower of Babel is an excellent documentation of one noisy strand of that decline. Philosophers and historians of science will find it replete with anecdotes and examples illustrating the misuse and abuse of science by the general public and intellectuals alike.	2001-07-06
US	52401076	R1GF9VHV5R4LFF	1573920878	125362965	But Is It Science?: The Philosophical Question in the Creation/Evolution Controversy (Frontiers of Philosophy)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent Anthology of the Arguments	This is in effect an anthology of selected writings dealing with the science vs. creationism issue.  The author starts with Bishop Paley's famous blind watchmaker argument for a creator and brings the arguments up to date.  As other reviewers have noted, the quality of the reading depends in some cases on the original author.  However, Ruse has done a good job of including a variety of styles and levels, and a complete reading should give you a good overview of the arguments over the years.  This makes a good reference book or a good reader for  someone trying to familiarize themselves with the controversy.  The extensive philosophical analysis of the trial arguments are indeed fascinating.	2001-06-20
US	52401076	R3J2DXCZSRPTTZ	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Still Unchallenged!	Having read this book once when originally released in 1986, I decided to go back and read it again to see if I still found it as relavent today.  Twenty-five years later it still stands unchallenged in its arguments.  Recent reviewers, some of which appear to not have read the book, continue to present arguments long refuted.  A good example, is the type of arguments such as those presented by the reviewer from Altamont, TN. <BR><br />Dawkins and hundreds of others have clearly shown that life on Earth has evolved from a common unicellular organism whose own origin was most likely from the mix of organic compounds present on the early Earth. However, Dawkins clearly points out that natural selection is not guided just by chance alone. There are predefined paths delineated by natural laws that limit the choices. There are selective forces in Nature which predispose the process to certain outcomes (blind they may be). This is the concept that evolution deniers do not seem to grasp. <BR><br />One of Dawkins finest examples is the biomorphs program. Rebuttals against the validity of this demonstration utterly fail because many authors have simply not read or misunderstood the basic principles of science behind them.  Dawkins does not act as an intelligent designer by interjecting himself into the evolution of the biomorphs.  As he clearly explains, he is acting as a selective \\"force\\".  Equivalent selective forces are provided by the environmental \\"niches\\" in nature.  Creatures which do not fit into the \\"niche\\" do not survive and do not reproduce.  There are millions of niches in nature and only those life forms which survive in them can reproduce. We use computer model to simulate natural processes everyday, and they work magnificently well. This does not mean that all these processes are guided by a supernatural power along every step of the way just because a human wrote the program. <BR><br />Regardless how hard evolution deniers try, natural evolution is a fact established by the overwhelming evidence of the fossil record, genetics, biochemistry, and molecular biology. Dawkins is one of many scientists who have added to our understanding of how natural selection works.  Like all the other processes in nature, whether or not it is guided by a make-believe god is irrelevant.	2001-06-08
US	52401076	R283GCGWPRGOM0	0966993403	889160598	'Mathematics of Evolution'	Books	5	25	69	N	N	Science Fiction At Its Best	Hoyle did a wonderful job in this book using mathematics. Unfortunately his initial assumptions are flawed, thus no matter how good the math, the answer is wrong.  He seems only vaguely aware that authors such as Fisher, Wright, Haldane, and Kimura have already laid the foundation for this topic and that their conclusions are in complete opposition to his. Hoyle suggests that the real explanation for macroevolution is found in what he calls \\"genetic storms\\".  In the book he presents two arguments (1) the inadequacy of mutations in natural selection and (2) the necessity of imported material.  In both cases he is dead wrong.  Biologists have known for decades that most mutations are neutral. This gives natural selection much more room maneuver.  Hoyle is also ignorant of the fact that organisms are not designed according to some stringent engineering principles.  They carry a lot of extra \\"genetic baggage\\" put together with a lot of redundancy and inefficient systems.  Exactly what one would expect if they evolved. His second point is that some how genetic material, compatible with life on Earth, comes from space!  There is no scientific support for this idea.  If we took someone's DNA and sprinkled millions of tons of it over the entire earth, there is no mechanism by which we would expect to see any of it incorporated into our genome.   In addition Eldredge and Gould's punctuated equilibrium model fits well with the observations in the fossil record. Reading this book has reminded me of that old adage that being an expert in one field does not make you one in another.  Hoyle would have done better to label this book as one of his science fiction works.	2001-05-16
US	52401076	R32U592QSBO69Y	0939040158	747046357	The Book Your Church Doesn't Want You to Read	Books	5	158	211	N	N	The Truth Always Hurts!	The only people who will object to this book are those who still seem to be clinging to the ancient fairy-tale called Christianity.  An indication that this book is packed with truths is the vehement outrage it has caused among those with blind faith.  One of the points that this book makes is that we all need to stand up for the United States Constitution! You cannot have freedom &quot;of&quot; religion in this country, without freedom &quot;from&quot; religion. It is not surprising that Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, Thomas Paine and many other great men wanted nothing to do with the grotesque masquerade party called the Christian church. This is a book that Christians don't want bought or spread around.  Most of the arguments in this book are accurate and hit their target right on.  The fanatic reaction of some reviewers is proof of this.  I strongly recommend that you buy this book, read it for yourself, and see why I most of the Christian reviewers here probably have not even bothered reading this book.  They can't, if they do they'll see their faith for the sham this book documents it to be.	2001-05-14
US	52401076	R32HW02TMU8CIX	0890512477	886261827	Creation Evangelism for the New Millennium	Books	1	9	29	N	N	Who Has Been Brainwashed?	In this book Ken Ham divides the Christians that believe the universe is old into different groups and makes some rather broad and sometimes vague statements about these groups.<br />&quot;These people usually have the wrong understanding of science. They, like most of us, have been indoctrinated to think scientists can prove the earth is billions of years old and that dinosaurs died out millions of years ago. This is one of the reasons why Genesis is not connected to their world view. Even though they generally believe in Genesis, in reality that which they think is science causes them to divorce Genesis from the real world.&quot; (p. 126)<br />So millions of people have been brainwashed that the world is old and that dinosaurs never lived with man? The surprising thing is that &quot;proofs&quot; for a &quot;young universe&quot; rarely take a front seat in young-earth materials. This is unusual since it is foundational to their beliefs. If their evidence is so strong, why do so few believe it? Why are there so few attempts to prove it? What of the hundreds of dating techniques that consistently date the universe and Earth as old? Are they all wrong? As for dinosaurs, Ken Ham often uses mythology, legends and incomplete biblical study to support his dinosaur theories. The fact is, dating the universe relies on basic science. Denying this science is like denying reality.<br />It is a bit presumptuous to claim that Genesis isn't connected to people's world view and divorced from the real world. The foundations of Genesis cannot be divorced from the rest of biblical teachings. People are usually well aware that the salvation message, the covenant of marriage, etc. began in Genesis. Those who don't are more likely to have a lacking in biblical studies than having succumbed to &quot;evolutionary teaching (p. 126).&quot; It seems Ham is going beyond understanding and acceptance of Genesis. He wants the age issues to be a matter of orthodoxy and wants it to be linked to the other issues of Genesis. If they aren't made such, his young-earth world view begins to fall apart. But as others have clearly explained, old age doesn't support evolution and adherence to a literal Genesis.<br />I would agree with Ham that the position of theistic evolutionists that man evolved from other beings has scientific and biblical problems. Ham goes further and makes the comments, <br />&quot;The progressive creationists...allow millions of years of death, bloodshed, disease, and suffering before sin. Thus the foundation of the atonement and the restoration are destroyed.&quot;(p. 127)<br />This is the popular &quot;death tautology&quot; that doesn't have any real biblical or scientific basis. But to review, Christ died for mankind, whom sinned. Sin caused man's death. No where in the doctrine of atonement, and the supporting verses, is the atonement applied to animals. Nor do animals sin and no verses point to them not dying before sin. Why would death of animals (whom don't sin) be introduced by sin? A &quot;groaning creation&quot; suffers from sin, but it doesn't logically follow that sin caused all death. In fact death serves various purposes in God's good plan.<br />&quot;They also have a wrong understanding of science. They equate evolutionary teaching with science...the science that put man on the moon can't be used to directly observe the past. Scientists don't have the past to study.&quot;(p. 127)<br />This statement by Ham is complete nontruth. Again, young-earthers haven't proved by any stretch that they have the &quot;right understanding.&quot; And here again we see the fallacious equating of old age with evolution. An infinite universe (in time) would be needed for evolution of pure chance and randomness. An old universe is indeed young compared to an infinite one. Science would not exist if we couldn't observe the past. Claims to the contrary are ridiculous. Any fossil, regardless of age, is from the past. When we look at the Sun, we are seeing it as it was eight minutes ago. We emphatically do have the past to study.<br />&quot;...without a literal Genesis, there is no foundation for any Christian doctrine.&quot; (p. 127)<br />The problem with Ham's &quot;literal Genesis&quot; is that it isn't literal at all. It is a superficial reading that ignores contextual items throughout the Bible. It has contradictions such as plants and light before the Sun was created. The introduction on the date issue on this site explains some of the reasons why the young-earth philosophy became popular and how it began. <br />While Ham and others have been spreading their philosophy around since the 1960s, science has revealed the problems of evolution. It has given immense signs of design. And it has shown that an old universe agrees with the Bible perfectly. Young-earthers regularly quote and use the old Earth science that is for intelligent design and against evolution. But they discard the same science when it comes to dating the universe. Where is the logic in that?<br />The point here has to been the review of Ham's most popular teachings which are highly flawed. They lack validity and people whom hear or read his emotional pleas should test what he claims to be true instead of blindly listening to an &quot;authority.&quot; Ham is surely commited to spreading Christianity, but some of his methods seem to be similar to the liberal evolutionists whom emotionally claim, and don't prove, that God can't exist, science and religion don't mix, and that's the way it is.	2001-05-09
US	52401076	RCKPKXB8W35HY	0309064066	93678026	Science and Creationism: A View from the National Academy of Sciences, Second Edition	Books	5	43	53	N	N	Excellent Summary of the Scientific Facts	This short, easy to read, booklet presents the question very concisely. What will you have, scientific facts based on 200 years of research by millions of people OR creationist \\"facts\\" based on Fundamentalist religion? It's pretty clear from this short booklet that the validity of the Earth's age and evolution are solidly established. They are as close to facts as anything in science can be. This booklet gives a very short and concise description of what science knows. There is a brief introduction to current theories about the origin of the universe, Earth and life.  It goes on to summarize the scientific evidence supporting evolution and then more specifically human evolution.  It also make a clear statement that IN NO WAY does accepting the fact of evolution contradict belief in God. This is a good booklet to pass out in lecture situations where creationist try to pass of their religion using bogus scientific \\"facts\\".	2001-03-28
US	52401076	R25GDPBU9R0XGK	0804723311	646065830	The Age of the Earth	Books	5	40	50	N	N	Masterfully Written and Definitive	Dalrymple presents the overwhelming evidence for the age of the Earth, Moon, and Solar system in such well documented and critical manner, that it leaves NO room for doubt about the validity of radiometric dating.  Contrary to young earth creationist's childish ravings, he builds a case that leaves no avenues for any other conclusion.  When creationists say you must have read the &quot;relevant&quot; literature, they mean the writings of such people as Morris and Hovind.  Unfortunately for them the relevant literature is all referenced in Dalrympl's book and he has done a OUTSTANDING job at simplifying it for both scientist and layperson. He gives sufficient references that anyone who wishes can pursue any topic on their own.<br />He chronicles the early attempts and a variety of approaches used to date.  He goes on to clearly explain how modern radiometric methods work and some of the problems that have been overcome. He then shows the direct evidence for the ages of the Earth from a plethora of independent studies over the past and the consistent, and reliable dates they provide. He then goes on to the dating of the Moon rocks and their concordance with those of the Earth.  Next he discusses meteorites, the use of the lead isotope method, the evidence from the distribution of elements in the universe, and finally wraps it up with a chapter on what we know and don't know.  <br />The conclusion after reading this book is undeniable.  There is no doubt that the Earth is at least about 4.5 billion years old.  This book is a must read for anyone who wants to argue credibly about the age of the Earth.	2001-03-28
US	52401076	R7WVA4YE6KABI	0830822674	966060934	The Wedge of Truth: Splitting the Foundations of Naturalism	Books	1	19	83	N	N	Call It ID But It's Still Old-Time-Religion	Every day science keeps advancing, but Johnson and his followers are stuck in 18th century philosophizing.  Johnson's arguments in this latest book are a repeat of that discredited notion that God must certainly exist in the gaps that science has not yet illuminated.  The recent completion of the Human Genome Project and the mapping of genetic material from a host of living organisms supports to the evolutionary paradigm and crushes Johnson's pseudo-philosophical arguments. Johnson attempts to appeal to the masses who need to have a God somehow involved in nature.  What Johnson does not do, and cannot do, is overturn sound science with clever rhetoric and his book fails miserably in overturning evolution or supporting his fundamentalist creationist agenda. If you want to read a lawyers attempt at science with little knowledge of the scientific facts or reality, this is the book for you!	2001-02-22
US	52401076	R1XJGQ2T61068E	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	1	29	65	N	N	The Same Arguments Rehashed	At first it appears that this is a new view of evolution with new arguments against it.  Wells has collected so called evidence from the mainstream and peer-reviewed scientific literature, and attempts to use it to show the falsity of Darwinism.  What he fails to mention is that the \\"evidence\\" is selectively quoted and most of it has been refuted.  His arguments are based on such examples as the infamous comparative vertebrate embryo diagrams, long ago known to be doctored, but he fails to mention that current authentic embryo photos support the same conclusion. Argument after argument is a rehash of creationist dogma clothed in new scientific sounding language. His conclusion is the same as other creationists, science is a big conspiracy and is all wrong about everything!  If you buy that, then buy the book.	2001-02-22
US	52401076	R38WW8H377QJXV	0914513400	638404263	Of Pandas and People: The Central Question of Biological Origins	Books	1	125	160	N	N	Religion Via False Science	This book was designed as a high-school level text book to supplement traditional biology texts. The authors repeatedly refer to intelligent design as an alternative theory to neodarwinian evolution (pp. 25, 26, 41, 78, 85). Because the adoption of this book is being considered in some public schools, it is worth asking about the status of this theory: Is intelligent design theory actually used by scientists? The question is a fundamental one because scientific theories are not just ideas or hypotheses outlined in a textbook, but are the basic research tools of professional scientists. <br />Although Davis and Kenyon may claim that intelligent design represents a viable alternative to neodarwinian evolution, the scientific literature does not support that claim. Compared with several thousand papers on evolution, the combined searches produced only 37 citations containing the keyword &quot;intelligent design.&quot; A closer look at those 37 references suggests that none report scientific research using intelligent design as a biological theory. This book is clearly aimed at introducing religion in the classroom under the guise of science.  This book contains no supportable science and  Any school board considering adoption of the Pandas as a text needs to question why science teachers should be expected to bear false witness in the classroom. Until creationism can be shown to have any status as a scientific theory of biological organization, this book has no place in a biology curriculum.	2001-02-05
US	52401076	R2OPNGTC9JR9NX	0892816317	209093738	Alternative Science: Challenging the Myths of the Scientific Establishment	Books	1	12	48	N	N	&quot;stealth&quot; creationism	This book adds weight to the adage that there is no such thing as alternative  science.  There is science and pseudo-science. The author has attempted to challenge the current scientific thinking on several subjects, but in most cases he appears to be a &quot;stealth&quot; creationist. Issues such as the earths age are a mere rehash of outdated creationist arguments.  There is nothing new in this book to recommend it.	2001-01-26
US	52401076	R310OBO55ECSUU	0890511748	592630334	The Young Earth: The Real History of the Earth: Past, Present, Future	Books	1	146	190	N	N	In total ignorance of science....	This book attempts to challenge every discipline of science with nothing more than statements based on belief.  The so called \\"scientific\\" theories presented are in direct conflict with the basic foundations and evidence of physics, astronomy, geology, and chemistry.  The author uses scientific sounding statements in attempting to convince the reader that there is substance to his arguments.  The so called \\"facts\\" presented in this book have long ago been shown to be based on totally faulty assumptions.	2001-01-19
US	52401076	RN7PCG511B7KS	0716736381	878161902	The Triumph of Evolution: and the Failure of Creationism	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Simple but clear and accurate	If you are confused by the creation-evolution arguments, this book does an excellent job of presenting the picture in simple layperson  terms. This is not a heavy duty philosophically tome, but many who are confused just want the situation spelled out in simple terms.  He clearly makes the case that creationism, which is a Fundamentalist belief, has no scientific grounds to stand on.  He shows that the failure of creationism lies in its premise that you start with a religious belief and try to find proof for it.  This is the exact opposite of the scientific method.  He also clearly  shows how scientists simple go where the data leads them, they have no agenda to prove or disprove anything.  If you want a book that is easy reading and informative about the issue, this is it.	2000-10-27
US	52401076	R2JPQ4CFGYZ1AU	007135428X	435413465	Brother Astronomer: Adventures of a Vatican Scientist	Books	3	12	50	N	N	A Living Example of the Science-Religion Conflict	Consolmagno is a good writer and has produced an entertaining account of his &quot;adventures&quot; as a participator in both the world of science and religion.  However, even pleasant reading should contain well reasoned  thinking from someone calling himself a scientist.  On this account his  book fails to address or justify several premises he presents.  One major  pronouncement in the book that &quot;science and religion are not all that  different&quot; is indeed off the mark , especially coming from a man who  should know the definitions of science and religion.  Religion is the  &quot;belief in and reverence for a supernatural power recognized as the  creator and governor of the universe&quot; (Amer.Hert.Dic.).  This is the  antithesis of science, which seeks to find logical explanations for what we  observe in the universe through the use of observation, experimentation,  logical argument, strict empirical standards, and measured skepticism.  The  author implies that both seek to answer the same questions, which may  indeed be true, but the methods and initial assumptions are not.        Several places in the book the author gives us a hint that he is someone  who thinks of himself as a scientist but throughout the book he instead  present us with a submerged image of his distrust of scientists.  For  example, the author provides an analogy in which he subtly suggests equates  scientists and non-believers with tone-deaf people.  Claiming that since  tone-deafness is &quot;not their fault&quot; he can not &quot;criticize  them for it&quot;.  But that he &quot;might get bent out of shape if a  tone-deaf person insisted that&quot; his &quot;love of music was an  hallucination based on lies his parents taught&quot; him.  This line of  reasoning could just as easily be turned around and one could say that  religious people were tone-deaf  for they only see what one composer has  written.  What the author misses here is that music is composed by hundreds  of composers, with the added insights of the physics behind the music,  gives it an even fuller and deeper meaning.  Reading from one sheet of  music and listening to only one chorus singing alleluia is certainly closer  to tone deafness.  When I started reading this book I had hoped that the  author had a new way of looking at the science-religion dichotomy.    Unfortunately by the end I felt the attempt only justified the conclusion  of many that the two are only compatible if we blind ourselves to the true  basis of each.	2000-06-20
