US	52417414	R1NT44B8C8U5TA	0312867271	89821453	Lurulu (The Sequel to Ports of Call)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enjoyable and Characteristic of Vance	_Lurulu_ is Jack Vance's latest novel, a sequel (really a completion) of his previous novel, _Ports of Call_. _Ports of Call_ appeared in 1998, so it took Vance 6 years to complete _Lurulu_, which is only about 70,000 words long. It seems that Vance is likely done writing novels -- after all, he is nearly 90, and nearly blind. Alas that there may be no more from this wonderful writer! -- but let's celebrate what we have. <br /> <br />As for _Lurulu_, it's an enjoyable novel. It does not open any new vistas, but who would expect that at this stage of the man's career? It opens with a very long prologue recapitulating much of _Ports of Call_ -- this only serves to emphasize what we knew already -- that _Ports of Call_ should not have been published by itself, that it was only complete with _Lurulu_. Myron Tany is a young man in the Gaean Reach, frustrated with his parents' desire that he live a boring ordinary life. He visits his eccentric Aunt and ends up haring across the Galaxy on her spaceship, only to see her fall afoul of a blatant con-man. He himself ends up a crewman on the Glicca, a tramp freighter, and he and his fellow crewmen travel to various curious planets, in the mean time transporting various odd passengers. <br /> <br />In _Lurulu_ things are much the same. Several further planets are visited. A variety of plot threads are introduced, and vaguely resolved, the most obvious being the ship Captain's quest for the man who appears to have murdered his father and seduced his mother. Myron eventually finds his Aunt, and he also eventually resolves a love affair begun in _Ports of Call_. All are in pursuit of lurulu, an ideal condition of satisfaction with life or something of the sort. The conclusion is, this being Vance, mildly ironic, mildly misogynistic, and worldly-wise. <br /> <br />The novel as a whole is very episodic and discursive. Certain threads and ideas are advanced then abandoned. In many ways it reads like a novel that a man in his 80s took6 years to write -- but not necessarily in a bad way. Vance's prose remains purely enjoyable, and his societal constructions intriguing and amusing. Certainly worth reading -- not a Vance masterpiece but a book very representative of his career. <br />	2005-05-15
US	52417414	R3A5XX9IWZ2B3J	0312869940	223175438	White Rose	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Let's Get to the End of the Story!	White Rose is the third in R. Garcia y Robertson's Gabaldonesque series about Robyn Stafford, former Miss Rodeo Montana and minor Hollywood executive, who is sent by witches back to the Wars of the Roses, where she falls in love with Edward March, the elder brother of Richard III and father of \\"the Princes in the Tower\\". At this time, however, Edward is only 17 (later 18), unmarried, without children. Over the first two books, Robyn bounces back and forth in time, becomes Lady Robyn of Pontefract, also becomes very popular, has lots and lots of sex with Edward, and makes enemies among the Lancastrians and especially among the Wydvilles. I don't know enough about that era in history to know if she has actually changed any yet. It's clear that she must change history or only unhappiness awaits. <br /> <br />In this book she manages to get back to 1461, more or less by accident bringing along her nymphomaniac employee, Heidi. Heidi proves useful in a number of ways, mostly protecting Robyn's virtue by seducing away men who wish to rape Robyn. The two wander across Wales, sometimes captured by bad guys, then sometimes escaping. Robyn eventually meets Edward, only to get capture again, and again escape, just ahead of the headman's axe. There are a couple of battles, another threat of execution, a return to besieged London, and a little bit more sex. Oh, and Robyn is pregnant. <br /> <br />I had thought this was supposed to be a trilogy, but it's not -- this book seems no closer to a conclusion than before. It's all getting rather tedious. The writing in particular is lax and self-indulgent. I feel a certain pressure to get to the end because I want to see if Robyn changes history for the good, but boy it's taking a long time getting there. <br />	2005-05-15
US	52417414	R3MP84OWZ4SBC2	0765309386	202359861	Spin	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Extravagant ideas, quiet tone	The first major SF novel from a major publisher in 2005 that I have seen is Robert Charles Wilson's _Spin_. Wilson is one of my favorite current writers. His recent novels have all been quite striking, and all are based on quite extravagant SF ideas, yet are markedly quiet in tone, and markedly character-based.  <br /> <br />Beth Meacham recently complained in Locus that SF seems to consist largely of two sorts of books: very mainstream-style books with one modest SFnal idea; or very wildly SFnal books that demand from the reader an intimate knowledge of the field's tropes. Robert Sawyer vs. Charles Stross, one might suggest. _Spin_, I think, is a counter-example. It is based on a truly audacious central idea, and the idea is quite cleverly extrapolated -- its implications are nicely explored. Yet the heart of the book is an extended look at one man's lifelong friendship/love affair with his boyhood neighbors, a pair of twins, brother and sister; set in a near future not too terribly different from today. <br /> <br />The book alternates sections set, the titles tell us, very far in the future (4 billion A. D.), with near future sections. The narrator is Tyler Dupree, who is undergoing some sort of drastic medical treatment while on the run from U. S. officials. While mentally unbalanced by the treatment he compulsively writes down his memories of his life to date, beginning with the onset of what came to be called \\"the Spin\\". One night when Tyler is 12, and his twin friends Jason and Diane are 13, the stars suddenly disappear. Earth is somehow enshrouded -- satellites crash, the Moon is invisible, the Sun still shines but oddly changed. It soon becomes clear that a barrier, eventually called \\"the Spin\\", is affecting time oddly -- time outside it passes much more rapidly than on Earth. Space vehicles can be launched and pass through the barrier -- they seem to return instantly, but they observe time passing outside it, and they observe, for instance, the Solar System continuing to evolve, such that after some decades, the Sun will have changed so as to make Earth uninhabitable. Thus, people of Tyler's generation grow up in the knowledge that likely the world will soon end. <br /> <br />Tyler's mother works for Jason and Diane's father as a maid. E. D. Lawton is a powerful defense contractor who is smart enough to be in place to react quickly to the Spin -- for example by setting up a network of aerostats to replace the now defunct GPS satellites. His wife Carol is a former doctor, now an alcoholic. Tyler falls in love with Diane from an early age, but a combination of factors keep them apart. (Tyler's shyness, a perceived class or financial status difference, E. D.'s hostility.) <br /> <br />The three children react differently to the Spin. Jason, to some extent following in his father's footsteps, is desperate to understand it, and perhaps to fix it. Diane is afraid of it, and drifts into a cult which treats the Spin as an harbinger of the Christian End Times. Tyler stays close to Jason, and mostly tries to live a semblance of an ordinary life, becoming a doctor himself. Eventually Jason hires him to work at Perihelion, a corporation cum government agency working to investigate Spin-related phenomena. <br /> <br />The book very successfully combines an involving small-scale story (the story of Tyler's relationship with the Lawton twins, and of the entire world in the shadow of apocalypse) with a fascinating large-scale SF story (the story of the Spin, its origin and the results of some decades of dealing with it). The first story is satisfying enough, but ultimately it is the extrapolations of the effects of the temporal disconnect between Earth and the rest of the universe that are most compelling. Wilson uses this as a way to look at \\"deep time\\" through the eyes of contemporary humans. As only a few years pass on Earth while millions of years pass outside the Spin barrier, it is possible to do really long-duration experiments. Some of these have downright cool effects -- I won't detail these here -- I'll leave the surprises to the novel. But Wilson does not cheat the reader -- we do learn pretty much what's going on with the Spin, and why. And it's neat stuff. Definitely a contender for the major SF awards. <br />	2005-05-14
US	52417414	R1DWBJC09U96VC	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun and imaginative far-future SF	Review: Ilium, by Dan Simmons (2003)<br />a review by Rich Horton<br />On the whole, I was pretty pleased. Ilium is full of SFnal imaginative brio (if not always very plausible), and it's also full of pretty absorbing action. My main complaints are a) that it's only the first half of its story (though it does come to at least a somewhat satisfying stopping point; and b) that so far it doesn't seem to be about much -- it's fun and has lots of interesting ideas but it seems somewhat slight.<br />The story is told on three main threads. The most prominent centers on Thomas Hockenberry, a 20th century college professor who specialized in Homer. He has been mysteriously resurrected in this far future, and he is one of a number of &quot;scholics&quot; employed by the gods (yes, Zeus, Aphrodite, etc.) to observe the progress of the Trojan War, which is being fought (reenacted? refought for real? fought for the first time somehow? who knows?) on what seems to be Mars. (The gods, of course, live on Mt. Olympos -- that is to say, the great volcano Olympus Mons.) The scholics keep track of how closely the war tracks Homer's poem, which turns out to be pretty closely. But the gods' arbitrary violence, and a general despair at the bloody-mindedness of everyone, drive Hockenberry to rebellion -- at first just a night with Helen (!), but soon a plot against the gods themselves.<br />Meanwhile, the AIs called moravecs who live in the Jupiter system have detected unsettling activity on Mars, and they send an expedition. One member of this expedition is Mahnmut, who lives on Europa and drives a submersible exploring the Europan seas. He is also an expert on Shakespeare's sonnets. His best friend is Orphu of Io, a Proust enthusiast. The two are marooned on Mars when the expedition comes to disaster, and they head for Olympus Mons on their own to try to complete the mission.<br />And finally, in Earth, Daeman is a foolish young man living in the rather stale society of the few remaining humans on the planet after the long past exodus of the &quot;posthumans&quot; to Earth orbit. The Earth humans live lives of idle eroticism and sloth, unable to read, unaware of geography as they &quot;fax&quot; (i.e. teleport) everywhere, served by robotic &quot;servitors&quot; and the alien Voynix. Every 20 years they are &quot;faxed&quot; to orbit and repaired, but they live only five &quot;Twenties&quot;. Daeman visits a beautiful young woman named Ada in hopes of seducing her, and finds himself all unwilling drawn into the schemes of Ada, her friend Hannah, an ancient Jewish woman named Savi, and a 99 year old man named Harman who wants to avoid extinction when he reaches his fifth &quot;twenty&quot;. This group ends up wandering the Earth: Antarctica, Israel, the dry Mediterranean Basin, in hopes of finding a way to the home of the posthumans in orbit.<br />Which is pretty much it for this book. Which isn't to say that nothing is resolved -- lots happens, and there is a lot of change. There are bloody battles, rampaging Allosauruses, some weird technology, aliens, gods of various sorts, heroism, fooling around, disasters. It's lots of fun, and the scene is well set for what could be a pretty exciting concluding volume.	2004-05-03
US	52417414	R1CM5GNYDRIENO	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Overlong and anachronistic, but in the end enjoyable	What to say about Quicksilver that has not already been said? It is largely as has been reported: overlong, rambling, annoying anachronistic, not terribly well plotted. Yet for all that I rather liked it. <br />The story is told in three long books. The first book is about Daniel Waterhouse and his relationship with Isaac Newton. Waterhouse is one of a prominent Puritan family, who have wielded some influence during Cromwell's Protectorship. But the story really takes place as Waterhouse goes up to Cambridge, just after the Restoration of the Monarchy. Daniel's loyalties are divided -- he is still his father's son, but hardly a true believer in the Puritan religious doctrines. At Cambridge he befriends the very strange and otherworldly Isaac Newton. Daniel himself is presented as a competent natural philosopher but nothing special -- he is there as a witness to genius embodied by Newton (and others such as Hooke, Huygens, and Leibniz). Daniel becomes a minor political player, Secretary of the Royal Society, sort of a tame Puritan in the Royal cabinet. This section is told on two timelines -- one following Daniel from youth to near middle-age, the other a rather pointless account of Daniel beginning a much later (1714) journey back from Massachusetts to London in order to testify in a dispute between Newton and Leibniz about the invention of the calculus. This last thread is, I think, a complete mistake -- it does absolutely nothing for the current book. I am sure it will be picked up in later books, and probably be important, but it's just so many wasted pages here.<br />The second book abandons Daniel entirely to tell the story of two rather lower-class individuals. Jack Shaftoe (the names Shaftoe and Waterhouse will of course be familiar to readers of Cryptonomicon) is a Vagabond -- at first an orphaned boy making a living by jumping on the legs of hanged men to hasten their death and reduce their agony, later a rather lazy mercenary fighting in various wars on the continent. He comes to Vienna, under siege by the Ottomans, and by happenstance manages to rescue a beautiful virgin named Eliza, a native of Qwlghm (a fictional island off the coast of England also from Cryptonomicon). Eliza had been kidnapped from the shores of Qwlghm and sold to the Ottoman Sultan, who fortunately was preserving her to be a gift to one of his generals after the presumed success of the Vienna campaign. Eliza's experience has given her one consuming passion -- the eradication of slavery. Jack and Eliza wander back across Europe to the Netherlands, meeting Leibniz along the way and having a variety of adventures. Finally Eliza is established in Amsterdam, becoming a financial genius and a spy for William of Orange, while Jack makes his way to Paris and eventually to a seat as a galley slave. <br />The third book switches between Eliza and Daniel, and in this book there is a somewhat coherent plot. The book become the story (told from an unusual angle) of England's Glorious Revolution, when William of Orange and his wife Mary take the crown of England from the hated Catholic James II. Eliza's role takes her to Versailles where we see the court of the Sun King, while Daniel plots against James from within his cabinet. The book ends more or less with the successful conclusion of the Glorious Revolution.<br />As I say above -- there is much wrong with this book. It is too long. Though I was never precisely bored I was often not particularly concerned as to when I would next pick up the book. It is full of very jarring anachronisms, mostly in the speech of the characters. The overall plot, to the extent I could detect one, is hardly advanced at all in this book, though I think an argument can be made that there is a significant plot thread (taking us from the Restoration to the Glorious Revolution) that is resolved in this book and works fairly well. The characters are to some extent grotesques but mostly interesting grotesques -- they are, I suppose,the main reason I ended up liking the book on balance.	2004-04-24
US	52417414	R3DQL6YGPZLUTY	0881502944	572961164	Take: A Detective Colin Harpur Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gaspingly cynical, funny, often dark, police procedural	Take is the fifth novel in Bill James's series of cynical mysteries about Colin Harpur, an adulterous but basically decent cop in an unnamed South of England town; and his boss Desmond Ives, a basically not very decent at all but fiercely intelligent and terribly careerist man. All James's novels feature chapters from the POV of the criminals, but in this case rather more than half of the book is from the criminal viewpoint.<br />Ron &quot;Planner&quot; Preston is a small-time crook, or perhaps I should say &quot;medium-time&quot;, known for careful and fairly conservative jobs. In this case he has planned a robbery of a payroll delivery truck, hoping to net some 70,000 pounds. But the truck he is targeting suddenly turns up with an extra guard and two extra stops -- meaning the job should net at least three times the &quot;take&quot;. But Preston is cautious -- he doesn't know if the extra money is worth the extra risk. He's forced to recruit an unstable additional team member, and things are further complicated when his daughter gets involved with one of his recruits. Complicated personal reasons to do with his daughter, his wife, his mistress, a new girl he'd like to seduce, his advancing age, all push him to take risks he ordinarily wouldn't.<br />Meanwhile Harpur and Ives are unaware of Preston's plans. Harpur's daughters, however, are in the same community theatre production as Preston's wife. And Ives's wife is pregnant -- but she is still carrying on an affair with a criminal snitch who might be linked to Preston. One of Preston's informants is a bent cop. And Harpur's mistress's husband is another cop, one of the top marksmen in the force, a man who will be part of any team involved in an armed ambush if one becomes necessary.<br />The two teams slowly converge, basically unaware of what's really going on -- a comedy of errors and miscalculations on both sides leading to a savagely ironic conclusion. As ever with James, a cynically funny book, with plenty of gaspingly nasty lines, with a criminal lead character who somehow gains a bit of our sympathy even as we see that he is really a bad person. I missed to some extent some of Harpur and Iles' interplay -- it's still here in this book but reduced. Nonetheless, another fine dark crime novel.	2004-03-30
US	52417414	R12JHUM05DUXR9	0765307596	219738101	Eastern Standard Tribe	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Near future SF, breezy and fun	Eastern Standard Tribe is Cory Doctorow's second novel. It is very much of a length (short, in a good way) with Doctorow's first, Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom. It's also set in a tech-driven future, though not the same future as the first novel.<br />The novel opens with the narrator, Art Berry, on the roof of an insane asylum in Massachusetts, contemplating whether or not to kill himself. The story proceeds on two tracks, one concerning his business ventures and adventures in London, the other concerning his time at the asylum leading to his escape attempt which ended up with him marooned on the roof. Art is an agent provocateur for the &quot;Eastern Standard Tribe&quot;, a group of like-minded individuals who all keep EST hours no matter where they live. His job, along with his boss Fede, is to make a local company agree to a nice-sounding but idiotic scheme, the failure of which will enhance the reputation of the EST companies. But while in London, Art manages both to come up with an actual good business idea, involving downloading music on the freeway, and to meet and fall in love with an unstable American woman named Linda -- the meet being, naturally, a &quot;meet cute&quot;: Art runs over her in his car.<br />Before long they are forging a relationship, while Art is trying to market his idea. So how does he end up in the loony bin? Well ... perhaps Fede isn't as much of a friend as he seems. And perhaps ... best let the story tell that ... At any rate, it's only fair to say that none of the main characters comes across as exactly &quot;stable&quot;.<br />I liked it OK, but couldn't love it -- it's a fun, breezy, read if you can tolerate the jerky characters, with some sparkling ideas, but no really &quot;big&quot; ideas. The characters are interesting if not exactly likeable -- even Art seems to probably need some time in the loony bin, though perhaps not the treatment he gets once there. The plot is cleverly constructed, though also on occasion a bit implausible. The apparent central notion of time-zone based &quot;tribes&quot; is totally unconvincing, and Doctorow himself doesn't really push it in the book.	2004-03-30
US	52417414	R274HNCWGKXL2X	0441010725	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good solid novel that doesn't quite make it	_Singularity Sky_ is hot new author Charles Stross's first novel for a major publisher. (His first novel, &quot;The Atrocity Archive&quot;, was serialized in Spectrum SF ending in 2002, and is due in book form with an appended novella, from Golden Gryphon, in 2004.)<br />_Singularity Sky_ is set several hundred years in the future, in a somewhat backward part of the human-colonized Galaxy, the New Republic. The New Republic clings to an autocratic form of government (complete with secret police), and outlaws most post-20th Century tech, including life-extension. One day something called the Festival arrives at one world of the New Republic, and drops a bunch of phones -- and if you answer the phone, you can get pretty much anything you want in exchange for a story. Which quickly puts paid to the local economy.<br />Back at the capitol world, an expedition is put together to reclaim this world from the Festival. They plan to use the time travel properties of FTL to arrive early enough to surprise the Festival. The problem is, fooling around with causality violation is dangerous -- an entity called the Eschaton enforces a &quot;law&quot; against causality violation rather harshly. And two folks from Earth, a spaceship engineer (and mysterious spy) named Martin Springfield and a beautiful diplomat named Rachel Mansour end up coming along on this expedition. They fall in love, complicating their missions, which turn out to be pretty much the same -- stop the New Republic from doing something really stupid that will get the Eschaton mad.<br />It's a fun novel with some pretty nice ideas (particularly the Eschaton). I'm glad I read it, and I'll certainly read the sequel (_The Iron Sunrise_). But it's not really as good to my mind as most of Stross's recent short fiction -- the idea density is much lower, the New Republic is kind of an unconvincing political entity, the plot itself is OK but not particularly special.	2004-03-30
US	52417414	R2ZUCGQ2OLWXO3	0765309890	329751942	1: The Knight: Book One of The Wizard Knight	Books	5	3	5	N	N	First half of a presumably brilliant fantasy series	_The Knight_ is a longish fantasy which is the first part of two. The second will be called _The Wizard_, and the diptych is collectively _The Wizard Knight_. I'm rating this 5 stars, but I freely confess that that is contingent on the sequel delivering on the promise of this opening half.  But Wolfe is worthy of such trust.<br />It is narrated by a teenaged American boy in the form of a letter to his older brother. The boy, we soon learn, has been transported to another world, a fantasy world based vaguely but not completely on Norse mythology. Here there are dragons and &quot;aelfs&quot; and orcs and giants and gods of a sort. The boy meets an older man who is convinced that he is his long lost brother, and soon also meets an alluring aelf called Disiri who seduces him and then changes him to a powerful adult man. He is now called Able of the High Heart, and he is convinced that he is a knight. He is also searching for a wonderful sword called Eterne, at the behest of Disiri.<br />The book concerns his wanderings in quest of affirmation of his knighthood. He spends time battling bandits; sailing on a ship; learning to joust; traveling to other worlds of the seven layers of this odd place; and befriending a variety of people, none of whom treat him quite as he expects. He gains companions: a strange talking dog, a talking cat, a half-blind servant, two fire aelfmaidens who keep trying to seduce him. His goals include establishing his right to the title knight, finding his beloved Disiri again, and reaching the castle in the higher world Skai that he sees on occasion. <br />The story is told in very clear, almost naive, language, often openly echoing the speech of a contemporary American teenager. The general pellucidity of the prose is reflective of a direction Wolfe's prose has taken over his last several books -- all of the Long Sun and Short Sun books have prose that at the sentence level is, well, simpler than Wolfe's reputation would imply. But there are stillmysteries aplenty -- the book may be quite easy to read sentence by sentence, but that doesn't mean I know just what's going on -- especially only halfway through the action. It is fairly clear that Wolfe will once again be playing games with identity and shapechanging, as he has done again and again since at least _The Fifth Head of Cerberus_. He is also once again portraying a character who is generally quite &quot;good&quot;, and also quite naive. I greatly enjoyed this book.	2004-03-30
US	52417414	R27NNMY5D79SQ0	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Strong Fantasy from Bujold	Paladin of Souls is Lois McMaster Bujold's latest novel, her third fantasy, and a fairly direct sequel to The Curse of Chalion. It seems that Bujold's energies are now focussed on her fantasy secondary world, centered on the Royacy of Chalion, which has certain similarities to Renaissance era Iberia. At any rate, I understand that her next novel will be another Chalionese book. This seems a good choice -- I liked both The Curse of Chalion and Paladin of Souls better than her most recent Vorkosigan book, Diplomatic Immunity.<br />Paladin of Souls is the story of the Dowager Royina Ista of Chalion, mother of the new Royina Iselle, and widow of the late, cursed Roya Ias. The Curse of Chalion covered the events leading to the lifting of a terrible curse on the royal family of Chalion. Ista, who bore bravely years of living under the curse, with a terrible load of guilt and fear, as well as the burden of a loveless marriage and possession by a god which made her essentially insane, is now free of that. But her family and retainers are very protective of her -- her regained sanity remains in doubt, and she has lived a very circumscribed life. As the book opens she is chafing under what is in essence imprisonment, and she conceives the notion of a pilgrimage, ostensibly to pray for the birth of a grandson, but in reality simply to get out of her household for some time. She recruits, partly by accident, a new attendant who is actually a not very wellborn young woman named Liss,distinguished mainly by her horsemanship (she is a courier); and a priest of the Bastard to guide her pilgrimage: a young, fat, irreverent, and rather lusty fellow. She also accepts the protection of a group of soldiers led by two brothers, Ferda and Foix.<br />What she had hoped would be an interesting journey rather quickly turns dangerous. There are rumors of a great outbreak of demons, and disastrously one soon possesses Ferda. Then they run into a raiding party from the neighboring princedom ofJokona, who are adherents to a (mutually) heretical form of the Chalionese religion. They are rescued by a local nobleman, a great fighter and very handsome man named Arhys. At Arhys's castle, Ista finds a very jealous wife, and a severely ill half-brother, and, worse, indications of more aggression from the Jokonans. All this is surely tied to the infestations of demons ...<br />I thought it quite well done. Ista is an affecting character. The magic system/religion that Bujold has worked out remains interesting and a good source of plot conflicts. Perhaps Ista's powers seem to scale just a little conveniently to match the needs of the plot -- ever a problem with fantasies. But I enjoyed reading the novel, and I was surprised at several turns (if at other times things worked out a bit routinely). It is another fine story from Bujold.	2004-01-31
US	52417414	R1NQ9EJR6DEDDS	0765308509	456403759	The Killing of Worlds: Book Two of Succession	Books	4	7	8	N	N	First Rate Space Opera, about Immortality and AIs	This is the sequel to Westerfeld's earlier novel The Risen Empire, and it completes the story. They are really one long novel, and should be considered together.<br />I enjoyed the books a great deal. They are exciting, intelligent, and thought-provoking, with a pretty interesting political setup. As the book opens, the sister of the Emperor of the Eighty Worlds is being attacked, on a provincial world called Legis, by missiles from the Rix, and a team has been sent by the new Imperial warship Lynx to try to save her. The opening sequence, then, is a long and exciting battle scene, featuring some cool weaponry (such as the teleoperated, gnat-size, scout ships).<br />Some explanation seems needed, and is slowly given us. The Eighty Worlds are one subset of the human-colonized Galaxy. They are ruled by the Emperor, who is immortal. The secret of immortality is controlled by the Emperor, who doles it out as a favor to political favorites, rich people, war heroes, and the like. The Emperor's sister is also called &quot;the Reason&quot;, as it was apparently her illness that drove the Emperor to develop the immortality process, some 1600 years previously. The power of the immortal aristocracy means that the Eighty Worlds are somewhat technologically conservative, and for one thing they resist the development of AI's, which tend to form spontaneously once a planetwide network becomes big enough. The Rix are a fanatical cult of women, cyborgically enhanced, who believe the only purpose of humanity is to foster the development of these AIs, whom they worship as gods, more or less. The Rix resent the Eighty Worlds' position re AIs, and 80 years previously they fought a war, attempting to take over Imperial worlds to allow their networks to grow and form AIs. This new strike at the Emperor's sister seems an attempt at restarting the war, and indeed the Rix manage to push the Legis network to become self-aware, and it names itself Alexander.<br />Any attempt to further explainthe political and naval machinations that follow (and I started one) grows very complicated: better to read the book, I think. The story follows several characters. The main ones are Laurent Zai, a damaged war hero and the Captain of the Lynx; and his secret lover, Senator Nara Oxham, leader of the &quot;pink&quot; faction that opposes the rule of the immortals and the consequent social stagnation. Various other characters include a Rix commando who escapes the original battle and is recruited by Alexander to try to help him propagate; several other crewmembers of the Lynx, especially including the beautiful executive officer, Katherie Hobbes, who has fallen for Zai, having no idea that he is committed to Oxham; Jocim Marx, the Lynx's Master Pilot, who controls the teleoperated scouts in the various battles; Oxham's House, which shows signs of becoming an AI itself; and Rana Harter, a brain-damaged savant on Legis who is kidnapped by the Rix commando and falls in love with her. The action ends up concerning a dangerous Imperial Secret that the Emperor wants concealed especially from his own people, political maneuvering on the Imperial capitol world that might destroy Oxham's career -- or break apart the Empire; some desperate actions by the Rix commando to try to reconnect the planetary network to allow Alexander offplanet communication; and some exciting and intriguingly designed space battles, as Zai must fight off the Rix warship while trying to avoid the potentiality of orders to destroy Legis. And there are of course a few surprising developments. <br />As I said, I really liked thse books. The tech is fascinating and well-imagined. The ideas, especially concerning immortality but also some other human modifications, are both SFnally cool and thematically engaging. I will say that the final revelation of the Emperor's Secret was a mild letdown, and it made some of what went before seem a little less important -- but perhaps I was simply asking too much. I still think this first-rate Space Opera, and considered as a unit, one of the best SF novels of 2003.	2004-01-31
US	52417414	R144XKQRPZ03OY	0786867574	589628362	The Letters of Kingsley Amis	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Amusing, interesting, often catty, revealing	Kingsley Amis is one of my favorite post-war novelists. I had not before read a collection of letters, and I confess there was a time when I would have thought the idea of actually reading through someone's lifetime of letters just plain idiotic. But in fact I found these fascinating -- interesting to read for the biographical details, hints of the creative process, discussion of his works and Philip Larkin's works in progress -- as well as often very very funny and sometimes eyebrow-raisingly nasty.<br />Zachary Leader has chosen about 800 of several thousand surviving letters. The great bulk are to the poet Philip Larkin, his closest friend. Another huge chunk are to another very close friend, the writer and Sovietologist Robert Conquest. He also corresponded a good deal with my favorite novelist, Anthony Powell, another good friend of his (though Amis betrays a certain lack of confidence in his friendship with AP -- I sense that he was intimidated by Powell's upper class background and lifestyle, by his rather mandarin literary taste, and by his age). There are many letters to his second wife, Elizabeth Jane Howard, as well as a rather unfortunate set of nasty comments about her in other letters after their rather ugly divorce. Lots of letters to agents and publishers -- these rather interesting from the writing business point of view. Quite a few responses to fan letters -- these generally quite gracious and often offering interesting answers to questions about Amis' books. Unfortunately no letters to Bruce Montgomery (&quot;Edmund Crispin&quot;), another of Amis' special friends: they cannot be inspected until 2035! Hilly Bardwell Amis Boyd, Lady Kilmarnock, his first wife, burned all his letters, perhaps understandably, after he left her (or she left him but because of his affair with Howard) in 1963. Amis in his life was reluctant have any of his other letters to women lovers printed, and Leader either didn't track down any such, or chose not to print them. As for his children, Philip did not keep his letters, Sally did not want them published, and Martin could find only a postcard or two (though apparently there were many more). <br />Highlights? His early letters to Larkin, with their complex<BR>abbreviations and injokes, and the talk about poetry. The cattiness he displays towards writers whose work he disliked, such as most obviously John Wain, his fellow &quot;Angry Young Man&quot;. Amis on &quot;Old English Literature&quot;: &quot;The prose is admitted even by initiates to be stumbling and graceless; the verse is shackled by continual repetitions of idea ... This is the echo of an Age stated but not shown to be Heroic whose literature carries neither primitive insight nor civilized assurance.&quot; (and more) The general funniness of things, even though occasionally mean.<br />Certainly an amusing and interesting angle from which to consider a great writer.	2004-01-31
US	52417414	R26VICOKQ9DBO0	0451459342	261470592	Extremes: A Retrieval Artist Novel	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Sturdy, readable, not memorable	Extremes is an SF mystery set on the Moon, a sequel to Rusch's 2002 novel The Disappeared. It's competent, readable, but on several grounds not quite convincing and somewhat disappointing in resolution. It's a sturdy commercial work but nothing memorable.<br />Extremes is told in three narrative threads. One follows Miles Flint, the Retrieval Artist of the overall series title. His job is to track down people who have &quot;disappeared&quot; -- basically, people who have taken on new identities. Flint is approached by a law firm to track down one Frieda Tey, a human Disappeared accused of killing some 200 people by introducing a genetically-engineered virus into an outsystem dome. However, she and her father (who engaged the law firm) claim that the deaths were accidental and she is being railroaded.<br />Another thread follows Noelle DeRicci, a cliché &quot;maverick&quot; cop (i.e. she's really good but her career is stalled because she won't play politics) who is assigned to investigate a death at the annual &quot;Moon Marathon&quot;, a standard length marathon run on the Moon's surface in environment suits. The third thread follows Miriam Oliviari, a &quot;Tracker&quot; looking for Frieda Tey. Miriam has tracked Frieda Tey over several years, and she has decided that Tey is one of the Moon Marathon competitors.<br />No prizes for guessing who the murder victim at the Moon Marathon is identified as.<br />The three threads begin to coalesce once the principals realize that besides the murder the Moon Marathon is being disrupted by an outbreak of a virus very much resembling the virus that killed all the people Tey was accused of killing. Oliviari realizes the same thing, and as her cover identity is one of the marathon medical team, she is forced to deal directly with the virus outbreak -- an outbreak she may know more about than anyone because of her research into Tey's past. So the novel continues, with DeRicci dealing with a very unusual murder and an epidemicto boot, and Oliviari forced to compromise her chance to catch Tey in order to save lives; while Flint is also forced to compromise his Retrieval Artist ethics. All ends in a thrilling space chase.<br />On one level, it's exciting stuff. The ending is pretty scary and well set up. The basic mystery is interesting. The novel is a whole is fast moving and good reading. But nothing really makes much sense! Part of my problem is just economics -- I simply cannot believe there are enough Disappeared and enough associated legacies and stuff to support the apparently thriving business of Retrieval Artists, and the incredible fees they charge. (Flint, for example, is set for life as a result of a previous case.) Part of it is the overblown villainy of the eventually revealed bad guy. Part of it is the strained setup of the original crime, depending on just too many coincidences. Part of it is the mechanics of the whole thing -- Flint's computer security skills, for instance, which as presented might as well be magic. Part of it is the structure -- the novel is supposed to be a Retrieval Artist Novel, but Flint's Retrieval Artist skills basically never come into play. Read the book quickly without thinking much and I think you'll be entertained -- but pull on any of the dangling threads and the whole thing collapses.	2003-10-30
US	52417414	R1XY92ZNTN0265	031287202X	830430453	Point of Honour	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Fine historical mystery: a &quot;Hardboiled Regency&quot;	The time is 1810. The Queen Regent is clinging to life while her children, the ineligibly married Prince of Wales and the scandalous Duke of Clarence scramble for position in the event of her death. Sarah Tolerance is a Fallen Woman -- when a teen she fell in love with her brother's fencing instructor and ran away to the Continent. But her lover has died, and she has returned to England. Her reputation is ruined, her father has repudiated her, she is an ancient 28 years old. What can she do? She is taken in by her Aunt, another Fallen Woman, who runs a very successful bordello. But Sarah has no interest in working for her Aunt, so instead she sets up as what we would call a Private Investigator, often turning up evidence for Society women of their husbands' infidelity.<br />Sarah receives a new commission asking that she retrieve an Italian fan, that may be in the possession of a retired working woman named Deb Cunning. Trux's unnamed boss is willing to offer quite a bit more than the fan is worth for its retrieval. Sarah's job is complicated by the fact that Deb Cunning has likely changed her name. But Sarah soon finds some interesting leads. However, her job is quickly complicated, as it soon seems that this fan is of considerable interest to both sides in the current political wrangle. Worse, a couple of people involved in the search turn up dead -- one is a close friend of Sarah's, the other is a woman she has visited to ask for information -- her visit timed to make her a suspect in the murder.<br />Sarah finally learns who her real client is -- the handsome, youngish, Earl of Versellion, who is in line to be Prime Minister if the new Regent chooses to back a Whig government. Sarah finds herself greatly attracted to Versellion, all the while exasperated by the paucity of information on the importance of the fan. This attraction deepens when she and Versellion have to go on the run in rural England, apparently under threat of murder.<br />The novel nicely intertwines political intrigue, an interesting mystery about the real nature of the hidden fan (with a guessable but satisfying solution), romance, action, and a nice ending with an extra twist or two. Sarah herself is an interesting heroine, and I'm glad to know that at least two further novels are planned.<br />The main appeal is likely to mystery readers first: particularly those who enjoyed the late Kate Ross's Julian Kestrel stories, or those who enjoy Anne Perry's Victorian mysteries. Secondarily, readers of Regency romances may enjoy the book: though it does not follow standard Regency plot conventions, it does have a nice romance at its core. It's a fine historical mystery story, or if you will, a &quot;hardboiled Regency&quot;.  (Serious historical readers will note that the book is actually set in a slightly altered history.)	2003-10-29
US	52417414	RFQ1HDXTM7HEN	0312874499	545337496	For Love and Glory	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Pleasant SF -- a minor but enjoyable book	This is yet another posthumous novel by the late, great, Poul Anderson. As he explains in a brief introduction, For Love and Glory takes two stories from the Isaac's Universe anthology series (based on a setting originated by Isaac Asimov) and expands them to a novel. However, he chose to sever the links with the Isaac's Universe series, in order that his ideas will not conflict with anybody else's stories in the same universe, nor constrain future development. In so doing he has changed names of characters, planets, and alien races. He has also radically revised the two existing stories, adding a major new character and altering the motivations of some key characters, and he has added two new episodes, as well as some interstitial material, making the novel well more than twice the length of the original stories.<br />The story opens with Lissa Windholm and an alien partner coming across a mysterious artifact, evidently left by the long gone Forerunners, on the planet Jonna. But they are not the first to discover this artifact -- a man named Torben Hebo, one of the oldest humans still alive, and his alien partner have got their first. And their interest is profit, as opposed to Lissa's purely scientific motivation. Torben also rather crudely expresses an interest of a different sort in Lissa herself. But disaster strikes, and Lissa and her friend rescue Torben, leading to a reasonable compromise.<br />That episode serves mainly as a rather clumsy prologue, having little function but to introduce Lissa and Torben. They spend the next while mooning a bit over each other, while Lissa mounts an expedition to view the scientifically fascinating collision of two black holes, and while Torben goes back to Earth to get his memory scrubbed and to show the reader details of Earth's advanced linked human mind. Lissa's expedition involves the humans in a conflict between factions of the Susaian race. The stories come together again in the following episode, in which a neighboring planet to Lissa's home is colonized by a faction of aliens, and in which Torben gets involved in an attempt to industrialize this new planet, resisted by Lissa and her alien friends, who favor a &quot;greener&quot; approach. The final episode, then, features a further conflict with a bad alien faction, and an opportunity to learn something dramatic about the Forerunners.<br />As my summary might imply, the novel is rather episodic, and the joins between the new episodes and the pre-existing stories show, sometimes uneasily. Still, it's a decent and enjoyable novel, with some nice science-fictional ideas, and some pleasant and interesting main characters. The action is well-handled, and a sense of mystery and wonder at the secrets of the universe, so often central to Anderson's work, is nicely conveyed. This book is by no means Anderson at the top of his form, but he was ever a writer who would occasionally throttle back and produce supremely competent entertainment -- and I think that's what For Love and Glory ends up being. Not an enduring classic, but a book I'm happy to have read.ing planet to Lissa's home is colonized by a faction of aliens, and in which Torben gets involved in an attempt to industrialize this new planet, resisted by Lissa and her alien friends, who favor a &quot;greener&quot; approach. The final episode, then, features a further conflict with a bad alien faction, and an opportunity to learn something dramatic about the Forerunners.<br />As my summary might imply, the novel is rather episodic, and the joins between the new episodes and the pre-existing stories show, sometimes uneasily. Still, it's a decent and enjoyable novel, with some nice science-fictional ideas, and some pleasant and interesting main characters. The action is well-handled, and a sense of mystery and wonder at the secrets of the universe, so often central to Anderson's work, is nicely conveyed. This book is by no means Anderson at the top of his form, but he was ever a writer who would occasionally throttle back and produce supremely competent entertainment -- and I think that's what For Love and Glory ends up being. Not an enduring classic, but a book I'm happy to have read.	2003-10-29
US	52417414	R2WUU2NPNNV4W7	0446610836	732469870	In the Hall of the Martian King (Jak Jinnaka)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More intriguing political intrigue in the 36th century	Here is the third novel in John Barnes's ongoing chronicle of the life and times of Jak Jinnaka, a young man in a 36th Century Solar System. Jak is a citizen of the Hive, a huge space habitat at the Earth/Sun L5 point. In the previous books, we have followed his career as a part-time secret agent, and somewhat of a celebrity, due to his involvement in a couple of high-profile adventures. As this book opens, he has graduated from the Hive's Public Service Academy, and taken a job as Vice Procurator of the Hive's base on the Martian moon Deimos. At the same time he is secretly an agent of Hive Intelligence. His life is further complicated by his continued conditioned attraction to his former girlfriend, the sadistic Princess Shyf of Greenworld, a nation of the Aerie (at the Earth/Sun L4 point). All he wants is to be cured of this conditioning, and to get a more exciting job. But his bosses at Hive Intel have a use for him in his present state and position.<br />The crisis driving the main action of In the Hall of the Martian King is the discovery of a lifelog of Paj Nakasen, the originator of the &quot;Wager&quot;, a quasi-religious set of principles that lies at the heart of 36th Century human society. This lifelog was discovered at an archaeological dig in one of many tiny Martian nations. Many entities want this document, and such people as Jak's much-loved Uncle Sib; Princess Shyf; and a silly but highly placed fellow diplomat are all involved in the search.<br />All this leads to an amusing series of comedies of errors, as various attempts are made to obtain (by fair means or foul) the lifelog. Much of the book is rather funny, and much is quite exciting. Barnes gives us an impressive set-piece or two while the McGuffin is tussled over. But it's not all funny -- there is serious speculation about the proper organization of society, and there is some wrenching tragedy as well. Good people die. And the information in the lifelog itself turns out to have potentiallycatastrophic repercussions for Jak's society.<br />As with all the novels in this series, the wheels-within-wheels of the plot are almost exhausting, and not quite believable. But Jak is an interesting and ambiguous character, well worth reading about. The action of the books is quite enjoyable, even if not always what it seems on the surface. Barnes tackles some interesting ideas, though I think he stacks the decks of his arguments on occasion. The background details of the social order, the technological underpinning, and the varied cultures of the 36th Century Solar System are just delightfully presented. I'm really enjoying these novels.	2003-10-29
US	52417414	R34CD0C1F4LX8G	0765342618	769723156	Kiln People (The Kiln Books)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Some cool ideas, but it just runs off the rails at the end	Kiln People is set several decades in the future. The key technological innovation presented in the book is &quot;golemtech&quot; -- it has become possible to imprint a person's &quot;soul&quot;, into a clay model, a golem or ditto, which will then have all one's memories, and which can do errands for their &quot;archetype&quot;. These models last only a day, after which they return to the archetype, and the memories can be inloaded if the archetype so chooses.<br />This has resulted in an economic revolution. Most of the grunt work is now done by low-quality dittos. Recreations include, predictably, unusual &quot;entertainment&quot; using special dittos optimized for heightened sensation; realistic dramas enacted with dittos; and dangerous sports in which the loss of a ditto is regretted only if it results in complete enough destruction that the memories cannot be inloaded. Wars are now fought as a form of &quot;sport&quot;, with skilled soldiers sending fighting dittos to special ranges to resolve international disputes. These various tasks are done by dittos of different sorts, by law all different colors.&lt;/P&gt;<br />All this background detail is very well done. Brin has done a nice job of pretty pure SFnal extrapolation -- taking a quasi-plausible and interesting bit of future tech, and trying to work out its effects on an entire society.<br />The story itself is basically a thriller. Albert Morris is a private detective. He ends up with several different &quot;selves&quot; investigating (in parallel, it turns out) the death of one of the inventors of golem technology. Suspects include the victim's partner; a crime lord called Beta who has had many past encounters with Albert; Gineen Wammaker, a purveyor of exotic dittos; and various fanatics: anti-golem agitators, and those who want dittos to have full civil rights. This story is for the most part pretty exciting, and confusing in a good way that eventually gets resolved. Albert's journeys, and those of hisdittos allow exploration of much of this future society. The search for motives for the murder leads us to investigate some research, hence further extrapolation: what would be the effect of dittos that could last longer than a day? Of dittos that could be copied over long distances? Of the possibility of loading somebody else's memories into your head? All this is pretty interesting stuff.<br />Then, the book pretty much runs off the rails. Why? I think the answer is -- too much ambition. Brin begins to explore even more metaphysical issues -- &quot;souls&quot; independent of the body, in another dimension -- life after death -- that sort of thing. And in so doing he stretches his extrapolation to the point where my belief in it snapped completely. The &quot;mad scientist&quot; finale really just about lost me. I think the book would have been better if Brin had turned off his imagination at a certain point -- if he had been more conservative.<br />That said, though I think the silliness of some of the last 100 or so pages of the book is a severe flaw, it's still a pretty strong piece of SFnal extrapolation up that point, with some pretty decent action to the plotline. Overall, I recommend the book -- worth reading, just not a great book.	2003-10-20
US	52417414	R2LGVOCH9A1BWD	038082020X	600696241	Dread Empire's Fall : The Praxis	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Entertaining Space Opera	_The Praxis_ is the first volume of a series called collectively _Dread Empire's Fall_. This book is unabashed Space Opera, and I found it extremely fun reading. Every so often the characterization or the plotting seems to fall back on cliché -- and after the basic setup is pretty familiar, particular the rehashing of Naval Fiction standard situations. The book is also clearly the first of a series, thus the story doesn't really end -- those factors hold it short of excellence. But it's very good -- neatly conceived, with plenty of gripping action, and with two main characters who are interesting, and flawed in believable ways even while also supremely gifted in fairly standard commercial fiction fashions.<br />The parts of the Galaxy linked by an extensive wormhole network are ruled, as the story opens, by the long-lived aliens called Shaa. They control several other spacegoing species -- the lizardlike Naxids, humans, the birdlike Lai-Own, the furry Torminel, etc. The subordinate species seems essentially equal, sharing government and military posts, though there seem to be worlds, even sectors, dominated by one or another species.<br />Now the very last of the Shaa has decided to die. This impacts the future of Lord Gareth Martinez, an up and coming Naval officer. His main patron has been chosen to die along with the Shaa, and Martinez, a provincial, is left without a sponsor. But he gains some fame when he coordinates a daring rescue attempt. The rescue attempt is piloted by Lady Caroline Sula, the only remaining member of a formerly powerful family that has fallen into disgrace. The two are both decorated, and when they meet each other, sparks fly. But Sula has some deep personal issues which make her skittish about relationships.<br />Martinez ends up posted to a ship run by a football-mad Captain. Martinez and a few others including his trusty old batman (yes, a cliché) run the ship while the Captain deals with the football. The ship makes its way to a Naxid dominated system, and Martinez notices some very suspicious Naxid behaviour. He concludes correctly that they are planning to take advantage of the power vacuum left by the death of the last Shaa and try to assert their status as the first race conquered by the Shaa and take the Shaa position at the top of the heap. Martinez's perspicacity and his brilliant tactics keep the Naxid operation from being a complete success. Meanwhile back on the capitol planet the Naxid coup is also less than successful, and Sula in again in place to demonstrate heroism.<br />And so come the opening battles of what looks likely to be an extended war. The book ends pretty much on a note of &quot;to be continued&quot;. Cleary Martinez and Sula are destined for each other one way or another, though Williams has managed to make their future ambiguous -- Sula's past could come back to haunt her, and Martinez' conceit and overweening ambition could ruin things as well. I'll be eagerly looking forward to future volumes, and I'm sure there will be plenty more space battles, alien political intrigue, and an involving personal pair of stories for our two heroes.	2003-10-17
US	52417414	RHY428C0N38B5	0765308185	699827683	The Anvil of the World	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Amiable, slightly rambling, entertainment.  Good fun!	Kage Baker is mostly known for her Company series, about immortals and time travel. But she has begun to publish a few non-Company stories. The Anvil of the World is one such, an engaging fantasy novel consisting of one previously published shorter work and two additional stories of similar length, all closely linked.<br />In the opener, a mysterious man named Smith, who had come to Troon to escape the wrath of the family of someone he had killed (his previous job was assassin), is assigned to lead a caravan from the agricultural city Troon to the seaside town of Salesh. The caravan consists of a number of variously suspicious folks, including the sickly Lord Ermenwyr and his extremely lovely nurse; the highly competent cook Mrs. Smith; a courier named Parradan Smith; another family named Smith; and a Yendri herbalist, as well as a teenaged girl named Burnbright. These folks (and others met on the way) come from a variety of basically humanoid (and interfertile) races.<br />This first story simply tells of the caravan's journey to Salesh. To be sure, the journey is not without incident -- the caravan is attacked on a couple of occasions, including once at an inn where Smith himself is nearly killed; most of the passengers prove not to be what they seem; Smith finds himself entrusted with an unexpected additional delivery. By the end we have a better idea of the social and political issues of this world, and we more or less know who all the players really are.<br />The second segment is a murder mystery of sorts. Smith and his fellow caravan workers, at the end of the first section, found it wise to leave the caravan business and open an inn, under the patronage of Lord Ermenwyr. A guest at the inn is murdered during a Festival, and Smith is charged by the investigating constable with finding the murderer. Smith's investigations lead him to make some unexpected discoveries about the past life of certain of his associates. He also finds the murderer -- I thought a nicely set up surprise.<br />In the third section, a real estate company is proposing to build a development at a site sacred to the Yendri. This causes considerable interspecies tensions, and indeed it seems that a race war may be unavoidable. And Lord Ermenwyr shanghais Smith into a mission to help his sister -- coincidentally taking them close to the controversial development. The resolution this time involves secrets about Smith's own past, which I thought were revealed fairly cleverly. It also involves dealing with the relationships between all the races, and considerable exploration of the history and myth underlying this fantasy world. <br />All in all, this is quite an enjoyable novel. It's fairly witty throughout, and cleverly imagined, if most of the setting consists of ringing changes on familiar fantasy environments. The moral is humanistic and affecting. The structure, as hinted, is a bit episodic -- it really is more three separate but linked stories than one unified novel. It's an entertainment, with just a hint of a serious core to it. Amiable, a bit rambling, not a major work but good fun.	2003-10-17
US	52417414	R321QIBADO65IK	0441010555	366597247	The Light Ages	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Ridiculously good -- atmospheric, a bit slow, very moving	_The Light Ages_ has the feel of a steampunk novel -- that is, it is set in an England that resembles Victorian (or perhaps Edwardian) England, with magic that resembles rather grungy technology the motivating force in the background of the book.<br />The book is told by one Robert Borrows. Robert grows up in a Yorkshire mining town. The substance mined at this town is &quot;aether&quot;, a magical source of energy that is the driving force of the economy and technology of the world of this book. Accidents with aether can cause people to mutate into &quot;changelings&quot; or &quot;trolls&quot;, and Robert's life changes when his mother begins to mutate, and also when he meets an ambiguous girl, perhaps a changeling, named Annelise. Robert eventually escapes his home town and heads to London, where he becomes involved in fomenting a socialist revolution. He becomes a &quot;mart&quot;, someone outside the Guild structure of England. The Guilds apparently control all the technology, and all the labour. Robert, thus, makes his living via the black market, or by simply stealing, and he also becomes a writer for a revolutionary newspaper. His focus is the injustices of the Guild structure, but all along we are also showed the maltreatment of the changelings.<br />In London Robert also again encounters Annalise, now calling herself Anna Winters. She has become attached to the upper classes, particularly via her friendship with Sarah Passington, daughter of perhaps the most powerful man of the realm. Robert's doomed attraction to the strangely glamourous Anna motivates him to continue to visit her when he can. He is both disgusted by the class inequalities revealed to him, and also of course attracted by the perquisites of the very wealthy -- not to mention such beauties as Sarah and Anna.<br />The book turns, finally, on revelations about the emptiness behind the aether-based power structure of the rulers of England, and an ambiguously successful &quot;revolution&quot;. Robert and Anna learn much about their past -- and they are intimately involved with the opening of a new &quot;Age&quot;. But the new Age is perhaps not all they might have hoped.<br />I had a complex reaction to this novel. It is for much of its length quite frustrating. The pace is glacial. But it remains absorbing for the excellent writing, and for the fascinating details of life in this alternate England. What really redeems the book is the ending, which I found emotionally wracking, and honest, somewhat surprising, almost but not quite cynical. I was moved to tears -- I think honest tears -- and the final scene is perfect.	2003-10-17
US	52417414	R2H9L1MLLCOZPM	0060523182	655483804	The Merlin Conspiracy	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Engaging characters, interesting magic	Diana Wynne Jones has been publishing wonderful fantasy novels for over 30 years. Most of her work has been aimed nominally at \\"young adults\\", but it most definitely appeals to adults of any age. Her new novel, The Merlin Conspiracy, is set in the same Multiverse as her 1997 novel Deep Secret, and it features Nick Mallory, a character from the earlier book, but it is an independent story.<br />The Merlin Conspiracy follows two characters. Arianhrod (\\"Roddy\\") Hyde is the daughter of a weather magician at the Court of the King of Blest, the England-analog in her universe. She and her young friend Grundo discover a plot involving Grundo's unpleasant mother and her new boyfriend as well as the new Merlin of Blest. The rest of her family becomes enchanted in various ways and unable to move against this plot. Roddy and Grundo become separated from the Progress of the Court (the King cannot stay in any one place for long) and they gad across Blest, looking for help from Roddy's two powerful Grandfathers, and her eccentric Grandmother. Along the way she inherits the magical knowledge of a long-dead Welshwoman, and she summons a wizard to help her.<br />This wizard turns out to be Nick Mallory, who is the adopted son of an Earth writer, but who really comes from another part of the Multiverse, and who aspires to wizardry but hasn't actually learned much. Somewhat by accident, he has ended up lost in another universe, from which he wanders to some additional ones, after a threat from a powerful wizard named Romanov. Nick follows Romanov to his strange island, in several universes at once, and there he meets an elephant named Mini. He is also contacted by Roddy, and it becomes clear that he is supposed to help her, and also that he is very attracted to her.<br />Eventually all the principals end up in Blest, where things are getting worse and worse. The plot seems on the verge of succeeding, and the two young people, with help from a few others they've gathered along the way,must risk the balance of Magic in the entire Multiverse by Raising the Land, in hopes of foiling the conspirators.<br />This is a fine novel, but not quite Jones at her very best. Jones's magical imagination is delightful as ever, but at times things do seem a bit arbitrary. And the plot, though in the end worked out pretty nicely, also seems arbitrary for long stretches. Still, even if not her best work, it's very good -- Nick and Roddy are interesting characters, and well-portrayed, with real and believable problems and shortcomings. Many of the minor characters are delights as well -- particularly the elephant Mini. Recommended.	2003-10-17
US	52417414	R3MKM25KIVK072	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable tale of Shakespeare in a Spanish-ruled England	Harry Turtledove's Ruled Britannia considers a fairly common Alternate History point of departure -- the Spanish Armada was successful in conquering England in 1588.  (As in, for example, Keith Roberts's Pavane and Kingsley Amis's The Alteration -- two of the very greatest Alternate History novels.) But Turtledove sets his story much earlier -- not in roughly our present day, as with the two examples I mentioned, but rather in 1597, less than a decade into the Spanish occupation of England, with King Philip's daughter Isabella installed on the throne.  (As Turtledove points out, Isabella actually did have at least a tenuous claim to the English crown -- no surprise, perhaps, given how tangled European dynasties became.)  England has been forcefully restored to Catholicism, and a homebred English Inquisition is killing people for such crimes as witchcraft and sodomy.  But in general the populace seems resigned to the changes, if not precisely happy about them.<br />The protagonists of the book are the greatest playwrights of that time: England's William Shakespeare, and Spain's Lope de Vega.  Shakespeare is presented as a vaguely apolitical man, working away as his company, Lord Westmoreland's Men, presents such of his plays as Prince of Denmark and If You Like It.  He is almost simultaneously given two commissions.  A faction of English resisters wants him to write a play about Boudicca, the English queen who resisted the Romans, in order to help stir up passions against the Spanish occupiers.  And the Spanish authorities want him to write a play about King Philip, to be presented in his memory on the occasion of his death, which is soon expected.  Lope de Vega is a lieutenant in the occupying force, and it is his job to keep an eye on Shakespeare and his fellow players.  He is also charged with tracking down suspected criminals such as Christopher Marlowe, and he spends the rest of his time juggling a variety of lovers, both English and Spanish.<br />The novel moves rather slowly to its fairly predictable conclusion.  It's generally enjoyable -- it must be said that it's fun to daydream about additional plays from the pens of Shakespeare and Marlowe.  And Turtledove raids Shakespeare's works (as well as Marlowe's and Dekker's and Fletcher's and others) for much of the dialogue, as well as for the invented snatches he presents of the new plays.  But I couldn't quite believe in the presented characters of Shakespeare and de Vega: much attention is paid to putting period sentiments in their mouths, but their general actions and attitudes still struck me as too modern.  And the plot is a bit too slowly paced, not really twisty enough, and rather implausible in basic outline.  It's a pleasant way to pass a few hours, but not a fully successful book.	2003-09-02
US	52417414	R1IEMH47HC821Y	0312156561	422028108	Signs of Life	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Moving, sad, novel of a young woman's dream of flight	I really liked Harrison's gloomy '70s novels, the Viriconium stuff as well as _The Committed Men_, and _The Centauri Device_.  I'd all but lost track of him, though, except for a few short stories, before _Signs of Life_ was published.<br />It's a strange novel, ultimately quite affecting, though I admit I didn't quite &quot;get&quot; it all.  The genre is rather odd: sort of an SF analog to Magical Realism: that is to say, SFnal things happen (or, rather, one SFnal thing), but the explanation might as well be a typical Magical Realist explanation for Fantastical events.<br />Anyway: the story is the first person narrative of one Mick &quot;China&quot; Jones, a middle-aged Englishman.  It seems to be set in the early '90s.  China is involved with a very unpleasant character named Choe Ashton: the two of them run a shady biological courier and toxic waste disposal business.  China falls in love with Isobel Avens (a significant last name, that), a much younger woman.  After some happy years together, her dreams of flight, as well as possibly her unhappiness with China's dealings with Choe, begin to drive her away, finally she leaves him for a doctor who does some advanced bioengineering (here is where the SF theme sneaks in).  All comes to a believable and moving and depressing end.	2003-05-01
US	52417414	R1E0EXB01FN775	0066211263	904474772	The Portrait of Mrs. Charbuque: A Novel	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Lushly written story of old NYand a painter's obsession	Jeffrey Ford's new novel is The Portrait of Mrs. Charbuque, something of a departure from his previous novels, though it does share some of the same obsessions and tropes, and of course it features Ford's easily recognizable prose, lush and at times overheated, but enjoyable and effective for the most part.  But his earlier novels were set in exotic fantasy landscapes -- this book is set in turn of the 20th Century New York -- though Ford makes it seem exotic enough!<br />Mrs. Charbuque is a mysterious woman who engages the services of the novel's narrator, Piero Piambo, a portrait painter who wishes he could be something better. Mrs. Charbuque offers to pay him enough money to allow him to pursue his dream, but on one condition: he must attempt to paint her without ever seeing her. Much of the novel is given to Mrs. Charbuque's stories of her strange life: a father who predicted the future by reading snowflakes, an unfaithful mother, her later life telling fortunes, and her unusual relationship with her husband, who is allowed to see her no more than any other person. Piambo's struggles to paint his mysterious patron are complicated by the growing jealousy of both his lover, and of the apparently estranged Mr. Charbuque. At the same time his old friend Shenz, another portrait painter, offers to track down clues to Mrs. Charbuque's identity. And finally a mysterious plague is infesting New York: women are found bleeding to death through their eyes.<br />The resolution is striking and oddly pulpish. The novel is great fun, mixing outlandish mysteries with sensitive philosophical speculation, and garish adventure with concerns about the character of the artist. These perhaps disparate elements in the end work together quite well: this is a quite satisfying book.	2003-04-27
US	52417414	R3FCO847VUOJR5	0765305968	941263210	Dark Ararat (Emortality)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intriguing biological mystery, less interesting characters	Dark Ararat is the fifth novel in Brian Stableford's ambitious future history of an Earth wracked by biological catastrophe, and of human \\"emortality\\". It is sort of an offshoot. At the beginning of the 22nd century as Earth seemed to face certain disaster, a series of generation ships were launched. One of these ships has arrived after hundreds of years at a new planet. Biologist and TV personality Matthew Fleury is awakened to find that things aren't going quite as planned. The crew of the ship, adapted over generations to onboard life, wants to drop off the colonists and continue traveling. But the first wave of colonists is not sure this new planet can be made habitable. And one of Fleury's colleagues has just been murdered. It is his job, along with a policeman revived along with him, to both investigate the murder, and to investigate the biological mysteries of the planet.<br />Not surprisingly it is the scientific mystery which dominates. Life on this planet is organized around a very different encoding molecule to DNA, and one result of this is that most organisms are some form of chimera. There are also hints of possible intelligent life, and there are hints that this chimerization may result in another form of emortality. Fleury investigates all these things, at the same time giving us a neat tour of the strange planet, while he and the policeman somewhat perfunctorily solve the murder mystery. The eventual scientific explanation is rather clever, though on a few grounds I was underwhelmed. One shortcoming may lie with me: I couldn't quite grasp all the scientific details. Another is quite common in my experience of Stableford: his portrayal of human relationships, especially romantic ones, is very distanced, and it is hard to get inside his characters. Finally, the wrapping up is very rapid, and perhaps too convenient. Still, it's in many ways a neat book - good SF for SF's sake.	2003-04-27
US	52417414	RH6NHUOL2D70Z	0380813300	54907768	Trapped (League of Peoples, Bk. 6)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Fun, fast-moving, not quite convincing, science fantasy	Trapped is James Alan Gardner's sixth novel. All are set in a future (about 500 years from now) dominated by the League of Peoples. Humans have a number of colonies, but only &quot;sentient&quot; humans (non-murderers) can travel to other stars. Earth itself is ruled by the &quot;Spark Lords&quot;, humans who have been given considerable tech by aliens in exchange for keeping tabs on the remaining humans on the planet. The aliens have also seeded Earth with nanotech that can be used by some people in ways that closely mimic traditional magic. The upshot of this setup is that Earth is a nice setting for quasi-fantastical adventures. <br />The hero of the book is Phil, a science teacher at a college in Feliss (roughly Ontario). When one of his students dies, he and several of his friends find themselves on a magical quest, to track down the murderer of the student and to save another student who has special powers. They also hope to give their lives some meaning. <br />The story is fun, often funny, often clever, and quite full of action and adventure. On that level it is well worth reading, and I enjoyed it. But it is also burdened by the overly convenient way in which the author seems to arrange for just the right powers to be available at just the right time, and the overly convenient way in which various folks' motivations dovetail with the needs of the story at the right time. That is, it's a pretty fun book, and a nice fast-moving read, but it is not at all convincing. This isn't his best work, but it's not bad. Gardner's novels as a group are well worth seeking out.  They are full of decent adventure, cute SFnal ideas, and plenty of humour.	2003-04-27
US	52417414	R1AMCYFFQY1Y5X	0312848706	887642373	The Golden Age	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Compelling, well-imagined novel of the far future	This is quite an impressive first novel, with big, fascinating ideas at its core. It is set in a far future Solar System in which most people live in some variety of Virtual Reality, with careful rules governing the interactions of people using different  tyles of VR. The hero is called Phaethon, and he is the son of a powerful man named Helion. Both are engineers, and have teamed up in such projects as turning Jupiter into a second sun, and building machines to extend the life of the Sun, while making its environs safer. But as the book opens, Phaethon becomes aware  hat he has lost a couple centuries of his memory, apparently voluntarily. He soon learns that he has committed some grave offense against society, but not a crime. Both his wife and his father seem oddly estranged from him. And he doesn't know what he did!<br />This novel, the first of a two-part series, involves Phaethon slowly learning the truth about his &quot;offense&quot;, and why he has lost his memory, and what's going on with his wife and father,  nd what is his real identity and purpose in life. Wright uses this process of discovery to also show the reader some of the exotic nature of this curious future. I found it a compelling book, well-imagined and trying hard to do more than just display an exotic future, to do more than just tell a story: also to mean something.  I look forward to the sequel.	2003-04-02
US	52417414	RKD4RFATTLEVG	0765303035	865742455	The Sky So Big and Black (Meme Wars)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	First rate novel of terraforming Mars and disaster	The Sky So Big and Black is a first-rate novel, clearly a Hugo contender in my view. It's scary at times, sweet at times, it presents a fascinating social structure, and some excellent SFnal speculation about terraforming Mars. And it features one of the scariest SFnal ideas since Vernor Vinge's \\"Focus\\" (in A Deepness in the Sky).<br />It is very well structured, presented as a psychologist listening to a series of interviews he did with Teri-Mel Murray, a young woman on Mars who was working with her father as an \\"ecospector\\". It's clear from the start that something terrible happened, and indeed that the psychologist was forced to erase Teri-Mel's memory. It's also clear that he likes her a lot, and is really torn up by what has happened, and worried that he may have to treat her again, for some mysterious reason that takes a long time to become clear. The interviews tell of Teri and her father travelling across the lightly terraformed planet to a \\"Gather\\" of the \\"rounditachis\\", people who live more or less in the open on Mars, working to help advance the terraforming. Teri is hoping that she will be certified a \\"Full Adult\\" at the Gather, and be free to marry her boyfriend. Her father wants her to go back to school for one more year, because he's not convinced that ecospecting will remain a good living. As they travel, they plan to make one more attempt at a big \\"scorehole\\". And Teri is starting to worry about her boyfriend. <br />All the above is cute stuff, and interleaved with neat SFnal details about the terraforming of Mars. In the background lurk details about the future history up to this point, especially the takeover of ecologically ravaged Earth by a \\"meme\\" called \\"One True\\", or \\"Resuna\\", which more or less has turned Earth's population into a hive mind. Also we learn bits and pieces about the psychologist's feelings, which give us hints about the disaster which has clearly occurred. So it's a scary book, as we learn to like Teri more and more, while wejust know that she's going to get hurt real real bad. And when the crisis comes, it's exciting, and terribly sad, and even scarier than I had first expected. The resolution is moving, real, and and open-ended.<br />Barnes' future is on the one hand full of hope, and of cool SFnal stuff, and on the other had it is very very scary, and much of it dominated by something purely evil, yet not sneeringly evil. I should note that this is a sequel to three earlier novels: Orbital Resonance, Kaleidoscope Century, and Candle. But it reads just fine alone.	2003-03-23
US	52417414	RMS0J25CBD8FI	076530502X	666429087	Engine City (Engines of Light)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Solid conclusion to a neat SF trilogy	_Engine City_ concludes Ken MacLeod's second novel series, together called Engines of Light. In the first two novels (_Cosmonaut Keep_ and _Dark Light_) we learned that an asteroid passing near Earth in the mid-21st Century contained intelligent nano-bacteria, who collectively had the intelligence of a god. These beings made available to an international team of cosmonauts a starship, which they took hundreds of thousands of light years to a planet called Mingulay. There they learned that they were only the latest of many waves of colonization of that area of the galaxy, apparently all at the doing of the gods. This \\"second sphere\\" was inhabited by humans from ancient Babylon, for example, and by humans from more recent historical eras, and by intelligent dinosaurs, and by other hominids such as pithkies (Australopithecus). Travel in the Second Sphere is dominated by starships run by intelligent giant squid (the Krakens) and by the saurs, but the new Cosmonauts have a starship, if they can only figure out how to navigate it. In the second book, having learned to navigate the Bright Star, they travel to nearby Croatan (home of the lost Roanoke colony), and there the politically active, long-lived, cosmonauts naughtily foment a rebellion, while also contacting the local gods, and learning some scary secrets about the gods, and about other 8-legged aliens.<br />In _Engine City_ MacLeod works diligently to knit together the various threads of the first two books. In fact, at times the book seems too busy, too full of new ideas only a few of which would have sufficed for a full novel. By the end, however, he does draw things to a fairly satisfying conclusion (only to blow it up again in a clever SF-referential last chapter -- not, though, a harbinger of further books in the series but rather something of a wink (or perhaps grimace) at the reader). <br />At any rate _Engine City_ involves the Bright Star and other new starships establishing a new trading culture, threatening the established hegemony of the kraken-controlled ships of Nova Babylonia. One of the most cynical of the old cosmonauts makes his way to Nova Babylonia to foment a new rebellion, on essentially Stalinist terms. The sinister 8-legged aliens turn up, offering immortality, but at what cost? The gods are provoked. A terrible war is threatened. In general, pretty neat stuff, but I felt the book was a bit rushed, and a bit too packed. I'd rather have focussed more on some of the individual characters. Still, MacLeod has definitely met his obligations to the series reader by answering all the questions he earlier raised. <br />Not a great book but a good one.  I continue to eagerly buy MacLeod's new books as they appear.	2003-03-07
US	52417414	R1DJ3YZHDKRU8Q	0140186301	283114178	Lucky Jim	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Perhaps the classic 20th Century British comic novel	Kingsley Amis is one of my favorite writers, and Lucky Jim (1954) of course is probably his most famous novel.  It's also his first novel, which makes him one of those writers who spent their entire career trying to live up to early success.  Despite Lucky Jim's preeminent reputation, several later novels are at least as good: I'd mention as my personal favorites The Anti-Death League, The Green Man, Ending Up, The Alteration, and The Old Devils. <br />I think this is my third reading of Lucky Jim.  It remains a very enjoyable book. It's the story of Jim Dixon, a history lecturer at a provincial English university shortly after the second world war.  Jim is involved in an unsatisfactory relationship with a drippy fellow lecturer called Margaret Peel, who uses emotional blackmail such as implicit suicide attempts (she took sleeping pills after breaking with her previous boyfriend) to keep him on the string.  He hates his job, and he hates his boss (Professor Welch) if anything even more, while worrying that he won't be retained for the next school year.  He hates phoniness in general, particularly that represented by Professor Welch, who is into recreations of old English music (recorders and all).<br />The plot revolves mainly around Dixon's growing attraction to Christine Callaghan, a beautiful girl who is nominally Professor Welch's son Bertrand's girlfriend -- but Bertrand is also fooling around with a married woman, and he's a crummy artist to boot.  Also, Dixon is working on a lecture about Merrie Olde Englande, which he hopes will impress Professor Welch enough that he can keep his job, but every sentence of which he hates. The resolution is predictable, if rather convenient for Dixon (involving a rich uncle of Christine's), but it satisfies.  The book itself is really very funny: such set-pieces as Dixon's hangover-ridden lecture, and his disastrous drunken night at the Welch's, remain screams after multiple rereadings.<br />I should say that some things bother me a bit. Some of Dixon's stunts (such as stealing a colleague's insurance policies and burning them) seem, well, felonious. And of course Margaret Peel really is someone he's better off breaking up with, but the way Christine is presented as naturally good because she is beautiful does seem rather sexist. Still, all this can be laid to accurate description of a certain character -- and if we root for Jim (as we more or less naturally do), it should be with some uneasiness.<br />All this said, Lucky Jim is deservedly a classic of 20th Century fiction, and an enormously entertaining book.	2003-03-07
US	52417414	R2S95CB2MBPCWE	0553381849	782001440	The Fall of The Kings	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Decent and enjoyable sequel to a minor classic	_The Fall of the Kings_ is Delia Sherman and Ellen Kushner's sequel to Kushner's first novel, _Swordspoint_. This novel is set some 60 years later. One of the heroes, Theron Campion, is the son of one of the heroes of that first novel. He is a somewhat self-indulgent but basically good aristocrat who fairly seriously attends the university, partly to avoid becoming too entangled in what he considers the empty life of most of his fellows. The other hero is Basil St. Cloud, a rising young history professor who believes that the story of the rise and fall of the Kings of their country, and of their advisory Wizards, has been seriously misrepresented. After the last King was deposed and killed 200 years previously (by a direct ancestor to Theron), the official view has been that the Kings were irredeemably corrupt and that the wizards were also corrupt, and that their magic was simply trickery and manipulation. Basil believes that while the later Kings were bad, the first Kings were very good, and he also slowly finds hints that the Wizards may have once been able to do real magic.<br />Basil and Theron fall in love, and as their relationship deepens, strange things begin to happen. Theron continues to have strange dreams which involve turning into, and killing, a deer. Basil runs across a curious book that purports to be a Wizard's spell book. Basil's rivalry with a stodgy fellow professor threatens to bring Basil's most controversial views into the open. The northern part of the Kingdom, from whence came the first King and the Wizards, is the source for a group who secretly yearn for the restoration of the Kings, and this group includes one of Basil's students. The authorities start looking for sources of rebellious sentiment, and they are inevitably led to naive and innocent Theron and Basil. And Theron's fears drive him towards a lovely young woman as a potential wife, naturally angering Basil. <br />It's a pretty fun book to read, with a nicely depicted academic/bohemian milieu. The ending is fairly logical but I found it unsatisfying and a bit abrupt (though I wouldn't be suprised to see a sequel, and I hope we don't wait another 15 years). I did think some characters were ill-treated by the authors (such as Theron's putative wife). I also admit I found the implied support for royalist positions and some rather brutal magic a bit offputting.<br />I'd rank it a notch below _Swordspoint_, despite in some ways being quite a bit more ambitious.  Enjoyable, not a classic.	2003-03-07
US	52417414	R12JF8I6BOXAPI	0061050938	458611053	Schild's Ladder	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ambitious hard SF about a new universe	Perhaps the most radically \\"hard\\" of current SF writers is Greg Egan. His stories and novels turn on challenging and highly speculative ideas, usually related to one or more of physics, computer science, and biology. His newest novel, Schild's Ladder, builds on a rather loopy theory of the deep physical structure of the universe: Quantum Graph Theory. In essence, the entire universe is math. A researcher staging a test of some of the basic elements of this theory inadvertently creates a new universe from scratch. And this universe begins to expand, at half the speed of light, destroying the old universe as it goes.<br />Hundreds of years later, our protagonist, Tchicaya, arrives at Rindler Station, a research platform hovering close to the still expanding boundary of the new universe. He is an advocate of a position called \\"Yielding\\": he feels the new construct is too unique, too valuable an artifact, to destroy. This despite the fact that dozens of inhabited worlds have already been swallowed by it, and many more are threatened. His opponents, the \\"Preservationists\\", are trying to create mathematical entities which will destroy the new universe. The main action of the novel concerns this dispute, which eventually spirals up to murder and sabotage, and an attempt to journey inside the other universe. As such the novel at times reminded me of pulp SF, with its journeys to solar systems inside of atoms. And Egan's attempt, though brave, to describe another supposedly wholly different universe founders, perhaps inevitably, on the sheer difficulty of imagining the radical quantum effects he attempts to show us. In the end, the other universe simply doesn't come off as sufficiently strange.<br />But that isn't all that's going on. Egan also shows us an intriguing future interstellar civilization. Central to this civilization is the idea of hosting brains on computers. This allows practical immortality. It allows light speed travel. It allows the option of living either \\"embodied\\", with the Qusp hosted in a cloned body; or \\"acorporeal\\": running purely on a computer. It allows the use of instant translation programs, and \\"Mediator\\" programs that decode other people's cultural preferences. Egan uses this to portray a future human interstellar civilization composed of some embodied cultures, some acorporeal cultures, and even some \\"anachronauts\\": humans who still run their brain on flesh. His portrayal of this civilization has a number of clever extrapolations<br />Thus Schild's Ladder does three essentially science-fictional things, and does them all with some success, but not complete success. It explores a radically different universe. As I have said this is bravely attempted, with some success, but some failure too. It explores a different way for humans to live in this universe. This is intriguingly worked out as well - though again not wholly successfully. The failure to empathize even remotely with those who choose to remain wholly \\"flesh\\" is a shortcoming. And the characters portrayed seem to regard physics and math as almost the only worthwhile endeavours: the civilization as portrayed seems quite free of art. And finally, the book addresses the morality of destroying or preserving the newly created universe. This is a central and fascinating moral question, and the book is thought-provoking. Unfortunately, once again the deck is stacked: the \\"bad guys\\" aren't given much chance to present their arguments, and they are portrayed as acting thuggishly as well as stupidly, while the \\"good guys\\" are uniformly virtuous. So: a fascinating and ambitious SF book, but also a somewhat disappointing one.	2003-01-31
US	52417414	R3LXVGNWUV4EZY	0765300125	665763998	Ithanalin's Restoration (Legends of Ethshar)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Pleasant light fantasy	_Ithanalin's Restoration_ is Lawrence Watt-Evans's latest Ethshar novel. (Of late he has been alternating his more serious, and longer, Dragon novels with his generally light-hearted Ethshar fantasies.) The main character is Kilisha, the 17 year old apprentice to Master Wizard Ithanalin. One of Ithanalin's spells gets disrupted by a mischievous spriggan, with the unwitting help of a tax-collector, and Ithanalin's \\"essence\\" ends up distributed among various objects, including several pieces of furniture. The spooked tax-collector leaves the door open, and the furniture, having legs, escapes. It falls to Kilisha to track down the escaped furniture and to learn the spell that can restore the pieces of Ithanalin from the pieces of furniture to his inanimate body. Her job is made more complicated because the more senior wizards in the town are unable to help her, as they are concerned with a political crisis: a revolt in another town that may spread.<br />The story is quite fun, a fast and always enjoyable read, with plenty of clever sequences arising from the central situation and the use of limited wizardly magic (such as Kilisha's way of using a love spell to lure back an escaped rug). Also noteworthy is the basic decency and commonsense of the various characters in the book. This is, I think,a particular characteristic of most of Watt-Evans's work -- his characters are pretty normal people, for the most part, and basically act like decent ordinary people we know, with to be sure the occasional foible. To take just one example from this book, we are introduced to the city's overlord, after a scene setting him up to be a lazy fop (semi-evil overlord model 3B, or something). It turns out, though, that he's basically a nice guy, who maybe gets a bit tired of long meetings. I do like this aspect of LWE's stories -- which is present in most of them, though you do get some slightly more extreme characters in for example the Dragon books.	2003-01-31
US	52417414	R3VL6F4652OXQ9	0140124195	307642046	The British Museum Is Falling Down (King Penguin)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun comedy of an Anglo-Catholic academic and birth control	_The British Museum is Falling Down_, published in 1965, is the book in which David Lodge seems to have found his metier -- the comic novel. It also reflects Lodge's Catholicism (as with his later books) -- in this case particularly the frustrations of sincere Roman Catholics with the Church's prohibition on birth control. <br />The novel is set during one day in the life of Adam Appleby.  Adam is working on his Ph. D. thesis in English Literature, and he goes in every day to the British Museum to research his subject. He is also married with three young children. He dreads the prospect of another, but he and his wife are practicing Roman Catholics, and thus are restricted to the &quot;Safe Method&quot; of birth control -- basically an advanced version of the Rhythm Method. But this morning his wife is now three days late for her period.<br />Adam's day is very funnily detailed, as he basically gets nothing done on his thesis, between problems with his motor scooter, worry about his wife being pregnant, and various misadventures, involving a fire scare, a sherry party, and a visit to the aging niece of a minor Catholic novelist on whom Adam is something of an expert. The book is short, cleverly written, very smartly plotted. Lodge includes sections parodying the work of a number of well-known writers, such as Conrad, Joyce, and Hemingway. The characters -- Adam, his wife, his friends Camel and Pond, the novelist's niece and her daughter, a fire-breathing Irish priest, etc. -- are delightfully portrayed. It's not as substantial a book as such later novels as _Changing Places_ or _Paradise News_, but it's great fun.	2003-01-01
US	52417414	R29O3K82W1KWLB	0743435338	531654219	Diplomatic Immunity	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Solid but minor SF mystery - a lesser Vorkosigan novel	Lois McMaster Bujold's Diplomatic Immunity is the latest of her extended series about Miles Vorkosigan, an Imperial Auditor from the rather autocratic planet Barrayar. As Miles returns from his honeymoon trip, he is sent to try to solve a problem for Barrayar at Graf Station in Quaddiespace, the remote system inhabited by the \\"Quaddies\\", genetically modified four-armed humans who were introduced in Bujold's first award-winning novel, 1988's Falling Free. It seems that a Barrayaran crew escorting a group of merchant ships has gotten in trouble with the Quaddies, and the merchant fleet has been detained. Profits are at stake, as is Barrayar's reputation, and possibly their right to trade in Quaddiespace.<br />Miles shows up and finds that the situation is more complex than expected. One Barrayaran crew member has disappeared, and another apparently wishes to desert. The Quaddies are furious, and the merchants are furious. Luckily for Miles, he has an unexpected friend on Graf Station: Bel Thorne, who worked with Miles early in his career, and who still secretly works for Barrayar. With Bel's help, Miles starts to get to the bottom of the various mysteries, only to find that an even worse crisis looms, involving the possibility of war with Barrayar's traditional enemy, Cetaganda, as well as a threat to destroy Graf Station.<br />Bujold is always a readable writer, and she tells a fairly decent story here. But some of the energy of the earlier Miles books is lacking. One wonders if her interest in the series is declining, or if the newly settled nature of Miles's life (his stable job, his happy marriage) has leached the tension from the overall series story arc. This novel is enjoyable but not exceptional, and the ending is reasonable but in many ways very pat, very convenient. Minor Bujold.	2003-01-01
US	52417414	R1U54YT36LH2MR	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating, grotesque, intelligent, moving science fantasy	This new novel is set in the same world as Perdido Street Station, Bas Lag, and as such fits loosely into that vague subgenre sometimes called \\"Science Fantasy\\". The Scar opens with mysterious doings in the ocean, and then we meet the noted linguist Bellis Coldwine, who is fleeing New Crobuzon to the colony city of Nova Esperancia. <br />The ship carrying Bellis Coldwine (as well as ocean biologist Johannes Tearfly and a group of Remade prisoners including a man named Tanner Sack) does not get very far, though, before it is overtaken by pirates from the mysterious floating city Armada. Bellis, Johannes, and the other passengers and prisoners are taken to Armada, where they are informed they will live the rest of their lives. They cannot leave the floating city, but they will otherwise be allowed full citizenship. Tanner Sack and Johannes accept fairly eagerly, but Bellis is desperate to have a chance to return to her beloved home city. Soon she falls into league with the mysterious Silas Fennec, a spy from New Crobuzon who is as desperate as she to return home, in his case because he has information of a coming attack on their city. It becomes clear that the leaders of Armada are engaged in a mysterious project, and Bellis becomes a key figure when she finds a crucial book in a language that she is a leading expert in. She learns that Armada is planning to harness a huge sea creature called an avanc, and to have the avanc tow the floating city to the dangerous rift in reality called the Scar, where it might be possible to do \\"Probability Mining\\". More importantly to her and Fennec, her new influence gives her the chance to get a message Fennec has prepared back to New Crobuzon.<br />The story takes further twists and turns from there -- it's very intelligently plotted, with the motivations of the characters well portrayed, and with plot elements that seem weak later revealed, after a twist or two, to make much more sense. But it's not the plot that is the key to enjoying the book. The characters are also fascinating. Besides Bellis and Tanner and Fennec, there are such Armadan figures as the symetrically scarred Lovers; Uther Doul, their dour and enigmatic bodyguard; and the Brucolac, a vampir, and a fairly conventional one, but still strikingly portrayed. As in Perdido Street Station, Mieville invents fascinating part-human species, hybrids of humans and other forms, in this book most strikingly the anophelii, mosquito men, and, more scarily and affectingly, mosquito women. <br />In the end it is Mieville's fervent, sometimes overheated, imagination, that drives the book. His descriptions of cruel and dirty places, and odd creatures, are endless intriguing. Yes, he sometimes luxuriates overmuch in grotesquerie, but I suspect any application of discipline to his imagination would lose us more neat visions than we might gain by avoiding the occasional silliness or vulgarness. The book is also a bit too long -- some of this is the author's delight in showing us this or that cool gross notion he has had, but also I think his sense of pace is weak. The other weakness is one fairly common in certain fantasy: when so many weird magical things are allowed, on occasion it seems that things happen, or characters gain powers, for reasons of the plot only. But though the book is a bit overlong, it remains compelling reading, and though the magical happenings aren't always fully consistent, they really don't strain suspension of disbelief too much: on the whole, this is another outstanding effort from Mieville. I'd rank it about even with Perdido Street Station, and perhaps slightly better on the grounds that the plot really is worked out quite well, with plenty of surprises and an honest, satisfying, resolution.	2002-11-13
US	52417414	R22YK13YLGSN2P	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Funny, magical realist, tragic novel	_Everything is Illuminated_ is the first novel by Jonathan Safran Foer. It's quite a striking performance, beginning as a very funny tour de force and modulating toward tragedy by the end. It's told in three threads. One is a series of letters from Alex, a young Ukrainian man, to the author (who is called Jonathan Safran Foer). Alex recalls some of their adventures when Foer visited the Ukraine, and discusses their parallel writing projects, which they seem to be passing back and forth. The second thread is Alex's writing, which is an account of Foer's visit to the Ukraine. Foer, called \\"the hero\\" in this thread, is searching for his grandfather's home village, destroyed by the Nazis in 1942, and also for the woman who helped save his grandfather's life. Alex and his own grandfather are appointed by Alex' father, who runs a tourist agency, to act as translator and tour guide. The third thread is \\"Foer\\"'s writing, a very magic realist account of the history of Foer's grandfather's village, Trachimbrod, from the time of the mysterious appearance of Foer's several greats grandmother in the river Brod up to the time of the massacre.<br />The sections narrated by Alex are, at the outset, extremely funny. Alex writes in a fractured English clearly influenced by a thesaurus -- he's always using improper synonyms, such as using \\"rigid\\" for \\"difficult\\" (because \\"rigid\\" is a synonym of \\"hard\\" which is a synonym of \\"difficult\\".) ...<br />The story winds inevitably towards shattering revelations about the Nazi massacre, and about what happened to both Jonathan's and Alex's grandfathers at that time. This all works very well, though the tonal shifts are almost dizzying, from the wacky tone of the early Alex chapters, to the utterly weird magical realist presentation of the history of Trachimbrod, to the terrible events during the War, and to Alex's maturation and eventual decisions about his future. The characters, Alex in particular, are perfectly portrayed. All in all, a finefine first novel.	2002-10-23
US	52417414	R1AZX0X79L1M7N	0743435591	38471322	Eternal Frontier	Books	4	58	59	N	N	Invaluable collection of obscure Schmitz stories	_Endless Frontier_ is the sixth book in Eric Flint and Guy Gordon's project to return James H. Schmitz' work to print. From my perspective this has been a successful and welcome undertaking. This book is particularly welcome, not because it is the best (it is not, not by a long shot), but because it contains some of the most obscure of Schmitz' stories. Fans of Schmitz, like me, spent much time in used book stories finding his work before the recent reprint series -- and in that way it was relatively easy to collect most of the Telzey stories, the Trigger stories, and books like _Agent of Vega_ and _The Demon Breed_. But it was much harder to find stuff like \\"The Ties of Earth\\", a long novella only published as a two-part magazine serial, or \\"Captives of the Thieve-Star\\", a novelette which prefigures in some way Schmitz' later female characters, but which was only ever published in a 1951 issue of the classic pulp Planet Stories. But _Endless Frontier_ collects all of Schmitz' short fiction that had not previously been reprinted -- including some stories from mystery magazines. It also includes Schmitz last (and by far weakest) novel, _The Endless Frontiers_. My rating for the book is based more on its appeal to its intended audience -- Schmitz fans -- than on its intrinsic merits. It's fair to say that the earlier Baen reprints gathered the bulk of his best work -- it's easy to see why some of these stories haven't seen the light of day in a while. But for those of us who have learned to love his work, this is an invaluable way to get those tantalizing few stories we haven't yet found.<br />That said, there are some very fine pieces here. The above-mentioned longer stories, \\"The Ties of Earth\\" and \\"Captives of the Thieve-Star\\", are both very uneven, but even if they don't work completely, they have some nice bits. And among the shorter stories are some first-rate pieces. Many of these are in the section the editors have called \\"Dark Visions\\" -- Schmitz usually went for fairly conventional happy endings, but in these stories the horrific implications of some of Schmitz' ideas are fully explored. Especially good is \\"We Don't Want Any Trouble\\", a very neat SF horror story about an alien invasion. Another fine alien invasion story is \\"These are the Arts\\". Schmitz wrote some crime fiction as well, often for the SF magazines, but also in mystery magazines. Stories like \\"Ham Sandwich\\", about a slick operator running a psi scam, and \\"Where the Time Went\\", about a very different SFnal crime, are clever and enjoyable.<br />Even the lesser stories here are generally breezily enjoyable. This book probably isn't a good choice for your first Schmitz book, but if you try the more famous ones and find you like his stuff, it's a worthwhile purchase.for fairly conventional happy endings, but in these stories the horrific implications of some of Schmitz' ideas are fully explored. Especially good is \\"We Don't Want Any Trouble\\", a very neat SF horror story about an alien invasion. Another fine alien invasion story is \\"These are the Arts\\". Schmitz wrote some crime fiction as well, often for the SF magazines, but also in mystery magazines. Stories like \\"Ham Sandwich\\", about a slick operator running a psi scam, and \\"Where the Time Went\\", about a very different SFnal crime, are clever and enjoyable.<br />Even the lesser stories here are generally breezily enjoyable. This book probably isn't a good choice for your first Schmitz book, but if you try the more famous ones and find you like his stuff, it's a worthwhile purchase.	2002-10-02
US	52417414	RCRA3DADTJXRD	0312848749	90319839	The Other Nineteenth Century	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent strange stories of a 19th century that never was	The Other Nineteenth Century is the third recent hardcover collection of a selection of Avram Davidson's short fiction, after The Avram Davidson Treasury (1998) and The Investigations of Avram Davidson (1999).  Needless to say this is very welcome -- perhaps a reissue of the complete Eszterhazy stories (rumoured to be in the works), and a first collection of the complete Limekiller stories, and maybe one more collection of excellent leftover pieces would be nice. This collection is theoretically of stories set in some version or other of the 19th Century, though a few stories are actually set in the 20th Century, and one or two may be set in the 18th or earlier.  But no point quibbling. <br />The collection is marvelous. It displays Davidson's trademark wonderfully discursive prose, and his autodidact-style erudition, and his deep interest in the nooks and crannies of history. The stories span pretty much Davidson's whole career. Among the best: \\"What Strange Stars and Skies\\", about a virtuous do-gooder woman ministering to people in the slums of London who runs afoul of \\"that unspeakably evil Eurasian, Motilal Smith\\". \\"The Lineaments of Gratified Desire\\" aka \\"The Price of a Charm\\", about a man in the early part of this century deciding whether to buy a love charm or a hunting charm -- with significant results.  \\"The Montavarde Camera\\" is a spooky story about a man with a nagging wife who buys the title camera only to learn its terrible power.  The rather late \\"Twenty-Three\\", in which we slowly learn the horrible secret of an old family.  Another late story, \\"El Vilvoy de las Islas\\", about a strange man living on a remote South African island.  One of the last (perhaps it was the last) Eszterhazy stories, \\"The Odd Old Bird\\", more of a jape than anyhing.  \\"Dragon Skin Drum\\", a dark story about two American servicemen in China, and Mao's revolution, and the ignorance of Westerners.  And so on, and so on ... excellent excellent stuff.	2002-09-25
US	52417414	R2NSVQ1R90Z399	0765301164	29730777	A Scattering of Jades	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Promising but not completely successful first novel	A Scattering of Jades is firmly in Tim Powers territory. It's a fantasy cum secret history dealing with obscure gods and magic impinging on the life of an ordinary man. The man ends up injured, just as most of Powers' heroes, and he must make a desperate journey, trusting implausible forces, to save a loved one. In this case, the gods are mostly Aztec gods, particularly Tlaloc, with a leavening of Lenni Lenape gods. And the \\"secret history\\" is of the United States, dealing with Aaron Burr's mad ambitions and their aftermath, and more directly with the most horrible blot on U.S. history: slavery.<br />The novel turns on a plot devised by Riley Steen, an associate of Burr's. Following on some discoveries Burr supposedly made, Steen has determined that if he can find a certain \\"chacmool\\", or mummy, to help channel the power of the Aztec god Tlaloc, and if he can create the perfect young virgin sacrifice to Tlaloc, a \\"new sun\\" will dawn in 1843. A new world will be created, and Steen believes he will be the temporal power in this world. To this end, he causes Jane Prescott, the daughter of a New York would-be journalist named Archie Prescott, to be burned horribly. He captures Jane in the aftermath of the fire, in which Archie believes she died along with his wife. Some years later, Jane escapes back to New York, to haunt an unbelieving Archie with her claim that she is his long-lost still-living daughter. Meanwhile, Steen finally manages to locate the chacmool, who is found in Mammoth Cave by a slave named Stephen Bishop.<br />The main plot revolves around Archie's semi-coincidental involvement with the chacmool, which Steen has temporarily stashed in P.T. Barnum's American Museum. Archie stumbles upon the chacmool awakening to its power, and after nearly dying on a couple of occasions, he finds himself somehow linked to it. Finally he believes in Jane's claim that she is his daughter, but too late: she is under the chacmool's power, kidnapped again and taken to Mammoth Cave to be a willing sacrifice. Archie must travel halfway across America to find his daughter, and to reconcile his own desires with those of Stephen Bishop, Jane, and two old gods. Meanwhile Stephen must weigh Tlaloc's promise of freedom from slavery with his own sense of morality; while a variety of dead people and other gods also try to interfere.<br />The story is exciting enough, and the ending is well-done and satisfying. But along the way I was unconvinced on a couple of grounds. Most problematic was the motivations of various characters, who seemed to do the plot's bidding against all good sense. Likewise, all the characters leaped too rapidly, to my mind, to belief in some truly weird happenings. Finally, I never really engaged emotionally, or mythically, with the old gods Irvine describes. Pure and simply, they and their powers did not resonate with me. So the novel was somewhat interesting, but not wholly satisfying. Nonetheless, it's a promising debut for an author I will continue to watch closely.	2002-09-23
US	52417414	R3MQZORF94VNQZ	076530371X	481887785	Permanence	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Exhilarating in parts, frustrating in parts	Permanence, is at once exhilarating and frustrating. Exhilarating because it attacks a truly worthwhile larger SFnal theme in an original fashion, coming to original conclusions; and because it is packed with clever technological and scientific notions, and with some awe-inspiring vistas. Frustrating because much of the impact of this is dissipated by the unconvincing characters, and by an overwrought plot complete with sneering cardboard villains. The good outweighs the bad, I think: this book is fun to read and thoughtful, and its resolution is believable. But it falls short of its potential. <br />The two main characters are Meadow-Rue Cassels, a young woman from a poor comet-like world who stumbles across a valuable object that may be of alien origin, and Michael Bequith, a scientist and monk who helps study the ruins of alien races. The book also concerns some political machinations between the richer worlds linked by Faster-Than-Light travel, and the older, decaying, \\"Halo\\" worlds linked by Slower-Than_Light \\"cyclers\\".  <br />Also central to the book is the pursuit of the goal of \\"Permanence\\": the formation of a culture with the prospect of permanent existence. Rue's discovery, of a hitherto completely unknown alien artifact, may be a key to this goal. <br />The eventual explanation of the nature of the artifact is very interesting. Furthermore, the conclusions reached about the prospects for true \\"Permanence\\", and about the differences between an STL culture and an FTL culture, are also nicely handled. In addition, there is a neat alien race, and a fair amount of very clever tech. Set against these positives is a set of villains who seem mostly motivated by the generalized desire to oppress and kill other people, the rather fuzzily described \\"Rights Economy\\", a not quite convincing or sufficiently involving love story, characters that don't quite come to life, a rather flabbily-structured plot, and some annoying woo-woo mysticism in the description of MichaelBequith's \\"kami\\". In other words -- Permanence has got many of the strengths of the best Hard SF, and many of the weaknesses as well. Which means, if you're a fan of Hard SF, this book is definitely for you. Schroeder is playing in Vernor Vinge's league, and if Vinge is still the champ, Schroeder is definitely a promising newcomer.	2002-09-23
US	52417414	RGH51TXBBUQJ2	158715143X	151288791	Peregrine: Primus	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Wordy? Yes, gloriously so!  A delight!	Avram Davidson was one of the SF field's true greats, a strikingly original writer of heady and eccentric prose. His virtues were most apparent at shorter lengths: his novels sometimes fall apart structurally, and sometimes show signs of having been written rapidly to rather pulpish models, though even in the weakest novels enough of his odd vision is present to make them worth reading.<br />One of his most accessible novels is Peregrine Primus, originally published in 1971. It's the first part of a projected trilogy, and the second book, Peregrine Secundus, appeared in 1981, but the third book was never written. Lack of closure is not a problem: the joys of these books are not to be found in the working out of the plot, but in the individual, very funny incidents, and in luxurious sentence after intoxicating sentence. Davidson's voice is addictive, and in these books it is developed to the utmost. <br />The story is set in an alternate history. Peregrine is the younger son of &quot;the last pagan King in lower Europe&quot;. When he reaches his majority, his father reluctantly exiles him, in order to prevent trouble with the Crown Prince. So begin Peregrine's, er, peregrinations. Accompanied by a faithful page and an aging sorcerer, he roams about &quot;lower Europe&quot;, encountering the remnants of an eccentric Roman Empire, a wide variety of mutually heretical Christians, and many other wonders. A glorious book - and most any other Davidson you can find will reward the purchase as well.	2002-09-12
US	52417414	RSXNK00A4L3YS	1892065029	448323258	Pilots Choice Liaden Universe Adventures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Delightful pair of SF romances	Pilots Choice contains two prequels to the early Liaden novels Agent of Change and Conflict of Honors. One tells the story of the romance of the parents of the hero of the first, and the other the story of the romance of the parents of the hero of the second. Both books are primarily science fiction romances (in contrast to the earlier books, which are more purely Space Opera, with elements of romance). I detected the distinct influence of Georgette Heyer (acknowledged by the authors in an afterword).<br />Local Custom is the first book. It tells of Anne Davis, a Terran Professor of Linguistics who had a fling with a Liaden Master Trader, Er Thom yos Galan, some three years prior to the action of the novel. A son resulted, of whom Er Thom knows nothing. Back on Liad, Er Thom is being urged to take a contract wife and provide his clan with a child, but he can not bring himself to take any interest in any Liaden women. He decides to return to Anne to say farewell once and for all, and provide himself with emotional closure. Instead, he finds that his feelings for her (and hers for him) are as intense as ever. Also, he finds he has a son, whom she has named Shan yos Galan. By Liaden custom, that son belongs to his Clan -- surely Anne will see it that way -- surely anyone would? Anne misunderstands, but agrees to visit Er Thom's family. Once there, she faces the hostility of his prickly Aunt, who cannot tolerate the thought of a Terran in the family; as well as danger from those proud Liadens who object to her linguistics studies; and finally, the horror of realizing that Er Thom believes that Shan will stay on Liad. The resolution comes when all sides come to some accommodation with the local customs of the others.<br />The second novel, Scout's Progress, in many ways a direct sequel to the first, finds Er Thom's beloved cousin Daav, an ex-Scout and a Master Pilot, also facing the necessity of a contract marriage. He is somewhat resigned to this, despite disliking hisarranged mate, and despite facing the hostility of her family to the presence of a Terran in his extended household. At the same time the brilliant mathematician Aelliana Caylon, daughter of an impoverished Clan, is facing abuse from her vain brother, who resents her abilities. Her only thought is to escape to Terran space, where the strict social rules that govern Liadens do not apply -- but how? Then, rather improbably, she finds herself with a spaceship -- and the Master Pilot who ends up helping her get her pilot's license is -- well, you've guessed it.<br />It's clear that these two novels are in the Romance mode, and they share some of the weaknesses of the typical Regency Romance.  For one example, the place of the lower classes on Liad is rather glossed over (just as with the lower classes of England in 1814 in a typical Regency); for another, the heroes are all strikingly talented; for a third, plenty of coincidence intervenes in their favor. But take these as conventions of the genre and let them pass. The stories also have the strengths of the better Romances: engaging characters, involving love stories, a fairly believable strict social structure against which to mildly rebel. I found them compulsively readable, and very, very enjoyable: indeed, they are my favorites of the Liaden novels to date.	2002-09-09
US	52417414	R12TNFAZDXTH4Q	0441009271	105212435	Scout's Progress	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Very enjoyable SF romance	Scout's Progress is a prequel to the main sequence of Liaden novels that begins with Agent of Change. It tells the story of the romance of the parents of the hero of that novel. It is primarily a science fiction romance (in contrast to the earlier book, which is more purely Space Opera, with elements of romance). I detected the distinct influence of Georgette Heyer.<br />Daav yos Phelium, a Liaden of the somewhat renegade Clan Korval, and an ex-Scout and a Master Pilot, is facing the necessity of a contract marriage. He is somewhat resigned to this, despite disliking his arranged mate, and despite facing the hostility of her family to the presence of a Terran in his extended household. At the same time the brilliant mathematician Aelliana Caylon, daughter of an impoverished Clan, is facing abuse from her vain brother, who resents her abilities. Her only thought is to escape to Terran space, where the strict social rules that govern Liadens do not apply -- but how? Then, rather improbably, she finds herself with a spaceship -- and the Master Pilot who ends up helping her get her pilot's license is -- well, you've guessed it.<br />The nove  follows many of the conventions of the romance genre: not always a good thing, but enjoyable as long as you expect it.  It has, at any rate, the strengths of the better Romances: engaging characters, an involving love story, a fairly believable strict social structure against which to mildly rebel. I found it compulsively readable, and very, very enjoyable.	2002-09-09
US	52417414	R1SY7X46NGY2HA	076530418X	599134250	Stories of Your Life and Others	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Some of the best short SF of the past decade	Ted Chiang's Stories of Your Life and Others collects all his fiction to date, including one new story. It is an excellent collection. I reread the earlier stories for the first time in a long time -- I was particularly impressed on rereading by \\"Tower of Babylon\\", which posits a cosmology in which a Tower of Babel could actually be successfully built. I admit I didn't quite get \\"Division by Zero\\", about a woman mathematician driven to despair when she proves that arithmetic is inconsistent. \\"Understand\\" is a nice, dark, story about a man who becomes a superman when he undergoes an experimental brain treatment -- and what happens when he finds another superman. <br />Of the later stories, \\"Story of Your Life\\" remains my favorite, both very very moving and mind-blowing as well, told in second person successfully (and for good reason). It accomplishes the rare feat of combining an interesting bit of SFnal speculation (concerning aliens who perceive time differently than we do), worth a story on its own merits, with a moving human story (about a woman and her daughter, who dies young), and using the SF ideas to really drive home the human themes. While at the same time maintaining interest as pure SF. I'm fond of saying that there are two types of SF: stories about the science, and stories which use the science to be about people. This is both types in one. \\"Seventy-Two Letters\\" has a great central idea, and it does some nice things working out the implications, but the story itself is resolved with too much actiony hugger-mugger. \\"Hell is the Absence of God\\" again has a neat central conceit, and is uncompromising in working it out -- but I admit I was confused by the ending. His Nature short-short is a nice speculation on the future of science in a \\"post-human\\" world. And the new story, \\"Liking What You See\\"  (reminiscent (both in central idea and form) of Raphael Carter's \\"Congenital Agenesis of Gender Ideation\\"), again takes a neat idea, the development of a means of making people unable to perceive human beauty, and extrapolates the consequences wonderfully. (I did think he cooked his argument a bit by having all the \\"opponents\\" of the side he seemed to favor being basically evil.)<br />So far Chiang hasn't been very prolific, but even so, 7 stories of this quality in just over a decade is better than most writers do in a career.	2002-09-06
US	52417414	R2Z7Q0BF1A9KQ5	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	84	90	N	N	One of the best books of perhaps the best naval series ever	In praising Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin books I am on well-trodden ground. In a sense, it is superfluous to do so: so many people, of such varied and excellent taste, have praised these books to the skies that further lauds from the modest likes of me are hardly necessary. Still, I'm glad to add my words. These stories concern Jack Aubrey, a ship captain in the English Navy at the time of the Napoleonic Wars, and his great friend Stephen Maturin, an Irish-Catalan doctor and spy who in the first book joins Jack's crew as ship doctor.<br />As H. M. S. Surpries opens, political machinations cost Jack his prize money (earned in the previous book0, and Stephen's cover in Spain is blown. As a result, and also because Stephen is scheming to see his lover Diana again (who has been taken by her keeper Richard Canning to India), Jack takes command of the aged frigate H.M.S. Surprise, and is sent to Cambodia (stopping in India) to deliver the new British envoy to the Sultan of Kampong.<br />Thus the setup for a long, wonderful, account of the voyage to the Orient and back. The pleasures of this book are remarkably varied: high comedy, such as the famous drunken sloth incident; high adventure, as the men of the Surprise battle not only the South Atlantic at its fiercest, but also the French; and bitter disappointment and even tragedy, in Stephen's seesaw relationship with Diana, as well as Stephen's involvement with a young Indian girl.<br />The pleasures of this book, however, are not restricted to a fine plot. The ongoing development of the characters of Jack and Stephen, and of their complex and fully described friendship, is a major achievement. In addition, the many minor characters are fascinating: the envoy Mr. Stanhope, Stephen's Indian friend, the various ship's officers and men, other ship captains, and so on. And O'Brian's depiction of the building of an effective crew, the relationship of captain to officers to men, is another fascinating detail, and somethinghe revisits from book to book, as Jack encounters different crews in different circumstances. Finally, O'Brian is a fine writer of prose, with a faintly old-fashioned style, well poised to evoke the atmosphere of the time of which he writes to readers of our time, and consistently quotable, in his dry fashion.<br />Jack and Stephen are heroic in certain aspects of their characters, but they are both multi-faceted characters, with terrible flaws and endearing crotchets in addition to their accomplishments. And they truly come across to this reader as characters of their time, and not 20th Century people cast back into the past. Even Stephen's very contemporary racial and religious attitudes are well-motivated by his background, and expressed in language which reeks wonderfully of his time: &quot;Stuff. I have the greatest esteem for Jews, if anyone can speak of a heterogeneous great body of men in such a meaningless, illiberal way.&quot;<br />I recommend all these books highly. It was with great difficulty the first time through the series that I restrained myself, upon finishing each book, from immediately starting in on the next one.	2002-08-24
US	52417414	R2H7M5RD73784F	0553292242	772866315	USE OF WEAPONS	Books	5	178	185	N	N	Spectacular and thought-provoking space opera	Use of Weapons is set around the edges of Banks' utopian star-civilization the Culture, which is featured in a number of Banks' books. Cheradenine Zakalwe is not a Culture citizen, but he has been employed by the Special Circumstances branch of the Culture's Contact section as a mercenary, trying to influence conflicts on a variety of planets to be resolved in the direction the Culture prefers. As the main action of the story opens, Zakalwe has \\"retired\\" from SC. Diziet Sma, who has been Zakalwe's \\"control\\" in the past, is rudely summoned from her latest (quite pleasurable) assignment in order to find Zakalwe and recruit him for one more emergency mission (involving a situation with which Zakalwe was previously involved).<br />From this point, the novel progresses in two main directions. The main branch of the story follows Sma forward in time, as she pursues and eventually finds Zakalwe, and as Sma and Zakalwe accomplish, in general terms, the mission on which the SC branch has sent them. This involves convincing a retired politician who supports the \\"right\\" side (anti-terraforming, pro-Machine Intelligence) of a conflict in an unstable star cluster to return to the arena and forestall a coming war, and then also involves some intervention in a \\"brushfire\\" which has broken out as a precursor to the war. This story is exciting and enjoyable, with plenty of Banksian action, Banksian scenery, and Banksian humor, the last as usual particularly embodied in the character of Sma's drone assistant, Skaffen-Amtiskaw. (Banks' machine characters are inveterate scene-stealers.)<br />The second plot thread moves steadily backward in time (complicated by a couple of even-farther backward flashbacks), following Zakalwe's career as an agent for SC, back to his recruitment by SC and his war experiences prior to that, and finally back to his formative years as an aristocrat of sorts on a planet with roughly 19th-20th century Earth technology and social structure. This thread allowsus to slowly learn more of Zakalwe's character, and of the traumatic events which have made him the rather tortured individual he is at the time of the main action. Thus, the novel's structure is at first blush mildly experimental. However, this structure is really logical, and essential to the reader's experience. Essentially, the main action is illuminated by our growing understanding of Zakalwe's past. And the use of Sma as a viewpoint character (despite her somewhat non-centrality to most of the action sequences) is a vital strategy: in a sense, she becomes a stand-in for the reader: and part of our understanding of the novel is trying to understand Sma's feelings for Zakalwe (which are not romantic at all, by the way), and to measure her Use of the Weapon that is Cheradenine Zakalwe in the context of Zakalwe's humanness, and in a sort of parallel or contrast to Zakalwe's expert use of a variety of weapons.<br />The climax of the novel is a shocker. However, it's not just a \\"surprise ending for the sake of the surprise\\". It's crucial to our understanding of the book: and it gives the book meaning far beyond the (very good) adventure story it has been up to that point. The climax seemed to reverberate back through the entire book, giving new meaning to almost every incident. This is a book which almost demands immediate rereading.  I think it is still Banks' best book, and one of the essential SF novels of the past quarter-century.	2002-08-23
US	52417414	R35OQA0HB9DNV3	0441009123	718327533	Chasm City	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Impressive Hard SF	Chasm City is the main city of the planet Yellowstone, which orbits Epsilon Eridani. Some 7 years prior to the action of the book, Yellowstone and its orbital habitats were devastated by the Melding Plague, which destroyed the nanomachines upon which much of the high-tech infrastructure depended, and which effected horrible alterations in anything (and anyone) dependent on that sort of technology.<br />The central thread of the this novel is brutally simple: Tanner Mirabel comes to Yellowstone from Sky's Edge looking to kill Argent Reivich, who had killed the woman Tanner loved. However, that's just the skeleton on which a more complex plot is hung. The story unfolds in three threads, all nominally from Tanner's point of view. The first thread takes place over a rather short period in Chasm City as Tanner looks for Reivich, in the process learning a lot about the curious nature of the decayed city -- especially the conflicts between the \\"Mulch\\" (lower class) and the Canopy (where the aristocrats hang out). Tanner becomes involved in a dangerous \\"Game,\\" in which bored Canopy residents kidnap people from the Mulch and hunt them to their death. He also hears of the illicit trade in \\"Dream Fuel,\\" which seems to give users immunity from the Melding Plague.<br />Another thread tells, in flashbacks, of Tanner's association with the arms dealer Cahuella back on Sky's Edge, and Cahuella's wife Gitta (with whom he falls in love), and Reivich's attempt on Cahuella's life (in revenge for Cahuella supplying the weapons that killed Reivich's family), which led to Gitta's death. Finally, Tanner has apparently been infected with an \\"indoctrination virus,\\" which implants memories of Sky Haussmann, the sometimes revered, sometimes hated, last Captain of the first ship to reach Sky's Edge. As those memories return to Tanner, at first in dreams, later more insistently, he learns a somewhat different, much stranger, story of the journey of the colonizing generation starships from Earthto 61 Cygni.<br />As the reader expects, these threads converge, leading to revelations about Tanner's past, the truth about Sky Haussmann, the real nature of the Yellowstone colony, the place of humans in the universe, and the emptiness of the revenge motive. To a pretty impressive extent, Reynolds manages to deliver on some of the rather large implicit promises he has made the reader: for one, these threads dovetail pretty well; for another, some of the big revelations are pretty neat. On the other hand, the whole revenge motif seems forced from the beginning, and the resolution to that aspect, while twisty enough to be interesting, doesn't quite convince.<br />This novel is full of neat SFnal ideas, not necessarily brilliantly new, but very well-realized: the generation ships (treated rather differently than usual in SF), some genetic technology, some alien ecosystem stuff, even a hint of a communication system reminiscent of the Dirac Communicator in James Blish's \\"Beep.\\" It sets up expectations for a pretty spectacular closing revelation, tying together the three threads, and as I've said, it pretty much delivers on those expectations. The resolution had elements that I expected, and which were nicely foreshadowed, plus elements that were a great surprise, but which still worked for me. Thus, I'd say, that in terms of large-scale plot and setting, the book works very well. The novel's faults, then, lie in some small-scale plot elements, and characterization.<br />The plot, particularly Tanner's attempts to find Reivich, depends on a lot of implausible coincidence and luck, super-powerful characters who still don't kill their rivals when reasonably they should, and secret organizations suddenly being penetrated by little more than brandishing a gun in the face of underlings. More tellingly, the characters are a bit under-motivated, and they are pretty much all evil and violent, but not really presented in such a way. More than several times, we are told that such and such a character, single-mindedly bent on killing several other characters, is really not bad and is justified in so doing. This seems to represent an awfully cynical view of humanity: everyone is purely out for number one, and is pretty much ready to kill anyone in their way. <br />On balance, this is a pretty impressive book. The faults are the faults of much SF, especially hard SF, and the virtues are the virtues of the same sort of SF. It doesn't, then, transcend its subgenre at all, although it does do very well within those boundaries. And for a long book, it reads smoothly enough, and keeps the interest. It's another step towards what could become a very significant 21st century hard SF career.	2002-08-20
US	52417414	R26L6053LUKBON	0553573357	487389793	Blue Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Satisfying if uneven trilogy conclusion	One of the most impressive ongoing hard science fiction epics of recent years is Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy. Red Mars won the Nebula award, Green Mars and Blue Mars each won the Hugo.<br />Robinson has tried to portray, in considerable detail, the story of the colonization and terraforming of Mars, beginning in 2027 and continuing for some 200 years. He has worked hard to get the science right, and to this reader, it is very real-seeming, impressive and interesting. It must be admitted, though, that he made some errors. Robinson himself has admitted to fudging the time scale of terraformation (compressing maybe 1000 years of likely effort to 200 years) in order to keep the story at a human scale. In addition there were certain annoying thermodynamic errors, and some aerodynamic silliness. I also took issue with his large reliance on nearly autonomous machines; and with the somewhat handwaving and near-miraculous introduction of radical life-extension technology (this last being in part another strategy to keep the story &quot;human-scale&quot;, as it allows him to have some characters survive the entire trilogy).)<br />Red Mars told the story of the initial colonization of Mars, first by the &quot;First Hundred&quot;, a joint Russian-American expedition, then by Earth-dominated, mostly corporate-controlled colonists who followed to build on the efforts of the &quot;First Hundred&quot;. It ended with an unsuccessful revolution against Earth's domination of Mars. The Red in its title referred to the pristine, unmodified, planet. Green Mars advanced the story of Mars' colonization, introducing many second- and third-generation characters, and ended in a generally successful revolution which established Martian independence. The Green of the title refers to the greening effects of terraformation.<br />The action of the book, like that of the first two, is presented in a series of novella-length parts, each somewhat independent, each from the viewpoint of a different character. Many of the First Hundred return in this book as viewpoint characters of sections, as well as some of the later generation members introduced in Green Mars, and at least one new, significant, character for this book. To me, Robinson's best work has always been at novella length, so this plays to his strengths. (For example, my favorite Mars story, not part of the official Mars trilogy, is &quot;Green Mars&quot;, collected in The Martians.) The linked-novella form also allows significant jumps in time, important in a story which takes place over such a long time (about a century for Blue Mars, I believe). A negative effect of this structure is a certain slackening in the overall story: as I have said, Blue Mars seems mainly to be about the rapprochement of Red and Green (quite movingly symbolized on a personal level by several segments which deal with the personal rapprochement of long-time &quot;enemies&quot; Ann Clayborne, the leading Red, and Sax Russell, the first terraformer); but in addition it is concerned with rounding out the overall story of the colonization of Mars, and for Robinson this means considering the future of the rest of the solar system as well. Thus Blue Mars has sections set on Earth, on Mercury, and in the moons of Uranus, as well as visits to Venus, the asteroids, and the others of the Outer Planets. These sections are quite interesting, but also seem to result in a certain dilution of the overall effect.<br />Besides his interest in the &quot;hard&quot; sciences as played out in the gut-level details of the exploration and terraforming of Mars, Robinson is very interested in &quot;softer&quot; sciences, and much of the trilogy is concerned with politics. I found the discussions of politics quite interesting, though a bit biased (but generally a pretty fair attempt is made to show most sides of the various issues). There is not one but two extended descriptions of &quot;constitutional conventions&quot;. Robinson also takes on the sociological effects of life-extension: and here he seems a little less sound. He tries to depict the effects of great age on people, and makes some good points, but is not quite convincing. More tellingly, I think he severely underplays the negative population effects of life-extension. Robinson is, it seems to me, an Utopian at heart, and he is a little too sanguine about people almost automatically adopting (solar-system-wide) policies such as one child per couple.<br />Blue Mars, by itself, is a pretty successful trilogy closer, but not quite successful as a novel. I still rank Red Mars as the best novel of the series: it had a more coherent structure, was set over a shorter time-period, and featured my favorite writing of the series: the ecstatic novella &quot;Falling into History&quot;, its central section. Still, it is only fair, I think, to consider the Mars trilogy as a unit, and as such it is very successful, very worthwhile. Almost inevitably, there are longeurs, and the multiple viewpoint character approach sometimes blurs the impact, sometimes results in tedious chapters. (I, for one, could have done without every one of Michel Duval's sections over the three novels.) Robinson's writing is clear throughout: for the most part he seems to have purposely trimmed his prose: at times the writing becomes a bit clipped or telegraphic, and only rarely does he wax lyrical, or ecstatic.	2002-08-20
US	52417414	R102NAHTC87N44	0441008798	809043802	Second Contact	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Horrible	Second Contact is a very bad book. Or perhaps I have simply missed the author's point, or I may not be the intended audience. I can only report what I felt. <br />Second Contact is the story of a planet named Kivlan, far across the Universe from Earth. An Earth expedition visits Kivlan, only to be chased away by a couple of missiles. Some time later, Earth sends another expedition, this one armed rather better, in a sincere attempt to really get to know the Kivlanians. On another narrative thread, we follow the action on Kivlan. Apparently Kivlan is a Utopia of lazy people, having existed in planet-wide peace for 300 years, but unfortunately some volcanic eruptions are making the inhabitants cranky and even psychotic, to the extent that they are annoyed by the intrusion of Earth's expedition, and, later, to the extent that one man tries to start a war and take over the planet.<br />It's hard to say exactly what the book is about. Characters are introduced, described in the most glowing terms, given love interests, and then dropped. The focus shifts from the first Earth expedition, to the second expedition, to the action on Kivlan, and back. Conflicts are introduced, then resolved effortlessly, usually because of the overwhelming good nature of almost everyone, on both Earth and Kivlan. Much of Second Contact deals with the rather curious utopian society of Kivlan. Is a satire on Earth society intended? The satire, if that was intended, has almost no bite. Moreover, the alien society as portrayed is terribly unconvincing, and terribly inconsistent. And the depiction of the next century society on Earth is also unconvincing, and has little extrapolated depth. So -- if this is a satire, it fails for lack of bite. Is it a serious examination of an alternate society? It fails for lack of rigor, and lack of consistency. Is it a fun romp? It fails for lack of plot, and lack of interesting characters. In a word -- it fails. Utterly.<br />The characters are uniformly cardboard, given fawning background stories, and unconvincing and emotionally flat love stories. (Most of which are back story anyway.) Naturally there is a love story between a Kivlanian and a human (though the cover portrait switches the sexes) -- it takes about a paragraph to develop. The plot is both discursive and implausible. The science is beyond absurd (though I will say that the book never makes a pretence of having real science -- and in the hands of, say, Robert Sheckley, the same level of science can work just fine). I thought I detected a few jokes -- some even made me grin, some grimace, and I'm sure I missed some others. I will say that the prose is serviceable -- nothing special, but not an encumbrance to the reading of the book. It was a waste of some three hours of my time.<br />I can only add a caveat -- some editor saw enough in this book to buy it. It is possible that I have simply and profoundly missed the point. But tread carefully.	2002-08-20
US	52417414	R3BBPL42TW7HLZ	038097858X	363331291	The Longest Way Home	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Enjoyable Young Adult SF on an alien planet	Robert Silverberg's new novel, \\"The Longest Way Home\\", is more or less a Young Adult novel, featuring anyway a 15 year old boy as protagonist, and a fairly clear cut moral issue for him to ponder as he quite explicitly Comes Of Age. I found it quite fun to read as well, very fast moving, not particularly complex but interesting. As with much later Silverberg, the furniture of the novel seems heavily influenced by Jack Vance, though of course the prose is pure Silverberg, no trace of Vance at all.<br />Joseph Master Keilloran, the 15 year old eldest son of Martin Master Keilloran, is caught up in a rebellion by the oppressed Folk, who are slaughtering the ruling Masters. Joseph, visiting his cousins on the Northern continent, thousands of miles from his home, escapes with the help of a sympathetic Folk retainer.<br />We learn that the planet Homeworld was colonized from Earth millennia previously by the ancestors of the Folk. Centuries later, they were conquered in turn by another wave of Earth colonists, the ancestors of the current Masters, who established a higher tech system, quasi-Feudal, with the Masters ruling, and the Folk basically serfs. The planet is also inhabited by a variety of intelligent species, most notably the so called Indigenes, who have approximately human intelligence. The other \\"higher\\" species have somewhat lesser intelligence, but are clearly sentient and sapient, with spoken languages at least. Probably in part due to a habit of coexistence with other intelligent species, and in part due to a somewhat contemplative and fatalistic philosophy, the Indigenes tolerate the presence of both the Folk and the Masters -- and after all, as far as we are allowed to see, humans of both waves of colonization seem to have been quite careful and non-exploitative in their interactions with the Indigenes and other intelligent native species of this world.<br />Joseph decides to find his way home. He has no idea of how widely spread is the Folk rebellion against the Masters; and he has to travel several thousand miles to the southern continent to boot. On foot, with nothing but a backpack and a few implements. The basic theme that emerges is that he will have no chance without help and cooperation, from some of the alien races, and even from some of the Folk.<br />The story, then, is really very simple. But it's an engaging enough read, and Joseph is a nice enough character to spend time with. The aliens Silverberg imagines are fairly neat. The central moral learning that Joseph must undergo is obvious enough -- more or less that the Folk are real people and don't deserve to be enslaved, no matter how benignly, but still this message is presented well. And we can hope that he might be able to help guide the southern continent into a more just political and social change than the Rebellion in the north, which is clearly accompanied by atrocities on the level of say the Rwandan genocide. Though Silverberg doesn't really suggest what Joseph may do to accomplish this. In the end, this is decent contempoary Young Adult SF, by no means a classic-to-be but fun.inst the Masters; and he has to travel several thousand miles to the southern continent to boot. On foot, with nothing but a backpack and a few implements. The basic theme that emerges is that he will have no chance without help and cooperation, from some of the alien races, and even from some of the Folk.<br />The story, then, is really very simple. But it's an engaging enough read, and Joseph is a nice enough character to spend time with. The aliens Silverberg imagines are fairly neat. The central moral learning that Joseph must undergo is obvious enough -- more or less that the Folk are real people and don't deserve to be enslaved, no matter how benignly, but still this message is presented well. And we can hope that he might be able to help guide the southern continent into a more just political and social change than the Rebellion in the north, which is clearly accompanied by atrocities on the level of say the Rwandan genocide. Though Silverberg doesn't really suggest what Joseph may do to accomplish this. In the end, this is decent contempoary Young Adult SF, by no means a classic-to-be but fun.	2002-08-19
US	52417414	R1K6F8Z4AX10D5	0446403423	900117188	Baby, Would I Lie?	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Funny and biting look at murder, country music, and tabloids	_Baby, Would I Lie?_ is the sequel to Donald Westlake's _Trust Me on This_. That book concerned Sara Joslyn's time working for the Weekly Galaxy, a sleazy tabloid. At the end of that book Sara and her editor, now lover, Jack Ingersoll, manage to escape to New York and respectable journalism, in the form of Trend, a weekly modelled as far as I can tell on the New Yorker.<br />As this book opens, Sara is on her way to Branson, MO. Her latest assignment is to cover the murder trial of Ray Jones, a middle-aged country music star with a theater in Branson. One of Jones' employees was found murdered and dumped in Table Rock Lake, and Ray's car was seen with incriminating bloodstains. The evidence against him is purely circumstantial, and fairly weak, but the trial is also being held in the court of public opinion.<br />As Sara arrives, she encounters to her dismay some of her former colleagues from the Weekly Galaxy. Naturally, they too are covering this celebrity trial. And before long Jack is in Branson as well, chomping at the bit to nail the Galaxy at their nefarious journalistic tricks.<br />The story is told from several points of view, but mostly those of Sara and Ray Jones. We soon learn that Ray is also in trouble with the IRS, and we get hints that he is not guilty of the murder but that he knows more than he is letting on, and that he has some curious scheme afoot. Much to the dismay of his legal team, which is confident they can get him off if they can keep him reined in. Meanwhile, he is mysteriously letting Sara have significant access to his legal preparations, much to the further consternation of his lawyers. Is he setting up Sara somehow?<br />The resolution is pretty clever with a nice twist or two. Westlake's portrayal of Branson, a town I know reasonably well, is not bad. (There are one or two missteps, and it's rather out of date. (The book was published in 1994, and depicts the town as it was in perhaps 1990 or so.)) He tries somewhat to avoid stereotyping Midwestern tourists, with limited success. He is pretty sound (and on the whole, sympathetic) on the country musicians themselves, though. The lyrics to Ray Jones' songs are all by Westlake, and they are quite good country pastiches. Ray Jones himself is well depicted -- not exactly a nice man, but not a monster, either. And the book is quite funny.	2002-07-12
US	52417414	R1NBNADU3H2DQU	0140170987	18205728	Changing Places: A Tale of Two Campuses	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Clever and funny look at American vs. British academia	_Changing Places_ is David Lodge's 1975 novel about two professors, one from a fictional university in America, and one from a fictional university in England, who each take each the other's position for half a year. The English professor is Philip Swallow, from the University of Rummidge. (A red brick university, presumably based to some extent on the University of Birmingham, where Lodge was a professor for a long time.) The American is Morris Zapp, from the State University of Euphoria. This is rather transparently Cal Berkeley: it's on the &quot;Esseph Bay&quot;, which features a famous bridge called the &quot;Silver Span&quot;, and more importantly, it's 1969 and the students are restless.<br />Philip is a somewhat ineffectual man, married with 3 children, but rather tired of his marriage, who has never specialized and never really finished much in the way of publications. He is stuck in his position, unwilling to put the energy into either his career or to political maneuvering which would get him promotions. Morris is much more aggressive. He is a leading Jane Austen scholar, twice married with one child by his first wife and twins by his second wife. His second wife has told him she wants a divorce, and his trip to England is in part a cooling off device.<br />Lodge has a good deal of fun, some of it routine, some quite clever, with the culture clash of the brash American at the provincial British university and the shy Briton at the high profile American university. But he is more deeply interested in the mid-life crises of the two men. These are resolved (to some extent) with some perhaps predictable but still very neatly done plot manipulations, as the two men manage to bump into each others' wives, and also manage to involve themselves fairly successfully (in some sense) in the politics of the two universities. Lodge also has a good deal of fun with narrative form: telling part of the story in epistolary form, and some more of it with news stories and personal ads extracted from the papers. His conclusion is also a bit experimental, and pretty sensible. It's a very funny book, very enjoyable -- Lodge is rapidly establishing himself as a favorite of mine.	2002-07-12
US	52417414	R3TYM9JBXRBJB9	0375726217	509246269	Double Fold: Libraries and the Assault on Paper	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Passionate, eye-opening, screed	Nicholson Baker's _Double Fold_ is an extended screed on the destruction of old books and newspapers by research libraries, and their inadequate replacement by microfilm and microfiche and digital copies. The book is not temperate in tone at all, which at times is a disadvantage. Baker at times advances his arguments unfairly. (For instance he complains in one case that a chemical used in a deacidification experiment was also used in bombs. So what? There are a number of other example of slippery rhetoric on his part.) Still, he makes his main points very well, and the story he has to tell is rather distressing.<br />Baker's interest in this subject was piqued when he learned that the British Library was selling off its extensive collection of old American newspapers. He found that for many newspapers no copies may exist but on microfilm, or at any rate that physical copies are harder and harder to find. The primary justification for this was that the papers, especially those printed since about 1870, were doomed to decay into unreadability, because of the low-quality, high-acid, wood pulp paper on which they are printed. (The secondary justification, somewhat more sensible perhaps, was simply a need for more space.) Baker found in particular that American libraries rarely have extensive runs of old papers anymore, opting instead for subscribing to microfilmed copies. Baker makes a good point that microfilm is simply not a good reproduction of the papers, particularly the color illustrations. He makes even better points that the process of reduction to microfilm has been rife with errors: skipped pages, pages photographed so poorly that they cannot be read, many missing issues. Furthermore, the tendency is for only one edition to be microfilmed and then shared among libraries, leading to what he calls the &quot;Ace Comb Effect&quot;. If you have only one comb, copied many times, you will be missing the same teeth on each copy. If you have several combs, you may be missing teeth on each copy, but between them all, you will probably have all the teeth. Moreover, in the case of newspapers, there were multiple editions printed each day, sometimes quite radically different, particularly those published as out-of-town editions.<br />Baker further documents that a similar process is going on with old books. Book paper is generally higher quality than newsprint, so there is perhaps less of an impetus for conversion to microfilm, but the storage pressures are similar, and there is still a scare industry suggesting that old books are &quot;crumbling to dust&quot;. And the same problems exist with microfilm, including besides those mentioned above the unergonomic quality of the reading process, the likelihood that microfilm itself will be as temporary if not more so than paper, and the generally destructive nature of the microfilming process. <br />The book points out that the research documenting the decay of old books and newspapers has been very poorly conducted. In fact, old paper isn't &quot;crumbling to dust&quot;, and it is much less likely even to be approaching unreadability than has been reported. Some of the scare tactics Baker documents being used by the pro-Microfilm forces are disgusting.<br />It's an interesting, passionately argued, book. If at times I feel the passion and sarcasm of Baker's presentation undermines his purpose, for the most part, as far as I can evaluate, his points are well made. Microfilm is basically a disaster, at best a short term supplement to physical copies. Digitization is better by far, but should not be done destructively, and should, again, be a supplement and not a replacement for physical copies. Certainly this book is an eye-opening report.	2002-07-12
US	52417414	R1AEZ7J0Z5Y52Q	0380978369	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Powerful, bittersweet, novel about dinosaurs and time travel	combines several well-integrated (and rather original) SFnal ideas with some neat scientific speculation, interesting characters, a compelling plot, and a powerfully argued theme about the nature of science and the human urge to do science.<br />The novel concerns a program to send paleontologists back to the Mesozoic Era to study dinosaurs in their natural environment. As such it is both a dinosaur novel and a time travel novel. Perhaps unexpectedly, the thematic heart of the book is in the time travel aspect, though the dinosaur speculations are worthwhile and fun in themselves. The three main characters are Richard Leyster, a brilliant and studious scientist; Gertrude Salley, brilliant herself but manipulative and unbound by law or rules; and Griffin, the tormented administrator of the Mesozoic time travel program.<br />One key plot thread concerns a scheme by Christian fundamentalists to sabotage the time travel efforts, which ends up marooning a number of paleontologists in the Late Cretaceous. Griffin and his assistants try to loop back and forth through time to forestall this sabotage, but they are frustrated by the insistence of the sponsors of the time travel program that no paradoxes be created: thus anything they know to have &quot;already happened&quot; they cannot stop from happening. The other key thread involves Salley's attempts to subvert that law -- right at the beginning we see hints that she is trying to cause paradoxes, and her attempts continue, though her motive remains unclear to the reader for some time.<br />The scenes in the Cretaceous involve some well-handled &quot;primitive survival&quot; scenes, and some fascinating speculation about dinosaur social life and about the real causes of their extinction. The other thread involves some very clever handling of time loops and paradox, and an eventual trip far into the future to meet the Unchanging -- the mysterious beings who have offered the boon of time travel to humans. The resolution is surprising, logical, and achingly sad, or at least bittersweet. Swanwick is convincing treating human curiosity, our love of science. He is convincing treating human reactions to the possibility of fixing our past mistakes. The characters are well-drawn, particularly Griffin and his boss, the Old Man. Leyster and Salley are well done as well but a bit less fully realized -- or perhaps too clearly idealized to fit their parts. The minor characters are interesting, too. I loved the book, and I was quite moved by it.	2002-07-12
US	52417414	RDOAC7DF2RV70	0380812886	362688168	The Beyond	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Striking, exotic, sad	I quite liked Jeffrey Ford's previous two novels in his \\"Physiognomist Cley\\" trilogy, _The Physiognomist_ and _Memoranda_. _The Beyond_ is the final novel in the trilogy. Although all three novels share the same main character, Cley, they are all quite different books. Cley is originally Physiognomist for the Well-Built City, and in the first book he helps overthrow that City, while in the second book he ventures into the brain of the former dictator of the City, searching for a cure to a disease which has ravaged the newly free residents of the new city Wenau.<br />In _The Beyond_, Cley has ventured into the eponymous wilderness of his strange world, in company with a tamed, intelligent, demon named Misrix. Cley is searching for the \\"true Wenau\\", and his lost victim/love Arla Beaton.  The story is told on two tracks: in one, Misrix tells of his lonely life in the ruins of the Well-Built City, and the eventual discovery of him by the people of Wenau. In the other, Misrix narrates Cley's adventures in the Beyond, which he \\"remembers\\" by use of the drug Beauty.  <br />In Misrix' tale, he befriends some of the residents of Wenau, but is feared and hated by others. Eventually he is accused of killing Cley, who has never returned from the Beyond. He yearns only to be treated as human, and only by submitting to justice and a trial can he maintain that status.<br />His tale of Cley's journey is very strange.  After Misrix returns to the Well-Built City, fearing that the effects of the Beyond are making him forget his humanity, Cley continues on with his dog, Wood. He survives demon attacks, and a terrible winter, eventually discovering a cave and a mysterious dead person. He wanders through other environments: a desert, an inland ocean, a strange mountain, everywhere encountering strange people, some human, others different: fish people, plant people, huge lizards. He befriends a woman he finds in a besieged city, eventually settling with her in a lonely hut in the woods,but he has one more quest: hopefully to revitalize the dying Beyond.<br />To an extent some of this wild invention seems arbitrary. In the end, however, Ford redeems his vision, and the weird imaginative strands of the story make some sense, and they interweave with Misrix' own tale, as well. The conclusion is ambiguous and mostly sad, and rather striking. A fine novel.	2002-05-30
US	52417414	RZOF7B9GT9P13	9997526856	64466737	Modesty Blaise: Sabre-Tooth	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Thoroughly entertaining thriller	The Modesty Blaise books, including _Sabre Tooth_, are fairly clearly written to fit the James Bond spy thriller genre, with the key difference that the hero is a woman, Modesty Blaise. Also unlike Bond, she's a former criminal, and she's only unofficially attached to British intelligence.  But such aspects of the series as love of neat gadgets, sex, and a certain romantic view of intelligence work, especially British intelligence work, definitely recall the Ian Fleming books. <br />Modesty's backstory is that as a child (she was perhaps born in Greece) she was orphaned and forced to walk thousands of miles to survive, along the way encountering hunger and rape and learning to rely totally on herself. While still a teen she founded an international crime organization called \\"The Network\\", and later she rescued a brilliant criminal from a Thai jail, Willie Garvin, and brought him back to psychological health. At the time of the books, Modesty is somewhere in her late 20s, and Willie a few years older. They have retired from crime with a fortune. They remain a dedicated two-person team, and Modesty loves Willie, while Willie worships Modesty (whom he calls Princess). In neither case is the love sexual at all, however. Both are brilliant athletes and martial artists, Modesty is the better with firearms, Willie with knives, Modesty the better schemer, Willie the genius tinkerer. Though they are portrayed very well, they are clearly \\"superheroes\\", not realistic. But that's OK. The other main recurring character seems to be Sir Gerald Tarrant, an obscure British bureaucrat who actually heads a certain branch of UK intelligence. Tarrant is able to get Modesty and Willie to assist him, partly by being a friend, and honest, and partly by offering challenging work.<br />In this book a mercenary team is being assembled in a remote valley in the Hindu Kush. The team is run by a merciless leader called Karz, and we are introduced to several of his conscience-deprived deputies, most notably a pair of Siamese Twins, called \\"The Twins\\", who are formidable fighters as a team, but who hate each other when they are not fighting. (This too echoes Fleming: the mastermind with his brutal henchman). Tarrant gets wind of a possible plot to take over Kuwait, to loot the oil money. He doesn't know who's doing it, but he does notice that a lot of well-known mercenaries have disappeared, so he assumes they are being assembled into an army. He intuits that the army will need leaders, who are very rare, so he manages to convince Modesty and Willie to feign a desire to get back into the \\"business\\", as their capabilities are so well-known that they will surely be approached. They do so, but they miscalculate the types of persuasion Karz will be able to use on them, and they find themselves in a situation where they have a terrible choice: they may have to actually go through with Karz' plans.<br />It's terrifically exciting stuff. Thoroughly unrealistic, in character, technology, and in the over-the-top villainy and pride of the bad guys which of course contributes to their ultimate failure. (I hope no one thinks that a spoiler!) But that's all part of the genre -- and this is a wonderful example of the genre. I was gripped from the start, and there are numerous delightful scenes, and some real tension.	2002-05-30
US	52417414	R28WL99DPWT9N0	0374505845	987266683	Wise Blood: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Grotesque, blackly funny, compelling	Flannery O'Connor's first novel was this rather short book, _Wise Blood_. It is quite thoroughly strange, full of basically unattractive characters, acting in obsessive ways, coming to bad ends. Yet it is a remarkable, rather moving, strikingly written book that really sticks in the mind.<br />Hazel Motes is a young man from rural Tennessee who has just got out of the Army. (The book, published in 1952, appears to be set immediately after the Second World War.) He's had no contact with his family, what's left of it, for 4 years, and when he comes home he finds his home abandoned and in decay, and everyone dead. We meet him on the train to the \\"city\\". He's an unpleasant man, baiting the black porter, pushing his lack of belief in Christ on all and sundry.<br />In the city, he wanders somewhat aimlessly, encountering first a prostitute, then a blind preacher, Asa Hawks, and his \\"daughter\\" Sabbath, then another confused young man named Enoch Emery. Hazel (whose grandfather was a circuit-riding preacher) sets up as a preacher himself, preaching the \\"Church Without Christ\\", and advocating blasphemy and sin. He pursues and is pursued by Sabbath Hawks, and also Enoch Emery. Motes is continually unpleasant to all around him. After Hazel rebuffs a confidence man's attempt to cash in on his preaching, he finds himself confronted by a \\"twin\\", Solace Layfield, the false prophet, who preaches of \\"the Church of Christ Without Christ\\", and who wholly perverts Hazel's nihilistic \\"message\\". Meanwhile the pathetic Enoch is trying to steal a \\"new Jesus\\" for Hazel, while Sabbath, barely a teen, is successfully seducing Hazel. The end is grotesque and strange -- Hazel becomes a murderer, Enoch a thief, Sabbath is sent to a home, Asa runs off -- and the final two chapters show Hazel mortifying himself, apparently searching for redemption. Whether his redemption is real seems an open question to me, though O'Connor seemed to think it was.<br />The novel is ostensibly a comedy, and I suppose it is, but a very black comedy. It's full of images and objects and actions heavily weighted with symbolism -- Hazel's decrepit Essex automobile, the gorilla suit Enoch steals, the mummy that is to be the \\"new Jesus\\", the blind preacher's eyes, and Hazel's eyes, and much more. The writing, as I said, is striking, with any number of quite memorable phrases, such as the woman whose hair looked like \\"ham gravy dripping down her head\\" -- descriptive, and accurate, and very Southern in feel to me. This is a strange and quite compelling novel.	2002-05-30
US	52417414	R3R0CQY7WA1VAD	075640049X	411984978	Sword and Sorceress XIX	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Disappointing collection of formulaic fantasy shorts	I found this book as a whole to be quite disappointing. The stories are mostly very short -- there are 25 stories in a book a bit more than 100,000 words long. Now there are plenty of outstanding stories at lengths less than 4,000 words, but in this case too many of the stories are sketches. Often, key details are baldly told, not shown. Often, the backstory is quickly sketched in, not developed. Often, the heroine's abilities are arbitrarily revealed, not in any sense organic or believable. Most of the pieces are competently assembled sentence by sentence, but too many are poorly structured scene by scene, or are unconvincing as to plot logic.<br />I'll mention a few of the better pieces. Dorothy J. Heydt's \\"Lord of the Earth\\" has Cynthia travelling to Corinth, and there encountering Poseidon in a bad mood. Two stories use very similar twists involving magical familiars, though they are otherwise quite different: both were light and enjoyable: \\"Familiars\\" by Michael H. Payne, set at a magic school with a squirrel as the familiar; and \\"All too Familiar\\" by P. Andrew Miller, in which a hedge witch inherits a variety of familiars whose wizards and witches have been killed by an evil sorcerer. Laura J. Underwood's \\"The Curse of Ardal Glen\\" is a bit darker than most of these stories, about a town which has had to sacrifice a young woman to a mysterious smith every seven years for decades. Dorothy J. Heydt's daughter Meg Heydt contributes \\"Openings\\", which I liked for its engaging main character and her slightly unexpected talent. Esther Friesner is usually reliable, and her story, \\"Grain\\", is solid entertainment, about a girl apprenticed to a brewer woman, who encounters a goddess with a god problem. But these storeis, the best in the book, are no better than decent -- there is not a single excellent story in the book, no story that thrilled me.<br />So if the book isn't entirely a loss, it is very disappointing. I think Bradley had rigid ideas about story structure, and about story content, and her editing projects suffer from including too many stories that read too similarly, and from being too forgiving of competently written stories which fit her template but which have no fire -- no originality -- no special reason to make one want to read them. If you've been reading these books with enjoyment all along, this one may satisfy, though I don't think it's as good as some of the earlier volumes. Otherwise, I can't really recommend the book.	2002-05-20
US	52417414	R2Z4EKQVSHALK8	0765300079	105923288	The Dragon Society (Obsidian Chronicles)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Mildly disappointing middle book in a promising trilogy	_The Dragon Society_ is Lawrence Watt-Evans' sequel to his 1999 novel _Dragon Weather_.  It is the second novel in a trilogy, and it must be said that it is one of those middle books that exhibit classical \\"middle book\\" problems.  To wit, the intriguing fantasy aspects have mostly already been introduced in book 1, and the rousing conclusion is reserved for book 3.  So what is there to do in book 2?  Our hero learns stuff, of course, and there are a number of important plot developments, and a fairly exciting concluding set piece.  So it's still enjoyable -- but it's a middle book.  And it doesn't stand alone -- _Dragon Weather_ could be read by itself, but _The Dragon Society_ cannot: it both depends on _Dragon Weather_ for background, and ends with the plot very clearly unresolved.<br />The first book introduced Arlian, a boy whose village is destroyed in the opening chapter by dragons.  Miraculously (he thinks) he survives, even after swallowing the poisonous dragon venom, mixed with his dying grandfather's blood.  Eventually he learns that he has become a \\"dragonheart\\" -- immune to most diseases, especially charismatic, and destined to live about a thousand years.  He finds some fellow dragonhearts, and joins their society, but remains committed to vengeance against the dragons, and against those humans who have brutally mistreated he and some of his friends.<br />_The Dragon Society_ mainly concerns Arlian's efforts to persuade his fellow dragonhearts to join him in killing all the dragons.  But his actions have roused the interest of the long-sleeping dragons, and they threaten to attack the cities of man if he makes any further moves against them.  Also, the Dragon Society is by no means united behind him -- many find his actions dangerous, and indeed some feel that their interests lie with dragons instead of humans.  And, too, a couple of humans who have learned the secret of the dragonhearts begin to covet a source of dragon venom so that they too might live a thousand years.  And there is widespread skepticism about Arlian's ability to kill dragons, especially full grown ones.  Finally, Arlian himself continues to debate his own motives, particularly his obsession with revenge.<br />The book is rather talky, both in explaining backstory, and in Arlian's examination of his internal feelings and motives.  In general there is less action, and less sense of adventure, than in the first book -- definitely the novel could have done with some fleshing out of details.  The closing sequence is pretty rousing, however, and the book does do a solid job of further explaining the place of dragons in this world, and of setting the stage for the closing volume.  Watt-Evans is an engaging writer always, so it reads nicely enough.  On the whole, it's a serviceable middle book, but it's only a middle book.  I recommend most of Watt-Evans' books without reservation, and I feel that the story of Arlian will be a rewarding story when completely told -- but I do confess some disappointment with this book.	2002-05-20
US	52417414	R19GUWSQL1P8VW	1560544503	472314295	Paradise News (Thorndike Press Large Print Basic Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very funny with a serious core -- enjoyable and thoughtful	_Paradise News_ concerns Bernard Walsh, a defrocked Anglo-Catholic priest who is teaching theology half-time at a depressing college in a depressing English town. His aunt contacts him from Hawaii with the news that she is dying, and that she would like him to convince his father (her brother) to visit her, at her expense, for one last time. They have not met since the '50s, for insufficiently explained reasons, though the scandal over Aunt Ursula first marrying, then divorcing, an American serviceman might have something to do with it.<br />Bernard's father is a disagreeable old man who is afraid of flying, but somehow, with the unexpected help of Bernard's scheming sister Tess, who is afraid of losing Ursula's fabled inheritance, he is convinced to go. Bernard lucks into a last-minute cancellation of a tourist package, getting the two of them a cheap flight, and more to the point of the book, allowing Lodge to portray a wide variety of English tourists, to a variety of comic effect. Some of the thematic center of the book is provided by an academic, an anthropologist of tourism, who has various cockeyed theories about the ritualistic place of tourism in human life, and who is much taken with the repeated motif of \\"Paradise\\" in the names of Hawaiian tourist traps. The other thematic center, of course, revolves around Bernard's own loss of faith, and the stories of his rigid Catholic upbringing, his seminary training, his years teaching, and his brief time as a parish priest.<br />In Hawaii, Bernard's father is almost immediately run down by a car. So Bernard's time is taken up with dealing with his father's hospitalization, and then with Aunt Ursula's situation, partly in a shabby nursing house, partly in hospital. Bernard must deal with finding a place for Ursula to live out her short expected term, and this in the light of her rather more straitened than expected circumstances. Bernard also meets and falls in love with the woman who ran over his father, a woman in the process of divorcing her husband, who hates Hawaii, but who proves just the right woman for an ex-priest whose only sexual experience has consisted of humiliating failure. We also get glimpses of the other English tourists, these functioning mostly as pretty effective comic relief.<br />I enjoyed this novel very much. It's both very funny, and quite serious at core. It's well-written, the characters are very well delineated, and their stories are involving and moving. The serious aspects -- the exploration of faith, and paradise, and, yes, tourism, are interesting and intelligent. The only quibbles I'd have would be the convenient resolution of some difficulties: some financial difficulties, and also the easy coincidence of Bernard's \\"meet cute\\" with an appropriate woman. But, to be sure, those are conventions of comedy, to some extent.	2002-05-20
US	52417414	R2JQEIQ87OYYX7	193084607X	352379038	Claremont Tales II	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Extremely enjoyable restrospective collection	Veteran Science Fiction and Mystery writer Richard A. Lupoff is back with a second retrospective collection of his best short fiction. Last year, Golden Gryphon published Claremont Tales, and now we see Claremont Tales II. This collects several fairly early stories (1969 through 1978), and some recent stories (including a brand new story for this book). <br />Immediately noticeable is Lupoff's versatility. Included are some straight SF, some supernatural horror, and some straight mystery stories, as well as some amalgams of all of the above. Always noticeable, too, is Lupoff's assured storyteller's touch, his engaging voice, and his ability to alter that voice in service of his aims, most notably here in \\"The Adventure of the Boulevard Assassin\\", a Sherlock Holmes story written in the style of Jack Kerouac.<br />The above-mentioned Holmes piece, a very sly divertissement, is one of the more impressive entries here. I also quite liked \\"Jubilee\\", an Alternate History of a Roman Empire where Julius Caesar survived his assassination attempt. And despite my general lack of sympathy for Lovecraft, I was rather taken with the two Lovecraftian pieces in Claremont Tales II, \\"The Devil's Hop Yard\\" and \\"The Turret\\". The new story in this book is \\"Green Ice\\", a sequel to an earlier story called \\"Black Mist\\". This is an SF mystery, in which Japanese-Martian detective Ino Hajime is called in to investigate the activities of a descendant cult to Aum Shinrikyo (the Japanese cult which perpetrated a poison gas attack on a subway a few years past) on the Jovian moon Europa. It's an intriguing, rather mystical, story, which perhaps leaps a bit too quickly to its conclusion, but which is a good read nonetheless. \\"31.12.99\\" is an evocative and moving story of the new millennium. \\"News from New Providence\\" is a somewhat mordant account of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor investigating a murder in the Bahamas. \\"Whatever Happened to Nick Neptune?\\" is a very enjoyable story of a very specialpulp magazine. And so on -- top to bottom this is an extremely enjoyable collection.	2002-05-20
US	52417414	RKUYOXX11WD0N	0441008283	199569263	Eccentric Circles	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Pleasant but inconsequential first novel	_Eccentric Circles_ is the story of Piper Pied, a twenty-something woman who has just inherited her great-grandmother's house.  Piper has been drifting through life since college, trying to be &quot;normal&quot; despite her family's reputation for eccentricity, but never finding a good job or a good boyfriend.  Then she wakes up after her first night in her new home to find an elf in the kitchen.  It seems that her great-grandmother's house is a nexus between the real world and Faery (or Fairy as Lickiss spells it).  The elf, Aelvarim, tells her that her great-grandmother was murdered by a denizen of Fairy, and that they must find the killer and set the story right, or the fabric of both Fairy and the Human world will be severely damaged.<br />Piper assumes that he is a local nutjob, but he is very cute.  So she goes along a bit, and soon finds herself meeting a grouchy wizard and a pleasant dwarf and a number of little, mischievous, fairies.  She is eventually persuaded to go searching for a story her great-grandmother wrote -- if it can be found, and finished properly, the rift in Fairy might be healed.  At the same time she is adjusting to her new job at the local bookstore, and fending off questions from her co-workers and her family about the cute guy with the pointed ears who is going around with her.  <br />Well, we can guess where this is going, and there really aren't any surprises along the way, and the mechanics of the plot resolution are a tad strained.  But it is a pleasant, quick read, and the characters are fairly engaging.  Nothing special, or worth going out of your way to read, but it passes the time well enough.	2002-03-28
US	52417414	R6MD75TFMXYZT	0312872380	615549012	Kushiel's Dart (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	3	25	33	N	N	Different heroine, interesting and readable book, not great	_Kushiel's Dart_ is a very long novel set in an Alternate History/Fantasy version of France.  The divergence happens when Jesus (Yeshua) has a child by Mary Magdalene.  This child, Elua, believes that the supreme command is to \\"Love as thou wilt\\".  Elua and his seven companions, who are held to be angels, wander the Earth, finally settling in Terre D'Ange (France). Carey does a good job of presenting D'Angeline beliefs as real beliefs, while leaving open the likelihood that they are semi-mythological. (E.g., Elua's companions are believed to be angels, but, one might assume, they were actually just humans he recruited.) D'Angelines hold themselves to be preternaturally beautiful -- because they are descended from Elua and from angels.<br />The narrator and heroine is Phedre no Delaunay.  She is fostered to Cereus House, one of the Thirteen Houses (a tradition D'Angeline high class brothel), but she is imperfect: the red mark in her eye makes her unacceptable to Cereus for their service.  But as she comes of age, she is bought by a nobleman, Anafiel Delaunay, who recognizes that the red mark means she is an anguisette -- a natural masochist, and as such potentially a fabulously valuable prostitute for people of certain tastes.  Under Delaunay, she learns a number of languages, and various other useful talents. It becomes clear that Delaunay, for mysterious reasons, wants her to be a spy on people in the highest circles of government.  These reasons are surely related to Delaunay's friendship with the late son of the aging King, and to his enmity with this late Prince's also dead wife.<br />The story develops from there, at great length.  Phedre becomes famous in her profession, and learns many secrets for Delaunay, some quite tragic.  Eventually she is driven to slavery in Skaldia (Germany) where she learns of a terrible plot against the rightful rulers of Terre D'Ange.  With her faithful companion, a super swordsman vowed to celibacy, she journeys across much of Europe, trying to find a way to stop the Skaldian threat.<br />The story is pretty enjoyable, and reads quite quickly for such a long book.  Carey's prose is rather good, a bit ornate and mannered, but that is in keeping, I suppose, with the image of the people of Terre D'Ange. A number of the fantastical elements, such as the Master of the Straits, who keeps ships from passing between Terre D'Ange and Alba (i.e. Great Britain), are rather nicely imagined. The main fault is that about halfway through the book much of the tension leaches out.  It becomes clear that Phedre and her companion Joscelin are superhuman and unkillable, and that really there is no way to stop them.  Carey does a lot of things well -- she uses Phedre's submission quite effectively in creating a fairly unconventional heroine.  But while for a while, pretty much through her time with the Skaldians, we really fear for her, and we feel that she is being heroically abused and that she is in real danger.  After that, the novel moves into an extended sort of \\"Triumphal March\\".  It's not that Phedre doesn't get abused some more, and it's not even that she won't suffer some real emotional loss.  But the shape of the ending becomes very clear, and there really isn't any believable opposition to her achieving that ending.  To complain just a bit more, I felt that the deep mysteries that Carey plants at the beginning were resolved too simply -- that is, Delaunay's secrets were actually kind of trivial, and the political intrigue wasn't quite twisty enough.  I also felt that the blatant setup of a sequel, just before the end, weakened the book.  The characters and setting nicely support this one long book -- I don't think they will support two more books of the same length.	2002-03-28
US	52417414	R2MFDPUHRNG7DK	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Fun, funny, very clever	_The Eyre Affair_ is a very fun book full of crackling word play and neat literature references. The plot may be a bit unformed, but the story is a fast read and pure pleasure.  It's set in an alternate 1985 or so, in which Wales is a People's Republic, but Russia is still ruled by the Czars, and England and Russia are still embroiled in the Crimean War.<br />Thursday Next is a woman in her mid 30s, a veteran of a disastrous charge in the Crimea (it would seem to have been that famous charge, though 120 years late!), who has been working for a division of the government called Spec-Ops 27: Literature Detection.  She and her colleagues keep track of literary forgeries and such.  The whole world of Fforde's alternate history seems literature mad, and the book is stuff with cute lit references. Thursday's dad is also in Spec-Ops, but in the division which deals with instabilities in time.  Thursday is also mooning over her great love, whom she left because of events in the Crimea.<br />...  It is up to Thursday to confront Hades, and to enter the world of Jane Eyre with him, and find a way to defeat him.<br />If this all sounds silly, it is.  If it sounds ad hoc and full of improbable coincidence, it is.  If it reminds you of The Phantom Tollbooth a bit, it does me too.  It's in the end a very clever book, and quite funny.  Acheron is a great scenery chewing villain. Thursday is a decent heroine.  The plot doesn't really hold together, Thursday's romance is kind of pallid, and of course the premise doesn't bear thinking much about, but the whole thing still entertains.	2002-03-05
US	52417414	R38TW5RKWRT35A	0312861028	613572052	Psychohistorical Crisis	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Clever reimagination of Asimov's Foundation universe	Donald Kinsgsbury has hugely expanded his 1995 novella \\"Historical Crisis\\" into a long novel. I quite enjoyed \\"Historical Crisis\\", though I found it a bit melodramatic, and a bit too rapid. The novel is still a bit melodramatic (in an enjoyable fashion) and also much slower than \\"Historical Crisis\\", perhaps at times a bit too slow.<br />The book is set from 14790 GE to 14810 GE.  This is about 2700 years after the death of the \\"Founder\\" and the near simultaneous establishment of the equivalent of the \\"First Foundation\\" on a planet called Faraway.  It's about 1600 years after the formal establishment of the Pax Pscholaris, the \\"Second Empire\\" under the rule of the Pscychohistorians called Pscholars.  As may be clear, Kingsbury's universe is an update and rethinking of Isaac Asimov's Foundation Universe, with psi powers replaced by high tech, and with a slightly more sophisticated look at the background math. (Kingsbury, to be sure, is a pr Indeed, he is very interested in treating Psychohistory with some seriousness, and in asking how well the secret society of Pscholars can really keep psychohistory secret, and how ultimately stable their rule will be.<br />The key extra tech is something called the \\"familiar\\", or \\"fam\\" -- sort of a PDA with extra memory and processing which links directly to the brain.  You adjust to it from the age of 3, and your personal adjustment theoretically makes it impossible for anyone else to exercise control over you through it.  Pretty much everybody in rich societies has one, and indeed it is all but impossible to get around Splendid Wisdom (Kingsbury's version of  Asimov's Trantor) without it.<br />The story begins with the trial of a young psychohistorian named Eron Osa.  He is condemned to death, and summarily executed -- by having his fam destroyed.  His body, with its near useless \\"wet\\" brain, is allowed to live.  He cannot even understand his crime -- all the data about it was in his fam. Soon he is desperately trying to relearnnormal living skills, as he also begins to receive strange messages.<br />The story soon is following four points of view, 20 years in the past. We follow Eron Osa as a 12 year old boy on the planet Agander, as he yearns to become a psychohistorian.  We follow Eron's tutor, Murek Kapor, who is in secret Hiranimus Scogil, the member of a secret group trying to develop psychohistory independently and to counteract the Pscholars' efforts.  We follow Admiral Hahukum Konn, the second most powerful Pscholar, and an enthusiast for ancient weapons systems, as he searches for a worthy student to learn his eccentric interpretation of Psychohistory.  And we follow the elderly Hyperlord Kikaju Jama, an antiques dealer who is interested in upsetting the static social order, especially after he discovers a strange device that shows the stars of the Galaxy, and that hints at a secret planet hidden by the Pscholars.  We also follow a fifth thread, as events in the \\"present\\" lead toward a climax.<br />The four threads converge after years for the action of the climax, which is exciting, even though full of math, and which reveals Kingsbury doing some interesting thinking about stability versus vigor in a society.  It's really quite fun, and the world Kingsbury creates is fascinating.  I quite liked Kingsbury's names: the Frightfulperson Otaria of the Calmer Sea being a particular example.  The actual given names, such as Eron Osa, are nods to Asimov's rather unharmonious naming habits.  The book is long, and sometimes rather slow, but on the whole it is a good read.  It is considerably more interesting than the new books in the actual Foundation universe which were authorized after Asimov's death.	2002-02-26
US	52417414	R1JDQ1643L7CYC	0451458591	679410645	Redshift: Extreme Visions of Speculative Fiction	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Middle-of-the-road SF collection with some good stuff	Ignore the hype -- this isn't a taboo-busting anthology, nor is it the best SF anthology of the past 25 years. But it is solid collection of stories.  It's pretty thick, and their are several stinkers and some mediocre stuff, but there are several excellent stories, as well, including all the longer stories.<br />Let's highlight the excellent stories here. The three longest stories include two novellas and a long novelette. The weakest novella, surprisingly enough, is Gene Wolfe's \\"Viewpoint,\\" which is a gripping enough story, about a man given $100,000 -- if he can keep it while the government and ordinary people track him with the help of the media. It's a thrilling read, but it fails due to overly strident politics and a certain lack of plausibility. The other novella is Elizabeth Hand's \\"Cleopatra Brimstone.\\" This is beautifully written, line by line, but it is way too long (as Sarrantonio all but admits in his introduction). Still, it's a very pleasing read, about a woman, studying insects in college, who goes to London to recuperate from a rape, and finds that she has developed a curious sort of alter ego with a strange power. The story is absorbing throughout, but the thematic payout and the telegraphed twist ending don't really reward 20,000-plus words. Dan Simmons' long opening novelette, \\"On K2 With Kanakaredes,\\" is a satisfying story of mountain climbing with an inscrutable alien guest. Simmons both tells a gripping mountain adventure, and tells an interesting SF story about contact with aliens.<br />Perhaps the strangest story in the book is the closing story, Neal Barrett, Jr.'s \\"Rhido Wars.\\" It's difficult to precisely describe -- I'm not sure I understand it anyway. It seems to be the story of a group of humans under the control of some baboons, and a war between the main character's \\"tribe\\" and another \\"tribe,\\" featuring \\"rhidos.\\" The main focus is on the main character, a young man in charge of his four younger siblings. His love for his brothers and especially his sister, and his fatalistic acceptance of their position, are very well portrayed, in a bleak and moving tale.<br />I was also taken with a couple of more satirical pieces. James Patrick Kelly's brief \\"Unique Visitors\\" takes a look at a person awakened sometime in the future, and his slow realization of his condition. Paul Di Filippo is at his most all out viciously satirical in \\"Weeping Walls,\\" about a near future businesswoman who markets the title products to help people deal with their grief fashionably. Also fine are \\"The Building,\\" another of Ursula K. Le Guin's excellent essays in \\"anthropological\\" SF, with a subtle moral point; and Thomas M. Disch's \\"In Xanadu,\\" an extended riff on death and cyberspace, built on references to Coleridge's poem. Another interesting take on death and the afterlife is P.D. Cacek's \\"Belief,\\" which familiarly enough shows a soldier sent to the after-life to continue fighting -- but who he is fighting is a well-sprung surprise. And, finally, Stephen Baxter's \\"In the Un-Black\\" is a nearly incomprehensible but still evocative tale of the changes humans have inflected on themselves to fight their extended war with the Xeelee.<br />So, even if Redshift doesn't live up to the editor's hype, and even if it features quite a few stories that aren't really up to snuff, it is a long book, and the best stories in it are certainly worth the price of the book, and worth your reading attention.	2002-02-26
US	52417414	R3IJCMPU0JXTSI	0312869967	158131111	Knight Errant (War of the Roses)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Some engaging writing, but a weak love story and weak setup	R. Garcia y Robertson is one of the most entertaining of contemporary SF writers. His stories are typically very colourful and imaginative, full of adventures and romance, and often featuring strong female heroines. He also has a Ph. D. in History, and his stories are often historical fantasies. It would possibly seem natural for him to turn to an historical romance in the form popularized by Diana Gabaldon's novels, that is, featuring a contemporary woman transported into historical times, there to fall in love with a hunky guy from the past. So here we have _Knight Errant_, advertised as the first of a trilogy.<br />The heroine is Robyn Stafford, a lower-level sort of producer for a Hollywood-based movie company. The book opens with her on a walking tour near the England-Wales border. She came to England to surprise her lover on his birthday, only to find out that the cad was already married. Happily, she hit it off with the man's sister, who took her in, and arranged the walking tour to fill out the time before her return flight. Suddenly, all alone in Wales, she encounters a man in armor on horseback, who claims to be Edward, Earl of March, and the son of Richard Duke of York. (Also the elder brother of the future Richard III, which hints at interesting (to say the least) future plot developments.) Robyn is at first convinced she is being made fun of, but after a while a very realistic attack convinces her that something strange indeed has occurred -- but then Edward is gone, and she's safely in her own time. However, she is fascinated by Edward, who instantly pledged his love for her, even though she's in her 30s and he's 17. Robyn's ex-lover's sister Jo is a witch, as it happens, and she agrees to see if her coven leader, the mysterious \\"Widow Wydville\\", can shed some light on things -- but an attempt to call Edward to the present instead sends Robyn back into the past -- to 1460, at the height of the Wars of the Roses, with Edward regarded as a traitor to theMad King, Henry VI. Robyn is almost immediately arrested on suspicion of being a witch.<br />Robyn manages to escape, and encounters what appear to be historical versions of her ex-lover, mutated into an honorable knight serving King Henry, and her ex-lover's sister, who is still a witch in this time. Robyn tries to establish a foothold in the past, hoping to find a witch with the power to send her back to her own time, but also hoping to once again encounter Edward. She finds herself drawn deeper into witchcraft, and deeper into the convoluted politics of the time. Naturally, she also begins to agitate (very mildly) for improved social conditions. And when she does meet Edward again, soon she is convinced that she is truly in love, and she is helping his rebellion against the corrupt lords who have been oppressing people in the name of the ineffectual King.<br />Garcia y Robertson is a good and engaging writer, but this book didn't fully work for me. It opens fairly strongly, and finishs excitingly, but the middle third or more of the book drags terribly. Moreover, the love story between Edward and Robyn is not convincing -- partly because Edward is off stage for much of the book. Also, Garcia y Robertson takes care to address the various implausibilities of the situation, but his explanations are somewhat lame, and much of the setup is overly convenient. So -- this isn't a terrible book, but it is a disappointment, considering the source.	2002-02-01
US	52417414	R3LR3R17TVXFJ6	1930846053	933098355	Strange Trades	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Highly recommended collection of SF stories about work	Strange Trades, Paul Di Filippo's fifth collection of short fiction, is one of the most satisfying SF single-author collections I have read in some time. As the title announces, the stories are concerned with people at work. Di Filippo explores a variety of science-fictional jobs, some strange due to technological advances, others due to marginal or experimental economics, others because they're set in unusual milieus.<br />One of Di Filippo's favourite themes is people living on the edges of society, or in the cracks. In several stories in this book, he depicts, with sympathy, a cooperative economy built in those \\"cracks.\\" One story, \\"Harlem Nova,\\" mentions Levi-Strauss' term bricoleurs, for \\"a class of people who live as scavengers, living on the odds and ends the rest of society discards.\\" And the heroes of \\"Harlem Nova,\\" \\"Spondulix,\\" \\"Karuna, Inc.\\" and maybe even \\"Conspiracy of Noise,\\" four of the best stories in the book, are to one extent or another bricoleurs. In particular, \\"Karuna, Inc.\\", one of my favourite stories of the year 2001: dark because of some real tragedy, and because it features some truly (even cartoonishly) evil villains, but also optimistic, in its view of basic human nature, and in the depiction of the title corporation, with its mission: <br />\\"the creation of environmentally responsible, non-exploitive, domestic-based, maximally creative jobs... the primary goal of the subsidiaries shall always be the full employment of all workers... it is to be hoped that the delivery of high-quality goods and services will be a byproduct...\\" <br />Di Filippo also indulges in some classical SFnal extrapolation. \\"Agents\\" looks at computer-based personality simulations which handle interactions in the \\"net,\\" and at what might happen if one such \\"agent\\" became autonomous. \\"Skintwister\\" and \\"Fleshflowers\\" follow the career of Dr. Strode, a very talented \\"peeker\\": a man who uses psychokinetic powers to heal people by manipulating them at the cellular level.\\"SUITs\\" is a mordant and effective fable about robotic security personnel.<br />The other stories are perhaps less easy to fit into categories. \\"Kid Charlemagne,\\" as the author acknowledges, is a story strongly influenced by J.G. Ballard's Vermilion Sands stories: it's set in an isolated lush resort, and features the inevitably doomed romance of a mysterious musician and a spoiled rich girl. \\"The Boredom Factory\\" is a cynical fable that is pretty well described by its title. And \\"The Mill\\" -- well, for one thing, \\"The Mill\\" is my favourite story in this book: I read it and loved it in Amazing Stories back in 1991, and I loved it as much on rereading it just now. It's a long story that in some ways seems reminiscent of Jack Vance. The Mill is a series of factory buildings devoted to producing \\"luxcloth,\\" which is bought by the immortal Factor for interstellar distribution. In the background are such nice SFnal ideas as the interstellar milieu into which this colony planet obscurely fits, the true nature of the Factor, the \\"luxcloth,\\" and so on. But the centre of the story is the close depiction of the circumscribed society of the factory villages. This society seems real, and its eventual fate is well-portrayed, the characters are sympathetic and worth reading about, and the concluding scene is truly moving.<br />I recommend this collection of stories very highly. Di Filippo is a compulsively engaging writer -- witty and imaginative, and fond of his characters, so that they are fun to spend time with, and fun to root for (mostly!). This book delivers on its implicit thematic promise, offering a nice distribution of SFnal explorations of people at work, even while collecting stories from all phases of the author's career. Excellent stuff.	2002-01-22
US	52417414	RDV9NX2YHTVRC	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Powerful and involving story of old gods on American soil	American Gods is Neil Gaiman's big 2001 \\"American\\" fantasy.  The central idea is an old chestnut -- that gods only live as long as they are believed in.  Gaiman modifies this by tying gods to the land, in a sense, such that gods, or a version of them, move to America when people move there.  But most of these old gods are near death -- few people believe in them anymore.  They live on in rather diminished circumstances.<br />The central character is a man named Shadow.  The book opens as he is about to be released after three years in prison.  Just days before his release, he learns that his wife has died in an automobile accident, and the prison authorities let him go early.  On his way home, he meets a strange man called Mr. Wednesday (the significance of the name, and the man's glass eye, won't escape many people, I trust), who offers him a job.  Shadow thinks he has a job waiting, but he soon finds out that his prospective employer has died.<br />Shadow finds himself more or less pushed to taking Wednesday's job offer.  Mostly this job consists of driving around while Wednesday tries to recruit other old gods to join him. It seems a battle for control of America is coming, between the old gods and the \\"new gods\\": the media, the internet, and suchlike.  So we meet a number of nicely depicted gods from the various old countries: Anansi from Africa, Bast and Osiris and Anubis from Egypt, Czernobog from Russia; and so on.  Some of the new gods begin to harass Wednesday and his associates, managing to capture Shadow a couple of times.  And Shadow meets his dead wife as well, in the corrupting flesh, and she begs him to find a way to bring her back to life.  We also get some interludes depicting the lives of some of the immigrants to America, as they bring their gods with them.<br />A long middle section finds Shadow hanging out in an idyllic Wisconsin town, in the dead of winter.  Though even there a dark mystery may lie behind the town's peacefulness.  Finally the battle nears, and Shadow finds himself pushed to test his loyalty to Wednesday to the utmost, even into the land of the dead.  He learns some important truths about his own identity, and he learns the real secret behind the coming battle.<br />The story is resolved both cleverly and movingly.  Shadow is both a character who grows during the action, and a character who pays a great price for his knowledge.  The end manages to surprise, as well.  I think this is one of the best SF/Fantasy books of the year.  There may be a few structural loose ends, and also Gaiman pretty much entirely avoids confronting any of the Abrahamic faiths, which seems to me to leave a conceptual hole, but the book is still powerful and involving.attle nears, and Shadow finds himself pushed to test his loyalty to Wednesday to the utmost, even into the land of the dead.  He learns some important truths about his own identity, and he learns the real secret behind the coming battle.<br />The story is resolved both cleverly and movingly.  Shadow is both a character who grows during the action, and a character who pays a great price for his knowledge.  The end manages to surprise, as well.  I think this is one of the best SF/Fantasy books of the year.  There may be a few structural loose ends, and also Gaiman pretty much entirely avoids confronting any of the Abrahamic faiths, which seems to me to leave a conceptual hole, but the book is still powerful and involving.	2002-01-22
US	52417414	R3RBLSG4NTS7MH	039331782X	626362938	The Lolita Man (Harpur & Iles Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark, ironic, realist police procedural	A friend mentioned Bill James' Harpur and Iles books -- English police procedurals described as the \\"Dance to the Music of Time of mysteries\\" -- to me.  What an irresistible recommendation (see my reviews of the Anthony Powell books for why)!  I decided to give them a try.<br />Thus I have just read _The Lolita Man_, which is number two in the series.  The plot concerns a serial rapist and killer who preys on schoolgirls in the town where Harpur and Iles work.  Iles is the Assistant Chief, while Harpur is one of his top subordinated, a detective superintendent or something.  Iles is a rather nasty man, consumed with careerist passion and a bitter rivalry with the neighboring county police department, this last rivalry enhanced because their Chief is ready to retire and he is concerned that the Assistant Chief from the county will get the job ahead of him.  Moreover, Iles is a Mason, and the top men at the county are Roman Catholics, so Iles' speech is larded with mean remarks about \\"Papists\\" and \\"Micks\\", not to mention cynical remarks about avoiding the appearance of racism etc etc.  That said, he seems to be a very well-read man (allowing him to drop in a cute Anthony Powell reference, calling Harpur one of the \\"Afternoon Men\\" -- that being the title of Powell's first novel).<br /> Harpur is the main point of view character, and much more sympathetic.  He is carrying on an affair with the widow of one of his subordinates, a man who died botching a case -- but he seems decent, and it's made clear that his wife is cheating on him as well, and he treats his lover nicely.  As a cop, he appears honest and hardworking, and much put upon by Iles, not least because he won't join the Masonic Lodge.<br />The main action of the book pivots around Harpur's conviction that the \\"Lolita Man\\"'s next target might be a friend of his daughters.  The reader is given a look at the Lolita Man's thoughts, and at this girl's diary, so we know from the start that Harpur is right, though hehas no good specific reason for his worry. Then she is kidnapped, and while Iles grandstands and withholds information from his county fellows (who, to be fair to him, have done the same in reverse), Harpur does some solo work, and grudgingly cooperates on the sly with his opposite number at the county.  The resolution is well worked out, ironic in tone, fitting the book nicely.  A solid story, with interesting if not exactly heroic characters.  I'll be searching out the rest of these.	2002-01-22
US	52417414	R38453E7CH8ZT4	0380974576	916671943	Nekropolis	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Moving story of future slavery and love	_Nekropolis_ is an excellent novel. It's about a young woman in near future Morocco, Hariba, who becomes &quot;jessed&quot;: her brain chemistry is altered to make her more loyal to a given person -- and she is &quot;sold&quot; as a house servant to a rich man to whom her loyalty is transferred.  There she meets a &quot;harni&quot;, or &quot;chimera&quot; (the term &quot;harni&quot; turns out to refer to chimeras with a specific function, and to have a derogatory aspect, but Hariba doesn't know this), named Akhmim.  &quot;Harnis&quot; are genetically engineered humans, who have been bred to be loyal and compliant to their masters.  In a sense, then, they are bred to be &quot;jessed&quot;.  After some resentment of the harni, Hariba falls in love.  After that she is sold to a new, poorer, owner, and her desperation at losing Akhmim leads her to run away, which in turn makes her very ill, a side effect of resistant the compulsions of her &quot;jessing&quot;.<br />The story is told from four POV's, serially, beginning with Hariba, then Akhmim, then Hariba's mother, then Hariba's best friend, then returning to Hariba.  The plot follows the consequences of Hariba's running away, and of Akhmim feeling compelled to join her in this escape.  Eventually they must try to leave Morocco altogether.  But the plot is not the point of the book -- rather, McHugh is mainly showing us the characters of Hariba and her mother and friend, who are all from the slum area of Fez called the Nekropolis, and how their lives, and those of their families, have been constrained by poverty; and then, even more importantly, the character of Akhmim, and the ways in which he is and is not human, and how that affects his relationship with Hariba.  It is at times a very sad novel, yet also quite full of hope -- the future Morocco portrayed is not a particularly wonderful place, but the future Europe portrayed seems quite nice, really.  The characters are beautifully realized, and always people we believe in, and want to know better.  This is definitely one of the best SF books of 2001 - probably really a 4.5 star book.	2002-01-11
US	52417414	R1X1BNBLSV6SV5	0759550123	568947017	J.	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Whipcrack action, involving characters, neat ideas	One woman, once a NASA scientist working on a Mars mission, is trapped in a mental institution, desperately trying to find a reason or a cure for the terrible dreams that trouble her, and for the bouts of insanely violent feelings which possess her.  Another woman faces a shootout with several men in an abandoned New Mexico town, decades after a war nuclear war destroyed civilization -- and she too faces terrible dreams which have driven her lover away.  A third woman has turned to drink, amid the ruins of her SF writing career and the ravages of her own terrible nightmares.  Mysteriously, these three women, from three different worlds, find themselves together, facing dangers together in each of their worlds, and facing even scarier threats from mysterious humanlike but invulnerable beings who can chase them from world to world.<br />That's the setup for William Sanders' new novel, J.  Sanders has published a number of first rate novels in several genres: SF, fantasy, mystery, men's adventure. He's never less than a wicked good adventure writer, and at his best he combines whipcrack action writing with a deadpan ironic sense of humour, fully rounded, \\"lived-in\\" characters, and real passion. J. is Sanders at close to the top of his form -- it's fast moving, intense, and fun to read.  It's also as close to pure SF as he's ever come at novel length.<br />The story follows the three women who share the same name in different forms (Jay, Mad Jack, and Ann, all short for Jacqueline Ann Younger) as they cope with the realization that in some strange way they are the same woman, in three divergent timelines.  Mad Jack's is the most distant from ours, and Sanders portrays the post-Apocalyptic anarchic New Mexico with brutal realism.  We see only a little bit of Ann's world -- similar to ours with slight divergences that have led, for example, to a more advanced space program.  And Jay's world, as far as we can tell, is our world.  The main action opens with Ann threatened (...) by a brutal worker at the mental institution she's committed herself to -- but suddenly she is rescued by the strange appearance of the heavily armed Mad Jack, who takes the rapid action which is second nature to her harsh way of life.  But of course in Ann's world that's murder -- and while Ann and Jack clumsily try to escape, there really isn't any hope for them -- until somehow they find themselves again in Mad Jack's version of Santa Fe.  That provides only the briefest respite, however, especially when the mysterious grey clad men show up, apparently ready to kill the women out of hand.  But soon they find their way, how they don't know, in yet another world, with Jay -- but by now they know that that won't represent a long term solution, to say nothing of their short term problems dealing with Jay's drinking, and with the unavoidable problem of explaining their sudden appearance in a world with no place for them.<br />J. careens back and forth, the action never stopping, as the three women struggle to escape their grey pursuers.  Fortunately, they find a man who mysteriously has some idea of what might be happening -- and eventually they learn, to some extent, what's been going on -- and they even have a chance at finding a place where all three women can stay together.  This novel features three involving and believable main characters, some fine SFnal speculation that is reminiscent of some of Poul Anderson's work, and some of H. Beam Piper's, and an always compelling plot.	2001-12-11
US	52417414	R1JJQ2AS158KT4	0312866437	709096683	Adventures in Time and Space with Max Merriwell	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Light-hearted metafictional fun and romance	Pat Murphy concludes her light-hearted metafictional trilogy with _Adventures and Time and Space with Max Merriwell_.  Max Merriwell is an SF writer who also writes fantasy as Mary Maxwell, and hard-boiled mysteries as Weldon Merrimax.  Murphy's previous two novels were _Wild Angels_, ostensibly by Max Merriwell writing as &quot;Mary Maxwell&quot;, and _There and Back Again by Max Merriwell_, a retelling of _The Hobbit_ as SF.  <br />The previous books were quite light in tone, and this new book is also fairly frothy, and it's also quite fun.  The main character is Susan Galina, a recently divorced librarian from San Francisco, who has won a free cruise to London.  She has invited her friend Pat Murphy, a graduate student in Physics, who doesn't seem to resemble the author externally -- at any rate, I don't think the real Pat Murphy has spiked blue hair.  Also on the cruise is Max Merriwell, who has agreed to give a writers' workshop in exchange for his ticket.  The other main character is the ship's security director, Tom Clayton, with whom Pat immediately tries to set Susan up, abetted by Tom's friend Ian, a computer expert who handles the ship's new electronic ticketing system among other things.<br />The ship is to pass through the Bermuda Triangle on its way across the ocean.  This is the trigger for a series of mysterious events -- the appearance of both of Max's pseudonyms as real, drinks-buying (and inventing) people; the appearance of characters from _Wild Angel_, including more versions of Pat Murphy; an apparent murder; and a crisis involving radical physics concepts as explained by the character Pat Murphy, such as the affect of consciousness on quantum states, and different possible interpretations of uncertainty and the Many Worlds theory.<br />Alongside this metafictional skullduggery there is the not very suspenseful but nicely portrayed developing romance between Tom and Susan, and the simple story of the cruise across the Atlantic, with pleasant landscapes described in Bermuda and the Azores.  There are also interludes discussing the physics (in the Pat Murphy persona) and writing (as Max Merriwell describes the process).  All is brought to a satisfying, if slightly convenient, conclusion.  An enjoyable read, nothing Earth-shaking, but quite fun.	2001-12-11
US	52417414	RSX7FKZXPLQ5W	1587154854	125709162	The Ballad of Billy Badass and the Rose of Turkestan	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Passionate and exciting contemporary fantasy	Fortunate SF readers will have encountered William Sanders' earlier novels _Journey to Fusang_, a fine, funny-serious, alternate history about a North American colonized by the Chinese instead of the Europeans, and _The Wild Blue and the Grey_, another alternate history about Indians from an independent state as pilots in World War I. Even more fortunate folk may have encountered some of Sanders' other work, published in a variety of categories.<br />Sanders has recently returned to writing SF, mostly in shorter forms. He has published such excellent stories as &quot;Elvis Bearpaw's Luck&quot;, &quot;The Undiscovered&quot; (which was nominated for both the Nebula and the Hugo), and &quot;Jennifer, Just Before Midnight&quot;. He has also published a new SF/Fantasy novel, _The Ballad of Billy Badass and the Rose of Turkestan_.  Even more recently he has published a fine mystery, _Smoke_, and an excellent science fiction novel, _J._ -- both are very well worth finding.<br />This is a very fine contemporary fantasy, with an exciting story in the forefront, as well an involving love story, plenty of humor, and even a message. The message doesn't get in the way of the story: instead, the story supports the message, and the message is a passionately presented and definitely worth hearing.<br />The title characters are Billy Badwater, a Cherokee and a Gulf War veteran, and Janna Turonova, a doctor from Kazakhstan. Janna is in the US partly to alert people to the terrible environmental damage done in Kazakhstan by Soviet nuclear testing and toxic waste. Billy meets her at a powwow, and they fall in love. Soon Billy finds himself chasing this woman across the western U. S., and on a reservation in Nevada he finds evidence that much as the Soviets used the Asian people's land as dumping grounds and testing grounds, the U. S. has used Native American land in the same way. The fantasy element arises from a monster that is called forth by the toxic waste in Nevada. Billy, aided by Janna and some other friends, especially his dead Grandfather, is pushed to use Indian magic in battle against the monster. The story is exciting and involving throughout, and the love story is convincing and sexy.	2001-12-10
US	52417414	RF43ABQ712C7J	0312873840	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Original and powerful novel of time travel and war	The new Robert Charles Wilson novel is _The Chronoliths_. The Chronoliths are huge monuments, made of some indestructible substance, commemorating the military and political successes of someone named Kuin, 20 years in the future.  Each of them (others soon follow the first) has apparently been projected 20 years back in time by this Kuin.  Kuin appears to be some sort of warlord, and the Chronoliths become almost a self-fulfilling prophecy of a future of economic and political disasters and decay -- self-fulfilling not only because the thought of the coming of Kuin is morally sapping, but because the Chronoliths themselves are disasters, causing much loss of life and infrastructure.  Thus Kuin is using the Chronoliths to prepare the way for his arrival, even though he could never have built and sent them without the power he gained: from having sent them.  In its essence, a familiar time travel paradox, but I think very subtly and originally portrayed by Wilson.<br />Scott Warden, after witnessing the arrival of the first Chronolith in Thailand, returns to the US to be near his divorced wife and daughter.  But after a time his past involvement with the first Chronolith, and also his earlier association with the physicist Sue Chopra, who was a favorite professor in college, catches up with him.  It seems he has been under the eye of the authorities because he was near the first arrival -- also it seems that Sue, who has become perhaps the leading expert on Chronoliths, has decided that his association both with her and with the arrival is not a coincidence, but rather some sort of sign.  So when she has a job opening for someone with Scott's skills (he is a &quot;code herder&quot;, a neat term for a future software engineer, nicely implying without any explanation that software is not written line by line anymore but sort of &quot;raised&quot;, like animals), she scoops him up, more or less.  And Scott spends some time on Sue's team, witnessing another arrival, learning that they can be predicted, learning a little bit about Sue's controversial theories.<br />At the same time the political situation is worsening.  Much of the economy is diverted to war preparation, while at the same time many people have become sympathizer's with the shadowy aims of the still unknown Kuin.  Scott's wife's slimy new husband is one such sympathizer -- worse, his daughter becomes involved with a more radical Kuinist youth group.  Scott leaves Sue's group abruptly when his daughter disappears, and soon finds himself in the company of another woman, the mother of another disappeared child, as well as the mysteriously returned Hitch Paley, heading to Mexico where, it seems, the next Chronolith will arrive, and where many of the Kuinists are heading on a sort of pilgrimage or &quot;haj&quot;.  <br />The disastrous events in Mexico change Scott's personal life further, though not entirely for the worst, and the book then continues to its resolution: the potential arrival of a Chronolith on U. S. soil, and a desperate attempt by Sue Chopra to sabotage the Chronoliths, and the traitorous resistance to that attempt by the increasingly radical domestic Kuinists.  The ending is surprising, and things are very logically resolved.  The book is at once an effective and original time paradox story, a grim but hopeful story of a depressed future, and an involving story of an ordinary man in extraordinary times.  I have rated it 4 stars -- really it's closer to 4 and a half.	2001-11-30
US	52417414	R1U6QL3D9Q99DA	0553111248	417245650	Passage	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Slow starting and overlong, but in the end moving	Passage is Connie Willis' new novel, and it's fairly clear from the subject matter that it's an entry in her more serious mode.  It concerns Near Death Experiences (NDE's), and the attempts of a couple of researchers to explain them as the reaction of the brain and body to the physical conditions of dying -- with a glimmer of hope that such understanding might even lead to a means of bringing more people back from the brink of death.  As such, the book deals with several people on the verge of dying -- including some who have, as it were, been there and back.<br />The main character is Joanna Lander, a psychologist investigating NDE's at a Denver hospital.  She is called whenever a patient &quot;codes&quot; -- suffers heart failure, and if the patient is revived, she interviews him or her about her experience.  Her cross to bear is a rival researcher, Maurice Mandrake, who has written a best-selling book asserting that NDE's involve a specific set of images including angels, messages from others who have died, etc., as well as asserting that they are essentially spiritual in nature. Willis spends many pages in something like her madcap comedy mode, detailing Joanna's attempts to find shortcuts threw the maze that is the hospital, both in order to avoid Mandrake and to reach coded patients faster than he can.<br />Then a new researcher, Dr. Richard Wright, enters the picture.  He has a plan to simulate NDE's by introducing the same chemicals researchers have detected in the brains of dying patients into healthy patients.  Mandrake, of course, thinks this folly, as it implies that NDE's are physical and not spiritual in nature.  But Joanna, after some hesitation, agrees to help Richard.  However, they run into problems recruiting appropriate subjects and finally, Joanna (rather unprofessionally, I thought) decides to become a subject herself.<br />This is about when the book, which begins very slowly, almost tediously, becomes interesting.  Joanna's simulated NDE seems very real, and soon she realizes that what she experiences while she is &quot;under&quot; is a very real-seeming version of the Titanic, just as it is sinking.  It's peppered with details which are apparently historically correct, but also with curious variances that come from Joanna's own life.  So she keeps going under, while trying to track down Titanic-related details, and trying to correlate the imagery of other NDE's with Titanic imagery.  Then events take a wrenching turn, and the novel moves to its extended close, which mixes tragic events with some hopeful and optimistic discoveries.<br />I had some problems with this book.  As I suggested earlier, it starts slowly, and it's too long.  Willis' trademark habit of making some set of frustrating everyday-life details a recurring motif or running joke (in this case, the difficulty of navigating the hospital corridors, plus the never-open cafeteria) is over-extended here -- it becomes annoying.  She doesn't quite manage to make Richard seem real, though the other characters are well-done.  Some of the plot devices are implausible -- for example, would experienced researchers really believe that a man claiming to be 65 in the year 2000 was a crewman on the Yorktown at the Battle of Midway?  And the big revelation Joanna finds, which drives the action of the final third of the novel, really doesn't seem that spectacular -- more just common sense.  Indeed, the book really is only barely SF -- which isn't a complaint, just an observation.<br />On the other hand, after the slow start, the story becomes quite involving, and if I felt just a bit manipulated by some of the plot turns, I was still genuinely moved, and shocked at the right time, excited at other times, in tears by the end.  The passel of characters surrounding Joanna are engaging people, and we feel for them and root for them.  If the book turns on a scientific discovery which seems kind of minor, or at least obvious, that still leaves our concern for the characters to interest us.  At any rate, while this isn't a perfect performance, nor is it Willis' best work, it's a worthwhile and moving novel.	2001-11-30
US	52417414	R1MGX1C90IYAMK	0380813297	213391055	Ascending	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Wacky and fun but sometimes implausible Space Opera	_Ascending_ is James Alan Gardner's fourth novel about Festina Ramos, an &quot;Explorer&quot; with the Navy of the future Human Technocracy.  Festina was the protagonist of Gardner's first novel, _Expendable_, in which we learn the general setup of his future history, to wit 1) humans (and a number of other alien species) have been given the secret of FTL travel as well as some other nice stuff such as life extension treatments by apparently benevolent aliens, 2) the more advanced aliens are the controlling races of the League of Peoples, a very loose confederation of beings that operates with one simple law: anyone who might kill another sentient being is considered non-sentient, and cannot travel outside their own Solar System: if they do, they die, instantly and mysteriously; and 3) the Human Navy's Explorer Corps is composed of disabled and disfigured people who are considered &quot;expendable&quot; because of their handicaps, thus handy for being sent on dangerous missions.  John Clute called this last idea the silliest idea he had ever seen in SF, or words to that effect, and I agree. <br />After _Expendable_ Festina is no longer the POV character, but in each book she is an important secondary character.  _Vigilant_ and _Hunted_ are mostly unlinked separate stories.  _Ascending_, though, directly continues the story of a character from the first book, with the glass woman Oar of the planet Melaquin having awoken from a 4 year sleep, apparently cured of injuries she suffered in that book.  She has been discovered by a criminal of the Divian species named Uclodd Unorr: a short orange humanoid.  He has been hired to spirit Oar away before the Technocracy council of Admirals finds her, because they wish to make sure she cannot testify against them about the crimes on Melaquin.  So Uclodd, his wife Lajoolie, and Oar are soon running away in the intelligent ship Starbiter.  But they find that not only is the Human navy after them, so is a powerful alien species called the Shaddill -- the very species which sold FTL technology to Divians and Humans, and which is believed to have created Oar's people in the distant past.  After some hair-raising adventures, they encounter Festina Ramos, then another strange alien species, the Cashlings.  All the while Oar is in contact with a weird alien named the Pollisand, who claims to have brought her back from the dead, and who wishes her help in ridding the universe of the evil Shaddill.<br />The book is quite fun to read.  It is told in Oar's inimitable voice, familiar to readers of _Expendable_: she is childish but charming, desperate for attention, very egotistical, profane.  The reasons for all this are explained in the book.  The voice is fun to read, and the action of the book is quite exciting as well.  At the same time, there are caveats.  The whole setup for Gardner's future is really absurd.  Moreover, the science in these books is extremely rubbery, pretty much whatever it needs to be for plot purposes at any one time.  I have seen a number of comments from readers for whom all this is too much, and they can't enjoy the books.  I find that thoroughly understandable -- I can only say that I do like the books, albeit with reservations and a certain amount of eye-rolling and eyebrow-raising.  I made a comment, in a review of one of the earlier books, that they reminded me, in some ways, of '50s SF: in the rubbery but fun science, and in the whole insouciance of the approach to things.  I will say that Gardner's imagination is active: his aliens, though very humanlike in character, are neatly designed, and his tech, wacky is it is, is also often quite clever.	2001-11-12
US	52417414	R349A49LXKGA00	089296717X	433297814	Bad News (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good News! - A new Dortmunder	Donald Westlake's latest Dortmunder book, _Bad News_, proved a sound choice for vacation reading.  It's very fast moving, very funny, very clever, and very much a typical Dortmunder book, which is, dare I say, good news.  As those who've read previous books in the series know, the most common trope of the Dortmunder books is for Dortmunder and his gang to get involved in a crime which ends up having to be, in some sense, repeated, with different permutations, several times.  For example, in the very first one, _The Hot Rock_, they had to steal the same jewel several times.  <br />In this book, after the usual opening scene, John Dortmunder hilariously failing to get caught while failing to successfully complete a robbery, he finds himself approached by Andy Kelp with a unorthodox (for them) proposal.  Andy has been hired by somebody he met on the Internet (Andy is always trying new technology, which Dortmunder hates) to help out in a certain enterprise -- they want them to dig up a grave and rebury a different body in it.  This isn't much to Dortmunder's liking, but the price seems fateful -- exactly the amount of money he had expected to realize from the stolen goods he was forced to leave behind the previous night.  After Andy and John complete the body switch, they foil the attempt by the villains Fitzroy and Irwin to cheat (permanently) their new helpers, and they get interested in a) figuring out what's really going on, and b) getting themselves a much bigger cut.  With the help of Tiny Bulcher, they are soon involved in the scheme, which I won't detail here because finding out is much of the fun.  Also involved are Little Feather, an Indian from out West, formerly a Las Vegas showgirl, and their target is an Indian-operated casino in Upstate New York.  It's no surprise that the crooked casino owners have their own ideas, which involve several hilarious further iterations of the original &quot;crime&quot;.  <br />It's all very funny stuff, and the various schemes are pretty much as clever as usual, though depending just a bit on sheer luck.  Wholly worth reading, as indeed is the entire series.  I'd put this particular entry somewhere in the middle range of the Dortmunder books, which means well in the upper range of books in general.	2001-11-12
US	52417414	R2XVGO7U38JQDG	031287314X	474645987	Return to the Whorl: The Third Volume of The Book of the Short Sun (Book of the Long Sun)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Intense and moving, perhaps the best SF of 2001	Gene Wolfe has published the last book in his _Book of the Short Sun_ trilogy, _Return to the Whorl_.  This is a very intense book.  I found it quite extraordinarily moving.  I think it's the best SF novel of 2001, so far. It might be difficult to discuss it in detail without spoilers for all three &quot;Short Sun&quot; books, though on the other hand I'm not sure those spoilers are at all important to the books' reading experience. At any rate it answers a central question: the identity of the main character, though I don't really think any reader of the first two books will be surprised.<br />One set of chapters of _Return to the Whorl_ is written, as with the first two &quot;Short Sun&quot; books, by &quot;Horn&quot;, continuing the story of events on Blue after he has returned from his visit to the Long Sun Whorl, where he went to search for Patera Silk.  But &quot;Horn&quot;, it has become clear, much resembles Silk, and doesn't resemble his old self at all.  He is approaching his home of New Viron, in the company of one of his twin sons, Hide, and the person he calls his daughter, Jahlee, who, we know, is an inhuma that he rescued in Gaon, the first place he came to upon his return to Blue.  Also, of course, he is accompanied by the night chough, Oreb, who was Silk's bird as well.  They are arrested on the word of a corrupt merchant when they reach the town of Dorp.  This strand of the story tells of their imprisonment in Dorp, of Horn's realization of the corrupt nature of the government of that town, and his eventual fomenting of a revolution there.  (Thus continuing a theme which became apparent in the first two books.)  <br />The other set of chapters is told in third person about a man always called &quot;he&quot;, who calls himself Horn but is called by others Silk, on the Long Sun Whorl.  &quot;He&quot; meets up with a blind giant named Pig, and with a man named Hound, and makes his way to Old Viron, the hometown of both Horn and Silk.  There, as he looks for &quot;Silk&quot;, he meets again Horn's father, the old manteion, a strange chem girl named Olivine, and finally his beloved General Mint and her husband, Bison, who is now Calde, Silk having resigned some years previously.  &quot;He&quot; has promised to find eyes for his old chem sybil Maytera Marble (back on Blue), and he also promises to help Pig find medical help to restore his &quot;een&quot;, as Pig calls them.  And he is instructed by a godling to tell the people of the Long Sun Whorl to stop leaving the Whorl to go to Blue -- enough have gone, and now they wish to repair the Whorl and travel to another star system.  <br />All is resolved, quite satisfyingly.  There are more visits (in astral form) to the &quot;Red Sun Whorl&quot;: that is, Urth at the time of the beginning of the Book of the New Sun.  There is plenty of action, and even more talk.  Such events as the eventual restoring of sight to both blind characters, shown indirectly, are subtly and remarkably moving.  And at the end, the most remarkable thing Wolfe has done, to my mind, is to have portrayed, over seven books (including _The Book of the Long Sun_), a character who is complex and fully human and often foolish but also as purely &quot;good&quot; as any character I have encountered in SF: Silk.  It is a great book.	2001-11-12
US	52417414	R36RO6UP8955QM	006105142X	616600274	Metaplanetary: A Novel of Interplanetary Civil War	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Grand and involving	_Metaplanetary_ is a grand, involving, novel set in 3013 C. E., in a fully colonized solar system which is about to burst into a vicious civil war.  It is chock full of neat, if perhaps not always fully plausible (indeed at times quite wacky), SFnal ideas.  It managed to excite my somewhat jaded sense of wonder, and it made me care deeply about quite a few characters, and it advances some interesting and worthwhile moral themes.  Its main flaw is that it doesn't end so much as stop -- it's part of a two book series (the sequel will be called _Superluminal_), and it really does not stand alone.  (This is not indicated on the published book, for which the publisher should be criticized.)  Another, lesser, flaw, perhaps, is that the villain is really evil -- no moral ambiguity there.  <br />The solar system in 3000 or so is divided into basically two sections.  The inner system, called the Met, consists of the inner four planets, and a gloriously weird system of tubes connecting them, which makes the whole thing look like a spider web, sort of.  Many people seem to live in the tubes, or in nodes of the system, called bolsas.  Mercury, with all that energy available, is the dominant planet.  Earth has been largely returned to nature.<br />The outer planetary systems have all been colonized, with varying degrees of success.  Triton, Neptune's big moon, is one of the most successful colonies.  In addition, a number of artificially intelligent ships live permanently in space, particularly the Oort clouds, and they have traveled as far as Alpha Centauri.  (These are called cloudships.)  The Met doesn't reach to the outer system because the asteroid belt is impractical to cross with the tubes (perhaps due simply to authorial fiat).<br />Besides the Met, the other key SFnal notion of the book is &quot;grist&quot;.  Basically, grist is very &quot;smart&quot; nanotech.  Most if not all humans have an integrated bunch of grist attached, called a pellicle, which hosts a version of their personality in AI form, called a convert.  There are also &quot;free converts&quot;, AI's based on scans of human brains but which don't have a biological body.  Humans can interact with both free converts and with the &quot;attached&quot; converts of other humans in Virtual space, and all of the system, pretty much, is instantaneously connected by a grist network called the merci.  And some humans are what are called LAP's -- Large Array of Personas: they are in essence a network of clones and converts that can be physically and virtually in many places at once.<br />For the most part, the solar system is in something of a Golden Age.  The physical needs of people seem to be well supplied.  A critical political issue is the rights of &quot;free converts&quot;.  Some do not consider them &quot;Human&quot; -- they are just computer programs, in this view, without real free will, without, if you will, &quot;souls&quot;.  But others, especially in the outer system, regard them as clearly human.  <br />The novel is told from a variety of points of view: a couple of cloudships; a free convert named Danis Graytor; Danis' human husband Kelly; their daughter Aubry (who has a human body but is considered a &quot;half free convert&quot;); an artificial woman named Jill with a body made of grist and a brained based on a ferret's; Colonel Roger Sherman, the military leader of Triton's forces; Sherman's son Lee; Director Ames, the leader of the Met government; General San Filieu, an aging Catalan woman under Ames influence who leads the Met attack on Triton; and more.  This gives us a good look at the variety of ways people live in this future, and at what it is like to be a free convert, or a cloudship, or a human with a pellicle and convert attachment, or a LAP.  This also helps keep the action moving, important in a fairly long book.<br />The action of the novel is exciting and fascinating.  We see atrocities, such as some clever means of torturing AIs, and a brutal attack on Triton with some scary uses of space tech; and we see heroism in the resistance to these atrocities.  We see convincing depictions of sex between humans and AIs, and of alternate means of travel in a physically linked solar system, and of AI entertainment.  We get useful glimpses of the history of this future: the young life of Director Ames, the development of the cloudships, the invention of grist and the merci.  It's a fairly long book, but never boring.<br />The main characters are fully rounded. I found the villains interesting, but it must be admitted that they are depicted with rather a broad brush of evil.  Daniel gives his different characters and narrators different voices.  His prose is generally sound, occasionally lapsing into cliche, but at other times very nice.  His scope is vast, and his theme is one of the great SF themes: &quot;What is a human?&quot;  He illustrates this nicely with his array of characters of vastly different &quot;shape&quot; or composition; and he metaphorically illustrates even more nicely the associated conflict of viewpoints between individualists and collectivists: hinting by the end at a truly scary collectivist vision.  The scary parts of the book are convincing and often quite original, and very scary: and the heroism is moving and believable.  I really liked this book.	2001-10-26
US	52417414	R3SNXIT39DV9DX	0399147500	442919769	Sister Noon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ironically told tale of a woman in 1890s San Francisco	One of my most eagerly anticipated books this year was Karen Joy Fowler's new novel, _Sister Noon_.  Fowler is one of my favorite writers. _Sister Noon_ is set in San Francisco in 1890.  The central character is Lizzy Hayes, a fortyish spinster, treasurerer of the Ladies' Relief and Protection Society Home, which takes in orphans and raises them.  Lizzy believes herself happy despite a fairly boring life.  One day the notorious Mrs. Pleasant, an elderly ex-slave, reputed to have been an, er, &quot;working woman&quot;, and a very wealthy woman, comes to visit, with a new child for the Home.  This child is an odd 5-year old girl named Jenny Ijub.<br />The novel interleaves details about the history of Mrs. Pleasant and her curious menage at the Bell household with Lizzy's modest adventures and difficulties at the Home, especially difficulties involving Jenny and also a Chinese orphan named Ti Wong.  Mrs. Pleasant came to San Francisco passing for white, then, at a notorious party revealed that she was black, and an ex-slave.  Over time she made a fortune as a cook, and as a woman who knew many of the secrets of the leading men of the new and growing city, in particular one Thomas Bell.  In 1890 Mrs. Pleasant serves as housekeeper for Thomas Bell and his strange wife, at a notorious house called the House of Mystery.  They have several children, and rumours abound as to which of the women is the mother of any of them, and indeed how many of the children might be the result of Mrs. Pleasant's rumoured business activities.  <br />At the same time Jenny is having a hard time adjusting to life in the Home, as she is persecuted by the other children.  Lizzy finds herself visiting the House of Mystery several times, and having a number of ambiguous and almost phantasmagorical conversations with both Mrs. Pleasant and Mrs. Bell.  In addition the Home is subjected to a diptheria epidemic, and quarantine.  And Lizzy must also fight off questions from her society friends about her association with Mrs. Pleasant, and about the horrible thought that Jenny might actually be part-black (can't have a black girl in with white orphans!).  And finally Lizzy starts to question aspects of her own family history, especially her father's possible dealings with Mrs. Pleasant.  Also Jenny Ijub is threatened with kidnapping, and Lizzy's decision to take in the Chinese boy Ti Wong causes additional stress.<br />The book is continually intriguing, driven especially by Fowler's wonderful ironic prose.  Clearly the question of race is at the center of the book, as well as the place of women, in particular spinsters, in society.  But even more, it turns out, the book is about families.  Not surprisingly, with so many orphans about, stories of broken families abound -- Mrs. Pleasant's story and Mrs. Bell's story both involve mistreatment as a child, and even Lizzy has family issues.  And when we learn what Lizzy wants, it's not a husband, nor money, nor even more adventure, but a family.  <br />I found the book a bit harder to grasp, to engage with, than either _Sarah Canary_ or _The Sweetheart Season_, so I might rank it third among Fowler's novels.  But that, surely, is not so terrible: _Sister Noon_ is a very fine novel, very well worth reading (and her other novels, as well as her short stories, collected in _Black Glass_ and in _Artificial Things_, are outstanding).	2001-10-10
US	52417414	R3F2JSBY12E83S	157566237X	453585454	Pink Vodka Blues	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Scary, funny, mystery novel	Neal Barrett, Jr. is well known to me as a SF/Fantasy writer, but until just recently I was unaware of his mystery novels.  _Pink Vodka Blues_ is the first I have read.  It would seem from internal evidence that it is not part of an ongoing series.  <br />The lead character is Russell Murray, a seriously alcoholic writer for a literary magazine in Chicago.  He returns from a trip to Dallas for his editor with absolute no memory of where he's been or what he's done.  Worse, he wakes up in a hotel room with a woman he doesn't recognize -- and minutes later a couple of hitmen smash there way into the room and kill the woman -- Russell escapes in terror by sheer luck.  Naturally enough, he is soon the prime suspect in the murder of the woman, and he is quickly on the run.  He still has no idea what happened in Dallas -- he was supposedly delivering a manuscript to a reclusive author while his editor, who was supposed to do the job, spent the weekend with his girlfriend.  Soon Russell learns that his editor is the nephew of a local mob boss, and that two factions in the mob want whatever Russell was supposed to deliver, which delivery apparently never happened.  Russell can't help, because his memory is shot.  He ends up in a rehab facility after passing out in his car -- and there he meets a beautiful and rich alcoholic woman.  When the mob track him down, he and the woman escape, and rather clumsily and drunkenly wend their way across the US, to Dallas, Florida, and back to Chicago, chased by two strange sets of hit people, trying to figure out what Russell has forgotten.  <br />The book is quite funny at times, though it's also a scary (and accurate seeming) portrayal of alcholism.  The main characters are nice enough that we root for them, but they are by no means hero and heroine -- they are losers, and if they end up halfway solving their problem, only some of the bad guys get their due, and the good guys only partly get a happy ending also.  Which qualifies as fairly realistic, I guess.  This fits more or less into the Elmore Leonard end of the crime fiction genre, though I'd call it not as good as Leonard, but worth reading.	2001-10-10
US	52417414	R2IZVX8YHZJLO7	0064473163	354524830	The Crown of Dalemark (Dalemark Quartet, Book 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid conclusion to a fine YA Fantasy series	_The Crown of Dalemark_ is the concluding volume of the Dalemark Quartet.  Oddly, this book didn't appear until 14 years after the last of the preceding three: in 1993.  Yet it's not an afterthought -- the series clearly needed a closing volume -- I wonder why Ms. Jones waited so long.  At any rate it's a solid conclusion, much longer than the first three books, a bit darker in tone (though really all four books have dark overtones), and a logical and different than expected resolution to the situation set up in the first books.<br />There are two main characters in this book -- Mitt, also one of the heroes of book 2 (_Drowned Ammet_), and Maewen, and girl from the future of Dalemark -- a time very roughly corresponding to our own time in terms of technological development.  Maewen, while visiting her father (her parents are separated), meets a couple of strange individuals.  One, she soon learns, is Kankredin, the evil wizard from _The Spellcoats_, while the other is another of the Undying.  This character maneuvers her back into the past, to take the place of Noreth, a girl from Mitt's time who looks just like Maewen.  Noreth was a descendant of the rightful King of Dalemark, and she had planned to find the four objects that only the King can use (a cup, a ring, a sword, and a crown) and reclaim the Crown of Dalemark and reunite the sundered kingdom.  But Noreth disappeared before she could accomplish this, and Maewen must walk the roads of Dalemark to find these objects in her place.  The powers that be, naturally enough, oppose Noreth's quest, and she is stalked by assassins.  One of these is Mitt, who is blackmailed by his Northern hosts into going after Noreth -- but after meeting her Mitt refuses, and soon he joins her tiny entourage, along with the hero of Book 1 (_Cart and Cwidder_): Moril the Singer, as well as another Singer, and the clever but perhaps not trustworthy southern nobleman who was also exiled to the North with Mitt, and the Undying who has sent Maewen here.<br />Maewen, Mitt, and the others wander about the countryside, often in rather magical fashion, tracking down the four objects, but also trying to elude the assassins, and eventually armies, which are trying to stop.  Maewen's only goal is to give the objects to the man she knows became king: Amil the Great, the man who more or less singlehandedly founded modern Dalemark.  But who could he be?  There is no sign of him.  The resolution is surprising and rather effective.  Jones makes excellent use of the rather unusual magic &quot;system&quot; (though it's not really systematic, and is perhaps more effective for that) that she has established, especially the Undying, who are like gods but not by any means omnipotent or even all-knowing.  The four books represent a very solid work of YA fantasy.	2001-09-28
US	52417414	R3380XE43XH37X	0312874030	937446490	The Pickup Artist	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quirky, involving, strange look at next century America	Terry Bisson's new novel, _The Pickup Artist_, is an interesting, odd, novel that reminded me strongly of Jonathan Lethem, particularly, for some reason, _Amnesia Moon_.  At the opening it seems almost a straightforward commentary by SFnal means on a theme reminiscent of _Fahrenheit 451_ (though at core very different), but by the end it has become a road novel through a very strange next century America.  <br />The title character is Hank Shapiro, who works for the government confiscating works of art which have been &quot;deleted&quot;.  It has been determined that contemporary artists are unfairly at a disadvantage in &quot;competition&quot; with the weight of all the works of literature, painting, acting, etc. from the past, and each month, a randomly selected set of authors, musicians, movies, painters  and so on is &quot;deleted&quot;, and all their works are supposed to be destroyed.  Shapiro and his fellow &quot;pickup artists&quot; travel to people's homes who are reported to own copies of deleted videos, records, and books, and confiscated the works (while compensating the owners).   <br />Hank's dog is dying, and his mother is dead, and his father, who named him for the legendary country singer Hank Williams, left long ago.  The combined effects of all these lead him to a criminal act -- when he confiscates a Hank Williams record he decides to try to find a record player on which to listen to it -- just once -- before turning it in.  Before long he's involved with a long-pregnant librarian named Henry, and with a series of identical Indians named Bob, and he's breaking into a veterinary hospital to rescue his dog from euthanasia, and his Hank Williams record has been stolen, possibly by one of the Alexandrians (Library version) who apparently try to rescue deleted artwork.  So Hank and Henry and the corpse of Indian Bob and the dying dog start to chase the record across the country, through flee markets and abandoned casinos and abandoned highways to theindependent city state of Vegas.<br />Alternating short chapters tell the history of the move for &quot;deletion&quot;, which began with terrorist destruction of paintings at museums, and continued with the support of a mysterious software billionaire and an aging actress and a trial of the accidental killers of a number of people at a museum.<br />The telling of this story is continually interesting, and the characters are quirky and involving if not quite ever real.  The plot is discursive and really doesn't go much of anywhere, and the social background is interesting but not coherent.  Much gives off the sense of being made of as it goes along.  What seems to be the central argument, concerning the morality of this &quot;deletion&quot; and perhaps the &quot;anxiety of influence&quot; or something, is never really engaged, but the book is still about something -- about death, I think, and perhaps about art as a release from a dead life.  I don't get the sense of a completed argument, or even, really, a completed book -- but an interesting effort in both areas.	2001-09-21
US	52417414	RM4YL3HW2B05F	0064473147	718002730	Drowned Ammet (Dalemark Quartet, Book 2)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fine continuation to the Dalemark Quartet	_Drowned Ammet_ is the second in Diana Wynne Jones' _Dalemark Quartet_. It is set roughly contemporaneously with the first book, _Cart and Cwidder_. In this book we meet Alhammitt, or Mitt, a poor boy from the far southern town of Holand, who becomes somewhat radicalized when his father and mother are thrown out of their farm for capricious reasons by the tax collector for the evil Earl Hadd. Later his father's involvement with the Free Holanders goes terribly wrong, leaving Mitt and his feckless mother alone. Mitt grows up a sailor and later a gunsmith's apprentice, and plots to gain revenge on both the Free Holanders (for betraying his father) and on Earl Hadd (for pretty much everything) by killing the Earl and implicating the Free Holanders. But this plot too goes terribly wrong, and Mitt ends up on a yacht with the two of the Earl's grandchildren, heading for the North. <br />I liked this book quite a bit -- Jones' puts her characters (Mitt and the two noble children) under great stress -- not just physical danger but she pushes them to see their own severe personal faults, and this works very well. The fantastical elements, involving the mysterious godlike figures of Ammet and Libby Beer, are very nicely evoked.  The political situation is also well described and realistic.  The plot is well resolved, albeit with a bit of convenience, maybe with a bit more magical help than I like, and with a plot twist that even though I saw it coming, I could hardly believe she had the effrontery to exercise. (And I thought it just a shade unfair.) All told, though, a very nice book, and coupled with the first clearly part of a series, but reasonably well contained too.	2001-09-21
US	52417414	R1AH3UNU5Q9LHD	0064473155	725625493	The Spellcoats (The Dalemark Quartet, Book 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mythic story of the foundation of Dalemark	The third book in Diana Wynne Jones' Dalemark Quartet is _The Spellcoats_.  This book is set in the prehistory of Dalemark, hundreds or thousands of years prior to the action of the first two books (and, I assume, the fourth).  It deals with a family of children: Robin, Gull, Hern, Mallard (or Duck), and the narrator, Tanaqui, who is presented as weaving the entire story into the title &quot;spellcoats&quot;.  The so-called &quot;Heathens&quot; have invaded their land, and Gull and their father are recruited to fight -- a war from which Gull returns apparently mad, and from which their father returns not at all.  At the same time, the children face hostility from their fellow villagers, because they are bright-haired like the Heathens.  As an enormous flood strikes the village, they are forced to flee down the great River to the Sea.  Along the way they receive mysterious advice from their dead Mother, and from a strange man, who seems to be a wizard, and who Robin falls in love with.  They learn that an evil wizard, Kankredin, awaits at the mouth of the river, and that he seems to be calling Gull to him.  After encounters with both Kankredin and the young King of the Heathens, they head back upriver with their own King, and with their strangely changed &quot;Undying&quot; figure.  All the children must learn their own surprising destinies, and the true nature of their Undying, of their Mother, of the &quot;wizard&quot; Tanamil, of Kankredin and their River.  <br />Magic is closer to the surface in this book than in the other two, and the events closer to mythical events.  It is partly a nation-formation tale -- it becomes clear that this is the story of how Dalemark as Dalemark came to be -- as such, an important set up, I would guess, for the final volume, which presumably will concern the reunification of the sundered Kingdom.  Perhaps because it's such a &quot;mythical&quot; book, it's also darker, and perhaps grander, than the first two books.  All in all, another very fine Diana Wynne Jones story.	2001-09-10
US	52417414	R153H20VBZHCK2	0375701141	643771163	Night Train	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Dark examination of suicide	_Night Train_ is a very short novel (some 40,000 words).  It's set in an unnamed U. S. city which seemed possibly to be vaguely based on Portland, Oregon, to me, though I actually think Amis intended it to be set just &quot;anywhere&quot; in the U. S.  It's narrated by a veteran policewoman named Mike Hoolihan.  As a favor to her former boss she agrees to investigate the suicide of his daughter.  The mystery is that his daughter seemed perfectly happy: she was a very beautiful woman, a successful astrophysicist, happily involved in a long term relationship with a nice man, on good terms with her family -- there is no hint of a reason for suicide.  Her father wants Mike (an unlovely alcoholic orphan, with a history of trouble with men -- contrasts not an accident) to find a reason to call the suicide murder, and to pin it on someone, maybe the boyfriend.  Mike loyally makes an effort to do just that, then she begins to dig more deeply into the secrets of the dead woman's life -- and hints of problems start to appear.  Was she having an affair?  in trouble at work?  undergoing treatment for depression?  All are hinted at, but nothing hangs together -- until finally Mike comes to a realization of the real truth, which is rather existential and dark and a bit scary, if maybe also a bit unconvincing.<br />Amis is a good writer, and the novel is an interesting book to read, but it's not really successful.  The philosophical point he strives toward seems worthwhile and at least worth positing.  So the resolution of the novel, if as I said perhaps a bit unconvincing (particularly the way Mike reaches her conclusions) is acceptable.  Where the book really fails is in Hoolihan's voice, which is a wildly offbase sort of faux-Americanese.  The most obvious illustration is right at the beginning, when Mike Hoolihan announces that &quot;I am a police&quot; and asserts that that is what American cops call themselves.  Not that I ever heard.  I'm not sure why Amis chose this voiceto tell his story -- but I found it distracting.	2001-09-08
US	52417414	R2SN0V92DLSBY	0312867808	815939720	Starlight 3	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another solid entry in a fine anthology series	The newest edition of Patrick Nielsen Hayden's original anthology series _Starlight_ is a pretty solid book, certainly not hurting the reputation of this series as one to rival _Orbit_ or _New Dimensions_ or _Universe_ in quality and consistency, but it's vaguely disappointing: I guess because while there are a whole lot of really good stories, there are no superb stories, nothing like say &quot;Story of Your Life&quot; from the second issue. <br />I'll mention some highlights. Ted Chiang is back, with &quot;Hell is the Absence of God&quot;, a rather intriguing and deadpan look at a world much like our own in which the existence of Heaven and Hell are objectively proven: indeed, the souls in Hell can be seen, and in which angels occasionally come to Earth, typically causing a mixture of miraculous events and capricious disasters. The story focuses on an unpious man whose beloved wife is killed and ascends to Heaven in one such angelic visitation, and who tries to find a way to love God and thus reach Heaven to rejoin her, against all his instincts. My favorite piece might have been Maureen McHugh's &quot;Interview: On Any Given Day&quot;, about a teenaged girl who becomes infected with a potentially cancerous agent after an odd affair with a rejuvenated older man -- the story not only describes a near future teenage milieu quite well, but it's particularly good at what it's really about, in kind of a sideways fashion: the affect of this rejuvenation technology on people, particularly the sad older man who has the affair with the main character. This was a very real-seeming story -- McHugh at close to her best. Susan Palwick's &quot;Gestella&quot; takes a very simple (even silly) gimmick: what if werewolves share the 7/1 lifespan ratio with humans that real canids are said to have, and extrapolates it to a very scary conclusion in telling of the relationship of the title werewolf with a shallow professor. And it's a great example of effective, and, it seems to me, narratively essential, use of the second person. I'm a great fan of Susanna Clarke's stories, few as they have been. &quot;Tom Brightwind, or, How the Fairy Bridge was Built at Thoresby&quot; is a witty piece about Tom Brightwind, a fairy, and his human friend, the Jewish doctor David Montefiore, and said bridge, and the means and results of its building. Light-hearted, clever, fun stuff. Madeleine E. Robins' &quot;La Vie en Ronde&quot; is one of the more original stories I've read recently -- I can't say much more about it, but I found it intriguing if a bit hard to figure out. Alex Irvine's &quot;The Sea Wind Offers Little Relief&quot; is also intriguing, and hints at being a really special story, but didn't quite come together for me. Still, it was different: about a future in which the Assimilation has occurred: electronic communications and direct mind-computer uplinks have become so common that any communication that can be concealed, such as reading plain text, is illegal. After nearly 150 years of imprisonment for forbidden reading, a man is released in order to read and explain a poem. The poem encapsulates another mystery. I've had similar feelings about a couple of Irvine's stories: that there are really neat ideas behind them, and that I'm just barely missing some great point -- so they seem not successful, really, but very promising. (In a different way, this story reminded me of a story from _Starlight 1_: John Ford's &quot;Erase/Record/Play&quot;.) The last story in the book is Terry Bisson in his most openly satirical mode, and pretty effective at it: a rapist and murderer becomes converted to Christianity, and some unsavory sorts decide to stage a crucifixion by convincing him that his conversion experience means that his death penalty must mimic Christ's. Bisson aims at a lot of targets in the story, which makes it seem a bit scattershot at times, but it's still pretty solid satire.	2001-09-08
US	52417414	R2C7Q931NDIIEO	0380976528	535649961	Declare: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing mixture of cold war spying and djinns	Tim Powers' recent work has interwoven 20th Century settings with various supernatural entities. _Declare_ is probably the best of his recent books -- marrying a WWII and Cold War spy story with well-imagined djinns.<BR>It opens with a brief scene featuring a British Intelligence Captain driving a Jeep down Mt. Ararat in 1948, fleeing the deaths of several of his comrades. Then we switch to 1963, and we meet Andrew Hale, who, we learn soon enough, was that Captain in 1948. He's a lecturer in English at a University, but his past in Intelligence has caught up with him. The mission he attempted in 1948 needs to be tried again -- and he's soon off to Kuwait to try to infiltrate himself into a new Soviet operation.<BR>From there the story proceeds on multiple timelines. We learn in flashbacks of Hale's past -- his mysterious birth in Palestine, his Catholic upbringing by a single mother in the English countryside, his recruitment into a curious side branch of British Intelligence and his first assignment -- to let himself be recruited as a Soviet agent, to work in Nazi-occupied Paris in 1941. In Paris his partner agent is a beautiful young Spaniard named Elena Ceniza-Bendiga, and she and Andrew fall in love, but she makes clear that her first allegiance is to international communism. There follow episodes in Berlin in 1945, where Hale meets Elena again, as well as Kim Philby, the highly placed spy who Hale has always disliked and mistrusted. The three meet again on Ararat in 1948, when Hale learns conclusively that Philby is a traitor, and also becomes convinced that Elena has learned to hate him.<BR>A parallel path follows Hale's adventures in the Middle East in 1963, as he manages to get recruited by the Soviets for their new attempt at -- I won't say what -- on Mr. Ararat. This involves trips to mysterious cities in the desert, meetings with curious entities, and another meeting with Elena and with Kim Philby, who has finally been exposed publically as a spy, and whois looking for escape -- either to France or Russia. Finally, as we have known, the strange operation called Declare will be resolved, one way or another, on the slopes of Mt. Ararat, near a curious long buried wooden object -- perhaps a ship.<BR>The book is always intriguing, and full of clever supernatural ideas. The central supernatural entities here are djinni -- which Powers links to fallen angels. He ties this in with the true stories of Kim Philby and his father, and with T. E. Lawrence, and with some mysterious cities in the Arabian Desert, and with meteorites, and spies, and Catholicism. I found this all well-imagined, and consistent and comprehensible in a way that, for example, the ghosts in _Expiration Date_ never managed to be for me. There is also the love story between Elena and Andrew, which is well-told and very well resolved, but which didn't fully work for me, as the emotional element of it never quite came to life for me. Powers also manages to work in some of his other recurring themes -- poker, and the injured hero, for two. It's a very solid effort, just a whisker short of being exceptional, and it takes a place in my pantheon of Powers' books at the second level -- below my favorite, _The Anubis Gates_, but ranged somewhere with _The Stress of Her Regard_ and _On Stranger Tides_ as among the next best.	2001-08-30
US	52417414	R2VREDYRX3MTU5	0679727272	699787576	Bend Sinister	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Nabokov's most political novel, by turns funny and tragic	Bend Sinister (1947) was the first novel Vladimir Nabokov wrote in the United States, and his second novel in English. Like one of his later Russian-language novels, Invitation to a Beheading, it is explicitly political, in a way generally foreign to Nabokov. (Indeed, to write a &quot;political&quot; novel was rather against Nabokov's usual artistic philosophy, and in his 1963 Introduction to this novel, he takes pains to point out that the focus of the novel is the main character's relationship with his son, not the repressive political conditions which drive the novel's plot.) Bend Sinister opens with the death of Olga Krug, beloved wife of philosopher Adam Krug. Krug is left with an 8-year old boy, David, in a country torn by a revolution led by an oafish schoolmate of Krug's, Paduk, called the Toad by his fellows at school. The new regime attempts to gain Krug's support, offering both the carrot of a University presidentship and the stick of veiled threats conveyed by the arrest, over time, of many of Krug's friends. The brutal climax comes when the new regime, almost by accident, realizes that the only lever that will work on Krug is threats to his son, then, due, apparently, to grotesque incompetence, manages to fumble away that lever.<BR>The novel is (one is tempted to say &quot;of course&quot;) beautifully written. Passage after passage is lushly quotable, featuring VN's elegant long sentences, lovely imagery, and complexly constructed metaphors; as well as his love of puns, repeated symbols, and humour. The characters are well-portrayed also -- Krug, of course, and his friends such as Ember and Maximov, as well as villains such as the Widmerpoolish dictator Paduk and the sluttish maid Mariette. The novel, though ultimately quite tragic, is filled with comic scenes, such as the arrest of Ember, and comic set-pieces, such as the refugee hiding in a broken elevator. As VN asserts, the relationship between Adam Krug and his son is the fulcrum on which the novelturns, and it is from that the novel gains its emotional power. But much of the novel is taken up with rather broad satire of totalitarian communism. The version portrayed here is of course an exaggeration of the true horror that so affected Nabokov's life, but it still has bite. The central philosophy of the new regime is not Marxism per se, but something called &quot;Ekwilism&quot;, which resembles the philosophy satirized in Kurt Vonnegut's short story &quot;Harrison Bergeron&quot; -- it is the duty of every citizen to be equal to every other, and thus great achievement is unworthy. (It is not to be missed that Paduk was a failure and a pariah at school.) All this is bitterly funny, but almost unfortunate, in that it is so over the top in places that it can be rejected as unfair to the Soviet system which it seems clearly aimed at. That's really beside the point, however -- taken for itself, Bend Sinister is beautifully written, often very funny, and ultimately wrenching and tragic.	2001-08-30
US	52417414	R3OBJ2EXSPFDG	0965590186	339757747	The Moon Maid and Other Fantastic Adventures	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Full of color, action, romance	R. Garcia y Robertson is an historian, and the benefits of his particular training shine through in his stories. Most obviously, he loves to write historical fantasies, as with his novel The Spiral Dance (set on the Scottish-English border in the 15th Century), or with several stories in the collection at hand, set in a wide range of historical milieus. He also likes time-travel storiesas with &quot;Gypsy Trade&quot; included here.<br />The title story is one of the most &quot;Fantastic&quot; of the historical stories included. &quot;The Moon Maid&quot; is an Amazon, one of an historical group of women warriors, located near the Don (or Amazon) River in what is now Russia. Her &quot;tribe&quot; honors lions, and when a nomad Hetman's son is killed by a lion, she must capture and destroy the animal, or risk having her whole tribe exterminated by the nomads. Her tracking of the lion is a mixture of realistic animal tracking, and rather wildly fantastic events, such as a meeting with Hercules, described in hilarious detail.<br />The place of women in historical societies is a recurring theme in these stories (and strong women characters occur in almost all the stories, including the futuristic ones). &quot;The Other Magpie&quot; features real historical figures at the Battle of Little Big Horn. The title character is a very independent Crow woman, mourning her brother's death at the hands of the Sioux. Partly as a result, she and her friend end up joining Custer's army. The Magpie and her friend are historical characters, though the specifics of the Magpie's dealings with her dead brother, and of her attempts to save Captain Reno from the coming disaster, are a bit more speculative. &quot;Four Kings and an Ace&quot;, perhaps the best story here, features Boy Toy, a young Chinese girl, a Christian and the adopted daughter of missionaries, abandoned on the docks in San Francisco after her parents' deaths. She falls into the hands of a gang which tries to sell her into slavery, but is fortunate to encounter a clever lawyer, who sees a way to use her beauty in a battle against a crooked railroad man. The story climaxes with a suspenseful poker game, and a predictable ending which still surprises, in the best way.<br />Robertson is also a first-rate writer of science fiction adventure. &quot;Cast on a Distant Shore&quot;, one of his earliest stories, is set on an ocean world, where economically marginalized humans live on floating islands and earn subsistence money by diving for seastones. This setup is rather old hat, and the plot is a bit familiar as well, involving a diver in desperate straits who agrees to help an alien scientist fish for a particularly dangerous sea animal, but the story is very engagingly told, with a nice twist or two, and the main characters are interesting people. &quot;Gone to Glory&quot; is also set on an alien planet, this one in the middle of terraformation. The dirty work of preparing the new planet for human colonization is being done by &quot;retrobred&quot; Neanderthals, and the daughter of a highly-placed human has been lost, apparently captured or killed by a tribe of escaped Neanderthals. The story  is very exciting, with a colorful balloon flight across the half-terraformed planet, and a serious, believable, ecological motivation behind things.<br />The other stories are also fine. The most compelling feature of these stories is that they are just that: stories. Indeed, as the title of this collection reads, &quot;Fantastic Adventures&quot;. Rife with color, full of action and romance, every story included is pure fun to read. (And Robertson has a real knack of knowing when a story ends.) Indeed, if I had a gripe, it might be that serious thematic concerns are left in the dust as the action races by. (Though it should be noted, even as his protagonists strive and (usually) succeed, the background details are often darker: slavery in late-19th Century San Francisco, ecological disaster on an alienplanet, the sometimes bloody history of Christianity, are all displayed here.)	2001-08-10
US	52417414	R3DX4KD6ORZA9F	0870541714	423810142	Voyages by Starlight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Subtle, balanced, elegant bombshells	Voyages by Starlight is Ian R. MacLeod's first collection. His stories are very well-constructed, and characteristically rather quiet in tone. In this, in some of his themes, and in his ability to plant a subtle bombshell and explode it in the reader's face at a story's close, he reminds me of the excellent mainstream writer William Trevor. SF writers he reminds me of include Christopher Priest, M. John Harrison, and perhaps his fellow Ian, McDonald. MacLeod uses SFnal tropes, sometimes quite original ones, primarily as metaphors enhancing the story's themes, or as enabling devices to place his characters in revealing situations. MacLeod has established himself with me as a &quot;must-read&quot; writer. His prose style is balanced and elegant. He is wonderful at evoking landscapes, either beautiful as in &quot;The Perfect Stranger&quot; and &quot;Starship Day&quot;, or grotesque, as in &quot;The Giving Mouth&quot;. His characters are closely described, and truly alive, although his range of characterizations is somewhat narrow.<br />My favorite stories here are &quot;The Perfect Stranger&quot; and &quot;Starship Day&quot;, which resemble each other a bit in setting (sun-drenched island), and in following a man in early middle age whose marriage is failing, in both cases partly because of guilt about a child. Otherwise the stories are wholly different. &quot;The Perfect Stranger&quot; opens with the protagonist meeting his wife at a lovely vacation island. The catch is, everyone's memories are erased at the start of the vacation, so they don't know each other. Idyllic scenes of the couple in love on the island are alternated with scenes of their harried life prior to the vacation, and our knowledge that their marriage was on the rocks prior to the vacation fills us with foreboding for their future once their memories return. Is it possible to start over again, and not make the same mistakes? (A question MacLeod considers elsewhere as well.) And at what cost came thisvacation?<br />&quot;The news was everywhere. It was in our dreams, it was on TV. Tonight the travelers on the first starship from Earth would awaken.&quot; So opens &quot;Starship Day&quot;, as the lovely island town of Danous awaits the news from the starship. Owen, the narrator, is a psychiatrist, and rather cynical in his view of the news. He's more concerned with his failing marriage, and his failing relationship with his mistress, and his failure to cure a despondent patient. We follow him through a gorgeous day, and a sumptuous &quot;starship party&quot;, until the transmission from the ship is revealed. A final twist gives the whole setting and story a sharply drawn meaning. A wonderful story.<br />Most of the rest of the stories are nearly as good. MacLeod explores gender roles, time travel, the troubles in Northern Ireland, aging, growing up, in very original ways.  His settings include the &quot;industrial&quot; fantasy world of &quot;The Giving Mouth&quot;, isolated Greenland during World War II in &quot;Tirkiluk&quot;, an utopian future in &quot;Papa&quot;.  This is truly an outstanding collection of stories, stories that reward read beautifully the first time and reward rereading.	2001-08-10
US	52417414	R1V008H8AE8HMS	0765300842	710676236	The Star Fraction (Fall Revolution)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Crackling adventure, political savvy, and nice speculation	The Star Fraction is Ken MacLeod's first novel, only now being published in the States. It is set in the same &quot;future history&quot; (or &quot;future histories&quot;) as The Stone Canal, The Cassini Division, and The Sky Road. (The books can in general be read in any order.)<br />MacLeod is a very politically savvy writer, and his books are full of politics, but the politics is almost always expressed through action, or it is an integral part of the setting. In other words, the books aren't lectures: they are, rather, books that are about politics in interesting ways, ways that are integral to their themes. And I should add that besides being about politics, the books concern interesting future technology (especially computer technology and Artificial Intelligence), and they are centered on believable and likable characters. And they have rollicking plots, as well.<br />The Star Fraction follows several characters through a revolution of sorts in 21st Century Great Britain. As the novel opens, the UK of our time has undergone several political upheavals, and is now &quot;balkanized&quot; into quite a few different, nominally independent, political divisions. These include the &quot;Hanoverians&quot;, apparently the closest thing to a controlling force on the island; the &quot;Army of the New Republic&quot;, the remnants of a liberal/socialist republic which apparently succeeded the Kingdom of our present time; a number of basically independent &quot;mini-states&quot;, some occupying only a few blocks of territory, with wildly different political organizations. Furthermore, the whole world seems to be under the loose control of some combination of the US and UN, and such organizations as Stasis, which proscribes certain technology, and Space Defense, which controls the orbital anti-nuclear lasers. This society is fascinating, and the details are well portrayed, with off the cuff hints, and only the occasional well-done infodump.<br />The main characters are Moh Kohn, a basically Trotskyite mercenary; Janis Taine, a scientist studying memory enhancement; and Jordan Brown, a young atheist computer expert, fleeing from his upbringing in the Fundamentalist Christian enclave Beulah City. Their paths intersect when one of Moh's jobs involves defending Janis' lab: Stasis seems to have decided that Janis' research is dangerous, and Moh takes her to Norlonto, in the process becoming infected her new memory drug. At the same time Jordan encounters the mysterious &quot;Black Planner&quot;, an entity of the net, who some think may be the long-feared &quot;Watchmaker&quot;: an AI coalesced from the combined networked computing power of the world. Jordan also flees to Norlonto, and hooks up with Janis and Moh. Moh soon begins to remember details about his late father's work, which involved a freeware program called (cleverly) Dissembler, which has become omnipresent on the world's computers. And people are beginning to ask Moh what he knows about a mysterious organization called The Star Fraction.<br />The novel is fast moving and clever throughout. The action is resolved intelligently: none of the characters really know what they're doing, or necessarily why. This results in some wonderful irony, and in a believable and honest plot. The villains have believable, even defensible, motives; and the heroes, while they are virtuous, may not be right. (Or, better, what is &quot;right&quot; is ambiguous.)<br />MacLeod's writing is also strong. He is a clear and elegant writer, with a great ear for clever brand names and other phrases, which subtly illuminate the nature of this future world. In this he is like Greg Egan and perhaps most of all Bruce Sterling. As with those two writers, MacLeod's near futures seem fully furnished, real. This is an excellent book, and all the more remarkable for being a first novel. Iain Banks' jacket quote says &quot;this man's going to be a major writer&quot;: for my money, he already is.	2001-08-10
US	52417414	RB8VVOOE7IC29	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	2	22	29	N	N	Interesting ideas wasted	Calculating God, a Hugo nominee for 2001, is told mostly from the point of view of Tom Jericho, a paleontologist who is a curator at the Royal Ontario Museum.  Tom is 50ish, with a 6 year old adopted son, and he is dying of cancer.  He is a confirmed rationalist, sort of a second-string Stephen Jay Gould.  One day a spaceship lands in front of the ROM -- and an eight-legged alien steps out, enters the museum, and asks to speak to a paleontologist.<br />Tom and this alien, named Hollus, forge a friendly relationship over the next weeks and months.  The aliens have been exploring local space in a near-FTL ship for some time, looking for other alien species.  So far they have found one other still-extant species, the Wreeds, and the remains of 5 or 6 more species on a variety of planets.  Various aliens come to Earth (mostly via telepresence) to study various aspects of Earth -- trading knowledge of the two alien species for the knowledge offered by the humans.  It turns out that all three species of very similar levels of advancement -- more remarkably, all three homeworlds have shockingly similar paleontological histories: in particular, extinction events that happened at all but exactly the same time (despite having local causes), and that seem to have been aimed at producing intelligent species.  To Tom's complete surprise, the two alien species regard this, and a number of other remarkable facts about the delicate balance of physical constants in the universe, as absolute proof of the existence of God.<br />The book, then, becomes to some extent a debate on this issue: is the universe the product of an intelligent designer?  Unfortunately, much of the book rehashes the same old sophomoric arguments we've all heard before.  One of the worst examples is when Tom argues that his cancer is proof that God can't exist -- surely an omnipotent, omnibenevolent, God could have designed out cancer.  But of course, as should have been obvious to the meanest intelligence, the&quot;intelligent designer&quot; that the aliens postulated was not at all necessarily &quot;omnipotent&quot;, to say nothing of &quot;omnibenevolent&quot;.  <br />The other focus of the book is a gradual building up of a mystery involving the fate of the various disappeared races -- particularly one which apparently sent a spaceship to Betelgeuse.  The questions raised here are pretty intriguing, and Sawyer's ultimate resolution is not bad, though aspects of his explanations were unconvincing.  Worse was his presentation of the various mysteries, which included Jericho instantly reaching obvious conclusions that the aliens, in considerable time, had never thought of; and which included, particularly at the end, a lot of overconvenient jumping to immediately correct conclusions on minimal evidence by all the characters.  I suppose Sawyer was constrained by available space and by the form of his tale: a first person narrative.  Still, while it's not quite fatal to the book, it is unconvincing.<br />There is also a monumentally stupid and completely unnecessary side thread a plot to destroy the Burgess Shale fossils.  This thread wastes time, attacks easy targets for no reason related to the book, and proves basically a side issue.  It should have been excised.<br />On the whole, the book is -- well, not bad but not very good.  It goes after some big issues, albeit rather superficially.  It presents some interesting SFnal ideas and mysteries.  It introduces two well-designed alien species.  The characterization is undistinguished but not teeth-grindingly awful -- most of the characters are basically ciphers, but Sawyer works hard at presenting Tom Jericho, and while the work shows too much, and aspects such as the disease-of-the-month TV movie feeling that his cancer suggests are slightly strained, he's at least acceptably done.  The book reads breezily and holds the interest -- but thinking deeply about the issues raised, and the too convenient revelation of answersto mysteries, and the constant refusal to consider alternate answers, will leave the reader frustrated.  I certainly don't find this remotely a Hugo-worthy book.	2001-07-30
US	52417414	R18V4X021WHMDW	0345440919	685854664	Pavane (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A True Alternate History Classic	Keith Roberts' great late '60s Alternate History novel, Pavane, towers over the popular contemporary AH novels, with their tendency toward silly games such as &quot;pick the branch point&quot; or &quot;identify the historical figure in a new role&quot;.   Pavane is based on a history which branched when Queen Elizabeth died early, and the Spanish Armada succeeded in conquering England, paving the way for continued domination of Europe by the Catholic Church.  This book is concerned with metaphysical and moral questions such as the nature of history and the value of technology.<br />It is composed of a brief prologue, indicating the &quot;branch point&quot;, followed by six &quot;measures&quot;, novelette- or novella- length sections, beginning in 1968 and carrying the story forward several decades.  Each measure is a self-contained story, but there are also links between them, particularly three stories which follow three generations of the Strange family.  Finally, a Coda serves to cast the entire story in a somewhat different light, for one thing  technically removing it from the strict &quot;Alternate History&quot; subgenre, and also commenting on the central conflicts of the story.  The mood overall is rather dark, though flashes of brightness and joy light the pages.  Roberts' Catholic dominated England, or Angle Land, is rather backwards technologically, as the Church carefully vets all scientific and technological knowledge, rejecting some advances and delaying others.  Thus we have steam-driven road-based &quot;trains&quot;, and semaphores instead of telephones, in the late 20th Century. Roberts' detailed descriptions of both sorts of old-fashioned technology are intriguing and rather romantic.  At the same time it is clear that people are poorer and hungrier and fewer because of this retarded development -- but there is throughout an ambiguity about the depiction of this alternate present which is only intensified by Roberts' coda.<br />The book is set in atime of subdued unrest -- the heavy hand of the Church on Angle Land is clearly resented, and this resentment is seen to spread throughout society as the book unfolds.  The opening story deals with Jesse Strange, a prosperous and hardworking businessman, who must work with and around Churchly taxations and technological restrictions.  That's a side issue to his personal story, though, as he takes his train on the last trip before winter closes the roads one year, worried about outlaws, and finds a reason to visit a barmaid he has long fancied, and also encounters an old school friend.  Both meetings have momentous results, and change his life profoundly.  &quot;The Signaller&quot; follows, a stark, sad, beautiful story of the title character's successful struggle to become a Signaller, and the violent fate that awaits him on his first solo assignment, as well as the mysterious person he encounters alone in the back woods.  &quot;Brother John&quot; introduces us to a monk, an accomplished artist, who is radicalized when he is forced to record in his drawings the efforts of an &quot;inquisitor&quot; to torture the &quot;truth&quot; out of a crop of suspected sinners, and who almost by accident starts a grassroots rebellion.  &quot;Lords and Ladies&quot; takes up with the Strange family again, as Jesse's niece, prosperous as a result of Jesse's hard work, meets a charismatic scion of the local noble family -- this story shows the class structure of this alternate England effectively, and sets the scene, as it were, for the conclusion.  But next is the mystical &quot;The White Boat&quot;, in which a simple fishergirl becomes obssessed with the title vessel on its repeated visits to her home cove.  Finally, in &quot;Corfe Gate&quot;, Jesse Strange's great-niece, ruler of a castle, finds herself pushed to open resistance to the harsh rule of Rome, and with the help of her mysterious seneschal, John Faulkner, starts a country-wide rebellion, with bitter if ambiguous results.<br />This remains a remarkable novel, beautifully written and unexpected in its working out.  The characters come fully to life.  The hints of mysterious elements working in the background add a special resonance to the book.  The book asks interesting questions about the working out of history -- and if it suggests answers that a reader might not agree with, it does not compel agreement, but rather it compels thinking.  It has been rightly regarded as a classic of SF from its first publication.	2001-07-20
US	52417414	R1YNTNBKNV43SS	0441008356	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Promising but not wholly successful debut hard SF novel	Alastair Reynolds' first novel, Revelation Space, is set a few centuries in the future, featuring augmented humans, slower-than-light travel between nearby suns, mysterious long-vanished aliens, amazingly powerful weapons, and more: a familiar set of SF tropes, but still treated in a interesting and reasonably rigorous fashion, with a number of nice new twists on the familiar ideas.<br />Three threads converge: on the planet Resurgam (of the sun Delta Pavonis), Dan Sylveste is studying the relics of the long vanished natives called the Amarantin, while resisting moves to terraform.  On Sylveste's former home planet, Yellowstone, Ana Khouri is a professional assassin, recruited by the mysterious woman called the Mademoiselle, for a rather different assassination.  At the same time (accounting for STL travel time) Ilia Volyova is approaching Yellowstone, looking for help for her ship's Captain, who has succumbed to the &quot;melding plague&quot;, which seems to cause him to be combined with nearby machines, such as the ship, and also looking for a new gunnery expert, after the previous one succumbed to insanity upon being invaded by an intelligence called &quot;Sun-Stealer&quot;.<br />Before long Ana Khouri is the new gunnery recruit -- by accident the spaceship and the Mademoiselle share the same goal -- Dan Sylveste. The spaceship needs his surgical skills (or more precisely, those of his father Calvin, who &quot;lives&quot; on as a computer simulation which Dan can host), while the Mademoiselle, for mysterious reasons which we slowly guess, wants to kill him.  All the threads converge at a neutron star companion of Delta Pavonis, or more properly, at the very strange planet orbiting the neutron star.<br />Among the neat ideas introduced are the odd aliens called the Pattern Jugglers, and more odd aliens called the Shrouders; as  well as a scary explanation for Fermi's Paradox, as well as the secret of the Amarantin, and of Dan's past.  All these are well-handled, and resolved rather fairly and interestingly.  <br />On the other hand, the characters almost completely fail to come to life.  For instance, some way through the book we are told that Dan Sylveste and another important character are in love and are to be married.  My first reaction was &quot;What?&quot; -- and even after their marriage and several tender scenes, I was simply not convinced.  Too, the narrative voices of the three POV characters tended to merge.  Another problem is pacing -- the book is far too long.  It would have been better if it started about halfway through, with maybe a flashback or two.  <br />Still, though it's not a perfect book by any means, it's a worthwhile debut, and there is no doubt that Reynolds' SFnal imagination is as good as anyone's.  He's a writer to watch.	2001-07-16
US	52417414	R14FNCSBSQPWF9	0064473139	920682474	Cart and Cwidder (Dalemark Quartet, Vol. 1)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Solid, readable, involving, but not spectacular	Cart and Cwidder is the first of Diana Wynne Jones' Dalemark books, which run to four volumes.  Dalemark is a fairly obvious version of Wales.  Indeed, the book reminded me a bit of Lloyd Alexander, though not the Prydain books (set in a version of Wales), but rather the Westmark books, as they share, very roughly, tech level, and an interest in politics.<br />This book concerns an 11-year old boy named Moril, a musician traveling with his family.  They earn their money by stopping at towns and villages and playing songs.  They also pass news among the people of Dalemark, and take passengers : they and other musicians are the only people who regularly travel between the northern and southern parts of the land, which are at the point of war.  The south in particular is being severely repressed by the Earls (there has been no King for some time).  Moril's family consists of their jolly father Clennen, their beautiful, aristocratic mother Lenina, the talented 15-year old songwriter son Dagner, and a 12-year old girl, Brid, in addition to Moril.  The title refers to the cart they live and travel in, and to the main musical instruments they use, &quot;cwidders&quot;, which seem guitar-like, and one of which may have magical powers.<br />On the journey in question, they pick up a rather mysterious traveller, Kialan, a boy of roughly Dagner's age.  He has a tendency to disappear when they pass through villages.  Then, near the castle of Lenina's former fiance, some men show up and murder Clennen.  Abruptly, Lenina heads to her ex-fiance's house, as he has long promised to marry her if she is ever free.  But the children recognize one of the murderers as a guest at the house, and they decide to head on their own to the North.  On their way, they find more trouble, and eventually they learn that war is closer to hand than they thought.  Can it be stopped?<br />It's very readable and involving -- I'm not sure Jones can be other than readable and involving.  But it shares withmuch YA fantasy a certain thinness in the background.  Her best work, such as _Fire and Hemlock_, seems much more completely imagined, more complex in characterization, theme, and morality.  This book is fun, and not without real tension and interesting characters, but it seems minor compared to my favorites among her work.  I will be buying the rest of the Dalemark books, however.	2001-06-27
US	52417414	RTUEBPADQZMY6	0061052124	115221592	Metropolitan	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Really good story with a neat, original, SF/Fantasy world	I've read quite a few Walter Jon Williams stories, generally with considerable enjoyment, but the only novels I've read by him are the first two Drake Majistral &quot;entertainments&quot;. Those are fun, but light. For more serious Williams, people strongly recommended Metropolitan. And, indeed, this book is really good.<br />It fits in that genre called &quot;Science Fantasy&quot;, in that it involves the use of magic, but that that magic is understandable and given a quasi-scientific backing. This seems to be set on Earth, possibly very far in the future or perhaps an alternate Earth. Millennia previously, the Ascended Ones have placed a &quot;shield&quot; around Earth. No one can escape. However, a source of (essentially magical) energy called &quot;plasm&quot; is available, and it is used for power generation, telepresence, and other uses both &quot;magical&quot; and &quot;scientific&quot; (also commercial). Plasm use is regulated and taxed, and the protagonist, Aiah, is a lowly functionary at the Plasm Authority. She is a talented member of the oppressed Barkazil ethnicity in an area dominated by the Jaspeeri. As such it has been a struggle for her to attend university and graduate to this job, and to get a decent apartment with her Jaspeeri lover, another functionary. One day she witnesses a burning woman, a manifestation of unregulated plasma gone out of control. She is assigned to the team tracking down the illegal plasma source. She's sent on what she thinks is a wild goose chase, but as it happens she finds the source, and on an impulse decides to hide her find and try to sell plasma on the black market. She has some difficulty finding a buyer, and finally stumbles on the notion of selling it to the prestigious, rich, former rebel Metropolitan (i.e. something like a mayor), Constantine. She finds herself far more involved with Constantine than she ever intended, and soon she is embroiled in his plans for engineering a coup and implementing his dream of the&quot;New City&quot;. <br />It's an exciting novel, and it's built on a fascinating, original, SF/Fantastic notion. Some of the plot machinations were a bit creaky, I thought: I didn't quite buy the ease of her approach to Constantine, or his attraction to her. But all this leads to an end which asks some difficult moral questions, and doesn't provide answers either to the reader or to Aiah. She remains sympathetic, but many of her actions remain questionable. I thought this was very well handled.<br />This is a very fine book. There is a sequel, which I will have to seek out, but Metropolitan works very well on its own.	2001-06-06
US	52417414	R14Q6ZTQYT26WD	0671578413	482440614	Rules Of Engagement	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Page turning fun, marred by cartoonish villains	On seeing Rules of Engagement I bought it and gobbled it down in no time.  Elizabeth Moon's stories are great reading: they read fast, they compel page-turning.  She's as good as any author of these days at the task of making you care about her heroes and heroines, and at making you insistently turn the pages.<br />So I enjoyed reading _Rules of Engagement_ a lot.  But nonetheless, I wasn't wholly happy with it.  Esmay Suiza, heroine of _Once a Hero_, is switching her career path to &quot;command track&quot;, and at the same time she has tentatively started a romance with Barin Serrano, the young cousin of Heris Serrano, heroine of the first three Familias Regnant books.  At the same time, Brun Meager, daughter of the Speaker of the Familias Council (i.e., nominal ruler now that the King has abdicated), is trying to take a more serious approach to life, and she enrols in some of the same Naval classes Esmay is taking as a civilian auditor.  Brun, somewhat innocently, pursues Barin, but Barin is having none of it.  Shy Esmay, however, worried also by the difference in rank between she and Barin, puts the worst possible spin on Brun's actions, and chews her out.  This gets Esmay in trouble (can't be making the Navy look bad to the Speaker's daughter!), and also annoys Brun, who runs off and manages to get kidnapped by some cartoonish villains from a place called New Texas.  The New Texas villains believe in subjugating their women, which involves rape and mutilation when foreign women come their way.  The book then follows Brun's struggle for survival as a prisoner of the New Texas folks, and Esmay's struggle to get her career back on track and to be allowed to help rescue Brun.<br />It's good fun, and there's tons of cool action, but it's severely marred by the awfully cartoonish nature of the villains.  I simply didn't believe them, and I hated reading about them.  And, again, it seems a divergence from what I think should be Moon's main concern in these books: examining the strains at the foundation of her odd Familias Regnant culture.  Worth reading, but not a great book.	2001-06-06
US	52417414	R16B80KAN0KYLC	0312878230	925773412	The Wooden Sea	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Unusual and interesting slipstream novel	I'm only slightly acquainted with the work of Jonathan Carroll: I've read one early novel (Bones of the Moon) and several short stories.  Still, I had an idea what to expect: a contemporary setting, veering off into very strange territory at some time; an ordinary person, deeply in love, faced with an unexpected and unexplainable threat to those he loves; and fine writing with a mixture of almost goofy humourand wrenching tragedy. And that's what we get here. (Writers who  come to mind as comparison points are William Browning Spencer, Jonathan Lethem, and Bradley Denton.)<br />The Wooden Sea is narrated by Frannie McCabe, the 47-year old police chief of a small town, Crane's View, New York. Frannie is on his second marriage, and he has a teenage stepdaughter. He is sometimes plagued by the town's collective memory: he was rather a juvenile delinquent as a youth, and, in high school, he dated the girl who is now the mayor; but by and large he seems respected and happy. One day he adopts, almost perforce, a sickly three-legged dog named Old Vertue -- within a few days the dog is dead, and Frannie's attempts to bury the dog seem to set in motion a series of increasingly surrealistic events.<br />The strangeness starts out small, as it were: the buried dog disappears, and needs to be reburied. The dog turns up again, sort of, in an Old Master painting. And a high school girl dies of an overdose, leaving behind a notebook with tantalizing hints that she too was involved in these strange events.<br />From this point things become very odd indeed. The novel involves trips both forward and backward in time. Frannie's 17-year old self becomes a major character, as does a sinister businessman from decades in the future. Frannie finds himself presented with an ultimatum -- figure out what he needs to do in a week, or else -- with almost no idea of what he is to figure out, or what the &quot;else&quot; is. And this is to say nothing of the gods and/or aliens.<br />In a way, this book might be called &quot;Science Fiction Magical Realism&quot;: it uses Science Fictional imagery in ways reminiscent of how more usual &quot;Magical Realism&quot; uses Fantastical imagery.  On first reading, I had some difficulty with this: there's a temptation to make the book be about the Science Fictional events, and it really doesn't work that way. They don't end up making outward sense, and they aren't really properly resolved.  As one fellow reader told me &quot;It's Carroll's usual 'One darn thing after another'.&quot; But reading the book more as a mainstream (or, dare I say, slipstream) novel -- that is, as a story about the life of Francis McCabe -- works much better. We get a portrait of a believable man, a good man, and a happy man, facing a crisis from out of nowhere. The characters are very nicely done: Frannie, his younger self, his wife Magda and stepdaughter Pauline, his strange neighbour George Dalemwood. The action, for all its weirdness, is always interesting, though at times I felt a bit disconnected from things: at times things simply got too weird. The resolution is moving and bittersweet.<br />The Wooden Sea is a fine new novel from a very interesting writer.	2001-05-24
US	52417414	R1K9F5BD3AF4KA	0446675601	953338601	Midnight Robber	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Enjoyable and Different SF novel	_Midnight Robber_, nominated for both the Hugo and Nebula awards, is a pretty darn good book.  It's told in a Caribbean-flavoured English &quot;patwa&quot;, which quickly reads entirely naturally, and adds a musical dimension to the prose that enhances the book greatly.  The story itself begins slowly, and I think I would have severely cut (or restricted to flashbacks) the opening segments, set on the main character's home planet.  But the bulk of the novel is excellent, with a convincing and involving main character, and a neat setting on an alien planet with cool aliens, and a solid plot involving the main character dealing with severe family issues and coming of age.<br />The story is about a girl from the planet Toussaint, called Tan-Tan.  Toussaint is a highly technological planet: most of the work is done by machines, and everybody (except a few resisters) has an implant which connects them to a planet-wide AI.  The AI monitors everybody as well as linking them to news and such -- thus crime would seem to be difficult, and when crime does happen, the criminals are treated harshly, exiled to a primitive planet called New Half Way Tree.  Tan-Tan is the daughter of the Mayor of her town, Antonio.  Antonio is a serial adulterer himself, but when he catches his wife in flagrante, he flies into a rage.  Eventually his actions lead to exile to New Half Way Tree -- and more or less by accident, he takes Tan-Tan with him.  This whole first section is a bit slow, and not well enough integrated with the rest of the novel.  Antonio doesn't seem well-portrayed -- and Tan-Tan's mother Ione is both an unpleasant and unnecessary character.  Moreover it introduces a subthread about the anti-tech people on Toussaint (those who choose not to be linked to the AI, and who do their own hand work) which doesn't really go anywhere.  Also, there is some mumbo-jumbo about the connection and means of transport between Toussaint and New Half Way Tree that was superfluous.  (There are bits about Tan-Tan's childhood and about the tech background to Toussaint that are important -- those could have been introduced in flashbacks, I thought.)  But I am making a mountain out of a molehill.<br />Once Tan-Tan and Antonio get to New Half Way Tree, the book comes alive.  They are met by an intriguing ostrich- or lizard-like alien called Chichibud, who guides them through some peril to a human village.  The village is ruled harshly but apparently fairly by a couple of hard men.  It seems that the aliens are regarded as rather simple by the humans, but they engage in mutually beneficial trade, and though there are mysteries, no human has time to investigate on this harsh planet.  Tan-Tan grows up, making friends with the simple-minded daughter of another exile, and with a local boy.  But her relationship with her father grows horrible, and she is driven to a terrible act as she turns 16.  The rest of the book follows her into the wilderness, where she is saved by Chichibud and brought to his home, where she learns something of the secrets of the aliens (called douens) way of life.  When her past comes to threaten the aliens as well, she leaves and wanders the bush with an alien friend.  Soon she is the &quot;Midnight Robber&quot;, trying to atone for her crimes and her guilt, some of which is misplaced, by acting as a sort of Robin Hood character in the various human villages.<br />Eventually Tan-Tan must find a way back into human society.  I thought possibly some of the resolution was just a bit convenient -- also I thought the time scale to the book a bit compressed towards the end.  But it remains exciting and interesting, and the resolution if convenient is still satisfying.  There are some open questions about the human/douen relationship, but though a sequel is possible, its not necessary.	2001-05-18
US	52417414	ROPJM5F0L6S8G	0671877445	808662992	Cetaganda (Vorkosigan Adventure)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Enjoyable romp with an intriguing society in the background	Cetaganda, is, by Bujold`s own testimony, a rather light-hearted romp, a bit of a step down in seriousness and apparent ambition from Barrayar and Mirror Dance, the two Vorkosigan novels that immediately preceded Cetaganda, and two of her best novels.<br />This novel is set a few years prior to the action of Mirror Dance. Miles is 21. He and his amiably dim-witted (by Miles` standards) cousin, Ivan, are sent to the home planet of the Cetagandan empire to attend the funeral of the Cetagandan empress. Naturally, no sooner have they arrived (indeed, slightly before their actual arrival) they encounter a mysterious character and come into possession of a mysterious object (i. e. a MacGuffin). Miles being Miles, he does not sensibly report the incident to the Barrayaran Ambassador, nor to the local Imperial Security agent (to be sure, conveniently for the purposes of the plot, this latter person is away on some vague assignment). Instead, Miles bamboozles Ivan into supporting him in an attempt to resolve what quickly becomes a very delicate situation, on his own.<br />The two face deadly dangers, encounter beautiful ladies of both of the Cetagandan upper classes, and eventually find themselves enmeshed in a plot which threatens Cetagandan internal stability (and thus Barrayaran security, as Cetaganda is a traditional enemy.) A number of the details of the plot and the Cetagandan custom upon which the plot turns are unconvincing, but the book is exciting and entertaining and reads very well. Romance is somewhat backgrounded, although Miles does fall in love (hopelessly) with the most beautiful woman he`s ever seen (why does such a clever individual as Miles seem consistently to rate female beauty so highly? Though to be sure, he is only 21, and I guess us guys are guys, huh?!), and there is an almost perfunctory romance between two minor characters. (Ivan, to be sure, is quite amusingly involved with some beautiful Cetagandan women, and Bujold does provide one quite funnyincident involving him and an anti-aphrodisiac: another quite pointed and appropriate (I suppose) comment on male-female relationships results.)<br />The most serious side of the book is an exploration of Cetagandan culture, which is built around genetic engineering of themselves. This culture consists of the haut, who are the true rulers, and the most highly &quot;engineered&quot;, the ghem, who provide the military might, and who are less &quot;engineered&quot; and less controlled (partly to allow for the spontaneous generation of potentially useful traits), the ba, neuter servants who also serve as useful safe experimental objects for genetic changes (safe because they are neutered and couldn`t pass on harmful traits), and, presumably, large middle- and under-classes of mostly normal humans. This society is quite interesting, and Bujold makes some subtle and intriguing observations on the sources of power, and the different kinds of power, in particular the power divisions between the males and females of both the haut and the ghem. However, I think a proper exploration of this society would require a good deal more space, and I would quibble with some of the assumptions, in particular, the Cetagandans don`t seem different enough to me to be the result of centuries of genetic engineering. Also, they seem to be optimizing for feminine beauty (by &quot;normal&quot; standards, yet!), even while sex is completely divorced (no pun intended) from their procreation efforts. I find that hard to believe.<br />All in all, this is certainly an enjoyable book, though not her best.	2001-05-12
US	52417414	R1L1I8KGCZKREV	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Charming, amusing, moving, bloody, beautiful	This is a very fine novel, charming, amusing, moving, often strikingly beautiful, often rather horrifyingly bloody.<br />The story is a fantasy set in Ancient China, at a time roughly corresponding to the 7th century AD, best I can tell. The narrator is Lu Yu (not to be confused with the author of The Classic of Tea), who is usually called Number Ten Ox. The story opens with the yearly silkworm spinning at Number Ten Ox' home village: but instead of the bounteous harvest of silk the villagers expect, all the silkworms have died: much worse, soon the children of the village are afflicted with a terrible plague. The locals can do nothing for the children, so they  send Number Ten Ox to Peking to find an expert. But they have miscalculated the expense of expert help, and the only expert they can afford is Li Kao, Master Li, who has a slight flaw in his character.Master Li and Number Ten Ox are soon off on a series of searches, from end to end of China, trying to find the Great Root of Power, which may be the key to a cure for the children. Along the way they encounter gods and goddesses, monsters and ghosts, wise men and terrible tyrants. At first the book seems to be a fairly  unstructured, though continually entertaining, collection of escapades. However, an underlying structure emerges,  in the form of an old legend, and a children's rhyme and game. By the end, Master Li and Number Ten Ox find that  much more is at stake than the fate of the children of the village. In particular, Number Ten Ox' attitude is well-  depicted: throughout his adventures, he thinks always of the children, in a true-feeling and very affecting way.<br />The resolution to the story is very satisfying, and also beautifully depicted. Puzzles are solved, emotional knots untangled, ghosts set free, tyrants deposed, and all is neatly unified. At the simplest level the book is an always amusing, often very funny, light fantasy: at another level it achieves real emotional power. It is also an astonishingly bloody book, but somehow we care and even mourn for the many victims even while the tone remains light. In passages the prose achieves real beauty, in particular a prayer which Hughart adapted from a Chinese source, and also the description of the bridge of birds. I recommend this lovely fantasy very highly.	2001-05-12
US	52417414	R15GCCKBFXHQ5C	0312265824	324781846	Endless Honeymoon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Engaging, spooky, imaginative mystery	Endless Honeymoon is the third in a recent series of Texas-based mysteries by the engagingly odd writer Don Webb.  I say series, but the books are very loosely linked, sharing mostly some Texas settings, and occasionally featuring major characters from another book as minor characters.  This latest book, after The Double and Essential Saltes, is even more loosely linked, as the protagonists of the other two books were brothers.  All three books are highly recommended.  They lead male characters are all likeable, somewhat nerdy, and very uxorious.  The subject matter is always a bit off-center, and quite different from book to book, but computers are always central to the books.  And you can count on a mention of fireworks.<br />This book is about a couple named Willis and Virginia Spencer.  They are independently wealthy (Virginia inherited money, and Willis made a bundle as a Y2K expert), and they spend much of their time performing rather cruel pranks.  Their victims are people whom they have discovered who are &quot;psychic vampires&quot;, who delight in causing misery to those around them, and Willis and Virginia hope to teach these folks a lesson.  They choose their victims by means of a computer program Willis found during his Y2K work.  It turns out, however, that the program was written by a man who takes the whole thing a bit more seriously: he murders the &quot;psychic vampires&quot; instead of simply scaring them.  And one day, unluckily, Willis and Virginia choose the same victim that this other man has chosen.<br />Before long, several people are on the track of the couple.  One is the agent the FBI has assigned to the case, a young Hispanic man named William Mondragon.  This case has the reputation of driving FBI agents crazy, and indeed the previous agent on the case, Abel Salazar, has quit the FBI and is working for someone else, also looking for the killer, and he tracks down both Mondragon and the Spencers.  Add the real killer himself, who may belooking for a successor to carry on his work, and the mysterious person behind Salazar, and the Spencers are in big trouble.  Before long Virginia has been kidnapped and Willis and Mondragon are on a wild chase after both her and the real killer.  The resolution is quite scary, involving several people who are both insane and evil, and dealing with Virginia's past abuse by both her father and her first husband, with the real killer's wasted life, and with a strange psychiatrist.<br />The story is full of imaginative action, and it's fast moving and exciting.  Webb does not shy away from the moral implications of all his character's actions, and from the unfortunate attractiveness of the &quot;psychic vampire&quot; killer's agenda.  Willis and Virginia are flawed and likeable, and even the villains, mostly, are real (if very strange) people, and not wholly villainous.  (The only exception is clearly completely insane.)  Another outstanding mystery novel by one of our most interesting and imaginative writers.	2001-05-02
US	52417414	R11FVB96OPDM8P	076530032X	555475897	Cosmonaut Keep (Engines of Light)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	New Series for MacLeod: Still Excellent	I've rapidly become a huge fan of Ken MacLeod's.  I much liked his first four novels, which were all linked to each other, somewhat complexly. But it's nice to seem him branching out somewhat with _Cosmonaut Keep_.  This book is set in an entirely different future, and instead of AI's, it features several different species of aliens.  The author who seems most present as an influence on _Cosmonaut Keep_ is Poul Anderson: there are several direct echoes of Andersonian themes, and one or two passages that seem almost stylistic hommages to Anderson.<br />Like all of MacLeod's books except his first, it's told in two timelines.  After a mysterious prologue, which only makes sense at the end of the book, we are introduced to Gregor Cairns, a student on the planet Mingulay, and his fellow researchers Elizabeth Harkness and Salasso.  Salasso is a saur: an intelligent dinosaur-like being.  Elizabeth and Gregor are of different social classes: Elizabeth, it seems, is a &quot;native&quot;, while Gregor is a descendant of the &quot;cosmonauts&quot;, who arrived at Mingulay some centuries earlier from Earth, in a starship which is now unusable.  Soon another starship arrives: this one bearing human traders from Nova Babylonia, traders who in some ways resemble Anderson's Kith (and Heinlein's Traders from _Citizen of the Galaxy_, and Vinge's Qeng Ho), though their starship is actually controlled by aliens called Krakens, who naturally enough are huge entities that live in water.  Details about this future interstellar civilization, called the &quot;Second Sphere&quot;, are slow to be revealed, and I won't say much here, but they are neat and clever and intriguing details.  At any rate, Gregor soon meets a beautiful trader girl and falls in love: but all this is complicated by various personal issues, including the &quot;Great Work&quot; of Gregor's family, and the question of what the traders really want.<br />The other timeline follows a Scotsman named Matt back in the middle of the 21st century.  He's a manager of programmers: the actual programmers are either AI's or aging geeks who remember legacy code like DOS and Unix.  He's got a thing for an American named Jadey who is involved with the Resistance movement in England: and before long she's giving him a disk with some very interesting information on it.  At the same time, an announcement stuns the world: the (Communist) European Union has been contacted by aliens in an asteroid they've been studying.  Soon Jadey is under arrest, and Matt is fleeing to Area 51, then to the asteroid, where they learn that the information Jadey had Matt smuggle out is plans for a spaceship and a space drive.  All this is highly destabilizing to the world political situation, which teeters on the brink of chaos while the scientists on the asteroid try to talk to the aliens and build the spaceship.  It's easy to see where this is going, given that it has to mesh with the other story, but it's still clever and suspenseful.<br />This is a very good novel, one of the best I've read in 2000.  It's got a nice, well-contained story, involving mainly Gregor and Matt's personal lives mixed with the Great Work (for Gregor) and with Matt's obvious destiny. At the same time this story is clearly a setup for potentially fascinating future books in its series.  (The title page says this is Book One of Engines of Light.)  It's full of nifty SFnal ideas.  Behind the scenes, just barely hinted at, are some really scary implications, and some really well-done half-evocations of deep time.  MacLeod's prose continues to improve: he has a habit of mostly just writing sound, clever, workable stuff, then every so often winding up to an emotional and even quasi-poetic peak.  The characters are decently drawn, though not especially deep, and there is a certain sense that their romantic lives are resolved rather conveniently.  (Which isn't to say necessarily happily.)   Mostly, this is just good solid Science Fiction, with plenty of sense of wonder inducing ideas.	2001-05-02
US	52417414	R6FJY1M6A0P04	1930709110	862054207	Darkspawn	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Dark, gripping, novel of vampires and war	Lois Tilton is known for several earlier vampire novels and for a number of incisive short stories.  This is a fine, exciting, novel about vampires and war, set in an alternate version of Eastern Europe some centuries ago.<br />One of the interesting aspects of the novel is its well-imagined take on the vampire legend.  The vampires in the nation of Kharithnya are the long time rulers of that land.  Their blood-drinking is tied to the obedience their subjects owe them, but also implied is loyalty of the rulers to the ruled.  In a sense, the vampirism can be seen as a metaphor encompassing the feudal obligations of ruler to subject and vice-versa.  Emre Bakhány is introduced as the last in a long line of Bakhánys, who appear to have been mostly just, if harsh, rulers: taking blood only voluntarily (in small amounts) or from condemned prisoners.  Only a few people can become vampires, that is to say, undead/immortal.  The transformation also results in the loss of the ability to have children.  Emre's children are long dead, having failed to make the transformation.  As the book opens, Emre is worried about the possibility of a successor, and also about the incursion of Sun-worshippers into this Moon-worshipping reason.  But suddenly he is betrayed by one of his Wardens, and he is imprisoned in chains beneath the earth.<br />Hundreds of years pass.  Kharithnya has been run over by the Sun-worshippers, and Emre remains trapped in his &quot;grave&quot;.  But then Kharithnya is invaded by the Circhaks, horse raiders resembling the Mongols.  The invading force accidentally frees Emre, and he finds himself making his way to his old castle, seeking revenge at the sun-priests who captured and imprisoned him, as well as trying to find a way to rally the few people still loyal to his religion to him, to take back his country and repel the invaders.<br />The story follows four point-of-view characters:  Emre Bakhány himself; a warrior-turned-shaman of the invading Circhaks;a priest of the sun-worshippers, Milósz Vakhószy; and the priest's sister Milóny. Thus we see the action from the point of view of the nominal hero, from representatives of his two opponents, and from a character torn between the hero and one of his enemies. The main action, then, interweaves a solid action story about the war with an even better personal conflict story about Emre's efforts to continue his line, to deal with his (rather excessive) lust for revenge, and to deal with Milósz' antipathy to Emre and to what he represents.<br />I thought this was a fine fantasy novel.  The action is well done and exciting.  The main characters are well-depicted and involving. They are all morally complex, sometimes hard to like (certainly including the hero), and their fates are treated uncompromisingly.  Oddly, and even is some ways disturbingly, I found myself sympathizing with even the worst characters.  The fantasy elements are interesting and well-imagined, and this particular take on the vampire legend makes good use of the traditional elements with logical and consistent variations.	2001-04-27
US	52417414	R15B4V2746JEQY	015202493X	646327892	The Gammage Cup: A Novel of the Minnipins	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Nicely told, pleasant fantasy	A rising tide lifts all boats, they say.  The rising tide caused by the phenomenal success of J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter books has indeed lifted the boats of many writers of children's fantasy.  One of the oddest cases is perhaps Carol Kendall, and her book The Gammage Cup.  This is hardly an unsuccessful book: it was first published in 1959, and it was a Newbery Honor Book.  It was reprinted at least as recently as 1990.  But besides the fact that The Gammage Cup is a succesful children's fantasy, it has another, insignificant but curious, link with Rowling's work: the use of the word &quot;Muggles&quot;.  To be sure, Muggles in The Gammage Cup is a character name, but nonetheless, Kendall's book is certainly proof enough that the word has a long history in children's fantasy.<br />Harcourt is reissuing this novel again in 2000.  I will confess that I had not previously heard of it, despite having read a great many children's fantasies, and for that matter a great many Newbery Award and Newbery Honor books.  But I'm glad to have seen it now.  It's a decent book, very readable, displaying a nice touch for the cute turn of phrase, and with several clever notions.  That said, it's a fairly minor book: pleasant enough but no patch on Alan Garner, or Lloyd Alexander, or Susan Cooper, or even J. K. Rowling.  It's also very tempting to try to think of the book in allegorical terms, not necessarily to its benefit.<br />The story is set in a small village in an idyllic valley.  Centuries before, the Minnipins fled their drought-ridden land, as well as the evil &quot;Mushrooms&quot;, and found their way to this valley.  Now their past is all but forgotten.  The townspeople of Slipper-on-the-Water live comfortable, complacent, and mostly conformist lives.  They remember the centuries-past exploits of the great Fooley, who took a balloon over the mountains to their old land, and returned with some relics.  Fooley's descendants, the Periods (called so for a cute reason I'll not reveal), are the leaders of the town. Everybody wears green cloaks, and paints their doors green, except for a few outcasts, called &quot;them&quot;.<br />The main character is Muggles, a woman who runs the local museum (mostly housing artifacts Fooley brought with him from over the mountains).  She is dangerously close to being one of &quot;them&quot;, because though she wears a green cloak she sometimes belts it with an orange sash.  As the story proper opens she notices something strange happening in the nearby mountains, and two of &quot;them&quot;, the idler and poet Gummy, and the historian Walter the Earl, seem to be involved.  Muggles is drawn closer and closer to &quot;them&quot; as the rest of the town, led by the Periods, whips itself into paroxysms of ultraconformity, in an attempt to win the &quot;Gammage Cup&quot;.  Finally Muggles and her friends are outlawed, even as they become convinced that the whole valley could be in great danger from over (or through) the mountains.<br />Naturally the outlaws save the day in the end, leading the fight against the menace from the desolate lands outside the valley.  The story is throughout pleasantly and cleverly told, and the characters, particularly Muggles and her friends, are well-depicted.  It is very tempting to try to think of the book in allegorical terms, not necessarily to its benefit.  Read in this way, the book is clearly a warning against 1950s conformist tendencies.  It's also a warning against the threat from &quot;outside the valley&quot;, and this is one way the book falls down.  This threat is seen as completely unhuman, and worthy simply of killing.  In the context of the book this is no doubt the only option, but it made me feel a bit queasy.<br />The Gammage Cup is certainly a very enjoyable book to read.  The witty word play is perhaps the most enjoyable aspect.  But it falls some way short of excellence.  I'm glad to have it still in print, but it stands at best in the second rank of thegreat children's fantasies.	2001-04-21
US	52417414	R2H6FQELGV5RMB	0738803103	125709162	The Ballad Of Billy Badass & the Rose of Turkestan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Passionate and exciting contemporary fantasy	Fortunate SF readers will have encountered William Sanders' earlier novels _Journey to Fusang_, a fine, funny-serious, alternate history about a North American colonized by the Chinese instead of the Europeans, and _The Wild Blue and the Grey_, another alternate history about Indians from an independent state as pilots in World War I.  Even more fortunate folk may have encountered some of Sanders' other work, published in a variety of categories.<br />Sanders has recently returned to writing SF, mostly in shorter forms.  He has published such excellent stories as &quot;Elvis Bearpaw's Luck&quot;, &quot;The Undiscovered&quot; (which was nominated for both the Nebula and the Hugo), and  &quot;Jennifer, Just Before Midnight&quot;.  He has also published a new SF/Fantasy novel, _The Ballad of Billy Badass and the Rose of Turkestan_.  <br />This is a very fine contemporary fantasy, with an exciting story in the forefront, as well an involving love story, plenty of humor, and even a message.  The message doesn't get in the way of the story: instead, the story supports the message, and the message is a passionately presented and definitely worth hearing.<br />The title characters are Billy Badwater, a Cherokee and a Gulf War veteran, and Janna Turonova, a doctor from Kazakhstan.  Janna is in the US partly to alert people to the terrible environmental damage done in Kazakhstan by Soviet nuclear testing and toxic waste.  Billy meets her at a powwow, and they fall in love.  Soon Billy finds himself chasing this woman across the western U. S., and on a reservation in Nevada he finds evidence that much as the Soviets used the Asian people's land as dumping grounds and testing grounds, the U. S. has used Native American land in the same way.  The fantasy element arises from a monster that is called forth by the toxic waste in Nevada.  Billy, aided by Janna and some other friends, especially his dead Grandfather, is pushed to use Indian magic in battle against the monster.  The story is exciting and involving throughout, and the love story is convincing and sexy.	2001-04-17
US	52417414	R3LSQJX83D6IZF	0312872968	209081374	Future On Ice (Future on Fire)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent selection of 1980s SF	This anthology was planned as a companion to Card's Future on Fire, and together the two were meant to showcase the best short science fiction of the 1980's. For the most part his choices stand up brilliantly. This is quite legitimately an anthology which can stand on its own or with its companion as a &quot;Best of the '80s&quot;: no doubt these aren't the very best 18 stories from that decade, but on any given day, they'll do.<br />My favorite story here, and in my opinion one of the best SF stories of all time, is Nancy Kress' &quot;Out of All Them Bright Stars&quot; (winner of the 1985 Nebula for Best Short Story). This quiet, quiet, story, about a waitress in a diner and her encounter with an alien, illustrates as clearly as I can imagine the use of SF to examine human nature. It's a story that simply wouldn't work without being SF, without aliens and the implication of star travel, but its theme is all about what's within us. Lovely writing, perfect characters: one of those stories that just stop me dead and makes me think for some time after I finish it.<br />Several other stories included won major SF awards. Among them, I think Greg Bear's &quot;Blood Music&quot; (winner of both Hugo and Nebula for Best Novelet), a truly terrifying story about the consequences of engineering bacteria-sized microchips, and using them to maintain the body's health, holds up best. In this story Bear took his idea and ran with it to the fullest extent, facing every implication. A story that is similarly chilling in implication, John Varley's novella &quot;Press Enter []&quot; (also winner of both the Hugo and Nebula), doesn't seem to hold up quite as well. His central notion of computers linking up and taking over really isn't very new (cf. Ellison's &quot;I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream&quot; for just one example), and his mechanism, while well-depicted and creepy, doesn't convince.  Nor does the (well-depicted and engaging) love story quite convince. But the story is stilla great read.<br />Also among my personal favorite '80s stories are &quot;Speech Sounds&quot; by Octavia Butler, &quot;Snow&quot; by John Crowley, and &quot;The Pure Product&quot; by John Kessel. The first is a moving story of life in near-future Los Angeles, after a plague has destroyed the speech centers of everyone. The horror of the loss of communication with other people is very well portrayed. &quot;Snow&quot; is a beautiful fable about memory and love. A woman of the jet set records incidents from her life over many years, and her one-time gigolo/lover/husband plays them back after her death. But the technology only allows random access to these &quot;memories&quot;, and the memories degrade over time. The effect is quiet and profound. &quot;The Pure Product&quot; is quite another thing. A man (apparently from the future) goes on a rampage through '80s North America.  The story is fast moving and scary.  At one level it's a harder-edged take on the same theme as C. L. Moore's classic &quot;Vintage Season&quot;, but at another level we worry that the empathy-deficient people from the future are us.<br />Any anthology which aims to be &quot;definitive&quot; will surely include prominent stories, like those mentioned above, and like George R. R. Martin's Nebula winner &quot;Portraits of His Children&quot; and Isaac Asimov's well-known late story &quot;Robot Dreams&quot;. But I like an anthology to include some surprises, as well. Two good, less familiar, choices are S. C. Sykes' &quot;Rockabye Baby&quot;, and Andrew Weiner's intriguing &quot;Klein's Machine&quot;.  Card also chooses stories by Lisa Goldstein, Gregory Benford, David Zindell, C. J. Cherryh, Walter Jon Williams, Karen Joy Fowler, Lewis Shiner, and himself.  Probably the only story in the book which doesn't quite seem to me to belong is Asimov's slight, gimmicky, &quot;Robot Dreams&quot;.  This anthology eminently succeeds in presenting a selection which represents the short SF of the 1980s at its best, and at its widest variety.	2001-04-17
US	52417414	RNJPVXK2COG6M	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Decent introduction to a series that gets much better	Lemony Snicket's childrens' books collectively entitled _A Series of Unfortunate Events_ have received a certain amount of notice.  I decided to give them a try.  The schtick is that the books all involve unpleasant things happening to our heroes, a virtuous and intelligent trio of siblings, and that the endings are all unhappy.  So it is with the first book, _The Bad Beginning_.<br />I admit to not being overwhelmed by the first book: I think it's the weakest of the series.  But it's still worth reading, and note that the succeeding books get quite a lot better.  I should add that my 11 year old daughter, after some hesitation (&quot;Why would I want to read books about terrible things happening to kids?&quot;) tried them, and has become quite addicted.<br />The book opens with the three children, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire, alone at the beach when they learn that their house has been burned down and their parents have died.  Things get worse as they are shuffled from the unpleasant home of their parents' executor, a banker named Poe, to the even more unpleasant home of their new guardian, a distant relative named Count Olaf.  The Count covets the considerable fortune which is held in trust for the children.  Eventually he concocts a diabolical scheme to gain control of the money, but at the last moment he is foiled (in a very unlikely fashion).  This sounds like a happy ending, but Snicket pastes on a bit of a downer at the end to keep to his promise.  <br />This book is interesting and a decent read, but in the end it was mostly gimmick.  The writing was funny in spots, but not quite funny enough, and a bit precious.  And the plotting wasn't really sufficiently inspired.  Moreover, I was not able to forget the implausibility of the whole setup -- which I think more inspiration in the writing and plotting might have managed.  Happily, the writing, at least, is better, funnier, archer, in the other books: or perhaps one simply becomes attuned to the voice.One of the great ongoing delights is the hints of his &quot;personal life&quot;, apparently at least as unhappy as that of the Baudelaire children, that the author insinuates into the books.  If _The Bad Beginning_ is not a complete success, it is an introduction to a so far quite satisfying series of stories.	2001-04-17
US	52417414	R2RQEOOFRMNIQ	0312877730	765759687	The Cassandra Complex (Emortality)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Near Future Thriller about Biotechnology	The newest novel in Brian Stableford's ongoing future history is _The Cassandra Complex_.  Most of the other novels and stories in this series have been set a few centuries in the future.  After a devastating series of &quot;plague wars&quot;, featuring genetically-engineered plagues, Earth's population has been greatly reduced, but the survivors have made extraordinary advances, mostly in bio-technology, and they live greatly extended lives, while the biosphere as been artificially restored from the environmental ravages of the 20th and 21st centuries, and many of the plants and animals are engineered for greater efficiency.  _The Cassandra Complex_, however, is set much earlier, in 2041, as the first plague wars are just starting.  (Note that all these novels can be read independently.)<br />The heroine is Lisa Friemann, a 60ish British policewoman who has specialized in using genetic methods to solve crimes.  She is very close to a few men at the University where she earned her PhD, especially the eccentric Morgan Miller.  The novel opens with her apartment invaded: the intruders are looking for some data they believe she has hidden somewhere.  But she cannot imagine what they could be after.<br />As she joins the police investigation, she realizes that Morgan Miller has been kidnapped, apparently by the same group that invaded her apartment, and a long-running &quot;experiment&quot; of Miller's, called Mouseworld, has been bombed.  Mouseworld is a huge colony of research mice, and the experiment has shown how mice adapt to conditions of overcrowding.  Stableford makes the point that the Earth is as overcrowded as Mouseworld, and that humans probably will not adapt as well as mice: a crash is inevitable (as the other novels in the series have shown).  But this novel is concerned with Lisa's quest to find out what secret it is that Morgan Miller must have had that the criminals want.  Miller and Lisa were close, and they remain close, so Lisa can't believe she would have hidden anything important from him.  But she knows nothing important, and can only speculate: does the secret involve generalized resistance to the coming plagues? in which case the corporations that are de facto rulers of the world would be very interested -- or might it involve a plague itself? -- or something quite different, such as immortality.  Miller's last known contacts were with crank groups which were known to be interested in extended human lifespans -- perhaps they kidnapped him for such a secret?<br />Lisa spends the couple of days of the book's action searching for Miller or his kidnappers, though the real interest is in figuring out Miller's secret.  Stableford uses this to portray his future: with widespread &quot;smart&quot; clothing technology, and considerably advanced medical treatment due to genetic engineering, as well as a fractured political/financial landscape, dominated semi-secretly by a few corporations.  Lisa's old connections with some radical feminist groups come to seem important.  The eventual resolution is fairly logical and interesting.<br />This is a decent but not great book.  For one thing, the central secret, which is actually pretty spooky and scary, is still a secret worthy of only a novelet or so.  The book feels quite padded, with lots of somewhat pointless rushing about.  Stableford seems interested mainly in portraying his future, but really this particular segment of it is a bit thin, and just not quite interesting enough.  And his characters stay at arm's length, somehow.  Worth reading, but only middling stuff.	2001-04-02
US	52417414	R1EVYJUQJUISI9	0374444587	459060153	The Light Princess (Sunburst Book)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Delightfully Whimsical Fairy Tale	George MacDonald was a Scottish clergyman of the mid-to-late 19th century, now known best for a variety of children`s fantasies, such as The Princess and the Goblin (recently made into a moderately successful animated feature), The Princess and Curdie, and the remarkable At the Back of the North Wind, as well as such adult novels as Lilith. Those are novels, but he also wrote some shorter pieces, perhaps aimed at a slightly younger audience (though very enjoyable for all ages). The Light Princess is one of these.  (Another is The Golden Key: both books are available in very attractive Sunburst paperback editions, with illustrations by Maurice Sendak).<br />It is the tale of a princess who is cursed by a mean, jealous, witch so that she has no gravity. The book is full of puns, so MacDonald makes much both of her weightlessness, and the lack of gravity in her character. Naturally her parents are upset and try to have her cured, but to no avail (although the efforts of a couple of Chinese philosophers to provide a cure are rendered amusingly). However the Princess is quite happy with her &quot;light&quot; state (of course it is in her nature to be always happy). In the way of things, a Prince appears, and falls in love with the Princess. Then the witch realizes that her curse has failed to make the Princess unhappy, so she takes further steps, which are thwarted by the selfless behavior of the Prince, and which result in the Princess recovering her gravity: not an unmixed blessing, but one which her new maturity allows her to realize is best in the long run.<br />This is a delightful story, told with just the right mixture of whimsy and mildly serious moral comment. The characters are lightly and accurately drawn (the Princess` parents and the Chinese philosophers in particular, are delightful), and the story is predictable but still quite imaginative, with a number of nice touches to do with the Princess` weightlessness. Maurice Sendak`s illustrations are wonderful as usual.s usual.	2001-03-27
US	52417414	RDYBA7B58K4CC	0374425906	570837980	The Golden Key (A Sunburst Book)	Books	4	72	73	N	N	Lovely mystical fairy tale	A couple of shortish pieces by the great 19th Century Scottish clergyman and writer George MacDonald were illustrated by Maurice Sendak in the 1960s, and they are now available in attractive paperback editions from Sunburst.  One is a very light-hearted story called _The Light Princess_, and the other is a mystical and lovely fairy tale called _The Golden Key_.<br />_The Golden Key_ is the story of two children, a boy and a girl, who live (not together) on the border of Fairyland.  The boy has been told that at the end of the rainbow he can find a golden key -- it is not to be sold, and no one knows what door it may open, but it will surely lead somewhere wonderful.  One day he sees a rainbow, and decides to follow it into Fairyland, where it seems the end of it might be -- and there he finds the golden key.  Meantime, the girl, much mistreated, wanders into the forest of Fairyland, following a strange owl-like flying fish.  Soon she meets a beautiful, ageless, woman, and she learns that she and the boy must journey together, looking for the keyhole into which the golden key will fit.<br />Their journey is long (though the story is short), and quite wonderful.  They meet some strange and wise old men, and encounter many beautiful and curious sights.  At last, of course, they find the doorway with keyhole.  The ending is unexpected and quite moving and beautiful.<br />It is tempting to try to analyze this story -- is it an allegory of marriage? or the story of a joint journey to salvation?  Perhaps, though, as W. H. Auden suggests in his afterword, it is best to simply let yourself be absorbed by the story, to enjoy its lovely and haunting images.  This book is listed as for ages 4-8, which is absurd -- it will satisfy all ages, and if anything the target audience is definitely older children than 8.  MacDonald, a key influence on C. S. Lewis, was one of the greatest of all children's fantasists -- try his _Princess and Curdie_ books, or especially his fabulous novel _At the Back of the North Wind_.  (He also wrote such fine adult fantasies as _Lilith_.)  The Sendak illustrations are fine and quirky as well._At the Back of the North Wind_.  (He also wrote such fine adult fantasies as _Lilith_.)  The Sendak illustrations are fine and quirky as well.	2001-03-20
US	52417414	R331OXJOJ268SU	0312872011	341433390	Mars Crossing	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Exciting tale of disaster on Mars	Geoffrey Landis' first novel is _Mars Crossing_.  The setup for this book is kind of depressing: the world is going to pot.  Two expeditions, one Brazilian and one American, have made it to Mars but have failed to return.  There is only one more chance: the backup American expedition can go, though only with gimmicky financing (a lottery for a chance to accompany the expedition).  An international crew (one Thai, one Canadian, one Brazilian, and three Americans including the lottery winner) successfully lands on Mars, but almost immediately disaster again strikes.  The vehicle that was sent in advance, to brew up the fuel for the return, fails spectacularly, killing one member of the expedition and losing all the return fuel.  They realize that their only hope for return is to trek to the North Pole, where the Brazilian return vehicle was left, and try to find a way to adapt that vehicle to their needs.<br />The trek is exciting and dangerous and very well described.  Landis has great fun with putting obstacles (literally and figuratively) in his characters' way.  The landscape of Mars is extremely interestingly described and so is the technology.<br />The characterization is a bit less successful.  Landis works very hard at trying to portray each character -- to give each character a set of tics and problems, and in so doing I felt that he protested too much, and that the effort showed, the sweat showed.  They did not not come alive for me.  Still, their conflicts and personal problems, if sometimes a bit artificial-seeming, were still interesting to read about.  The novel is told in short chapters, and the pacing is sometimes choppy, but it's a fast, exciting, read.<br />I should say that in the final analysis I quite enjoyed reading _Mars Crossing_.  Relative to the best of Landis' short fiction (which is excellent) it's a bit of a disappointment, but looked at as a first novel, and as a piece of hyper-hard SF, it's pretty good.	2001-03-16
US	52417414	R3BNP0U3L3CWB4	0385501536	271797931	Aiding and Abetting: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Sharp and lively satire	Muriel Spark's new novel interweaves the story of Lord Lucan, a dissolute English Earl who murdered his children's nanny and tried to kill his wife in 1974, then disappeared, with the story of Hildegard Wolf, a psychiatrist with an unconventional method of treating patients and a secret past of her own.<br />Rumours of Lord Lucan's whereabouts continue to pop up: noone knows if he is still alive or not.  In this book, Spark has two separate &quot;Lord Lucan&quot;'s visit Dr. Wolf for treatment.  Before long Wolf is wondering how much they know about her, how much they know about each other, and which if either of them is the real Lord Lucan.  Several other people are drawn into the search for Lord Lucan, including an old friend of his, and the daughter of another old friend of his, and Hildegard's long-time lover.  The resolution is amusing and unexpected.<br />Spark considers the complicity of accomplices in crime, and the morality of the &quot;upper classes&quot;, and the persistence of guilt.  Her writing is as always extremely clever -- dare I say it sparkles? -- and the book is slantingly funny and morally insistent and a thoroughgoing joy to read.  At 82, Muriel Spark remains a truly brilliant writer.  (Like another reviewer, I can't quite bring myself to rate this 5 stars -- but only because the book is so short.  It's better than the average 4 star book, at any rate.)	2001-03-09
US	52417414	R9Y6EVA6CWOUI	0060975008	776004119	Gold Bug Variations	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Exhilarating and deeply moving	This is a wonderful book.  It interleaves scientific and musical themes with parallel love stories, and it manages to make the various thematic elements comments back and forth on each other.  It builds slowly to a bittersweet and very moving ending.<br />The main narrator is Jan O'Deigh, a research librarian in Brooklyn.  The book opens with her receiving a postcard from her estranged boyfriend, Franklin Todd, telling her that their mutual friend, the mysterious ex-scientist Stuart Ressler, has just died of cancer.  Frank leaves no forwarding address -- he seems to be wandering around Europe, still in pursuit of his long delayed dissertation on an obscure Flemish painter.  Jan immediately quits her job, and spends the next year researching genetics (Dr. Ressler's specialty), and trying to find Franker, while telling us the story of her relationship with the two men.  This is interleaved with the story of Dr. Ressler's year at the University of Illinois in the late '50s, a year spent as part of a team trying to unravel the genetic code.<br />The novel is a web of searches.  Jan meets Todd when he asks her to research Dr. Ressler, who had been nearly famous once but had dropped completely out of sight.  Dr. Ressler, of course, is decoding the most central code in life back in 1957.  In the present day, Ressler and Todd work at a data processing facility, and they eventually need to search through the data they process to help a coworker.  And Jan spends a year searching for Franklin, searching for meaning in her life, searching for what made Stuart Ressler tick.  All of this is overlayed with descriptions of music, particularly Bach's great Goldberg Variations, a dizzyingly brilliant set of 32 permutations of a simple French tune of 4 notes -- permuations that in the book's central metaphor resemble the permutations of the four DNA bases that result in the entire genetic code for Earthly life.<br />Lest this seem dry (and it's not!), the book also tells of two agonizing love affairs: Dr. Ressler's affair with a married fellow researcher, and Jan's affair with Franklin.  Both Ressler and Todd have a hard time deciding what is worthwhile if life, and that makes it hard for them to be loved, or to stay in love.  And of course Ressler's love is married, and married to a good man.  Furthermore Powers tangles these love affairs with more questions about genetics, and death, and procreation, and the way variety is created from simple beginnings. <br />This is an exhilarating book, an absorbing and fully involving read.  It's wonderfully constructed, and elegantly written.	2001-03-02
US	52417414	R2IXTFXZCN14NN	0312866305	382592532	Chimera	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Fast moving and fun, with a look at some serious issues	Will Shetterly's new novel Chimera mixes together a few fairly familiar SF themes: human/animal combinations, artificial intelligences, the issue of rights for both of the above, and a somewhat balkanized (or at least decentralized) future US.  The plot is taken from a familiar mystery trope (not uncommon in SF): the hardboiled detective with a heart of gold who gets mixed up in a vulnerable woman's problems despite himself.  The end result is not bad: the book is fun reading, with very sympathetic main characters, and a fast-moving if sometimes a bit unconvincing plot.  I liked this novel, but I didn't quite love it: I felt it brushed up against some profound thematic material without really fully engaging it, and I felt that the future depicted was more an assemblage of neat bits than a fully imagined, or fully plausible, future society.  Perhaps I am simply guilty of wanting to read a book the author didn't intend to write: certainly Shetterly has delivered a good read, which at least asks the reader to think about some important themes.<br />The narrator is Chase Maxwell, a former UN security man, who left that job after an assignment went bad.  He retains one useful (and really neat!) piece of tech: an Infinite Pocket, an area of warped space attached to his arm, in which he can apparently store things of nearly arbitrary size.  Including his gun, which has a similar bit of tech: a sort of &quot;Infinite Magazine&quot;.  He's down on his luck (naturally!) when a jaguar-human hybrid named Zoe Domingo asks him to track down her &quot;mother&quot;'s murderer.  Janna Gold, the human Zoe calls her mother (she bought her out of slavery), has just been killed, apparently by berserk &quot;copbots&quot;.  But the police department is much more likely to finger Zoe for the murder, given the prejudice against &quot;critters&quot;.  Moreover, Zoe has a mysterious earring Janna gave her, which seems to be a piece of special tech that lots of highly placed people really want.<br />Max is reluctant to take the case: he doesn't work for critters.  But he's in a bit of a bind, so he agrees to help.  What follows is a nearly nonstop chase, as Max and Zoe encounter first the police, then a series of people who seem to be peripherally involved: Krista Blake, a police expert who takes a sudden shine to Max; Amos Tauber, an advocate for full rights for both &quot;critters&quot; and Artificial Intelligences; and Oberon Chain, the head of a high-tech company who is also an AI rights crusader.  When some of these people begin to get murdered as well, the frame is in, and Max and Zoe are the designated suspects.  At the same time, Max is realizing that his feelings for Zoe may be a lot deeper than it is prudent for a human to have with respect to a critter.<br />From there we encounter a number of different aspects of this future, such as the indentured service camps that have replaced jails; and the &quot;critter&quot; side of town, complete with riots and reverse prejudice against &quot;skins&quot; (ordinary humans); plus scenes of critters &quot;werewolfing&quot;: suddenly going berserk and killing everybody in sight; as well as a very well put argument about the ethics of downloading human brains into computers, and vice versa, and plenty more.  As I said, the plot is fast moving, and I was always interested, but at times things happen a bit conveniently for the heroes.<br />Chimera raises some questions that I didn't feel were fully answered.  Chief among these is &quot;Why were the &quot;critters&quot; created?&quot;  I honestly don't believe that, starting from the present day, the essentially purposeful creation of a new underclass, of that particular nature, is very likely.  I also thought his future US a bit unlikely, politically.  But both of these reservations are really quibbles, and he does portray his future society quite interestingly.  But always at the back of our mind is a desire to more fully engage the submerged issues: equalrights for &quot;critters&quot;, and equal rights for AIs.  Those questions are raised, but mostly brushed aside, in the interests of maintaining narrative pace.  Certainly a longtime SF reader cannot help thinking of Cordwainer Smith's classic &quot;The Ballad of Lost C'Mell&quot;, about a &quot;catwoman&quot; who gives all in the pursuit of rights for the &quot;underpeople&quot;.  But though such issues are present here, they simply don't resonate the way they did in Smith's great story.  Nonetheless, though I may (perhaps unfairly) regard Chimera as a missed opportunity to be something really special, it's still a fun read, with its heart in the right place.	2001-02-23
US	52417414	R3K3X28EWC80TW	034540856X	685150972	The Collapsium	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Wild Speculations, Baroque Setting, Light Tone	Wil McCarthy's new novel, The Collapsium, is built around such scientific speculations based on &quot;edge science&quot; ideas like using black holes as elementary particles.  McCarthy plays happily with these ideas, treating them in almost a Tom-Swift fashion, which makes for an implausible but fun SF novel.<br />The book is set several centuries in the future, or, as the opening line declares, &quot;in the eighth decade of the Queendom of Sol&quot;.  The social setting for McCarthy's baroque scientific speculations is thus appropriately baroque.  The Solar System is united under a monarchy, and the ruler is the heir to the only monarchy that has survived to this time: the Queen of Tonga, Tamra Lutui.  The central character is Bruno de Towangi, a brilliant scientist from Catalonia, now living a hermit's life in the Kuiper Belt, on an artificial planet, playing with miniature black holes arranged to form the &quot;element&quot; collapsium, trying to see the end of time.  Bruno is a Declarant-Philander, a title which reflects both his high scientific achievements, and his status as former official lover of the &quot;Virgin&quot; Queen, Tamra.<br />As the novel begins Bruno is summoned by his Queen back to the inner Solar System to solve a problem with the Ring Collapsiter, a ring of collapsium which his rival Marlon Sykes is building around the Sun.  This ring will allow faster than light travel and communications, improving on the current system of &quot;faxes&quot;, by which people travel at light speed anywhere there is a receiving station, making copies of themselves, copies which retain their memories, and which also can be &quot;edited&quot; to correct internal problems.  Thus, humans may have also become immortal.<br />The novel has three sections which involve successive efforts by Bruno to save the Sun. McCarthy keeps on multiplying his weird scientific speculations: adding in such ideas as &quot;true vacuum&quot;, elimination of inertia, electromagnetic grapples, and so on.  All this is on the one hand pretty fun, but on the other hand not wholly believable.  It's not so much the science itself that is unbelievable: sure, it's all speculative, and probably mostly not very likely to be true, but that's all part of the game, and all the weird stuff is pretty well (for some value of &quot;pretty well&quot;) explained in a series of appendices.  Rather, Bruno's Tom Swift-like ability to whip up new gadgets base on the new science in quick time becomes somewhat implausible.<br />That said, given the rather light tone of the whole book (albeit a tone which is at odds with any thought for the millions of innocents who die), it all ends up being quite entertaining.  The science is larger-than-life, and so are the characters.  Neither is quite believable in a realistic fashion, but both are acceptable within the conventions of this book.  It's baroque, superscientific, stuff: kind of like bad '30s pulp SF rewritten to be a pretty good new millennium (almost!) take on those old tropes.  It's not great SF, but it's good fun, and full of neat and wild ideas.	2001-02-21
US	52417414	R3PG1NJI5GZLVF	0671319612	370547305	Against The Odds (Serrano Legacy)	Books	3	28	29	N	N	Solid but not Spectacular Series Ending	_Against the Odds_ is the seventh and apparently final book in Elizabeth Moon's series about the Familias Regnant.  The Familias Regnant is the term for a large area of colonized worlds in a future galaxy in which humans seem to be the only intelligent species.  There are several other confederations of worlds.  Familias space is ruled by a number of aristocratic families, fairly but not entirely benignly.  The novels cover a period of perhaps a decade, or a bit less, in which radical changes occur in the Familias government, moves in the direction of greater democracy.<br />On the whole, I found the series very good reading.  There are weaknesses: Moon tends to paint her villains too blackly, for one thing; and her plots seem to be driven a bit much by coincidence.  But the stories are very exciting, the action is well described, and the main characters are very engaging, we really care about them.  Bad things happen, usually with real costs, as well.  The first book (_Hunting Party_) is nice but a bit light.  I felt that the series hit its stride with the second book (_Sporting Chance_), and maintained a high level through the following three books (_Winning Colors_, _Once a Hero_, _Rules of Engagement_).  The sixth book, _Change of Command_, was a serious disappointment.  By this time Moon had several significant plot threads from previous books that she wanted to track, all involving different characters.  Plus she added an important new thread, a mutiny with the Fleet by disaffected officers of extreme villainy.  _Change of Command_ is a very disjointed book, jumping from thread to thread, sometimes with essentially no sense of connection.  <br />This final book, _Against the Odds_, is something of a return to form.  It's still not as good, in my opinion, as the four central books, but the thread gathering in _Change of Command_ has by _Against the Odds_ at least resulted in the major threads all being sufficiently well associated so that even though this bookalso jumps all over the place, the various plot threads are all pretty much linked.  The basic action of this book is the attempt to suppress the mutiny that began in _Change of Command_.  In addition, some political assassinations which happened in that book have left an unsettled political situation, which needs to be resolved.  And finally, Esmay has been discharged from the Navy for basically silly reasons, and she wishes to get reinstated and join the fight against the mutineers.  There are still some structural hiccups: the Free Trader plot sort of peters out halfway through the book, while the closing segment of the book is really a separate, late-introduced subplot, which at least serves to unite Esmay and Heris for the final action, but which otherwise seems a bit of an arbitrary addition.  And there are quite a number of, I thought, unlikely coincidences.  But all that said, the book is a solid and fun read, and it does a good job of closing off the main series threads, while not wrapping everything up too tidily.<br />I certainly recommend the entire series for anyone who likes colourful space opera, with engaging characters and neat action.	2001-02-10
US	52417414	R3U65S5B79C8XJ	0312872143	136531715	When The King Comes Home	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Enjoyable, but not really memorable	Caroline Stevermer has a new book out, _When the King Comes Home_.  It's apparently set in the same world as her fine earlier book _A College of Magics_.  It's been a while since I read the earlier book, and I confess I didn't notice any close links: I'm pretty sure both books can be read independently.  This new one is a decent book, though not terribly memorable.  <br />The world it's set in is very much like roughly 16th Century Europe.  It's set in an imaginary country in Europe, and the other fantasy element is that magic works, though magic isn't wildly prevalent.  Mostly, the feel of the setting is like our world.  The narrator, Hail Rosamer, is a young apprentice to a successful artist.  She lives in the capital city of their &quot;country&quot;, which is ruled by an old, dying, King, and a capable &quot;Prince-Bishop&quot;.  But people remember the days of Good King Julian, 2 centuries before, with great affection. It is said &quot;When the King Comes Home&quot;, any number of miracles might happen.  Wilful Hail becomes obsessed with an artist of King Julian's time, Gil Maspero, who among other things made a special medal for the King.  Against her mistress' wishes, Hail makes a copy of this medal, and by happenstance ends up one day encountering a man who looks just like the old King.  Soon it is clear that sorcery is afoot: an evil witch in league with the rebellious lord of one of the provinces is trying to recall King Julian's soul to a new body and bind the King to her will.  Hail ends up imprisoned for a time, then trying to help track down the witch, then trying to help free the King from her spell.  I liked it, it was fun to read, but in a way I felt that not quite enough happened.  It's quiet, and it ends in an honest but rather muffled fashion: Stevermer worked hard to avoid an ending with any sort of heroic cliche.  That's a good thing, on the one hand, but perhaps it detracts from the book, too.  Or perhaps while avoiding cliche (good) the bookalso avoids replacing the standard cliches with something really special.  Lest I seem too negative, though, I repeat that it's a fun, engaging, read. Hail is a neat character, wholly an artist, headstrong, interesting, unobservant of anything she doesn't care about, like the obviously besotted soldier who keeps encountering her.  The other characters are well drawn, too, and largely good people too.	2001-02-07
US	52417414	RDOCIZS3GH8N8	0312193467	627397912	The Twinkling of an Eye: My Life as an Englishman	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Absorbing and moving literary autobiography	It seems to me that the practice of the literary memoir is more prevalent in England than in the United States. At any rate, few distinguished English writers seem to escape autobiography. For me, the memoirs of writers I admire hold great interest, despite the usually somewhat mundane everyday lives of authors. There's something compelling about tracing the roots of a writer's imagination, and I also take gossipy interest in the accounts of meetings with other well-known writers that these books usually contain. And, to be sure, famous writers are usually good writers, and their memoirs are more likely to be well-written. The Twinkling of an Eye delivers on all counts: it is a very enjoyable literary autobiography. <br />Brian W. Aldiss is a giant in the Science Fiction field. His major contributions are of course as a writer of the stuff (he's a winner of both the Hugo and the Nebula, and among his SF books are Hothouse, The Malacia Tapestry, and the Helliconia series). He's also made significant contributions as a critic/historian of the field (his controversial Billion Year Spree (later updated as Trillion Year Spree with David Wingrove) is his most famous work in this area.) But Aldiss has always been part of the main stream, if you will, of post-War British writing. His first book, The Brightfount Diaries, a comic account of working in a bookstore, was certainly not SF, but it was very successful. He worked for many years as Literary Editor of the Oxford Mail. And he had some non science fiction bestsellers in the late '60s and early '70s.<br />A life is not a story, really. Thus Aldiss does not tell this book in a linear fashion, nor hew to a narrative structure. He opens with an account of heading off to Burma, to join the XIV Army, the &quot;Forgotten Army&quot;, is driving the Japanese out of that country toward the end of World War II.   Follows a series of chapters, ordered somewhat impressionistically, which tell of his young life, his less than idyllicexperience in public schools, and of his somewhat difficult relationship with his parents. He offers a moving account of his early years, and how the birth of both of his sisters affected him deeply. Aldiss continues with a description of his years in the Army, mopping up the Japanese in Burma, then spending a couple of years in India just prior to independence, and in Sumatra. After leaving the Army, Aldiss moved to Oxford, and worked in a couple of bookshops. At this time he got married, sold his first stories, started writing the sketches which became The Brightfount Diaries, and had his first son.<br />The rest of the book is a bit more episodic. The sections concerning his first marriage, and especially its breakup, are very moving, even as Aldiss is still understandably reticent on the details.  The pain and sense of failure he felt, and the agony of losing his children, especially his new born daughter, are keenly portrayed.  This dovetails into a period of depression and poverty, coupled with increasing artistic success in his fiction. It seems that Aldiss' marriage to Margaret Manson largely brought him out of his funk.  Just as he keenly portrayed his depression over the failure of his first marriage, he is able to convey quite wonderfully his love for Margaret, and the happiness she brought him.  The later chapters are mini-essays, covering various aspects of his later life: travels to places like Jugoslavia and Denmark; the United States and China; his feelings about Science Fiction, its history, and worth, and its treatment by mainstream critics; a look back at a critical year spent in Sumatra, and his later return; the writing of a select few of his books, most notably the Helliconia trilogy; his experiences with acting and movie-making, including time spent working on a (never completed) project with Stanley Kubrick (apparently this movie, AI, may soon be made by Steven Spielberg); his relationships with his wife and children and sister; some brief comments on political matters; and finally a fascinating account of his visit to Turkmenistan, which occurred only after he had written a book set there.<br />I was quite absorbed by this book, and quite moved.  I found it fascinating reading throughout.  This is a very worthwhile account of the life of a man in this century.  Definitely recommended.	2001-01-22
US	52417414	R35CID6CHHG0TN	0441007694	496933037	The Coming (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Smoothly written tale of aliens coming to Earth	Joe Haldeman's newest book is The Coming.  This is a shortish, nicely executed, book about the receipt of a signal from an alien ship.  Haldeman explicitly credits James Gunn's fine novel about receiving messages from aliens, The Listeners, as an influence, but The Coming reminded me much more of a brilliant and underrated novel by John Kessel, Good News From Outer Space.  Both books (The Coming and Kessel's novel) use the idea of aliens coming to Earth as a fulcrum for an exploration of U. S. society.<br />The Coming opens with an astronomer at the University of Florida, Aurora Bell, recognizing an anomalous signal from a gamma ray telescope.  It turns out to be a short message saying, in English, &quot;We're Coming&quot;.  And she is able to confirm that it comes from a source about a tenth of a light year from Earth, blue-shifted so that it must be traveling at 99 percent of the speed of light.<br />The novel is neatly structured so that the point of view smoothly shifts from scene to scene, such that each new scene begins from the POV of a character encountered just previously.  This gives the whole book a certain fluidity and a certain sense of movement, and it also allows the author to gracefully explore events through the eyes of a wide variety of characters.  What we see is a portrait of the city of Gainesville, Florida, in the 2054.  The characters include Dr. Bell and her husband, a composer and also a professor; several colleagues of Dr. Bell, significantly including her assistant, a mysterious immigrant from Cuba named Pepe Parker; a restaurant owner in the University neighbourhood; a Mafia bag man; a policeman; a couple of reporters; a homeless lady; a university student making extra money by &quot;acting&quot; in &quot;virtual reality&quot; pornographic episodes; and more.  Haldeman uses this tapestry of viewpoints to portray the reaction of the wider populace to the Coming of the aliens, but more importantly, he uses it to portray the social and political and technological landscape of this particular future.<br />Haldeman's portrayal is interesting.  The future tech includes highly computerized homes and holographic conference calls and the above-mentioned virtual porn.  Environmentally, the world is facing advanced global warming, with much flooding, unusual winters and summers, sunblock essential at all times lest you get skin cancer, etc.  The political view of the US is a bit disappointing: his view is a cynical redaction of contemporary politics, with all but unchanged Democratic and Republican parties, and an image-besotten Republican idiot as President.  There are snippets of world politics that present some interesting changes: an important subplot concerns a looming war between France and Germany.  The major social change in the U. S. that affects the book is that much stricter laws about sexual activity have been implemented: homosexuality is completely criminalized, while even some consensual married activities are apparently against the law.  I confess I find these last changes implausible and counter to real social trends in the U. S. today: perhaps I am simply an optimist.  His overall future is somewhat depressing but not without hope, and it is quite interest.  The characters are well-portrayed and involving.<br />The plot is also interesting, if at times just a bit melodramatic.  It turns on political manoeuvring about the proper response to the arrival of the aliens, as well as the calamitous revealing of a dark secret in the Bells' past.  There is a certain amount of action and intrigue, resolved nicely enough.  And Haldeman's climax, involving the promised arrival of the aliens, is well-handled, and the reader isn't cheated.  Overall the book feels just a bit slight, but it's a fine effort, and a good solid read.	2001-01-14
US	52417414	RM5DHHHFGVSY8	0440205867	698472398	Death and the Chaste Apprentice	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Clever mystery, sharp and funny writing	Robert Barnard is an Englishman who has been a professor both in Australia and Norway (and both locales have turned up in his books). Since sometime in the '70s he has been publishing mystery novels. The novels are characterized mostly by their dryly satiric tone. They are very funny, and very biting. For the most part, he seems to have eschewed the continuing series format, although he has published several books featuring Scotland Yard's Perry Trethowan, and a couple more featuring a character first introduced in the Trethowan books, Charlie Peace (who has a small role in Death and the Chaste Apprentice). Given that the non-series books feature one-off detectives, he is more free than usual to turn his sights on the foolishness and incompetence of the crime-fighters, as well as that of the criminals, and in several of his books a main object of satire is the police.<br />Death and the Chaste Apprentice is not his best book, but it's a solid book, and also a bit less savage than some of his works. The Chaste Apprentice of the title is also the title character of a fictional Jacobean comedy which is being staged at an arts festival near London. The arts festival is held in part in an old inn, and we are introduced to the cast of the play, staying at the Inn, a couple of classical singers who are also performing at the festival, and the manager of the Inn, a rather odious, snoopy, Australian (Barnard really seems to have it in for Australia). Barnard spends some time setting up the complex dynamics of the characters: a young actor who seems to be falling for the Russian singer, an alcoholic actress, the leading couple of the play, who are married to each other but engage in very public adultery, the incredibly self-centred Indian singer and his manager, the tyrannical conductor of the opera, the eccentric director of the play, and of course the Inn's manager, who alienates everyone with his snooping and his know-it-all attitude. Then, as the play opens, a murder occurs, and the police have to investigate. Naturally, the investigation reveals a variety of unpleasant secrets which don't have anything to do with the murder, before finally ending with a slight twist and a nicely logical solution. (Actually one of Barnard's stronger mystery plots: many of his books, while still thoroughly entertaining, have very strained solutions.)<br />The true pleasure of this book, as with all Barnard, is the sly sarcastic asides which pepper the descriptions of the characters and events. At the same time, the characters are mostly rather sympathetic, even when somewhat flawed: this is not always true with Barnard, as I have read books of his which feature literally no likable characters. This book is also interesting for the snippets of information about Jacobean drama as well as 19th century opera.	2001-01-13
US	52417414	RLEBFO9Q0RH13	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Bright, Sweet, Optimistic, Pure Fun	The Door Into Summer is a Robert A. Heinlein novel from 1957 (serialized in 1956), the very height of his glorious &quot;middle period&quot;, when he was still writing compact novels, and when he was also writing his juveniles: in my opinion, his most productive period.  The novel was published almost in parallel with his first Hugo Winner, Double Star, and those two novels surely rank among his best.<br />The Door Into Summer is one of Heinlein's sunniest novels, and one of his most straightforwardly enjoyable.  At the same time, it's a little slight next to Double Star, or indeed next to some of his novels I which I don't think are as successful, but which are certainly more ambitious: Starship Troopers, Stranger in a Strange Land, and one of my other favorite Heinlein novels, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.  And by slight I don't mean just length (it's much of a length with Double Star, though much shorter than any of the later adult novels): thematically it's just not terribly challenging.  But to say that is to risk denigrating the book unfairly: what it does, it does almost perfectly, and it ends up being quite moving as well.  It's like a low-degree of difficulty dive executed with perfection: and such a thing is better than a high degree of difficulty dive ending in a bellyflop (which, sad to say, might describe some of Heinlein's late work).<br />The book opens in 1970, a few years after the Six Weeks War (a nuclear war: yes, this book was written in the 1950s).  Dan Davis is a successful inventor.  His main product is an automated &quot;cleaning lady&quot; called Hired Girl.  He's got a booming new company, run from a business standpoint by his good friend Miles Gentry, and the company secretary, the beautiful Belle Darkin, is engaged to marry him.  He is owned by a nice cat called Petronius Arbiter, and he has another great friend in Miles' 11 year old stepdaughter Frederica (Ricky).  He has just finished designing an even better machine: an all-purpose automaton called Flexible Frank.  Could life be any better?<br />Naturally, it all crashes on him.  Miles and Belle betray him, marrying each other, forcing him out of the company, stealing his patents, even chasing away his cat.  Then they stuff him into a cold sleep establishment, arranging for him to wake up in the year 2000, too late to take any action.  Dan wakes in the year 2000, and several chapters are taken in giving us a view of the year 2000, while Dan relearns engineering, and tracks down the traces of Miles and Belle, and then looks for Ricky.  What he finds is very surprising indeed, and he is driven to a desperate attempt to set his future right.<br />This book is set mostly in 2000, so one might be tempted to check Heinlein's predictions.  Naturally, they are mostly misses (though he does mention something a lot like ATM machines, and something a lot like computer aided drafting).  But that's unimportant: the light the predictions throw on the way people thought about the future in the 1950s is interesting.  And the sum total of the changes Heinlein shows is a better world, which is Heinlein's real theme.  To quote: &quot;the world steadily grows better because the human mind, applying itself to environment, makes it better. ... Most of these long-haired belittlers can't drive a nail or use a slide rule, I'd like to ... ship them back to the twelfth century -- then let them enjoy it.&quot;  For Dan Davis, the Door into Summer is the door to the future.  (And that title image, &quot;the Door into Summer&quot;, is one of Heinlein's happier literary creations.)  This bright, sweet, optimistic novel is pure fun to read.	2001-01-06
US	52417414	RKSPKDS1UYDTB	0380731800	701049138	Sky Coyote (A Novel of the Company, Book 2)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Solid but not Baker's best	Kage Baker has suddenly arrived on the SF scene with several novels and a number of fine short stories. Most of her work so far, including Sky Coyote, is part of a series about the &quot;Company&quot;, Dr. Zeus, Incorporated, and its time-travelling immortal servants. This is a pretty good setup for stories. Certainly, as with most time travel books, it doesn't do to look too closely at the paradoxes implied. In addition, the restrictions placed on the Company's technology have a sense of adhocery to them. But I quibble: suspension of disbelief is not too hard, and Baker's work has been interesting and involving.  She is one of the most promising new SF writers.<br />Sky Coyote is told by the Immortal Joseph, a Facilitator for the Company who has been working for them for thousands of years. His new assignment, in 1700 A.D., is to appear to a town full of Chumash Indians in (what will become) California, as a figure from their legends: Sky Coyote. He is to persuade them to pack up their town, lock, stock and canoe, and be transported to the future. You see, their culture is about to be destroyed by the white men -- first Spanish missionaries; eventually the Americans -- and the Company wishes to preserve as much of this culture as possible for restoration or at least study in the 24th century. (Why and how they make a profit doing so is not ever convincingly explained, but let that pass.)<br />This makes for an enjoyable story. There is a lot of interesting detail about the impressively advanced Chumash culture, including their commercial nature, and their stories and legends. Joseph as Sky Coyote gets to make a lot of jokes, and have a lot of fun. There isn't quite enough conflict, and the plot isn't twisty enough, but the basic story is still worth reading. <br />However, Baker intersperses this with some other details. Events in Joseph's past life, some of which raise doubts in him about the Company. A lot of focus on an otherwise thoroughly minor character namedMendoza (who is the protagonist of some other books in the series). A few strange intimations of something portentous occurring in 2355 A.D. All this is really quite interesting. The problem is, it's really not got much of anything to do with the rest of the novel, and it serves mainly as a distraction. The main story is a bit thin anyway, and the hints of some really interesting stuff that we'll get to eventually (but not in this book!) don't help.<br />Make no mistake about it: Baker has the chops of a fine writer. Her characters are well drawn, her prose is sound, her stories hold the reader's interest. And whatever misgivings I have, I still enjoyed Sky Coyote. But I think it's somewhat flawed structurally by the intrusion of an external story arc that is presented only by hints.  In the final analysis, this novel will mainly be of interest to readers committed to the entire series, and even those readers will probably find themselves chomping at the bit for the main event to come along.	2000-12-22
US	52417414	R1H9GN16NBO02W	0312872569	930510576	Souls in the Great Machine (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Intriguing SF ideas, disjointed plot	I found Sean McMullen's Souls in the Great Machine a difficult book to evaluate. On the one hand it has some wonderful, sense of wonder-inducing ideas, and some exciting action and colourful characters. But the &quot;colours&quot; of the characters are a bit garish, certainly unrealistic, as they act out the author's whims. And the plot, action-filled as it is in places, also drags in other places, and is somewhat creakily structured. On the whole, though, I recommend this novel for the neat stuff, with a warning that it is far from perfect. <br />Many years after a disaster called Greatwinter destroyed human civilization, people in what was once Australia live in smallish city states. Technology includes fairly ingenious mechanical devices, and guns, but no electricity or electronics. A central feature of local civilization is the libraries, where intelligent men and women seem to maintain what records of the past they can. The most important library, called Libris, is in Rochester, and a new leader, Zarvora Cybeline, has just been appointed. She establishes a curious project: a huge calculating machine, the Calculor, in which the individual components are human slaves. Add to this intriguing setup a culture which places great emphasis on personal combat -- duels. And one more odd feature -- a mysterious Call, to which every animal larger than a cat, including humans, is subject.<br />Into this mix Sean McMullen throws Lemorel, a young provincial woman and a talented mathematician, whose ambition has led her into several duels. She ends up at Libris, with many other talented mathematicians, supporting the Calculor. There is also Zarvora, the odd genius who has invented the Calculor, and who has some mysterious use for it besides simply improving communications and tax collection. And Lemorel's talented but untrustworthy sometime lover, John Glasken. And Dorian, the mute linguist who befriends Lemorel. And Ilyire, a strange man from beyond the deserts at the edge ofcivilization, with an even stranger talent. And more, as the book continues. <br />The ideas behind this book are truly fascinating and original. I was kept reading simply by curiosity about things like the Call, and the real reason for the Calculor, and the cause of Greatwinter, and so on. And it must be said that McMullen mostly delivers in this area. The rationale for his future -- the source of the Call, the reason electronics cannot be used, the origin of Greatwinter -- all these are given explanations that work well within the context of the book (although some of the explanations are a bit far-fetched scientifically). But I still have considerable reservations. <br />My problems with the book were in two main areas: characters and plot. The characters are a strange set of, basically, obsessed madmen and madwomen. When the plot requires it, they are happy to fall instantly in love with a stranger, and commit murder, start wars, whatever, to resolve their relationship problems. Moreover they are all essentially immoral. For example, Zarvora, perhaps the closest thing to an overall heroine in the book, kidnaps and imprisons people for years to make the Calculor work. Lemorel has killed something like a dozen people before the book starts. Similar things can be said of many other characters. Indeed, heroes become villains and vice-versa with some regularity. This can be made to work, but not when it is done arbitrarily, as seemed the case here.  As for the plot, it is discursive and disjointed. Long stretches dragged alarmingly towards the middle of the book. At times, the author resorts to summary, and authorial voice explanations of tricky bits, in order to advance us to where we need to be. <br />On balance, I do recommend reading Souls in the Great Machine. It has definite faults, but also definite good points. The ending is rousing and fairly satisfying. Even though the characters are not very believable, they are interesting. And the book is marked by a definite exuberance that makes it a fun read.	2000-12-22
US	52417414	R3BZJ50WMCPFMJ	0380975173	882973554	Shrine of Stars: The Third Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Brilliant capstone to an outstanding far-future epic	Shrine of Stars concludes Paul J. McAuley's Confluence trilogy in very impressive fashion.  These books have not quite got the notice I think they deserve, for a couple of reasons.  Most important might be that the trilogy concludes with its strongest volume, for the best reasons.<br />In the first volume, Child of the River, McAuley sketched a strange world with many wonders, and introduced an intriguing main character, Yamamanama (fortunately called Yama by most of the characters).  This world, Confluence, is an artificial construct, built thousands of years ago at the behest of the Preservers (apparently descendants of Earth humans), by their servants the &quot;Builders&quot;.  The Preservers then populated the world with thousands of &quot;bloodlines&quot;, apparently &quot;uplifted&quot; animals, as well as the &quot;indigenous&quot; races, apparently aliens of some variety.  In the first volume all this is presented as mythic history, and the book has the feel of fantasy.  Yama, it is hinted, is the last remnant of the bloodline of the Builders.  He sets out on a journey up the huge River of Confluence to the capitol city, Ys, while a long war rages on between the Heretics and the established authority of Confluence.  Over the first two books, Yama journeys to Ys, then back down the river to his home.  He becomes involved in the war, and meets many of the bloodlines of Confluence, as well as remnants of humans from long before Confluence, and he learns much about his own, very considerable, powers.<br />Many mysteries are introduced in the first two volumes, and they are slowly dispelled.  But in Shrine of Stars, McAuley actually delivers on the implied promise of the first two books: the nature of Confluence, and the nature of Yama, and the answers to the mysteries of the first two books, are all revealed in logical and satisfying ways.  In the end the three books are clearly, unambiguously, far future Science Fiction, in a way that for example such models asJack Vance's The Dying Earth and Gene Wolfe's The Book of the New Sun aren't, quite.  This is both good and bad, but it seems to be entirely McAuley's intention.  That is, the remaining mysteries, and the religious symbolism, of Wolfe's great tetralogy are a feature certainly intended by the author: and in many ways they enhance the book.  It may be that that is the reason I still consider Wolfe's series better than The Book of Confluence, or it may be simply that as good a writer as McAuley is, and he's quite good, Wolfe is still better.  But at any rate such comparisons, though inevitable, aren't quite fair to McAuley's work: in the end, he has written an individual work, with its own plan, its own intentions, and I think he succeeds marvelously.<br />Shrine of Stars, thus, follows Yama and Pandaras after they are separated, as Yama begins to be possessed by a machine implanted in his body, and as Pandaras tries to find Yama, unwillingly bringing Prefect Corin back on Yama's trail.  After many trials, Yama comes to full understanding of himself, and of his fate.  There are very explicit religious echoes (including a plan for Yama to be executed on a structure of wood), but even as McAuley emphasizes these echoes, he provides rational and consistent explanations for them all.  Finally Yama must make a journey off Confluence to another planet, and he must come to a solution to the problem of the future of the bloodlines of Confluence that deals with the apparent coming destruction of Confluence.  His solution is satisfying, and McAuley neatly wraps up the series with an ending that is perhaps reminiscent of Charles Harness, only a bit more logical.  This is one of the better extended works of SF in the last years of this century, in many ways a fine capstone for a long history of &quot;far future&quot; SF.	2000-12-14
US	52417414	R22B8V10I5ULEL	0312867298	169597212	The Avram Davidson Treasury: A Tribute Collection	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Quirky, lovely, some of the best short fantasy ever	Avram Davidson died in 1993. He was, as so often said, one of the great originals. His writing was elegant and complex: always adapted to the voices of his narrators and characters, always at some level humorous even when telling a dark story. He was one of those writers whose stories were always enjoyable just for wallowing in the prose: for its sprung rhythms and fine, out of the way, images. And his stories were enjoyable for wallowing in the atmosphere: for its evocation of exotic place-times, whether it be late '50s New York City or early '70s Belize or turn of the century Scythia-Pannonia-Transbalkania or far future Barnum's Planet, and for its evocation of exotic world-views, and the packing and repacking of wondrous, seemingly inconsequential (though rarely truly so) tidbits of history and unhistory into the backgrounds. And his best stories took these characteristics and harnessed them in the service of well-honed themes or (sometimes) clever plots.<br />This collection is organized as a retrospective, with the selections placed in order of first appearance. This is, I think, an excellent choice for any collection of this magnitude in that it allows the interested reader to try to track evolutions in the writer's style and thematic concerns over time. (I would suggest, perhaps, that the older Davidson was more prone to explorations of esoterica than the younger, and less often openly angry. Throughout his career he was ready with the comic touch, even in the midst of a darker context. His style was always special, but perhaps grew more involved as he grew older.)<br />Another feature of this collection is the introductions, by many of Davidson's friends: mostly fellow authors and editors, but also his bibliographer, Henry Wessels, and his son. This represent a significant chunk of &quot;value added&quot;: they include some personal reminiscences, some analyses of the work, some elegiac passages. I'll add that the book is nicely and elegantly put together, and that editors Robert Silverberg and Grania Davis (as well as Tor in-house editor Teresa Nielsen Hayden) deserve thanks and applause for working to bring us this book.<br />But, of course, there is no Avram Davidson Treasury without the stories Avram Davidson wrote, of which 38 are assembled here. And the stories are the only real reason to buy and exult in this book. I'm a big Davidson fan, make no mistake: I come to this review not at all objective, and having reading all but a few of the stories already, many of them several times. At least one, &quot;The Sources of the Nile&quot;, is firmly on my personal list of the best SF stories of all time. <br />There is not space to discuss the delightful stories herein contained. Suffice it to say that this collection is big enough, and varied enough, to whet the appetite of any reader whose ear can be tuned to catch the strains of Davidson's voice. And even this large collection inevitably leaves out many fine stories (the other Eszterhazy and Limekiller stories, &quot;The Lord of Central Park&quot;, many more), to say nothing of his engaging collection of essays, Adventures in Unhistory, in which he discusses at length many obscure legends, and their possible bases in fact. So buy it and read it, and very likely you will find yourself searching out the out of print and small press books which house the rest of his work (for now), and very likely too you will be hoping with the rest of us Davidson lovers for a few more treasures to be dug from his papers.	2000-12-14
US	52417414	R365X0UWRSH2Y	0312868014	981105427	Marrow	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Clever SF Ideas, Really Big Dumb Objects, Solid, not Great	The versatile and prolific Robert Reed is back with Marrow, a big novel about what is sometimes called a BDO, or Big Dumb Object.  The BDO in this case is a huge spaceship, the size of Jupiter.  Humans happen across it, and find it empty of life.  They claim it, and turn it into a sort of tourist attraction: almost a cruise ship for cruising the Galaxy.  Many separate species are hosted on the Ship, the passengers sometimes using the Ship to travel from star system to star system, but other times staying on for centuries or millennia, even joining the Ship's crew.  The crew itself consists of a diverse variety of modified humans, including the Remoras, who live on the outside and repair the Ship's shell, and who have adapted to a lifetime spent in spacesuits; as well as the Captains, essentially immortal (like most humans), able to survive any injury that doesn't vaporize the head.  The Master Captain has been with the Ship from its discovery, some 100,000 years.  In all this time, nothing significant has been learned about the mysterious Builders of the Ship, or about the Ship's original purpose.<br />But a great new discovery has been made: there is a strange, iron, world at the very core of the Ship.  This world is named Marrow, and a picked crew of the Ship's best Captains, including the Master's right-hand woman, Miocene, and a very talented Captain called Washen, are assigned to find a way to reach Marrow, and to explore it.  With great difficulty, they manufacture a path down to the surface of Marrow, only to find it destroyed soon after they reach the surface.  Thus begins a 5000 year effort to find a way back to the ship: and even that is only part of the action, as the plot takes numerous twists and turns, and several ideas are advance to explain Marrow and the Ship: all culminating in an action-filled conclusion.<br />The &quot;Neat Idea&quot; content of this book is impressive indeed.  The Ship itself is a cool notion, and so is Marrow.  Such inventionsas the Remoras are also very fine, as are several of the alien species on the Ship.  The plot drags a bit in the center portion, the long period spent on Marrow, but it is resolved pretty well, and with lots of excitement.  There is a certain way in which things are almost too big, almost exhausting, and almost easy, in a way.  This is a particular problem when considering the characters, Miocene and Washen and the others, who live for millennia but seem much like contemporary people.  The magical tech which allows them to survive almost anything seems overconvenient at times, as well.  But that's pretty much what you get when trying to consider such huge concepts: the characters are dwarfed, and so too are our usual standards for action and danger.  For the most part, Reed delivers on the promises of this book: he promises Big Cool Ideas, and Action, and a satisfying resolution with at least something of an explanation for it all, and by and large, that's what Marrow has.  It isn't fully successful, or fully involving on the character level, but it's pretty good.	2000-12-11
US	52417414	RJAX80PNDPEXG	0312855451	376319675	The Last Hot Time	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Excellent Urban Fantasy	I liked this book a great deal.  It's a &quot;Borderlands&quot;-type book: that is, the Elves have returned to Earth. In this case, one locus of the boundary between Earth and Elfland is Chicago.  Danny Holman, a young paramedic from Iowa, comes to Chicago and (somewhat luckily) gets adopted as the medical person for a relatively &quot;good&quot; gang in the &quot;Levee&quot;, the boundary area where magic works somewhat.  Doc, as he is dubbed, falls in love, but must deal with a dark personal secret, while also learning about power and his need for control, in various facets of his life, and how that ties in with the way his new boss feels about control and power of the Levee.  The plot concerns a smallish &quot;gangland war&quot;, against a bad gang led by a bad elf.  The plot is a minor part of the joys of the book.  But Doc's personal story is very well done, and the backstory about the relationship of Elfland to our world is lightly sketched but fascinating, and the writing is just wonderful.  The general description of the Levee as analogous to a romanticized version of Prohibition-era Chicago works beautifully.  The elves are very well described: and their names are striking indeed.  Furthermore their characters are believable: not human, not at all, but not better or worse: just different.  <br />A very fine book.	2000-12-09
US	52417414	R4RKORYVIEACG	0151005672	306753329	The Telling	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Minor Le Guin, well-written but thin and a bit preachy	_The Telling_, by Ursula K. Le Guin, is another return to her Hainish universe.  This universe features a loose interstellar political structure called The Ekumen, linking any number of divergent but essentially human planets and cultures.  Obviously she finds the structure of this universe, with its many planets seeded with basically human stock, but with widely varying social structures, very fertile ground for thought experiments and stories.  In this case, her protagonist is a native of Earth, named Sutty, during whose youth Earth was under the grip of a book-burning theocracy.  With the help of the Ekumen, that dictatorship was vanquished, and now Sutty is herself an Observer for the Ekumen.  She is one of four members of the Ekumen on the planet Aka, which is (oh so ironically! oh so obviously!) under the grip of a book-burning technocracy.  (See, the theocracy on Earth banned books because they taught people science, while the technocracy on Aka banned books because they taught superstitious legends.)  After considerable effort, Sutty is allowed to travel upriver to a small town in the mountains, where she begins to encounter hints that some people are secretly keeping the old secrets alive.  These secrets are transmitted by stories, and they are collectively called The Telling.  While a harsh young official of the government seems to be following her, she manages to arrange for a journey into the actual mountains, where there might even be a surviving library.  And there she learns much more about the history of Aka, about The Telling, and even about the motives of the bitter government man who has been tracking her.<br />Le Guin can really write, and this book is beautifully written.  Just for that reason it is worth reading, and it is also a fairly engaging story with a good moral, and mostly well-drawn characters.  Unfortunately, the moral is not only good, but rather obvious, and it is reinforced by cartoonish depiction of the Bad Guys.  This isn't Le Guin at her most preachy, but it is more preachy than is good for fiction.  In addition, the story itself seems a bit thin, the ending too abrupt, the whole scheme too straightforward.  I enjoyed _The Telling_, but it's a long way from Le Guin's best work.	2000-11-30
US	52417414	R2OCLJS9UUKDOV	0312873158	503435947	In Green's Jungles: The Second Volume of 'The Book of the Short Sun'	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mesmerizing and beautifully written	This latest novel is the middle book in a trilogy called The Book of the Short Sun.  The Book of the Short Sun is (we are told) narrated by Horn, who was born on the generation ship called the Long Sun Whorl, and who was a teenaged boy during the events of Wolfe's earlier tetralogy, The Book of the Long Sun.  At the time of this new series, he has lived on the planet Blue for something over 20 years.  He has a wife and three sons, and he is a papermaker.  Blue is one of two twin planets, the other called Green, to which the generation ship brought many colonists from Earth.  The first of the trilogy, On Blue's Waters, told the story of his quest for the city of Pajarocu, which had a still-functional lander (a &quot;shuttle&quot; capable of interplanetary flight), in which he hoped to return to the Long Sun Whorl and find his beloved teacher, Patera Silk, the hero of The Book of the Long Sun, who he hopes will restore order to the decaying society of his colony city, New Viron.  At the end of that book, Horn and his estranged son Sinew were on the lander, ready to take off.<br />As the title of the new book hints, the lander did not make it to the Long Sun Whorl, but rather was diverted to Green.  Green is the home of the blood-drinking, shape-changing, inhumi, creatures who seem to take on the characteristics of their prey.  (Some inhumi have infested Blue, including a young male who Horn &quot;adopts&quot; in the first book, but they are more numerous on Green, and they seem to keep human slaves.)  Both books are narrated after Horn returned to Blue from Green, however.  And the Horn who returned seems oddly different.  He has all Horn's memories, but some others as well, and he has changed physically.  This was clear in On Blue's Waters, but is made much clearer in In Green's Jungles, and there are many hints as to what or who Horn might now be, though no answers are given.  The story in both books is told on parallel tracks: one revealing ongoing &quot;present time&quot; events on Blue after Horn's return, and another consisting of a book that Horn is writing as we are reading it, more or less.  Especially in the latest book, the narrative is thus intricately structured, and Wolfe uses this structure to considerable effect.<br />Horn has left the town of Gaon, where he was acting as Rajan, the ruler, during the first book, and he has come to a town called Blanko.  His appearance, and his companion, the talking bird Oreb, cause people to regard him as a strego, or magician.  He is taken in by the leading farmer of this city, who is trying to prepare for an invasion by a neighbouring city.  Horn befriends this family, and eventually helps prepare their defence.  At the same time he is continuing to write his account, which includes some stories of his terrible time on Green, where he is imprisoned by the inhumi, but with the apparent help of the previous natives of Blue, the Vanished People, he manages to escape only to lose both his real son, Sinew, and his adopted son, the inhumu Krait, and eventually, it seems, his life.  But he is not dead.  This story is intertwined with tales told by his host, Inclito, his host's mother, who recalls life in the Long Sun Whorl, and by Inclito's teenage daughter Mora and her friend Fava.  All these strands weave together in a complex way, answering some questions but suggesting many more about the relationship between humans, inhumi, and the mysterious Vanished People, who may still be present in some form.  Horn has developed a mysterious power of &quot;dream travel&quot;, which takes the characters to Green on occasion, and even to the &quot;Red Sun Whorl&quot;, which a reader of Wolfe's great earlier series will recognize as Urth at the time of The Book of the New Sun.<br />The story is mesmerizing.  It is beautifully written in the comparatively simple style Wolfe adopted for The Book of the Long Sun.  The mysteries are fascinating and seem significant.  But it's hard to make a finaljudgment, because this is only the middle volume of the story.  Nonetheless, I can say that I am eagerly awaiting the final volume.  This trilogy has a chance to be magnificent.  Wolfe's regular readers will not be disappointed by the story so far, and as for those who have yet to discover Wolfe, do yourself a favor and give his work a try.	2000-11-27
US	52417414	R2WSJ1YQOKIF96	0375706127	406966318	Caprice and Rondo (The House of Niccolo, 7)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The Niccolo Series begins to draw to a conclusion	The seventh of Dorothy Dunnett's eight book House of Niccolo series is Caprice and Rondo. The Niccolo books have never engaged me quite as thoroughly as her earlier series The Lymond Chronicles did.  Those are among my very favorite historical novels ever.  The Niccolo novels are good, but I have tended to find them a bit harder to follow.  However, in the particular case of Caprice and Rondo, I was able to follow the action quite readily.  Perhaps as the series comes to a conclusion the answers to the many mysteries are becoming clear. <br />This book opens with Nicholas in Poland.  He's been kicked out of his company and exiled from Scotland and the Netherlands as a result of his actions in the last book.  (This is another reason the Niccolo books are a bit harder to like: Nicholas does some pretty clearly bad stuff.  Whenever Lymond seemed to be up to something bad, it turned out he was being misunderstood.)  In Poland he spends a winter womanizing and drinking with the pirate Pauel Benecke, who wants him to join in a pirate mission the following summer.  But Anselm Adorne, the upright burgomaster from Bruges who misunderstands Nicholas pretty comprehensively, and who stands in a role vaguely similar to Lymond's brother Richard Crawford in the Lymond books: a good man who tends to regard the hero as an enemy because he doesn't understand him, shows up on a mission to try to recover damages from an earlier piracy committed by Benecke.  Also, Adorne and the Patriarch of Antioch, Ludovico da Bologna, intend to head to Tabriz to negotiate with the Persian Uzum Hasan for support against the Turks.  (So far, every character I have mentioned except Nicholas is an actual historical character.  Dunnett does this extravagantly, on occasion, I think, using characters mentioned very briefly in historical records, which allows her to claim a character is historical but treat said person just like a fictional character.)  And Nicholas' long-time friend Julius and his wife Annaalso intend to go East, to Caffa in the Crimea, to negotiate new trade agreements for their part of Nicholas' former Bank. Inevitably, Nicholas is drawn into accompanying Anna and the Patriarch to Caffa and Tabriz, and he's also drawn into (or does he do it on purpose???) shooting Julius so he can't come, and frustrating Adorne's plans so he has to go home, mad at Nicholas again.  Follows then plenty of action and danger and sexual tension, (this last as Nicholas, frustrated by 8 years of separation from his wife Gelis, must resist his attraction to Julius' beautiful wife), as things go horribly bad in Caffa, and Nicholas ends up trekking to Moscow, and a meeting with the mysterious Greek with a Wooden Leg, Acciajouli, who was involved in the very first of Nicholas' escapades from Book 1.  <br />In parallel, we follow Gelis and Katelijne back in Scotland and Bruges, as the evil David de Salmeton hoves into view again, ready perhaps to revenge himself on Nicholas by attacking those close to him.  At the same time Gelis begins to work to resolve her conflicted feeling about Nicholas.  Of course, eventually Nicholas is lured back to the west, to confront difficult revelations about his family, and about his relationship with Gelis, and with others, and to try to rebuff various threats to his family and friends.<br />Much is resolved: perhaps almost too much.  Some of the eventual revelations are a bit lurid, and perhaps a bit too reminiscent of some &quot;revelations&quot; in the Lymond books.  Nonetheless, the book is fascinating reading, absorbing, colourful, complex.  Another fine chapter in an excellent series of historical novels.	2000-11-16
US	52417414	R30D4Q9RZN4S96	0312874065	218899544	Probability Moon (The Probability Trilogy)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting, some good ideas, not quite successful	Nancy Kress' new novel is _Probability Moon_.  It's set in the same milieu as her award winning story &quot;The Flowers of Aulit Prison&quot;: a planet, called World, with humanoid inhabitants.  These people differ from Earth humans in one very important way: they experience something called &quot;shared reality&quot;.  If their fellows do not perceive the truth of something the same as they do, they feel intense physical pain, &quot;headpain&quot;.  This results in great cultural homogeneity, and a certain apparently lessening of ingenuity, but also in apparently greater empathy, and in a lack of war.  However, those who fail to show this empathy are called unreal.  If they are children, they are put to death.  If they have already been proven &quot;real&quot; and attain adulthood, then commit an &quot;unreal&quot; act, they might get a chance to atone over a period of time, and be declared real again, but while they are unreal, they are generally shunned.<br />A quasi-military expedition has been sent to World to investigate a strange artifact, the Moon of the title.  As cover, a group of 4 anthropologists, plus, rather unbelievably, two very young twin children, has been sent to the planet, and will be living among the people of World, investigating them, while the people of World try to reach a &quot;shared reality&quot; consensus as to the reality of humans.  The lead native character is Enli Pek Brimmidin, who is unreal as a result of a crime she shared with her beloved brother.  As part of her atonement, she is given a job as a spy on the Earth people.  There are four Earth scientists, of whom the leader, Dr. Bazargan, an aging Iranian, and the youngest, David Allen, who is clinically insane, are viewpoint characters.  In addition, an old space Colonel, Syree Johnson, is the POV character for the artifact investigation scenes in orbit.  So the narrative proceeds in parallel, as Enli learns what Earth people are like, while the Earth scientists learn more about the nature of shared reality, before being forced to flee to the forbidden, radioactive, mountains; and while in space, as some of the artifact's secrets are discovered, a ship of the malevolent alien Fallers appears, prompting a desperate race to escape.<br />The action is pretty involving, and there are some neat concepts, both big, like the nature of &quot;shared reality&quot; and of the alien artifact, and small, like the Earth people taking a mix of brain-affecting drugs everyday to maintain &quot;balance&quot;.  Some mysteries are solved, and fairly satisfactorily, but others, too many, I thought, remain open.  As there will be a sequel, that's no surprise, I guess.  Still, I felt a bit cheated or let down in the context of this book.  The aliens are well-depicted but there are a few holes in their culture.  More damningly, the humans are less believable, particularly David Allen, who is very unpleasant and, as I said, insane.  The plot is weakened because it is to some extent driven by the actions of an insane person.  I had a hard time believing a couple of the setup conditions: Allen's presence, for one, and that of the twins (without parents!) for two.  (Reasons are given for both situations, but not sufficient, I thought.)  It's in the end, I think, interesting but unsuccessful.  I am interested in the sequel, though.	2000-11-15
US	52417414	RMMPMOK8J7A2M	031286857X	546958481	Bios	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Tense, thought-provoking, planetary adventure	Robert Charles Wilson's Darwinia had well-deserved success last year including a nomination for the Hugo Award (and getting my vote, as it happens). His slim new novel is Bios. Wilson has shown a good deal of range over his career, and to see a novel like Bios following on the heels of Darwinia is evidence of that range. Darwinia was (nominally) set on Earth in the early part of this century, and married description of a radically altered, sort of alternate-Prehistoric, Europe with some wild speculation on the very far future. By contrast, Bios is much more traditionally science-fictional: set a few centuries in the future as a small group of researchers attempt to explore a deadly alien planet. To be sure Wilson has surprises in store for the reader and the eventual explanation for the novel's mysteries is pretty much as strange as with Darwinia, if probably less likely to annoy some readers. <br />Bios opens as the body of Zoe Fisher is prepped for transmission to the distant solar system containing the planet Isis, and as brief hints are dropped about the intriguing background to the story. In this future, Earth, devastated by plagues, is under the draconian control of several &quot;Families.&quot; The Family control extends to reproductive rights, and indeed their most trusted servants are castrated to remove that distraction. The rest of the Solar System is independent of Earth, consisting of a Mars colony and an individualistic set of Kuiper Belt colonies. The two factions are collaborating somewhat uneasily on the research effort at Isis. <br />The story proper begins as Zoe arrives at Isis Orbital Station. Her arrival coincides with the first of a series of on-planet catastrophes. It seems that the native organisms are getting better and better at breaching the various security barriers humans have placed about their different research stations. As even a single breath of Isis' air will kill a human horribly in hours, this is very disturbing. Zoe Fisher's new equipment, both external and internal, is intended to be a step in increasing human ability to explore Isis, but is she too late? And what is her real purpose? Station manager Kenyon Degrandpre fears she is a tool foisted on him by the rival faction that developed her. Scientist Tam Hayes fears he is falling for her, and doesn't know if he can bear to put her at risk. And Zoe wonders why her emotions and memories are so different now, and why she is no longer sure of her own purpose and loyalty. <br />This is a short book, not much over 60,000 words, which is a nice contrast to many of today's novels. In this brief space, Wilson stays focussed on the arc of the disaster facing the research station. The hints of the background culture are fascinating, but I think Wilson chooses well to leave the hints as just hints. His real purpose is to tell an exciting story of a desperate battle against an unremittingly harsh environment, and then to advance a somewhat mystical explanation for the conditions on Isis and on Earth. The story is a good read, and the ending, purposely left a bit open, is thought-provoking. It falls a bit short, however, in emotional impact. We don't have the time to really get to know the main characters, and as such, the resolution doesn't grip quite as strongly as it might have. The novel's theme, also, while thought-provoking, is just a bit too lightly sketched. I wasn't quite convinced. Nonetheless, I enjoyed Bios. It's not as good as Darwinia, but from my point of view, that's hardly a major fault. Wilson is one of our most exciting and versatile writers, and if this is middle-range for him, it's still very good.	2000-11-14
US	52417414	R3SG4RKXATNRF9	044180697X	922341911	This immortal	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good read, fully of Zelaznyesque brio	This Immortal is a good read, with plenty of Zelaznyesque brio.  I wouldn't say it's not as good as his other Hugo winning novel, Lord of Light: indeed, by comparison, it seems a bit slight.  For instance, I found the ending a distinct anti-climax.  It's still a book you ought to read, mind you.  It did win a Hugo, in a tie with Frank Herbert's Dune.  <br />The storyline concerns Conrad Nomikos, one of about 4 million people still living on Earth centuries in the future, after a Nuclear war, and after the bulk of the population has gone to the stars to work for the advanced, civilized, Vegans.  Conrad and some of his friends had years before been involved in the &quot;Returnist&quot; movement, urging people to return to Earth, and resisting the Vegans' moves to buy up the best Earth real estate.  Nowadays, the situation is a stalemate, with Earth's exile population preferring not to return, but with the Vegans' not buying any more of Earth either.  But Cort Mishtigo, a high status Vegan, has come to Earth to tour some of the ancient sites.  Conrad, who seems to have some mysterious past identities that go back a long way, is recruited to guide Mishtigo, and to protect him from assassins.  He is in danger because the more radical Returnists believe that his &quot;tour&quot; is a pretext for evaluating more real estate, in advance of a renewed Vegan buying campaign.  Conrad is unsure of Cort's motives, and anyway unhappy with the idea of murder. The novel consists, then, of Cort's tour, and a number of well-done battles between Conrad and a variety of monsters and mutants.  The fight scenes, and the descriptions of the mutants (based on Greek mythology), are really good.  It's only the eventual revelation of the Vegan motives that's a bit pat and anti-climatic.<br />Lest I be seen to damn with faint praise, I should reiterate that this is great fun to read, and very skilled and clever.  Conrad is a fairly standard Zelazny hero, wisecracking and self-deprecating.  Thedialog crackles throughout, and the other characters are nicely limned.  Conrad's dilemma is believable: the conflict between his professional desire to protect his client (along with his personal distaste for murder)  and his loyalties to Earth and the Returnists against the Vegan domination of Earth is well handled.  And the various set-pieces and fight scenes are exciting and original.  And the ultimate message of the book, about proper stewardship of our planet, and who deserves to be stewards, is clearly seen, and resolved with irony and honesty.	2000-11-03
US	52417414	RA0W0R92CCY1A	0345336550	574038835	The End of Eternity	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Thought provoking look at the value of Change in human life	I've long been of the slightly heterodox (though far from rare) opinion that The End of Eternity is Isaac Asimov's best novel.  It benefits partly from being unconnected to his various series (though there are hints, both within this book and in some of the later books, that there could be a tenuous connection).  In addition, Asimov is interested in a significant, and resonant, theme, in a way the central theme of 1950s SF: the human desire for exploration, and the concomitant link between risk-taking and expansion of the human spirit.  This still works now, nearly at the turn of the millennium, though inevitably the theme needs to be viewed with a touch of irony.  Finally, the story is cleverly constructed, and really quite well-written in spots, within the constraints of Asimov's goals and style.  There are weaknesses, to be sure.  The central love story is awkwardly handled, and the treatment of women in general is creaky, while the characterization of heroine Noys Lambent in particular is uneven.  And as with almost any time travel story, the clever structure of the plot tends to wobble on close examination: but that is a fault endemic to the form, and, I think, excusable here.  I was a bit concerned about rereading this book now, not having read it in 20 years, though I read it multiple times as a teen.  Would it hold up?  With the one caveat that I couldn't quite buy his portrayal of women and romance (which I think I did pretty much accept as a callow teen), I think the book holds up fine.<br />The End of Eternity concerns Andrew Harlan, a Technician for the organization called Eternity.  As a Technician, Harlan is an expert at determining and executing the Minimum Necessary Change in a timeline to attain a desired Change in history.  For the Eternals, men who live &quot;outside Time&quot;, monitor human history from the 27th Century to about the 70,000th Century, trying to maintain a stable society, with reasonable prosperity.  Harlan, we soon learn, is ready to betray Eternity, for the love of a woman.  But as his plot advances, he learns more and more about the true nature of his organization.<br />Asimov resolves his story cleverly, in the process giving us a look at the creation of Eternity, and at the Hidden Centuries so far in the future that the Eternals can't penetrate, or aren't allowed to penetrate.  He makes use of time paradoxes worthy of Charles Harness, but Asimov's presentation is so deadpan and rationalistic that he almost makes them believable.  And in the end he asks whether stability and general happiness is the most worthwhile goal.  His answer is the expected answer for a Campbell-nurtured writer of the 1950s, but it's still the answer I'd give, with modifications.<br />I'd say that upon recently rereading The End of Eternity I'd still call it Asimov's best novel.  If his picture of an all-male Eternity (admittedly given at least nominal justification in the book) seems risible from a contemporary perspective, so does much 1950s SF fail in treatment of women.  So too his love scenes are awkward : but 1950s SF writers were rarely allowed much practice in that area.  The ideas presented in the book are still compelling: the meta-society of Eternity is nicely worked out, with many cute details, and the overarching theme is well-argued, and still merits thought.  And Asimov's prose, so often denigrated, is here, as ever, well-wielded in service of his goals.  It's not beautiful, but it's well constructed, and the occasional telling line (as a character's soft sentence about a spaceport wiped out in a Change: &quot;It had been very beautiful&quot;) really works.  This is the kind of book that made me an SF fan, and it's still worth reading.	2000-11-03
US	52417414	R2L57VIE03SO4I	0441006868	666787553	Galveston: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Magical, absorbing, honest	_Galveston_ is set in the same world as two of Sean Stewart's earlier novels, _Resurrection Man_ and _The Night Watch_, though all three books are set at different times, and feature different characters, and are basically completely independent books.  It's an alternate history of sorts: sometime around World War II, fantasy started to leak into our world, at first slowly, such that at moments of great emotional stress, &quot;minotaurs&quot;, dangerous magical creatures would be created.  Then, in 2004, some years before the action of _Galveston_, came the Flood, where the world was apparently inundated with magic.  In the island city of Galveston, a semblance of order has been maintained, mainly by the agency of two women: Jane Gardner, the secular leader of the city, and Odessa Gibbons, the Recluse, who polices the border between the magical part of Galveston, and the ordinary city.  Anyone who shows traces of succumbing to magical influence is sent by Odessa to the magical part, where it is always Carnival, always 2004, always a party; and where over time people undergo strange alterations: some become part shrimp (the Prawn Men), or part cat, or heron, etc.<br />_Galveston_ is mainly the story of two people, Jane's daughter Sloane Gardner; and Josh Cane, who was sweet on Sloane when he was a boy.  But Josh's father lost their house in a poker game, and Josh's mother kicked him out and ended up becoming an apothecary in the poorest part of Galveston.  Josh learned from his mother the bitter art of trying to make medicines in a mostly post-technological world, taking over the business when she died of diabetes after her insulin stock ran out.  Josh is forever bitter at his exile from the high society of Galveston, at his mother's death and father's abandonment, and at the way most of his new neighbourhood is slow to accept him. <br />Josh and Sloane are about 23 when the main action occurs.  Sloane is watching her mother die, fearing the time when she will be expected to take over running the town, a job for which she feels inadequate.  A desperate trip to the magical part of Galveston leads to a disastrous bargain with Momus, the god who rules that part of town, a bargain intended to save her mother, but which of course goes wrong. <br />From there the action intensifies.  Odessa helps Sloane make additional trips to the magical side, this time appropriately masked, while Josh and his friend Ham end up framed for a crime that didn't even occur, and exiled to the barbaric Texas coast.  Just at this time, the disaster which has been foreshadowed throughout the book happens: a hurricane, and some deaths, which finally loose the tide of magic onto the long protected city of Galveston.  Sloane is forced to learn more about herself, and to try to find a way to lead the newly changed city, while Josh is forced to even more bitter self-confrontation.<br />This is really an absorbing book, a wonderful read.  The magical elements are very well described, as is the decaying &quot;real world&quot; landscape of post-Flood Galveston.  The characters are bitterly and honestly portrayed, and despite manifold weaknesses, they are very sympathetic.  My only disappointment was that the book doesn't really end so much as stop.  I think this is a result of Stewart's refusal to &quot;lie&quot;: he doesn't want any easy solutions, either easy happy endings, or easy tragedies.  The book's theme could be described as &quot;life isn't fair&quot;, or perhaps &quot;it doesn't get any better than this&quot;.  To some extent, this means reader expectations are frustrated: I sense because of a feeling that to satisfy conventional expectations would be cheating.  At any rate, I felt the ending of the book read a bit flat, though the theme is driven home excellently, and the characters are treated honestly and their changes are real.  In sum, a very good book.	2000-10-26
US	52417414	R1CIB07ZF7SBA	0385495315	440237161	The Code Book: The Evolution of Secrecy from Mary, Queen of Scots to Quantum Cryptography	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Sound, Entertaining, and Informative Introduction	The fine popular science writer Simon Singh (author of _Fermat's  Enigma_, about the proving of Fermat's Last &quot;Theorem&quot;) has just put out _The Code Book_, a quick survey of the basics of cryptography from a historical perspective.<br />Singh's book is an enjoyable and well-done overview of the basics of cryptography.  He begins with a story about how Mary Queen of Scots was doomed because her crypto was bad, and continues up to the present day.  He describes the 16th Century French Vigenere cipher, World War I cryptography, including the Zimmerman telegram, and lots of detail about Enigma.  There is a fascinating side branch into the related issue of deciphering ancient languages.  He does a good job describing the Rosetta Stone and the work in deciphering that, and a good job discussing Linear B.  The concluding chapters discuss computer based cryptography, particularly the Data Encryption Standard, Public-key Cryptography, the RSA algorithm, and Pretty Good Privacy.  I was a bit disappointed in the final chapter, on Quantum Cryptography, which didn't explain things as clearly as I would have liked.  Their is also a set of ciphers in the back, and a contest for readers to try to decode them.<br />Singh does a good job describing the characters involved, in the best tradition of popular science.  And though I've known a bit about this subject for some time, he still taught me lots of new stuff.  I was particularly surprised to learn that British researchers had invented both Public-key Cryptography and an equivalent to RSA several years before the more famous inventor, but that the British government had classified their work, denying the researchers credit for their discoveries.<br />This is a sound, entertaining, and informative introduction to the basics of cryptography.	2000-10-23
US	52417414	R1PHPBXSZR18Y1	0312203020	916672780	Essential Saltes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very strange, always ingriguing, fantastical mystery	Many books are hard to categorize, and many books are categorized for marketing reasons rather than any formal genre definition.  (Which is fine with me, genre definitions being so hard to come by.)  _Essential Saltes_ seems to be marketed as a mystery, and indeed it is one.  It's also arguably SF/Fantasy, though it's open to multiple readings.  But it's definitely good, and filled with outré content that ought to satisfy our desire for the strange.<br />Don Webb has published boatloads of short stories.  As a writer, he is weird, often funny, often strange, always interesting, and Texan.  As a book, _Essential Saltes_ is all of those things.  The protagonist is Matthew Reynman, a used-book dealer in Austin.  His wife was murdered 2 years prior to the action, and now her ashes have been stolen.  Matthew had promised to keep them and arrange for his and her ashes to be mixed and shot off in fireworks after his death. This really annoys him, and, much worse, his wife's murderer has been released from prison in a bureaucratic snafu.  Matthew tries to find the thief of his wife's remains, and at the same time avoid being killed by his wife's murderer.  The story involves many very odd characters, and a mix of subjects that in its eclecticness reminds me of Robertson Davies (though it's not a very Davies-like book): fireworks, sex, race, alchemy, used books, codes and code-breaking, mental illness, polyamory, and more.  There are also some tantalizing hints of a story involving Matthew's brother John, which is the subject of Webb's first novel, _The Double_, also recommended.<br />_Essential Saltes_ is continually interesting just for the strange characters, the odd subject matter, and the well-described sex.  The plot is full of action, but at times a bit discursive, and almost too strange for me.  That is, the motivations of the very strange individuals involved were perhaps a bit too odd to always hold my interest.  But the rest of the book was strong enough to keepme going, and I enjoyed it quite a bit.  Definitely worth reading.	2000-10-23
US	52417414	R2L6I3L69DNU7W	037540340X	682555219	The Road to Mars: A Post-Modem Novel	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Tired and Flat	Here we have Eric Idle's second adult novel, _The Road to Mars_.  Idle, of course, is a member of the great British comedy group Monty Python's Flying Circus, and a reasonably successful comedian, actor and author on his own since the Python days.<br />In this novel Idle seems mainly interested in discussing the nature of comedy.  This is a pretty decent theme for a novel, if perhaps hard to get at.  Idle chooses to have his story narrated by a 25th Century academic named Bill Reynolds.  Reynolds has found a thesis submitted by a robot, called _De Rerum Comoedia_, which he apparently finds brilliant.  The robot, named Carlton, was working for a two man comedy team, Muscroft and Ashby (very much in the mode of Laurel and Hardy etc.), and trying to understand comedy, something no notoriously literal-minded AI had ever been able to do.  This book is Reynolds' narration of a trip Carlton took with Muscroft and Ashby, from Saturn on &quot;the Road to Mars&quot;, a tour through the Asteroid Belt to Mars, interspersed with both Reynolds and Carlton theorizing about comedy, and Reynolds trying to publish Carlton's thesis and worrying about his unfaithful girlfriend.<br />All this is promising material.  The conceit of having a robot try to understand comedy is a sound way of using an SFnal premise to attack a mainstream theme.  And I have no quarrel with Idle's decision to tack on a fairly routine thriller plot, involving terrorists upset about plans to send ice from the Asteroid Belt to help further terraform Mars.  However, promising as this all may be, it doesn't really work.<br />The novel fails on several grounds.  The least important is as SF: Idle has committed a number of scientific howlers.  None is terribly important, though, so I think they could all have been forgiven.  Another forgivable failure is the concentration on 20th Century comics (inevitably including Idle himself) in Carlton and Reynolds' discussions of comedy.  More important is the rudimentary and not very involving thriller plot.  None of it really makes a whole lot of sense, it's never very exciting, and the resolution is very flat.  (The main characters, Muscroft and Ashby and Carlton, are a bit better: we do care about them.)  The most important failures, though, are these: 1) the book tries to be funny, and it really isn't very funny.  Oh, there are bits and pieces that made me laugh, but there's a whole lot of boring schtick.  And 2), the attempts at explaining comedy, or making us believe that Carlton understands it (and could get a Nobel Prize for his thesis!) are roundly unconvincing. <br />In sum, I found _The Road to Mars_ tired and flat, not successful either as SF, as comedy, or simply as a novel.	2000-10-23
US	52417414	R2GCJ504NKW2NB	0679410465	778351106	The Master and Margarita (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sharp and funny satire, and very moving tragedy	This is a brilliant novel, very funny, yet tragic, very moving, and very observant.<br />_The Master and Margarita_ is set in Moscow, apparently in the '20s or '30s.  One day a couple of literati are talking when they meet a strange man.  Before long the man is laughing at there confident assertion that the Jesus and the Devil don't exist, and telling a story about Pontius Pilate and his encounter with Jesus, or Yeshua, and also predicting the death of one of the two men.  When the death occurs, the other man goes mad.  The strange man, who is, of course, the devil, and his associates, including most memorably a talking, gun-toting, very large, black cat, are spreading havoc throughout Moscow.  Most spectacular is a catastrophic magic show.  Those Muscovites who encounter the devilish group are mostly humiliated, sometimes killed or driven mad.  One notable, perhaps ambiguous, exception, is the case of the Master, who has written a novel about Pontius Pilate which has been excoriated by the figures in power in the Moscow literary world, and his lover Margarita.  Margarita encounters the devil, and goes through hell itself in an attempt to free the Master.<br />The novel is an odd combination of very sharp and funny satire, striking descriptive passages, and some very moving events.  It also has the power of staying in your head after you read it.  And I found the several long passages about Pilate and Yeshua and Matthias the Levite very affecting as well.  An excellent book.	2000-10-23
US	52417414	R1J62FGJPNSXUS	0312872291	798059063	The King's Peace (The King's Peace, Book 1)	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Satisfying Fantasy about the Building of a Nation	The King's Peace is an absorbing book, full of action and battles and treachery, which nonetheless reads almost quietly.  This is because it is at heart about a rather philosophical subject: the creation of a nation.  In this case, a nation is seen as a people united in &quot;Peace&quot;, obeying a &quot;Law&quot;.<br />The book is fairly obviously based in some sense on the Matter of Britain: the story of King Arthur.  But it seems a mistake to make too much of this source material.  It is not intended as a strict retelling of the Arthurian tales, nor even as a fantastical retelling of a version of the real history of Arthur, or of other kings of his time.  It is a fantasy set in a world shaped much like our world, in a time corresponding pretty closely to the 7th Century after Christ, and specifically set on an island resembling Great Britain.  But while for some characters a corresponding character can be found in the Arthurian tales, not all the characters can be easily mapped to the legendary characters, nor do the available mappings fit perfectly, nor do all the incidents in the book correspond to incidents from the legends.  And the world of the book is neither our world, nor a fantasy world corresponding to traditional versions of the Arthurian tales.  This novel needs to be judged on its own virtues: the Arthurian echoes are certainly there, and perhaps they are unavoidable in a novel by a contemporary Welshwoman dealing with the subject matter of making a nation of the people of Great Britain, but they are echoes of inspirational material, not any sort of strict template.<br />The story itself is told by Sulien ap Gwien, a woman warrior, daughter of the King of a small part of the island of Tir Tanagiri.  (Her home is geographically cognate to Southern Wales, just as Tir Tanagiri is cognate to Great Britain, but never mind that.)  The story opens with her brutal rape by six invading &quot;Jarnsmen&quot;, and the murder of her brother.  She escapes to findthat her home has been raided and burned.  Traveling to Caer Tanaga, the capital, to request help from Urdo, the young High King, she stumbles upon a skirmish between some more Jarnsmen and some defenders of the land.  After proving her skill in this chance-met battle, she meets the King, and is immediately enchanted by his leadership skills and charisma.  Thus she enlists as an armiger for the King, eventually arising to command of the King's own &quot;ala&quot; (roughly speaking, a regiment of cavalry).  The rest of the story follows the ensuing couple of decades, as after many years of war the invading Jarnsmen and Isarnagans are subdued, as political unity is urged on the many different small kingdoms of Tir Tanagiri, and as a rule of law is enforced.  Throughout Sulien's story is involving: the book is always interesting to read.  It's a bit slack structurally, somewhat episodic, often skipping years in a sentence, and featuring two climaxes, indeed, structured so that the two halves tell rather different stories.  This is a minor quibble, though.  It certainly calls for a sequel (and one is planned), but the conclusion to this book is satisfying.  The main character, Sulien, as well as the King, Urdo, Urdo's wife Elenn, and a few more, are well-portrayed, though some of the large cast of minor characters do blur together somewhat.  The prose is clear, couched in a rather simple, declarative, fashion that seems appropriate for the narrative of a woman whose main interests are war and horses.  <br />Of significant interest is the subtly different world of the book.  The book is a fantasy, and gods and magic are real.  There are healing charms, and fertility spells, and apparently effective evocations of the gods.  There are several different religions, including a close analog to Christianity (with neat differences: e.g. the main symbol is a pebble, symbolic of the &quot;White God&quot; having been stoned to death instead of crucified), and also including a landworship that is tied close to the families of the local kings.  The magic system is purposely limited in scale, so that it is plausible that the overall feel of this world and its technology is similar to general conceptions of 7th Century Britain.  I found this very effective in giving the world a sense of being real, and plausible, and consistent, while also making the world definitely fantastical.<br />A very satisfying first novel.	2000-10-18
US	52417414	R16DU0KD4PA5GE	0671876775	961141407	Winning Colors	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Ripping Good Read	The third of Elizabeth Moon's Heris Serrano books is _Winning Colors_.   In this book Cecelia, restored to health, has been forced by (unbelievable, to me) legal manipulations to give her yacht to Heris.  Cecelia charters it and they head for a horsy world to look at some horse genes for Cecelia's farms.  In the meantime Heris has hired Brun, whose father wants to keep her out of trouble, and also Heris has hired an expert &quot;communications tech&quot; from her friend Livadhi's Royal Space Service crew.  Also in the meantime, Raffa's family has forced her to break up with Cecelia's niece Ronnie, because of the scandal involving Cecelia's treatment at the hands of her family, and her response: to sue them.  Ronnie, at loose ends, agrees to go to the non-Familias worlds of the Guernisi to investigate some suspicious samples of the immortality drugs.  When Ronnie (and his friend George) run into trouble, Raffa is sent after them.  Also at the same time, a spoiled young rich girl from Ronnie/Raffa/George/Brun's generation is killed by revolutionaries on Patchcock, the source of the questionable immortality drugs.  And also (pant pant) the evil mobster empire, the Benignity of the Compassionate Hand (great name!), is planning an attack on, by coincidence, the same planet to which Cecelia and Heris have gone.<br />You can probably see that this is the third book in a series, and you should probably read the first two first.  (Though I think that the book does have enough internal info to allow readers to catch up.)  It's a very action-filled, involving, novel.  There are some pretty cool space battles, some exciting action involving the young uns, and some hints of serious consideration of the potential problems of super extended life spans.  It's another great, fast, read.  I liked it.  But I must say, it also has some flaws, that cause me to rank it a bit below the second and best novel of this series, _Sporting Chance_.  Most fundamental is a certain reliance on someoutrageous coincidences.  To some extent Moon patches this by having some of the action directed from behind the scenes by a benign (not of the Benignity!) figure, but this too seems a bit pat. <br />In addition, Moon shied away from attacking the most interesting question she raised head on: that of what to do with the problem of succession when old people never die.  I'm inclined to not mind this too much though: indeed she avoids providing pat answers, just asks hard questions.  Throughout there's a hint of the author reminding herself that this whole series began as a light-hearted romp, as space opera, and thus &quot;let's not get too serious&quot;.  At the same time, serious issues are raised, and bad things happen.  The whole trilogy is fun and interesting and a ripping good read.	2000-10-09
US	52417414	R2A42GP92INYPS	0671876198	372530549	Sporting Chance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Absorbing Space Opera	The first of Elizabeth Moon's Familias Regnant novels, _Hunting Party_, was enjoyable, but the second, _Sporting Chance_, is much better.  It was, for want of a fresher word, gripping.  It compels reading, it's very exciting, the character are extremely involving, and it has some interesting ideas too.  Heris' employer Cecelia has noticed that the Crown Prince appears to have been tampered with: he's acting unusually dull.  She tells the King, which turns out to be political folly.  Cecelia ends up poisoned in a scary way: she is paralyzed, still conscious but unable to communicate or convince anyone else that she is not a vegetable.  She has left Heris her ship in her will: thus Heris becomes a prime suspect.  The story follows several threads: Heris takes a secret mission for the King, trying to find the Prince's illegal clones; while Brun and Ronnie, two younger members of the nobility who were &quot;reformed&quot; by Cecelia and Heris in _Hunting Party_, take action to get Cecelia appropriate medical treatment, and Heris' new employee Sirkin deals with a foolish lover who gets her involved in some very dangerous situations.  The action is pretty much nonstop, despite much of the story being told from the viewpoint of a paralyzed, incommunicado, individual, and the resolution is solid.  My main quibble is that the villains are too too BAD.	2000-10-09
US	52417414	R25GZ62VQFE5Y1	0671578421	683475924	Once a Hero, Limited Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	N	New direction, still fun, for the Familias Regnant stories	I'm definitely hooked by the Familias Regnant books.  _Once A Hero_ is the fourth, and it's in a way a direct sequel to the last Heris Seranno book, _Winning Colors_, though it starts off in a new direction.  It continues the story of an important minor character from _Winning Colors_, Lieutenant JG Esmay Suiza.  Esmay is a technical track officer from an out of the way planet who was thrust briefly into a command role, and became a hero, in _Winning Colors_.  _Once A Hero_ picks up immediately with the Board of Inquiry and Court Martial which follow that action.  Esmay is very insecure about her ability, and tends to try to melt into the background, hard to do when you're a hero.  She goes off to her home planet for much-deserved leave, and finds out a terrible secret about her childhood.  Then she is posted to a Deep Space Repair facility, explicitly to keep her away from combat and notoriety.  All this is quite interesting, and it becomes a story about the growth and self-discovery process of this young woman.  Very Heinleinesque, in a way.  Esmay is very well depicted, and her slow process of learning to use her real abilities is nicely done.  There's a bit of almost cliched &quot;when will she =finally= see a psychiatrist about her childhood trauma&quot; dithering, but that still works OK.<br />The thing is, that's only half the book.  The other half (pasted into the middle, more or less, of the book), is a space opera plot about the evil Bloodhorde and their scheme to steal the DSR for it's technology.  This part is pretty good standard action, with Esmay again becoming a hero and showing her command stuff, and with some very fun if kind of unbelievable action scenes.  I liked it but it seemed uneasily grafted to the even more interesting story of Esmay's personal growth.  I'd have preferred a quieter story with Esmay only slowly realizing her abilities, instead of having them thrust upon her by more desperate action.  Still, it's great fun and I'll be lookingup the next book, _Return Engagement_, real soon.	2000-10-09
US	52417414	R2CCQHMF4MW2H7	0618079947	589843032	The Means of Escape	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Elegant, odd, short stories about odd, intriguing, people	Penelope Fitzgerald died earlier in 2000.  She was one of my very favorite authors.  Starting in 1979, she wrote a series of short, funny, often bittersweet, novels about odd, intriguing, people in odd, intriguing, places.  The most famous was her last, _The Blue Flower_, about the German Romantic poet Novalis and his love affair with a very young girl.<br />This posthumous book is her only collection of stories.  They are like her novels in being about odd and intriguing people in odd and intriguing places.  The writing is as ever with Fitzgerald elegant and clear and beautiful.  The focus is just slightly off-center.  The stories are very short, and I miss the space she had even in her rather short novels for looking at her characters from all sides.  But these stories are still rewarding and worth reading.<br />The title story is about a young woman in mid-19th Century Tasmania, the organist at her church, who encounters an escaped prisoner.  The resolution is quite unexpected, and wholly true.  &quot;Beehernz&quot; tells of an eccentric old conductor living in near squalor on an isolated Scottish island, and an attempt to lure him back for one more performance.  Again, the view is off-center, intriguingly so.  &quot;At Hiruhamara&quot; is set in 18th Century New Zealand, as two young people sent out from England start to make a place for themselves.   The story is neatly told from the point of view of a descendant of the two, and as such a theme about pioneers comes through.  <br />The other stories are similarly neat.  Recommended.	2000-10-09
US	52417414	R2CH602RK28UAA	0671721763	658606890	Hunting Party	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Enjoyable light Space Opera	This is the first book of a series of novels planned to stretch to 7.  (6 have appeared as of October 2000.)  In it we are introduced to Heris Serrano, an upright Space Navy Captain who has been disciplined for her role in a certain engagement: she did the right thing, but against the orders of her foolish superiors.  Now she is trying to get a job as a civilian, and she is hired by a rich woman named Cecelia, a member of one of the ruling families of this future interplanetary society, the Familias Regnant, who ignores politics and spends her long life riding horses.<br />Thus we have several interesting elements: nobility in space, complete with riding and hunting as major recreations (fencing is added much later in the series), a military heroine, and a society undergoing potentially drastic change because of the introduction of longevity treatments.  Plus a major character who is an Aunt of nearly Wodehousian dimensions.  (One reader calls this series &quot;Aunts in Space&quot;.)<br />The tone in this first book is mostly quite light, though the plot involves serious elements.  Heris' first job for Cecelia is to take her, her lazy nephew, and his girlfriend and another couple, to a planet used for hunting.  It turns out that their is another much uglier brand of sport going on on that planet, and the four young people get involved by mistake.  Cecelia and Heris help rescue them, and at the same time expose one of Heris' incompetent former superiors running a criminal activity.  Also, the young people begin to learn that there are depths to their characters that their wasted lives have not made use of.<br />It's a good fun read, with some neat adventure.  It also serves as a nice introduction to a number of nice characters who will recur in many future books.	2000-10-09
US	52417414	R1EV2J5F5MA7O2	0553374591	231757401	Feersum Endjinn	Books	4	34	39	N	N	Feersumly gd	At the time of the action of this intriguing novel (which occurs over a couple of days, or several decades, depending on how you measure it), the Earth of the very far future is inhabited by the descendants of those who stayed when most humans traveled to the stars in the &quot;Diaspora&quot;. Earth is dominated by an aristocratic class, based in a huge castle, so large that the highest tower extends into space, and the King`s residence, a large &quot;palace&quot;, is contained within a chandelier of the greater castle. Ordinary humans are allowed 8 normal lifespans (copies apparently made of their brains` contents at the time of death), after which they are allowed 8 additional &quot;lives&quot; in a sort of virtual reality maintained in the global computer net, after which their personality becomes a component of the AI complex which &quot;is&quot; the net (or &quot;crypt&quot; as Banks cleverly calls it.) At the time of the action, Earth is threatened both by the Encroachment, a dust cloud which will swallow the Sun in a few centuries, and by a virus which is infecting the Crypt. Possible solutions to these problems were left by the humans of the Diaspora, but the means of access to these solutions has been forgotten.<br />The story is told in four threads, following four main characters: a mysterious, nameless woman, who is soon revealed as a messenger from the Crypt; the King`s Chief Scientist, Hortis Gadfium, who is part of a conspiracy which has been trying to discover the hidden solution to the problem of the Encroachment; an aristocrat and loyal general of the King`s, Alandre Sessine, who is on the point of discovering that the King and his advisors are obstructing progress towards solving the problem of the Encroachment, apparently because such progress is a threat to the status quo, and who is assassinated multiple times, both in real life and post-death virtual reality, for his pains; and finally, Bascule, a young, innocent &quot;teller&quot;, that is, one who communicates with the Crypt as part of his job, who is also &quot;recruited&quot; by the Crypt to help find the solution to the encroachment problem.<br />These four threads are soon seen to be quests which will converge on each other. Much time is spent exploring both the physical and virtual reality of this far future Earth. The resolution is logical and satisfying, and the last line of the book is marvelous.<br />The strength of this book is the colorful presentation of a truly strange future world. I also found the &quot;Virtual Reality&quot; of the Crypt internally convincing, in a way I often don`t (i.e. I could never really believe in William Gibson`s visions of Cyberspace.) That isn`t to say that Banks has provided rock solid scientific rationales for the elements of this future world: far from it, but he makes us happily suspend disbelief in a lot of unlikely things, partly simply by setting the story so far in the future. In addition, Banks is an excellent and audacious writer. The Bascule sections of the novel are told in a compressed prose, abbreviating words phonetically (like feersum endjinn for fearsome engine), also using numbers and symbols. This is initially difficult to follow, but I picked up on it pretty quickly, and I thought it was vital to providing Bascule an individual voice (one quite reminiscent of Holden Caulfield`s voice, I thought).<br />In summary, I loved this book. It is &quot;over the top&quot;, but in a good way, and Banks makes it all work.	2000-09-20
US	52417414	R3B76IZFTZ3N35	037570115X	696817594	Heavy Water and Other Stories	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Clever stuff, if sometimes too clever	Heavy Water is Martin Amis' second collection of short stories.  He's really better at novel length, but the stories included here a still enjoyable reading.  As we expect from Amis, the prose is very stylish, very clever, very self-aware.  A story like &quot;Let Me Count the Times&quot; isn't very &quot;deep&quot; at all, but it's neat just to see Amis ring all the changes he can on his main subject.  Even a nominally more serious story such as &quot;Straight Fiction&quot;, about a world in which gays dominate and heterosexuals are oppressed, is mostly interesting for the careful inversion of the language.<br />I was most impressed by &quot;The Coincidence of the Arts&quot;, in which an aristocratic English painter takes up a mysterious affair with a silent black woman, a beautiful Amazon.  Amidst the jokes and the cleverness Amis builds to a subtle and telling moral about race and class.<br />This isn't a collection of great stories, or a great collection of stories, but it's consistently fun and involving, and every so often it's even better.	2000-09-20
US	52417414	R2QQCYX0FWV2HB	0812551613	891882719	Earth Made of Glass (Giraut)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Painful tale of marriage, planet set to explode	In Earth Made of Glass, a sequel to A Million Open Doors, Giraut and Margaret are sent to the hostile planet Briand, where two artificial human cultures have been forced to live together.  One is based on Tamil literature, the other on Mayan culture.  The two peoples hate each other bitterly.<br />Giraut and Margaret's team try to work with some of the &quot;good people&quot; with the on-planet culture, people who are trying to work for peace.  But at the same time serious stresses are showing in Giraut and Margaret's marriage.  The two crises come to a head at much the same time.<br />The novel is full of neat inventions, and the cultures are intriguingly portrayed.  I also felt that the depiction of a decaying marriage was very well done, and very believable.  I found the depiction of the cultural difficulties a bit less believable: dependent on people established as good acting quite evilly.  Perhaps I am simply too much of an optimist, but I was not convinced.<br />Interesting, ambitious, but not quite successful.	2000-09-20
US	52417414	R21BW0UG2CBB2D	0812571916	716118361	Outward Bound	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Pleasant but minor YA novel	Outward Bound is one of Tor's Jupiter series of young adult science  fiction novels.  These are trumpeted as an attempt to recreate some of the  spirit of Robert Heinlein's famous &quot;juveniles&quot;.  In particular,  they have mostly been set in the solar system, and have featured fairly  realistic space exploration technology, and teen age protagonists.  In  these ways they resemble much of Heinlein's work.  But too close attention  to the model can result in a pale imitation instead of something special  and new, and I fear that Outward Bound isn't new enough; or different  enough.<br />The protagonist of the novel is Linc Marani.  Linc is 15 or so as  the book opens. He gets into a bit of criminal trouble, and gets offered an  alternative to prison: a special new program.<br />The rest of the book  details the steps of this program.  They are pretty much what you might  expect: a touch of discipline, learning about unsuspected skills (naturally  including leadership), and learning about responsibility, for his own life  and for others.  The other main characters are a typical set: the sidekick,  the girlfriend, the rival who does Linc wrong but isn't without ability,  the weaker rival who Linc turns to his side.  Linc progresses through the  program, overcoming several obstacles: his problems with the bullying  rival, resolved first by violence, subsequently by earning his respect;  learning a cherished skill and facing disappointment when he learns he  might not be good enough to do make a career of his skill; and finally a  return to his home, where he learns that his problems on Earth just aren't  important anymore.<br />Hogan is a good storyteller, and the book was  enjoyable to read.  But nowhere was I surprised: the whole thing unreeled  exactly as I expected from the onset, with perhaps one minor twist.  The  characters held my attention, but they were all from Central Casting.  The  message was a bit understated, perhaps even too much so.  While it wasa  relief to avoid the heavyhanded political screed of, say, the earlier  Jupiter novel Higher Education (by Pournelle and Sheffield), and while the  general point (that accepting responsibility for self and others is a good  thing) is a fair enough message; once again there wasn't a compelling  enough theme to really demand attention.  When Heinlein got on his soapbox,  as in Starship Troopers, he could be annoying.  He could invite argument  and disagreement, or full-throated praise, depending on your viewpoint or  mood.  But he definitely held your interest.  Hogan here doesn't really  hold the interest with his theme, or his plot; and the characters and  storytelling voice are interesting enough to make the book an OK read, but  not to make it memorable.	2000-09-08
US	52417414	R2ZUMRS1IA81IT	0886778301	67019210	My Favorite Science Fiction Story	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Solid collection of SF stories	In this new anthology Martin H. Greenberg uses a gimmick that I've seen  before, but one which still has legs.  He has selected several prominent SF  writers of the present day, and asked them to choose one favorite SF story.   Their choices form this anthology. <br />Ideally, an anthology of this nature  should have two aims: one, simply to present a collection of outstanding  stories, to participated, if you will, in the process of SF canon-forming.   Secondarily, the anthology might throw light on the influences on the  selecting writers.  It might suggest what stories appeal to writers, as  possibly opposed to readers (something in the way that the Nebula Awards  do), and it might illustrate the development process of the field.  It  doesn't really appear that Greenberg had any special intent to reinforce  this secondary aim, however.  For one thing, the authors chosen to select  stories are not a particularly homogeneous group, either in age or in being  members of any identifiable &quot;school&quot; or &quot;movement&quot;.  In  addition, the stories chosen seem for the most part to be chosen as  favorite reads, not so much as influences.  This is not really a complaint,  just an observation: what we are left with, thus, is mostly an anthology of  the first type, a canon-building anthology.<br />I've been reading SF for  quite some time now, and I've always liked short fiction, so the bulk of  these stories are familiar to me.  I was pleased to reread Theodore  Sturgeon's &quot;The Man Who Lost the Sea&quot; for the umpteenth time:  this story, Clarke's selection, may well have been mine if I were eligible  to choose a story for a similar anthology.  This is one of the most moving  of all SF stories, and its theme lies at the heart of SF: the desire to  keep exploring, the value of exploration for its own sake.<br />Other  prominent selections include Frederick Pohl's brilliant story of what  humans might become in the very far future, &quot;Day Million&quot;(chosen  by Haldeman); C. M. Kornbluth's mordant SF Hall of Fame tale, &quot;The  Little Black Bag&quot; (Pohl's choice), about a present day doctor  discovering medical tools from the future, and the bitter misuse to which  they are put; and Howard Waldrop's Nebula-winning tale of the fate of the  last dodos, &quot;The Ugly Chickens&quot;, (chosen by Turtledove).  Also  from the SF Hall of Fame are Lester del Rey's &quot;Nerves&quot;, &quot;A  Martian Odyssey&quot; by Stanley Weinbaum, and &quot;The Ballad of Lost  C'Mell&quot; by Cordwainer Smith.  Each of these stories is famous, thus  familiar.  But at the same time each is famous for good reason, and I was  happy to reread them.  Certainly there is no harm in reprinting them  again.<br />The other selections are by and large fine stories as well.  I was  happy to see a couple of choice I wasn't familiar with, and which were  pretty good: Ward Moore's &quot;Lot&quot; and Gordon Dickson's &quot;Black  Charlie&quot;. I felt that the second Kornbluth story (&quot;The Only Thing  We Learn&quot;, chosen by David Drake) was a bit obvious, and nowhere near  the quality of his best work, and the pieces by Eric Frank Russell  (&quot;Diabologic&quot;) and Robert Sheckley (&quot;Untouched by Human  Hands&quot;) were also somewhat slight, to my taste.  Again, both writers  have certainly produced stories that belong in anthologies like this.  And  Norman Kagan's &quot;The Mathenauts&quot; (Greg Bear's choice), while full  of fascinating ideas, doesn't really work as a story.  But four merely  minor stories out of a collection like this is no great weakness,   especially as I'm sure the next reader will feel differently than I do.   And any collection that includes the stories I've mentioned, as well as  &quot;Common Time&quot; by James Blish, Keith Laumer's early Bolo story  &quot;The Last Command&quot;, Barry Malzberg's metafictional &quot;A Galaxy  Called Rome&quot;, and Roger Zelazny's moving &quot;The Engine at  Heartspring's Center&quot;, is well worth your seven dollars.	2000-09-07
US	52417414	R3GHI0HX653ZRR	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	SF/Private Eye book with intriguing themes	Jonathan Lethem has made something of a splash with his novels, including  his latest Motherless Brooklyn.  His short fiction has shown outstanding  range, and a quirky imagination.  Going back to his first novel, Gun, with  Occasional Music, we already see demonstrated both these qualities.  The  novel concerns Conrad Metcalf, a down-at-heels Private Inquisitor in  mid-21sty century Oakland.  He is drawn into investigating the murder of an  affluent doctor with gangster ties, and becomes involved with shady cops,  gangland figures, and beautiful women with questionable pasts.  Thus, at  the surface, this is a straight-forward pastiche of the standard  hard-boiled detective novel, transposed into the next century.  At this  level, the novel works fine: the mystery is sufficiently absorbing and has  enough twists to carry the plot, and Lethem has the first-person narrative  down very well, with the &quot;typical&quot; hard-boiled attitude.  <br />However, this is more than a standard SF take on Chandler.  The SF  elements themselves, though not terribly plausible, are interesting and  thought-provoking, and well-integrated with the structure and themes of the  novel.  These include universal drug use for (fairly precise) control of  emotional states, wildly extrapolated privacy laws, babyheads (children  with vastly accelerated mental growth but normal physical growth), and  intelligent, self-aware animals (the result of &quot;evolution  therapy&quot;). Some of these tropes are use to generate jokes, but for the  most part they support and reinforce the central story and the themes in  which Lethem is interested. Ultimately, this is a serious, funny-sad novel,  and at the heart of it are big questions about memory and the nature of  personality.  (These questions, and other elements of the novel such as the  drug use, are very reminiscent of the work of Philip K. Dick.)  Lethem  handles the mixture of moods excellently, and the resolution to his story  is perfect andsatisfying.  This is a very exciting first novel from one of  the most promising new SF writers of the past few years.	2000-09-07
US	52417414	RRLWPXVFJQDTH	0312864728	139261403	Night Lamp	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Good book for Vance fans, but not his best	Night Lamp will be satisfying to Vance fans: it is Science Fiction in  Vance's most familiar style, elegantly written, full of ironic bits, often  downright funny, portraying at least three complex social structures based  on intricate manners. It also shares the weaknesses of much of Vance's  work: it is discursive, the Science content is notional at best (for  instance, his spaceships seem basically to be automobiles that can fly in  space and travel at many multiples of the speed of light without  relativistic effects), and it seemed short one rewrite. <br />The story is  that of Jaro Fath, a young boy who is found, on the remote planet of  Camberwell, by Hilyer and Anthea Fath, while in the process of being beaten  nearly to death by local thugs. The Faths rescue Jaro, and in the process  of restoring him to health it is necessary that his memory of the first six  years of his life be erased. Hilyer and Anthea take Jaro back to their home  world of Gallingale, where they are somewhat unconventional (by Gallingale  standards) university professors, and they raise Jaro as their son. <br />Jaro  grows up intelligent and strong, but his life is complicated by several  factors. He hears voices in his head which seem to be associated with his  early life. His ambition to become a spaceman and seek out the mysteries of  the lost six years of his life is thwarted as much as possible by the  Faths, who fear that he will come to grief tracing his apparently violent  history. And he inherits from the Faths disdain for the social system of  Gallingale, which is based on the concept of &quot;striving&quot; up social  &quot;ledges&quot;, trying to reach clubs of higher and higher status. This  disdain leads to conflict with his fellow students, and naturally seems to  increase his interest in a classmate (Skirlet Hutsenreiter, a wonderful  name!) who is hereditarily a Clam Muffin: that is, a member of one of the  highest ranked clubs. <br />As Jaro comes to maturity, he slowly learns more  and more about his past, and of course is eventually free to track down the  mystery of his birth and how he came to be alone on Camberwell. However, as  I said, the plot is discursive, and the resolutions seem too often to be  the result of coincidence. Often great difficulties melt out of Jaro's way.  Furthermore, the climaxes of the book (there are a few) seem muffled: and  the final climax is not that of the original plot problem but of one  introduced only a few tens of pages prior to the end. That said, the book  is interesting to read throughout, and Jaro's story is romantic and is  resolved more or less satisfactorily.<br />The prose style is a true joy:  Vance is his inimitable self. His writing has a reputation for ornateness,  but it seems to me that his sentences are in fact simple, well constructed,  and often relatively short. The ornateness comes from the wonderful names  (of characters, of stars and planets, of the clubs on Gallingale), and from  the elegance and formality of the writing, including the dialect. Vance's  work has usually, it seems to me, had an ironic edge: this book has full  measure of irony, and is also often much more forthrightly funny than many  of his novels.	2000-09-06
US	52417414	R2KTTLBZWI3R5A	0312864744	356296858	Ports of Call	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Amusing but frustratingly incomplete	Ports of Call is Jack Vance's latest novel.  It follows Myron Tany, who is  taken by his eccentric Aunt on a space trip searching for a &quot;fountain  of youth&quot;, but is marooned by his Aunt when he objects to her falling  victim to an apparent fortune-hunter.  Myron joins the crew of a sort of  tramp freighter, and they visit various typically Vancean worlds.  There is  next to no plot, and what plot there is is thoroughly unresolved.  (I'm  sure there is supposed to be a sequel.) Vance is usually discursive, but  this takes the cake.  Still, the novel is always amusing, and the little  societies Vance depicts are as interesting as ever.  Worth the time, but  not Vance's best work.	2000-09-06
US	52417414	R1YI4PGLIYTA6Z	006105481X	885062637	Permutation City	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended look at brain sims and artificial life	Greg Egan is one of the most inventive and exciting current SF writers.  His SF is distinctly &quot;hard&quot;, rife with &quot;cutting edge&quot;  speculations, and also generally &quot;through-composed&quot;, in that he  tries to set his stories in fully-furnished futures (complete with  brand-names and with Bruce Sterlingish throwaway ideas), and also in that  he tries to examine the full consequences of his ideas, and not just the  first consequence, or the most convenient one.<br />Permutation City is very  heavily a novel about certain computer science related ideas. The main two  ideas, closely linked, are completely virtual environments, in which a  simulation (or &quot;Copy&quot;) of a human brain can be run (including the  memories of the living template for the copy, full sensorium simulation,  and interaction with other copies and the &quot;real world&quot;); and  Artificial Life, arising from sets of rules operating within a computer  program.<br />The interest in the novel, and the aspects of this novel which  make it, IMO, Egan's best, and one of the better SF novels of the past few  years, is the constant exploring of the consequences of the central ideas:  thus we have the copies controlling their mental states so accurately that  they can take up hobbies by conscious decision, be literally perfectly  content with the hobbies for years, then switch; and we have the detailed  description of Artificial Life within the Autoverse, including a neat life  form which communicates in ways analogous to the operation of a computer  program; and, most importantly, each of the main characters is exploring  (or revealing to us) different ideas about the nature of personal identity:  where does identity lie when you are a &quot;simulation&quot; of a real  life person? when you can control your moods and interests at the processor  level, as it were? when you are rerunning your &quot;program&quot; in an  infinite loop? when your program is halted? when the physical components of  your &quot;processor&quot; are separated in both time and space? when your  entire universe is a computer program running in another universe?<br />All in  all, a highly recommended novel. For one reason or another, Egan's novels  seem to get less notice in the US than I think they deserve: partly,  perhaps, because they are published first in the UK, and don't get over  here until some time later. Hopefully this is beginning to change.	2000-09-06
US	52417414	RGSRNZE5845N8	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	5	287	298	N	N	A great novel, beautifully written and very moving	I approached The Leopard with high expectations which were thoroughly  satisfied. The novel, apparently based on the life of di Lampedusa's  great-grandfather, is the story of a proud, sensual, Sicilian aristocrat at  the time of Italy's Risorgimento (1860 or thereabouts), and his reaction to  the changes he sees in his society: mainly the inevitable, indeed  necessary, but still in some ways regrettable displacement of the  aristocracy from their traditional position. The title character is a  wonderful creation, and the lesser characters about him (his wife and  children, his favorite nephew, the Jesuit priest Father Pirrone, and so  on), are also very elegantly depicted. The Sicilian countryside, and  telling details of social life at that time period, are also fascinating  elements of the book. And finally, the prose is wonderful, and this  translation seems very good, save for just a couple mild moments of  clunkiness.<br />The Leopard is the story of Don Fabrizio, Prince of Salina,  at the time of the main action a man in his forties, with several children.  He is a sort of benevolent tyrant in his household, a man of a very old  family, accustomed to knowing his place and to having those about him know  their places. The Prince is also a man of great sensual appetites, careless  with his money (though not wasteful or dissolute), politically  knowledgeable but completely apolitical in action, and also an amateur  astronomer of some note.<br />When the story opens, the Risorgimento is  ongoing, but it is clear that it will be ultimately successful, and that  the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies will be absorbed into the newly unified,  somewhat more democratic, Italy. Don Fabrizio, out of loyalty, is nominally  supportive of the old regime, but he realistically stays out of the  conflict. His favorite nephew, Tancredi, the penniless but charismatic son  of his sister, is an ardent supporter of Garibaldi (leader of the  revolution).<br />Several long chapters, separated by months, follow the  progress of the Risorgimento at a distance, and more closely follow events  which impinge directly on Don Fabrizio's life, yet which reflect the coming  societal changes. These include the plebiscite to confirm popular support  for the unification of Italy, his nephew Tancredi's love affair and  eventual marriage to the daughter of a wealthy but decidedly lower class  neighbor, his daughter's reaction to the attentions of a friend of  Tancredi's, and Father Pirrone's visit to his home village. Finally, the  action jumps forward some decades to the Prince's death, in a very moving  and beautiful chapter, then still further forward to the household of his  unmarried daughters in their old age.<br />The events of the story tellingly  illustrate both the changing face of society and also the nature of  Sicilian society in general. At another level, the Prince's aging and  death, and his knowledge of his own mortality, echo the senescence of his  class. Loving descriptions of the Prince's homes, of his meals, of balls,  of hunting, of peasant life, of politics both at the Prince's level and at  the level of the peasants, of the attitude of churchmen towards their flock  (especially Father Pirrone's toleration but not approval of his friend's  sensual escapades) are laced throughout the novel. Moreover, the Prince  himself is a truly compelling, charismatic character, full of faults but an  admirable man nonetheless. Also, the narrator's voice is often with us,  ironically, often even cynically, commenting on the expectations of the  characters and both their failings and the failings of &quot;real  life&quot; to meet their expectations, but, though sad, the voice is never  bitter.	2000-09-05
US	52417414	ROPBS216H57ZD	0380797992	743052486	Halfway Human	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Provocative exploration of slavery and gender issues	Halfway Human is pretty darn good.   It's set in a rather well worked out  variation of a common idea: sometime long in the past (story past, our  future), Earth humans have colonized and terraformed many alien planets.   After a period in which the planets fell out of contact, a subset of them  have rediscovered each other, and have apparently formed a very loose  confederation, including Capella Two, the planet (or actually a moon) on  which the nominal viewpoint character, Valerie Endrada, lives.  Travel is  by matter transmitters, and is (logically) light speed.  (The fairly  rigorous insistence on light speed travel and the corresponding  simultaneity problems is a good decision, and is used well in the story.)   The tech behind all this is very much backgrounded (quite appropriately).   At the time of the action, none of the unmanned probes which are trying to  rediscover the colony planets have reported back in some time, except for  the one at Gammadis (Gamma Disciplins), which is 51 ly away from Capella  Two, and which harbors an odd variety of humans.  The original mission to  Gammadis ended 63 years previously in disgrace, with the ambassadors thrown  off the planet (and arriving back on Cappella 12 years prior to the main  action).<br />That's the setup, but what about the good part, the reason to  read this novel?  Well, the strange thing about Gammadis humans is that  they are born neuter.  At puberty, about 1/3 (very roughly, and the  ambiguity about the actual numbers is a point of the novel) stay neuter,  and the others turn half into males and half into females. There is no way  to tell whether a given child will be male, female, or neuter.  The kicker  is that the neuters, also called blands, are condemned to life in  &quot;grayspace&quot;, literally underneath and &quot;behind&quot; the  &quot;human&quot; world, and they live lives of slavery, performing the  menial tasks of their society, leaving the &quot;humans&quot; free for the  more intellectual and artistic pursuits.  This is regarded on Gammadis as  natural: neuters are supposed to be stupider, and less energetic, and  literally to have no souls.  The whole setup is monstrous, and at the same  time quite clearly analogous in many ways to slavery in the US, and in many  other cultures.  In fact, though the novel seems to be promoted as a novel  about gender roles, it really isn't.  Certainly Gilman makes some such  points, and it's not without value for its exploration of gender, but the  central issue is definitely slavery and not gender.  And it seems to me  that many opportunities for a more probing (no pun intended, God help me)  exploration of gender issues are missed: but I should emphasize that that's  not a weakness, just a different focus than one might have expected.<br />The  book works because of the believable but horrifying society revealed on  Gammadis, with its uncomfortable parallels with our history and even to an  extent our present.  There are many disturbing scenes, and many moving  scenes. The portrayal of the bland society, and the secret behind the  Gammadian characteristics, is very well done, and at times has a &quot;Ones  who Walk Away From Omelas&quot; sort of message to it: they have created a  near-Utopia, at one level, and they try so hard to ignore the  &quot;screaming child in the back room&quot;: except it's not one child but  1/3 of their population.  Much of the characteristics of the Gammadian  society are very nicely shown, instead of told, and some important details  are very subtly planted in the background.  Details which seem trivial take  on powerful new meaning later in the novel, after we understand the society  better.<br />I had a few reservations with this book plotwise, but all in all  it's a first-rate read, and very provocative.  In many ways, this is a pure  SF novel, in that its value derives mostly from the ideas it explores,  rather than a particularly exciting plot (though the story moves nicely),  or any outstanding &quot;literary&quot; values (though it's certainly  well-written, and decently characterized.)	2000-09-05
US	52417414	R2CLR1MT8D05FK	0446676454	72634172	The Extremes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intriguing novel about Virtual Reality and violence	Christopher Priest is one of the best SF writers around, and he seems much  less well-known in the US than perhaps he should be. He made quite an early  splash with books like Fugue for a Darkening Island and The Inverted World,  and with short stories like the remarkable &quot;An Infinite Summer.&quot;  His later books (such as The Affirmation, The Glamour, and most recently  The Prestige) have been typically on the boundary between SF and the  mainstream, which perhaps accounts for the diminished notice he has  received within the American SF field.  His newest novel, The Extremes,  published in 1998 in the UK and just now coming out in the US, is also on  that boundary, and it's another good one. <br />Teresa Simons is an FBI agent  married to another agent. When her husband is killed in Kingwood City,  Texas, trying to capture a serial killer, Teresa, recovering, ends up  travelling to England where she was born. She visits a seaside town named  Bulverton where another serial killer went on a rampage the same day  Teresa's husband was killed.<br />In Bulverton, Amy Colwyn and Nick Surtees  are trying to make a go of Nick's parents' hotel/pub, which Nick inherited  when his parents were murdered by the killer who also killed Amy's husband.  However, neither knows much about running a hotel, nor is it what they  really want from life, and their dissatisfaction is affecting their  rekindled relationship.<br />So, Teresa comes to Nick and Amy's hotel.  She  tries interviewing the locals, trying to come to an understanding of their  reactions to the serial killings in their town, but she doesn't make much  headway.  She ends up spending her time in a Virtual Reality simulation  called Extreme Experience, something she also used in her FBI training, but  in this case reviewing VR tapes of the Bulvertion murders.<br />So far, this  is a fairly straightforward near-mainstream novel. It's apparently set  right about present time, and Priest has inserted the unlikely virtual  reality technology as if it exists now. The scenes in ExEx are well done,  believable and scary, and comment on our fascination with violence -- and  to some extent on our complicity with it -- subtly, without lecturing. The  writing is excellent, and the characters are fairly well drawn, although  Teresa did a couple of things that I didn't quite buy.<br />Ah, but this is  Christopher Priest. Anyone who has read a lot of Priest, especially, say,  his very fine early novel A Dream of Wessex (aka The Perfect Lover), won't  be terribly shocked at the direction The Extremes takes towards the end.  Priest seems fascinated with reality and how our consciousness creates our  reality, and as such could hardly be expected to resist the temptation  presented by a subject such as extremely realistic VR simulations. His  speculations here jump off the extrapolation track a bit, in my opinion,  but they are fascinating, and the ending of this novel takes on a certain  logic of its own. It's moving and interesting, and well constructed. I had  a little trouble, as I've hinted, quite believing in it, but it works on  its own terms.   That said, I was left feeling a bit like I'd read two  books: one about what a cover blurb calls &quot;the pornography of  violence&quot; and how people react and adapt to it; and another about  consensus reality, and how VR might expand or alter that reality. Both  subjects are interesting, and I still found this an absorbing novel, one of  the best of 1998.	2000-09-05
US	52417414	R2YAIU3FJFN91P	0061057568	541790331	A King of Infinite Space	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Disappointing	Allen Steele has built a reputation in the past decade or so as one of the  better new &quot;Hard SF&quot; writers.  The bulk of his work has been set  in a common future history, emphasizing the colonization of the solar  system out to the asteroids, mainly, over the next century or so.  The  &quot;gritty&quot; details of much of his work, the settings, and also the  casual, slangy, language Steele uses to tell his stories, have reminded  many readers of Robert Heinlein.  Steele has won a Hugo Award for his  novella &quot;The Death of Captain Future&quot; (which turns out to have a  slight link with the novel at hand), part of this future history.  A King  of Infinite Space is the first novel I've read in that future history,  though I've read several stories.<br />This novel tells of Alec Tucker, a  spoiled rich kid from St. Louis who dies and wakes up decades in the  future, as a slave on a space station.  He has to learn to deal with his  own personal issues (i. e. that he's a spoiled brat, and does some bad  things), and he has to try to find his girlfriend, who is apparently on  another space station, and he has try to figure out what's up with the  mysterious crime figure Pasquale Chicago, who seems to be his  &quot;owner&quot;.  All these plot elements are resolved in a fairly  rousing and adventurous fashion.  However, I had a major problem with the  ending, which largely ruined the book for me. In essence, I think the  ending is a cheat, in that it renders the main action of the story  basically insignificant. In addition, the plot, which up to that time was  reasonably believable, given the usual string of brushes with danger which  always work out, becomes utterly implausible. It is as if Steele has  constructed a tower of toy blocks, which totteringly support each other,  and which we can just believe will stay erect. Then he asks us to believe  that a whacking great big marble statue can be balanced on top of it (if I  may be permitted a flight of metaphorical fancy).<br />A King of Infinite  Space is at the first level an acceptable, breezy, read.  But in the final  analysis three elements disappointed me.  The first, and most important,  was the implausible nature of the final structure of the plot.  The second  was that the characters are not terribly likable.  The narrator is  portrayed, quite realistically, as a spoiled brat for most of the novel.   This makes sense, and is well enough depicted, but it does make it harder  to sympathize with him.  The rest of the characters are seen at a greater  distance, and they are all either quite minor, or jerks of one variety or  another as well.  Finally, Steele has chosen to tell the story in a  combination of present and past tense.  This is a device that you might be  able to pull off, if there was a good enough reason.  But Steele goes so  far as to switch tenses in the same sentence, and that's too much for me.   And at any rate I couldn't detect a consistent reason for the tense  switches.<br />I've enjoyed plenty of Allen Steele's shorter work.  I must say  that both novels I've read have been disappointments, though.  He does have  a nice imagination, and a way with an adventure plot that makes his stuff  fun to read.  I won't write him off, by any means, but I can't give A King  of Infinite Space any more than a lukewarm &quot;passes the time&quot; sort  of recommendation.	2000-09-05
US	52417414	R2ZV2KF4NAZ9VZ	0679736093	859677839	Before She Met Me	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Funny but not believable	Julian Barnes' second novel, from 1982, is _Before She Met Me_.  It's about a 40ish academic, who falls in love with a slightly younger woman,  and leaves his shrewish wife to marry the younger woman, an ex-actress.   For most of the book it's very much in Kingsley Amis territory, right down  to the fart jokes (pretty good ones, for fart jokes) and the scathing  depiction of the awful first wife.  Then it moves into Martin Amis  territory.  The conceit is that the hero sees one of his new wife's movies,  and becomes jealous of the actor with whom she is portrayed (in the movie)  as having an affair.  All this is from long before they met (hence the  title).  This whole thing really unhinges the guy, and things go from bad  to worse, as he starts to obsess about every affair his wife might have  ever had, and he watches her old movies (she was always a minor actress,  too) over and over again.  It's very funny and readable, but wholly  unbelievable.  The guy's reactions are just not plausible, and Barnes  doesn't make them plausible.  All this creates a certain distance, which  works against us caring about the ending.  I'd still say go ahead and read  it because page by page it's good fun, but it doesn't work.	2000-08-30
US	52417414	RULQ0G5VBXMOR	0449224392	396819537	Traitors Gate	Books	2	18	19	N	N	Middling entry in long-running series	This is a fairly late installment in Anne Perry`s long series of mystery novels set in late Victorian England (1890, in the present case.) These  novels feature Charlotte and Thomas Pitt, he a policeman (just promoted to  Superindent), and she an upper-class woman who married shockingly beneath  herself, but who maintains a limited entree to society, useful in helping  Thomas with cases involving crimes among the upper class.<br />Traitor`s Gate  features Thomas much more prominently than Charlotte. Thomas` surrogate  father, Sir Arthur Desmond, the owner of the estate for which Thomas`  actual father was the gamekeeper, has died in his club in London. The death  is ruled accidental, or suicide, but his son Matthew, Thomas` close boyhood  friend, is convinced it must have been murder, and asks Thomas to  investigate.<br />Thomas is unable to officially investigate Desmond`s death,  but rather fortuitously he is asked to investigate a case of missing  information at the Colonial Office, to do with Africa and with British  support for Cecil Rhodes. As it turns out, Arthur Desmond, formerly  employed in the Foreign Office, had just prior to his death been making  &quot;wild&quot; accusations of abuse of power in the government support of  Rhodes. Naturally, Desmond`s death and the missing information are linked,  and, more importantly, both are linked to the mysterious organization  Thomas has run afoul of in previous books, The Inner Circle.<br />As Pitt`s  investigations continue, his own life and Matthew`s are threatened, another  murder is committed, and finally Pitt`s discoveries trigger a chain  reaction of suicides and murders, ending somewhat in medias res with Pitt  apparently ready to openly take on the Inner Circle.<br />The story is  entertaining, and the solutions to the crimes are reasonably clever and  interesting. However I don`t rank this as highly as the best books in the  series for a few reasons. The Inner Circle has become non-credible to me,  in its villainy, and its apparent size and power, not to say the  incompetence of such a powerful organization in dealing with such a minor  figure as Pitt. Pitt`s solutions to the crimes take on the all-too-familiar  form of confronting the criminal with the (often rather sparse) evidence of  his wrongdoing, upon which he either confesses or commits suicide. The  device of having Pitt assigned to investigate a case of espionage is rather  unconvincing. Also, the key crime of the book (the second murder) is not  only difficult to credit as far as motive is concerned, but is committed in  a foolish manner which seems calculated to ultimately draw attention to the  murderer (indeed Thomas is misled rather more than I think he should  be).<br />Finally, a key element of the enjoyment of this series is the  ongoing stories of the advancing social life of the continuing characters.  The books generally feature a love story or two, and this is no exception,  but I didn`t find the love stories very involving. And as I said,  Charlotte`s role in this book is minor, which is understandable for this  book, but something of a drawback nonetheless.	2000-08-29
US	52417414	R1QEPZQ0A38ZXJ	0449000869	135165942	Ashworth Hall (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	2	8	12	N	N	The Pitts and the Irish Problem-one of Perry's lesser books	_Ashworth Hall_ is another of Anne Perry's long-running series of mysteries featuring Charlotte and Thomas Pitt.  In this one, Perry deals  with the &quot;Irish Problem&quot;.  The novel deals with a conference  between two leading Catholics and two leading Protestants, in England at  the title Hall, Charlotte's sister Emily's country home.  A death threat  aimed at the English diplomat heading the conference leads the government  to send Pitt to the weekend meeting, incognito, with the excuse that Emily  has simply invited her sister.  Pitt fails utterly, as the diplomat is  murdered, and in the course of the investigation, another man is also  murdered.  Pitt, Charlotte, and their longtime servant Gracie unravel the  strings of the various murders, uncovering long-festering strands of the  Irish Problem (especially as Gracie has a brief romance with an Irish  Catholic), as well as typically sordid family details.  This all plays out  with the famous Parnell/O'Shea divorce case in the background, which case  in fact lead to Parnell's discrediting as a serious factor, and thus  possibly put off any &quot;solution&quot; to the &quot;problem&quot; for at  least decades, if not, dare I say, sadly, for much longer still<br />I found  this pretty unsatisfying.  Much was very predictable.  Perry's habit of  telling, at endless length, what is motivating her characters, and what her  characters are feeling, rather than showing, is really getting on my  nerves.  Also her constant repetition of the same themes of rich men  committing callous adultery, their wives taking it more or less stoically,  until something precipitates violence, realistic as it may be, is getting  very stale.  I guessed two of the villains pretty much right off: granted  that Perry did pull one additional twist which surprised me.  But all in  all, this is one of the weakest of Perry's Charlotte and Thomas Pitt books.   (Note that many of the earlier books are very enjoyable.)	2000-08-29
US	52417414	RJNK0YJ39UI8L	0380976307	90171401	Far Horizons:: All New Tales From The Greatest Worlds Of Science Fiction	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Only a couple winners here	Robert Silverberg returns with a new anthology, similar in form to 1998's  well-received Legends. While the previous book featured eleven stories by  well-known fantasy writers, working in their famous &quot;worlds&quot;,  this volume features eleven stories by well-known science fiction writers,  again working in their famous &quot;worlds&quot;.<br />I have some mild  misgivings about the concept behind these books, really just a personal  thing. I tend to think that we do well to encourage writers to branch out  in new directions, to invent new universes. A book like this guarantees  that the writers will be rehashing somewhat familiar territory. I also like  to see anthologies feature a mix of established talent and new writers:  partly because I'm interested in seeing what new voices have to say, and  partly because I think it helps new writers to have venues in which to  publish their work which will be promoted, as it were, by the presence of  big names alongside them. But I emphasize that these are quibbles, and that  despite all that a book like this is an attractive package, and that most  of the series involved have plenty of room for interest further  explorations.<br />That said, I was mildly disappointed by the final results.  Most of the stories are pretty good, but not a one of them quite bowled me  over, though the Simmons and Le Guin pieces came close. Dan Simmons' entry,  &quot;Orphans of the Helix&quot;, is set in the universe of his Hyperion  Cantos.  Some centuries following the events of that series, a  &quot;spinship&quot; carrying frozen colonists looking for a new world to  settle detects a distress signal.  A few of them are wakened, and they deal  with a desperate problem involving an ancient colony of &quot;Ousters&quot;  (space adapted humans) and some unusual aliens.  The plot is not the  interesting part of this story: Simmons is having fun with a passel of big,  &quot;Space Opera&quot;, ideas.  Simmons' reputation is as a somewhat  &quot;literary&quot; writer, and I think this obscures his impressive Sfnal  imagination at times.  This story considers Ringworld-sized forests, some  very odd humans indeed, some interesting political speculation, aliens  living inside a sun, a really big, really scary spaceship, and several more  sense-of-wonder inducing ideas.  Le Guin's story, on the other hand, is  much quieter in tone.  It's another story set on Werel, the setting of her  collection of linked novellas, Four Ways to Forgiveness.  &quot;Old Music  and the Slave Women&quot;, like the previous Werel stories, treats of the  revolution against the long-established slave-owning societies on Werel.   The protagonist, called Old Music, is a Hainish diplomat, that is a  representative of the interstellar organization called the Ekumen.  As war  rages, the Ekumen has been prevented from gaining information about  conditions on Werel, and Old Music jumps at a chance to speak to the  rebels.  But he is betrayed, and ends up at a compound of slaveholding  loyalists.  As the war rages back and forth across this area, he learns at  first hand a great deal about this culture.  It's a fine story, and it fits  in very well with the other stories in its series, so much so that I  wouldn't be surprised to see Le Guin reissue her collection including this  story: Five Ways to Forgiveness, anyone?<br />Many of the other stories are  enjoyable but minor: in the nature of things they tend to be sidelights to  the existing series of which they are parts.  There are two outright  stinkers, Orson Scott Card's wish-fulfillment story &quot;Investment  Counselor&quot; about how Ender meets Jane (the latter character one of my  least favorite characters ever), and Anne McCaffrey's awful &quot;The Ship  That Returned&quot;.	2000-08-28
US	52417414	R14V23F4BCL9WH	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Screwball Comedy about Time Travel and History	To Say Nothing of the Dog is one of Connie Willis' time travel stories, sharing a milieu with her award-winning novelette &quot;Fire Watch&quot;  and her award-winning novel Doomsday Book. <br />This current novel almost  seems a response to some criticisms of Doomsday Book. If the former book  was primarily a tragic story of the Plague, this book is a screwball comedy  set in the time of Jerome K. Jerome's classic (and highly recommended) late  Victorian comedy, Three Men in a Boat. (Indeed, the title of this book is  the subtitle of Jerome's.)  And, Willis seems to be saying, if this is a  screwball comedy, darn it, I can have implausible plot points, and  outrageous coincidences, and my tone can be as goofy as I want. But a funny  thing (so to speak) happened on the way to Coventry, and this novel turns  out to have a serious and moving center to it after all, albeit in the  context of a generally very funny book. What's more, Willis' point derives  nicely from her story's outrageous coincidences, almost too overtly so, as  if the book points at its faults and says &quot;I meant it that  way&quot;.<br />The protagonist and narrator, Ned Henry, a 30ish  &quot;historian&quot; in 2057, has been trying to get to Coventry Cathedral  just prior to the pivotal bombing in 1940 (which destroyed the Cathedral  but which may have indirectly turned the Battle of Britain against Hitler)  in order to rescue the Bishop's Bird Stump, a hideous item which the  historians (read time travelers) need to help convincingly furnish a  rebuilt Cathedral. Willis conveniently (for plot purposes) invents a  syndrome she calls &quot;time lag&quot;, which happens when people time  travel too often, and results in confusion, difficulty hearing, excess  emotionalism, and such like. The only cure is rest, and Henry's superior,  Mr. Dunworthy of Doomsday Book, decides the only place he can rest is in  the past (out of reach of the fearsome Lady Schrapnell).<br />Unfortunately,  Dunworthy decidesto have Ned complete one little tiny task for him in the  past, returning an anachronistic item from 1888 to it's proper time, before  resting. But Ned is so time-lagged he doesn't quite realize what it is he  needs to return, and there isn't enough time to properly brief him...<br />I  won't detail the rest of the plot, which is quite complicated, though in  the end nothing much is really accomplished (which becomes part of the  point). We are treated to a brief river journey (an hommage to the trip  which makes up the action of Jerome's novel, indeed Willis cannot resist  having her characters encounter Jerome and his friends Harris and George,  to say nothing of their dog, Montmorency, which I found a bit  over-indulgent of her), to a thematically central and also quite funny  ongoing rant by an Oxford Don on the subject of the Great Man theory of  History vs. his opponent's belief in Natural Forces, to the origination of  the jumble sale, several nice love stories, and lots more.<br />I ended up  really enjoying this book, with a few reservations.  At the surface level  there is the shall I say typical good fun of Connie Willis in her screwball  mode. Beyond this, the book engages in some Sfnal dialogue with earlier SF  such as Asimov's The End of Eternity. And, finally, it all comes together  to mean something, and I was quite moved by the final metaphors, which  touch on the importance of details to history, and on the worth of grand  indulgences like cathedrals.	2000-08-26
US	52417414	R1U4M3XE878HKK	0345416449	783841250	Sarah Canary (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Marvelous, original, great first novel	Karen Joy Fowler's first novel, Sarah Canary, is a marvel, an amazing,  original novel about aliens, of all sorts, in the 1870's American West. It  is extraordinarily assured, the best first novel I've read in a long time -  indeed, in my opinion, at least arguably the best SF first novel of the  nineties.<br />It concerns a mysterious woman (?), who cannot speak any  recognizable language, who appears in the Pacific Northwest late in the  19th Century.  A young Chinese man, Chin Ah-Kin, must try to escort her  home, wherever that is.  In their travels, they encounter a variety of  alienated people: an Indian, a suffragette, etc.  The story is thoroughly  involving, very moving, beautifully written.	2000-08-25
US	52417414	R1DATGVVJ8R5TS	0613063252	650179502	Puck of Pook's Hill and Rewards and Fairies	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Different look at English history	_Puck of Pook's Hill_ is a set of stories, somewhat linked, about the history of England, built around a frame story involving two young  children, Dan and Una, meeting Puck in a meadow near their Sussex home.   Puck somehow arranges for a series of historical people, ghosts, I suppose,  to come and tell stories of events near their home in the past 2000 years.   There are four stories told by Sir Richard Dalyngridge, one of William the  Conqueror's men, on the theme of assimilation of the Normans and Saxons  into one people: the English.  There are three Roman stories, set in 375 AD  or so, about a Centurion from the Isle of Wight who holds Hadrian's Wall  against the Picts and the Norsemen while Maximus, his general, declares  himself Emperor and takes Gaul then heads into Rome (where the real Emperor  had him killed, understandably enough).  The three other stories deal with  the rebuilding of the local church in Henry VII's time, a rebuilding  project menaced by smugglers, with the flight of the fairies from England  at the time of the Reformation, and with the role of a Jew in forcing John  to sign the Magna Carta.  (This last an uneasy mixture of anti-Semitism  with an apparent attempt to not be anti-semitic.) <br />_Rewards and Fairies_  presents eleven more stories told by Puck's agency to Dan and Una.  We meet  some familiar characters again (the church builder, and Richard  Dalynrydge), and even some major historical figures: Queen Elizabeth,  George Washington, Napoleon.  On the whole the stories aren't quite as good  as those in _Puck_, though &quot;Marklake Witches&quot; is very good, very  moving.<br />Both books include a number of poems, usually closely associated  with the themes of the stories.<br />These are generally fine stories, but for  my taste not up to the level of my favorite Kipling stories, such as  &quot;Mrs. Bathurst&quot; and &quot;'They'&quot; and &quot;The Strange Ride  of Morrowbie Jukes&quot; and &quot;The Story of Mohammed Din&quot;.  Still,  the plain craft of the stories is as ever with Kipling remarkable.	2000-08-25
US	52417414	R213CPK5UGLG7G	0345416422	174720521	The Sweetheart Season: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Ironic, knowing, thoroughly enjoyable	The Sweetheart Season concerns a small town in northern Minnesota, Magrit,  home to a grain mill and an associated cereal business. It is set in 1947.  The viewpoint character is Irini Doyle, though the story is told in the  &quot;voice&quot; of her daughter, retelling Irini's story from a present  day perspective. Irini lives with her alcoholic father (her mother is  dead), who is a research chemist at the cereal company. Irini works in the  Research Kitchen of the cereal company. The other characters are her  co-workers (all women) in the Kitchen, as well as the company founder, his  wife, and his grandson, and a few other local women. <br />The main action of  the novel revolves somewhat loosely around a promotional scheme of the  founder: the girls at the company form a baseball team, which barnstorms  through Minnesota and Wisconsin, purportedly demonstrating the nutritive  benefits of the company's cereal by their success. Several other narrative  threads are woven into the story: the writing of a continuing promotional  kitchen/life advice column by the fictional Maggie Collins, a sort of Betty  Crocker-type spokesperson for the cereal company; the antagonism between  the former residents of Upper Magrit (submerged to make the mill) and Lower  Magrit (where everyone now lives); the involvement of the mill owner's wife  with Gandhi and the Indian independence movement; the efforts of the local  women to find love and husbands in a town left nearly male-free by the war;  and a mysterious (young, male) visitor to Magrit. All of these threads are  well-integrated with the novel's theme, as I read it: essentially: the  nascent &quot;Women's Liberation&quot; movement, though that  over-simplifies: but the focus on the &quot;Kitchen&quot;, yet in the  context of women who are all working, and playing a nominally male sport,  combined with the ironic voice of the present day narrator, and the  ironic-in-this-context quotes from Maggie Collins' women's magazine advicecolumn, quite nicely merge to make simple, true, statements about the  position of women in 1947, and in our time.<br />The female characters are  very well drawn, and almost invariably engaging. A couple of the male  characters come off as ciphers, but the portraits of Irini's father, and of  old Henry Collins, the mill owner, are very good. Fowler's prose is clean  and elegant. Her narrative voice is a delight: ironic, affectionate,  knowing, often very funny. One brief quote, from one of Maggie Collins'  advice columns, meant to be read in the context of the decision to form a  baseball team: &quot;Polls have recently confirmed what has long been  suspected; most men do not want brainy women. Stewardesses have turned out  to be that occupation blessed most often with marriage. The key elements  appear to be uniforms and travel.&quot;<br />I wouldn't rank The Sweetheart  Season quite as highly as Fowler's first novel, Sarah Canary. At times the  usually wonderfully controlled ironic voice turns a little shrill. At times  she drives home a point unnecessarily: it is sufficient to show us the  evidence, or to leave an ironic statement alone for the reader to  interpret. Also, I was completely unable to believe the resolution of one  of the plot threads. However, the book as a whole is thoroughly enjoyable,  and says a lot of worthwhile things about the place of women in our  society, especially about how (and, I suppose, why) it changed in the years  during and after World War II.	2000-08-25
US	52417414	R3CHJCJTZAG18V	0312871961	254838749	Tangled Up in Blue	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Minor new Entry in Vinge's Tiamat series	Joan D. Vinge won the Hugo Award for her big 1980 novel The Snow Queen,  set far in the future on the planet Tiamat, source of the immortality serum  called the Water of Life.  Two more novels followed, World's End (1984) and  The Summer Queen (1991), and those seemed to neatly round out a trilogy.   Tiamat was a primitive planet, only valued for the Water of Life, and only  accessible to the rest of the human-colonized Hegemony planets during the  &quot;Winter&quot; period of its orbit.  The original trilogy eventually  told the story of great changes for both Tiamat and the rest of the  Hegemony.  The three novels were quite enjoyable, and all three differed  greatly in style and structure.<br />Now Vinge has chosen to return to Tiamat  for a sort of pendant to the original trilogy.  Tangled Up in Blue is set  parallel with the earlier part of The Snow Queen.  Indeed, if reading the  Tiamat books in internal chronological order, it would have to come first.   That said, I'd say it's best left to last: it isn't spoiled by reading the  other books, but there are some things revealed here that might affect the  reading of, in particular, The Summer Queen.<br />This book is about the  Hegemony police force in the Tiamat capitol city of Carbuncle.  One main  character is a young policeman name Nyx LaisTree, who is involved in some  illegal activities.  Before long the stiff Police Sergeant BZ Gundhalinu (a  major character in the original trilogy) is involved, and so is a  &quot;whore with a heart of gold&quot;: a Tiamatan named Devony Seaward.   Devony is a spy for the Snow Queen, but she finds herself falling for  LaisTree.  Soon the three of them, unsure if they can even trust each  other, are forced into an alliance against unknown enemies: possibly even  higher-ups in the Police force, but certainly underworld figures controlled  by the mysterious man called the Source.  And into the mix steps the  offworld woman Mundilfoere, who seems to want the same thing the Snow Queen  wants, and LaisTree's superiors want, and the Source wants.<br />All plays out  in a fast moving and fairly enjoyable fashion.  The story is a good enough  read, though its reliance on coincidence and such cliches as Devony and  LaisTree falling instantly in love make it a bit contrived at times.  Also,  the whole thing is somewhat uneasily shoehorned into the existing structure  of the trilogy.  This turns out to be a story about something that gains  great importance in The Summer Queen, but that importance is not clear to  anyone who reads just this book.  Which is to say, the mystery here is  something of a McGuffin chase, absent knowledge of the events of The Summer  Queen.  At the same time, this book's use of, in particular, Gundhalinu and  Mundilfoere, major characters in The Summer Queen, constrains both the  author's choices and the reader's expectations (for those who have read the  earlier/later book).  In summary, I'd rate this as enjoyable light reading,  an interesting addition to a fine series, but not an essential book.	2000-08-24
US	52417414	R26P9D4ON84YJ6	0812576438	733619430	Architects of Emortality	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Thoughtful extrapolation, okay mystery plot	_Architects of Emortality_ is set in a &quot;future history&quot; that Brian Stableford has been working on for some time.  The basic outline of  this future history is that in the next century, environmental disasters  destroy the ecosystem, and nearly destroy human life.  Women become sterile  until the development of an artificial womb.  The ecosystem is recreated by  genetic engineering, in a simpler and more efficient form.  Surviving  humans have their lifespan radically extended by nanotech, to about 200  years.  <br />This novel, an expansion of the fine novella &quot;Les Fleurs du  Mal&quot;, is set just after a new advance in genetic engineering: genetic  engineering, instead of nanotech, has made young people who may live much  longer still: they are essentially &quot;emortal&quot;.  However, those who  have not been engineered in the womb cannot be treated.  They will die at  about 200.  As the novel proper opens, one of the last people not to get  the new treatment, Charlotte Holmes, is investigating a rare murder, which  occurred in a sort of prologue.<br />A very old man, a specialist in using  nanotech to destroy old buildings, has been infected with a tailored virus,  which only works against him, and which turns his remains into a ghoulish  plant.  Holmes and her superior, Hal Watson (Holmes and Watson: get it? A  bit too cute, I thought;) work for the UN: they are soon joined by a young  member of the new emortals, who works for the MegaMall, the (not so) secret  masters of the world, and by Oscar Wilde, a master genetic engineer.  It  soon turns out that the prime suspect is another genetic engineer,  Rappaccini, and his &quot;daughter&quot; (get it?), a young woman who has  infected the victim by having sex with him.<br />The detectives are led on a  wild chase by Rappaccini, as several contemporaries of the first victim,  all also experts in one field or another, are murdered as well.  The  mystery is really &quot;What's the motive?&quot;, andthe motive is tied,  of course, to the nature of Stableford's future.  It's pretty well done,  with lots of neat extrapolative science.  The characters are somewhat flat,  especially the nominal viewpoint character, Charlotte Holmes.  The eventual  solution is a bit strained.  It's an enjoyable book, and Stableford's  future is interesting and original, but it's only mildly successful as a  novel.  Worth your time, but no classic to be.	2000-08-24
US	52417414	RSOLOCU4AJNRG	0899663567	385174541	Portrait of Jennie	Books	4	53	54	N	N	Lovely and Haunting	This lovely short novel was written in 1939, and made into a movie with Joseph Cotten and Jennifer (appropriate name!) Jones in 1948.  It's an odd,  very haunting book.  At times it is extremely beautiful and moving, though  I don't think Nathan quite manages the ending: which isn't to say I can see  a better answer.  It's about a young struggling artist who meets a  mysterious little girl playing by herself in a park.  He befriends her and  learns that her parents are high wire jugglers.  Then she disappears, but  reappears a few more times, always a few years older.  After a while the  artist realizes how strange things are (Jennie always seems to know).   Basically, she seems disconnected from time.  The artist's sketches of  Jennie give him the break he needs to make his career, but before long  Jennie is all he cares about.  The book moves quickly to the inevitable  ending.  Parts of it, as I said, are haunting: the images of the lonely  girl in the park bring tears to my eyes as I type.  And there are some very  fine lines as well.  Really a very good book.	2000-08-24
US	52417414	RN4JV8ZRHJ3GI	0380802627	568496860	Memoranda	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Striking, original, beautiful fantasy about memory	Jeffrey Ford's previous novel, The Physiognomy, won the 1998 World Fantasy Award.  If The Physiognomy is as good as its successor, it's easy to see  why it won that award. Memoranda is an extremely impressive novel, at times  reminding me of Borges, at other times of John Crowley, and throughout  striking and original.    The bulk of the novel takes places in the strange  memory palace, or memory island, that the villain Drachton Below has  constructed. Unlike conventional memory palaces, Below has populated his  island with his memories of real people, who have some form of independent  life, and who conduct experiments. Thus, in a sense, the memory island is  actually thinking for Below. The hero, the former Physiognomist Cley, makes  a strange journey into Below's mind, and his memory palace, meeting the  four people with whom Below has poulated his memory, and falling in love  with the one remembered woman, Anotine. But the memory island is falling  apart as disease ravages Below's mind, and Cley must enlist the help of the  &quot;residents&quot; to try to save Below, and his memory, long enough at  least to find the antidote to the disease. <br />This whole landscape is  original, and odd, and often beautiful. The form and setting of the novel  provoke thought about the nature of memory. Ford also considers the nature  of love, and addiction, and how a wholly evil man can still engender good.  The plot is interesting enough, and fairly well resolved, but it's a minor  source of pleasure. The prose is very fine, with many excellent images. I  found the names of drinks and drugs especially memorable: shudder, sheer  beauty, Rose's Old Sweet, Tears in The River, and more. Some of the  horrific images, such as the Delicate and the Fetch, creatures Below uses  to control his memories, are also very memorable. The characters are nicely  realized and affecting, particularly the lost demon Misrix.<br />Even though  this is the middle book of a trilogy, it has a self-contained story that is  finished in this volume. That said, you will want to read The Physiognomy  once you've read this book, and so it would probably be best to read it  first, in the order published. And while the central story of this book is  concluded, Cley's life story is definitely left hanging at the end, and I  for one eagerly anticipate the third volume, The Beyond.	2000-08-24
US	52417414	RN34N9SFNV239	0312866445	357625689	There and Back Again: By Max Merriwell	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Delightful Retelling of the Hobbit as Space Opera	Pat Murphy's new novel, _There and Back Again, by Max Merriwell_, purports  to be a space opera by one Max Merriwell, who Murphy in an afterword  suggests is a 50ish SF writer from a sort of alternate timeline.  There's  also an afterword by &quot;Merriwell&quot;, in which he acknowledges the  obvious fact that this book borrows its plot very directly from _The  Hobbit_, as signaled by the title.  It's a very enjoyable book, though  rather light.  Some have complained that it takes the ambiguous and dark  aspects of _The Hobbit_ and nicens them too much.  This is a valid  criticism, but perhaps it asks more of the book than Murphy intended.  It  is what it is.  It's not as good as Tolkien, it's not as true as Tolkien,  but I think it does what its trying to do.  To that end, the parallels with  _The Hobbit_ work as a game for the reader, though perhaps not a very  difficult one: they are thumpingly obvious.  And indeed, Murphy does back  away from the darker implications: her Ring-analog is not nearly as  dangerous as Tolkien's Ring, her Gollum-analog is only briefly onstage.   But it is fun to see her ways of making science fictional parallels with  the elements of the Hobbit: for example hobbits become norbits (people who  live &quot;in orbit&quot;) while the Shire becomes the homey Asteroid belt.   There are also nice references to Lewis Carroll's poem &quot;The Hunting  of the Snark&quot;: Murphy uses quotes from the Carroll poem as chapter  headings, and builds the plot around a search for a particular Snark, which  is the term used in her future for the mysterious and valuable but  dangerous artifacts of the &quot;Old Ones&quot; (vanished  aliens).<br />Briefly, the story is about a norbit named Bailey Beldon, who  becomes involved with an expedition of clone sisters from a powerful clone  family to the Galactic Center.  One of their other sisters has found a  wormhole route to the Galactic Center and evidence that a trove of Snarks  awaits there.  The expedition meets a number of dangers on the way:  Reconstructionists (a scary bunch), pirates, space spiders (natch!),  warring factions, and of course a Boojum.  Much is made (to some good use)  of the effects of time dilation on space travellers; some jokes are made at  Bailey's expense, many interesting characters are encountered.  I quite  enjoyed the book, and took the various sillinesses (the super crowded  asteroid belt, the implausible space spiders, etc.) as part and parcel of  the light package.	2000-08-23
US	52417414	R3TAA9V743YMEV	0613094883	335090053	Kilmeny of the Orchard (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Melodramatic but Enjoyable Short Romance	_Kilmeny of the Orchard_ is a very short novel, not one of L. M. Montgomery's better known (and better!) _Anne of Green Gables_ books.  This  story concerns a young man, Eric Marshall,  heir to a well-off shopkeeper,  who decides to spend a year after college in a remote Prince Edward Island  town.  While there, he meets a beautiful young woman, who cannot speak.  In  all ways she appears perfectly healthy, she can hear just fine, plays an  excellent violin, but can't speak.  The story is quite melodramatic, as  first we are told the story of her mother, who got married to a man who  turned out, through no fault of his own, to already be married.  Then the  young woman, Kilmeny, and Eric fall in love, but Kilmeny feels herself  unworthy of marriage, because of her &quot;defect&quot;.  The resolution  involves Kilmeny's step-brother, an Italian orphan, who had also been in  love with Kilmeny.  This feature reveals one of the more distasteful  features of Montgomery's books: her racism (and classism).  In the Anne  books the racist bits are very minor, involving occasional remarks about  the &quot;French&quot;.  Apparently the French community of New Brunswick  (the original Acadians many of whom moved to Louisiana and became the  Cajuns (Acadian =&gt; 'cadian =&gt; Cajun)) were not highly regarded by the  Scots and English inhabitants of New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island.   They seem to have been mostly employed as farmhands.  In _Kilmeny of the  Orchard_ it is made clear from the beginning that Neil, of Southern  European birth, somewhat dark-skinned, and an orphan, is a lesser being,  prone to emotional outbursts despite having been brought up from birth by  Kilmeny's dour Scots Aunt and Uncle.<br />Anyway, though Kilmeny of the  Orchard has significant flaws, it is still an involving and enjoyable read.	2000-08-23
US	52417414	R1XW31ZJV0CJJD	1886778167	862374132	Rings	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Baroquely imagined trips in space and time	NESFA Press has here gathered four novels by the inimitable Charles Harness.  Included are three of his best novels, one from each of three  earlier periods of productivity, and one new novel, _Drunkard's  Endgame_.<br />The unifying concept represented by the title is  &quot;Rings&quot;: one of Harness' favorite concepts is cyclic universes,  and &quot;rings&quot; in time.  (Though the new novel restricts its ideas  to a sort of &quot;ring&quot; in space.)  Harness' writing was always  audacious: occasionally going over the edge to silliness, but at his best,  even when thoroughly implausible, the breathtaking nature of his  speculations, and their rather poetic intensity, redeemed the sometimes  contrived and overwrought plots.<br />_Rings_ includes _The Paradox Men_,  perhaps Harness' best known novel, from 1953, which deals with Alar the thief  and his battle against the entrenched government of his time, a battle  which ends up in a wild journey to the sun (and more!).  _The Ring of  Ritornel_ (1968) is an even broader-scoped novel from Harness' return to  the field in the late '60s, dealing with the end of the universe and the  possible start of a new one, and the battle between chaos and order.   _Firebird_ (1981), the most ambitious of several novels he produced in a  new burst of productivity around the early '80s, again deals with the  cycles of the universe.  Common to all these novels is the theme of the  outlaw who, chases by the corrupt forces of the established order, and in  love with a highly placed woman, succeeds, usually with personally tragic  side effects, and whose success is far more wideranging in cosmic effect  than originally planned.<br />They are baroque and colorful, and great  fun.<br />The new novel, _Drunkard's Endgame_, is a welcome addition, though  it's a fairly minor book.  It's set on a starship populated by robots, who  rebelled against their human masters 1000 years before, and who have been  fleeing ever since.  The (corrupt,natch) leader of the starship is  searching for the ultimate weapon which a human had devised, and which he  thinks was stored in the memory banks of one of his fellow robots.  He is  opposed by the aristocratic robot known as L'Ancienne, and by her nephew  Rodo, who falls in love with one of the robots exiled to the surface of the  starship.  Once again, the book ends with a radical change to existing  conditions, and the beginning of a &quot;new world&quot;, but in this case  the plot contrivances to bring this about are hard to believe, and the  villain combines stupidity with malice rather excessively.  It's still a  breezy, fun, read however.<br />This omnibus edition is another marvelous  product of NESFA books.	2000-08-19
US	52417414	RAI0Y3SUFNFAO	0812564669	596423105	Household Gods	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Eye-opening look at real life in 2nd Century Rome	Nicole Gunther-Perrin is a recently divorced lawyer in present-day Los Angeles.  Her life seems to be falling apart.  Her husband left her for a  blond bimbo.  Her daycare provider just quit.  And she has been passed over  for a partnership at her law firm, while the man she has just collaborated  with got his partnership.  And one of her bosses suggests not too subtly  that a bit more &quot;cooperation&quot; would help her cause.  Everything  in our world seems slanted against women.  So she makes a half-hearted  prayer to the plaque featuring the Roman gods Liber and Libera to send her  back to Ancient Rome, where, she imagines, women had equal status with men.   And they comply.<br />The book starts a bit slowly.  Nicole indeed has been  treated unfairly, but the authors make clear that she's brought a certain  amount of her troubles on herself.  (For instance, she is very rude to her  daycare provider.)  Thus, at the onset, we are presented with a rather  unlikable protagonist.  She winds up in 2nd Century Rome, in the body of  her ancestor Umma.  Umma is the owner of a tavern, and the mother of two  children, as well as the mistress of a slave.  Nicole as Umma starts out  viewing her fellow Romans from her rather priggish 20th Century viewpoint.   For example, she doesn't drink.  Thus she's horrified that she owns a  tavern.  But one night spent on a chamberpot after drinking the local water  without benefit of alcohol cures her of that prejudice.<br />Nicole grows  rapidly as she spends time in the provincial town of Caruntum, and as she  grows, the reader's sympathy for her is engaged.  She is quickly disabused  of her silly notion that Rome in that time was an egalitarian society.  But  she remains anti-slavery, even as her prejudices against other Roman  habits, such as corporal punishment of children, and drinking wine,  diminish in the face of reality.  The book becomes a catalog of  misfortunes.  The authors seem to take unholy enjoyment in heaping evermore serious inconveniences upon their protagonist.  She faces minor  troubles such as head lice, and chamberpots instead of toilets, and 2nd  Century dentistry, and the persistent odors of that time, and the lack of  variety in her diet.  This would almost be funny, except soon she faces  major problems: plague, war, and the threat of rape and  starvation.<br />Nicole's story in Caruntum is involving, as she comes to  terms with her new life.  Especially interesting are the people she meets:  her slave Julia, who takes delight in her secondary profession of  prostitute; her children Lucius and Aurelia; Umma's lover Titus Calidius  Severus, so puzzled when Nicole rebuffs him, but so much more civilized in  his fashion than many of the 20th century men Nicole has become disgusted  with.  We even get a brief glimpse of the Emperor, Marcus Aurelius.<br />This  is a long novel, but after a slow start it becomes very absorbing.   Nicole's struggles seem real, and her personal growth seems earned.  The  depiction of life in 2nd Century Rome is believable and fascinating.  I  recommend this novel to anyone interested in a real look at a historical  period quite different from our own.	2000-08-18
US	52417414	R2C1FJCCA1HGKM	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fascinating Look at a Changed Europe	Suddenly in 1912 all of Europe changes: it is replaced by something quite different: a new ecosystem, lush but inhospitable to men.  In the 1920s  Guilford Law, a photographer, heads to the new Europe, now called Darwinia,  to be part of one of the first teams to explore the interior of the  continent.<br />All this is thoroughly intriguing and involving: then Wilson  takes a hugely different tack.  He reveals the nature of the changed Earth.   Many readers have been disappointed by his revelation, but, though I admit  the book we end up with is not the book we began with, it's still a  wonderful book.<br />Guilford's life is forever changed by his trip to the  interior of Darwinia, and we follow him as he dreams of another Guilford  who lived in a very different Earth (apparently our own), and as he is  drawn into a battle with evil forces who wish to destroy the world.  Such a  description sounds silly, but in context it's effective, and the story is  beautifully written, and very odd.  Guilford is a compelling character, and  his life takes on great meaning: which is all the more important given the  nature of his world.<br />A lovely book.	2000-08-16
US	52417414	R2TEBQX7ASTU5F	1587151197	226839314	Written in Venom	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Loki Sets the Record Straight	_Written in Venom_ is a retelling of the cycle of Norse myths from the  viewpoint of Loki.  This angle on the stories is refreshing, indeed  bracing, and in particular it brings the character of Loki into full view:  sometimes to his advantage, sometimes (in biter bit fashion, and whether or  not Loki seems to know it) to his disadvantage.  It also emphasizes the  bitter side of the cycle, the way in which the myths emphasize resignation  to certain death and failure, and the way in which all the characters are  deeply flawed.<br />At the same time the book is thoroughly entertaining and  fun to read.  It's told in shortish chapters, generally one  &quot;story&quot; per chapter.  Thus we hear of Loki's birth and youth, his  meeting with the deceitful Odinn, and then the later part of the cycle,  such stories as Odinn's losing his eye, and his trip to Niflheim, and the  dwarves being tricked into creating Thorr's hammer and many other wonderful  devices; even a bit of the Ring cycle.  Eventually, of course, we come to  the killing of Baldr, and the subsequent inevitable fall of Asgard.<br />Among  the refreshing aspects of Loki's viewpoint is his cynical view of Baldr, so  often regarded as a golden hero; and also Loki's claims for true familial  love with his wife Sigyn and his two sons.  Loki's voice comes through  clearly, and the stories are by turns cynical, broadly humourous, clever,  and very lusty.  A fine book, and worth reading on its own terms, simply as  a fantasy novel; or as an adult introduction to the Norse myths; or as a  modern reinterpretation of the familiar stories.	2000-08-14
US	52417414	R38102S9QYUUFC	0061083143	478342207	The Covenant (Harper Monogram)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fine contemporary romance/thriller	_The Covenant_ was published in 1995, and won the Romance Writers of American Rita award for best Paranormal Romance.  I enjoyed it quite a bit.   Besides the romance element, there is a contemporary suspense story, and a  link with an historical story.  The various strands of the story are well  integrated, with the romance arising naturally as part of the story, rather  than driving the story, and with the resolution of the book being more  closely tied to the characters' solving their personal problems than to the  culmination of their romance.<br />The plot involves Megan McIntyre Hudson, a  recently widowed daughter of a U. S. Senator.  She has returned to rural  Pitchlyn County, Oklahoma, to occupy a house her husband had owned, and to  come to terms with her reactions to his death and the death of his sister,  and to her own mistreatment, in a South American country they had been  visiting for political reasons.  Her emotions are complex, because her  marriage was mostly a sham, and because her father has betrayed her in his  politically-motivated response to the atrocities she witnessed in South  America, and because she is only now coming to terms with a lonely  emotional life.  Unbeknownst to her, her onetime brother-in-law, the  estranged husband of her husband's now dead sister, lives in a neighboring  house.  This man, Jake Kenyon, is a former DEA agent, then local sheriff,  who has considerable issues with the current law enforcement officials of  Pitchlyn County.<br />One night Jake hears signs of a struggle at Megan's  house, and bursts in to rescue her from an illegal search conducted by the  thuggish local sheriff.  Thus Jake and Megan, who don't know each other  despite being almost in-laws, are thrown together.  Soon they find  themselves, against their will, forced to try to figure out why people seem  to be prowling about their two properties, and why the local police seem to  be unduly interested as well.<br />At the same time, Megan, perhapsas a  result of her psychiatrist's urging her to record her thoughts, begins to  seemingly &quot;channel&quot; a young woman who lived in Pitchlyn County in  the 1870s.  Lydia was a white woman in the then Choctaw Nation, in love  with a half-Choctaw ex-Ranger named Sam Hooker.  Sam has angered an outlaw  gang who then kidnap Lydia and rape her serially for several days until Sam  can rescue her.  This horrifying event scars her permanently, essentially  ruining her relationship with Sam, which is already harmed by her  hypocritical father's refusal to countenance her marriage to an Indian.   Over time, Megan learns more and more of Lydia's story, and the  half-parallels between her story and Megan's own story illuminate the  contemporary plotline without being a slavish repetition.<br />The novel works  itself out with a solid and suspenseful resolution to the story of Jake and  Megan, as they fall in love, and also figure out the mysterious doings on  their property, which turn out to have connections to both Jake's past and  Megan's past, and perhaps even to the story of Sam and Lydia.  The latter  story is nicely revealed as well, and is effectively emotionally wrenching.   The backdrop of the Oklahoma landscape is also well-evoked.  The  characters are convincing, and the love story is believable.  This is a  good example of what a &quot;romance novel&quot; really should be, in my  opinion: a good novel on its own that has a solid romance story as a  significant thread, as opposed to a contrived romance that drives the plot  willy nilly (which I've seen too often elsewhere).  Definitely worthy of  reprinting.	2000-08-11
US	52417414	R2NQEJIZ6PNDAG	0312862636	434259402	How Like a God	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Convincing look at the responsibility of having superpowers	Brenda Clough calls her &quot;Gilgamesh&quot; books, _How Like a God_ (1997), and _Doors of Death and Life_ (2000), &quot;suburban fantasy&quot;,  and indeed they depict suburban life pretty well: home improvement, day  care, commuting, minivans, even believable contemporary American Christians  (a rarity in SF!).  For that alone these are refreshing books.<br />_How Like  a God_ concerns Washington area software developer Rob Lewis, the father of  18 month old twins, and the loving husband of Julianne, who works in the  fashion industry.  One day he suddenly realizes that he has an unusual  power: he can read minds, the minds of anybody on the planet, and he can  control people.  After a few mild experiments, he tells his wife, and her  response appals him.  She wants him to influence her employers to help her  career, and then she wants him to look for great personal power: run for  President, perhaps.  Horrified, he makes Julianne forget everything, but  soon her realizes that he can't control his power, and that he is altering  his twins unconcsiously, making them act extra mature without even knowing  it.  In despair, he runs away to New York City and spends months as a  homeless man, using his power occasionally to cadge meals and housing.  His  humanity begins to slip away from him, and suddenly he realizes that he is  becoming a monster.  When he finds himself about to rape a teenage girl (by  making her want it), he starts to break out, and looks for help.  His only  help is from a chance encounter with an NIH microbiologist, Edwin  Barbarossa, a fundamentally good man at a very deep level.  The rest of the  book follows Rob's gradual return to humanity with Edwin's guidance, and  also Rob's eventual encounter with the mysterious and surprising source of  his power.<br />This is a very fine book, quite original in conception, and  dealing pretty unflinchingly with the issue of personal responsibility, and  how important and difficult that is when you have immense power.  The  book's only real weakness is the character of Julianne, who is neither  terribly likeable, nor particularly three-dimensional, but she's a fairly  minor character and that doesn't really hurt the book too much.	2000-08-11
US	52417414	R32CTR30UEE8HA	055357549X	662074373	Holy Fire (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Impressive Depiction of Age Extension in the Future	Holy Fire, by Bruce Sterling is pretty impressive. Sterling really packs  ideas onto the page! He furnishes his setting with detail after telling  detail: there is a much greater sense, seems to me, that the future being  depicted is really in the future, and not just now + a few changes, as in  so many SF books. And the details are cleverly backgrounded: offhandedly  mentioned here, revealed by a turn of phrase there, implied by a  description...(Also, he does stop and lecture on occasion: but the lectures  are interesting, not distracting, and important to his story.) Anyway, the  way Sterling does this stuff is great fun (in his short fiction too), and  he's pretty good at little jokes on the one hand, and telling aphorisms on  the other hand. <br />Holy Fire is set 100 years in the future, and the main  character is a woman born in 2001 (a symbolic date, I'm sure; as the fact  that the book opens with the death of her former lover, born in 1999, is  symbolic too). This woman, Mia Ziemann, after attending her lover's  &quot;funeral&quot;, and receiving a mysterious &quot;gift&quot; from him  (the password to his questionably legal Memory Palace) (a MacGuffin if  there ever was one!) undergoes a crisis of sorts and decides that it is  time to cash in her chips, as it were, and undergo the radical  life-extension treatment which she has been planning. She comes out of the  treatment a young woman in appearance, and a different person in attitude,  and with a different name (Maya). As a result, she runs off (illegally) to  Europe, trying to live the life of the late-21st century young people (it  seems). The rest of the book follows her somewhat rambling adventures with  a variety of Europeans, young and old, as well as eventually getting around  to the meaning of the MacGuff -- er, I mean, Memory Palace. <br />The book is  very strong on the description and rationale for the culture and economics  of a future dominated by medical treatment, life-extension methods,and (as  a result of the previous two), old people. Sterling knows that if people  live a long time, society will be very different, and he does a good job  showing us one way it might be different. His views of both young (say, up  to 60 or so) and old (up to 120 or more at the time of the book) people are  very well done. Part of the book is an attempt to get at what the  difference between a society of very-long-lived people (like up to 150  years or so), and a society of near-immortals (up to 1500 years or more)  might be: and here he waves his hand at some neat ideas but kind of fails  to really convince.<br />Throughout it is readable, interesting, and funny.  The resolution is solid, though as I have suggested, he waves at a more  &quot;transcendental&quot; ending, and doesn't really succeed there. But  Maya's story is honest and convincing, though Maya as a character is a  little harder to believe. She seems to be whatever the plot needs her to be  at certain times: this is partly explainable by the very real physical and  psychological changes she must be undergoing: but at times it seems rather  arbitrary.	2000-08-10
US	52417414	R34JX5QAQSYUT3	0380797151	507827222	Deepdrive	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Lots of neat ideas, doesn't quite cohere	I've been a fan of Jablokov's ever since reading his first short stories  in Asimov's a few years ago. I really liked his first novel, Carve the Sky,  which was &quot;baroque&quot; and artsy, and his third novel, Nimbus, a  kind of post-cyberpunk story. And I've liked a lot of his short  stories.<br />Deepdrive is his latest novel. It is set in a busy,  well-imagined future. The solar system is occupied (mostly benignly: or at  any rate humans have adapted) by several different species of aliens: the  Bgarth are burrowing on Venus, assisting with its terraformation; the  Gunners are on Mercury, shooting at the Sun; the Ulanyi are on Earth,  living in symbiotic relationships with nomadic human tribes. And there are  plenty more. But none of the aliens will give humans the secret of the  &quot;deepdrive&quot;, which allows faster than light travel. An alien from  another species, the Vronnans, has showed up, apparently a refugee from his  own people, and he is holed up on Venus. Rumor says he wants to be rescued,  and he might have something important, even a deepdrive, to trade.  Sophonisba Trust assembles a team, somewhat ad hoc, to go after the  Vronnan. The novel follows her and the members of her team, as well as the  Vronnan, as a series of disasters propels them willy nilly towards learning  more than they might want to know about Vronnans, the lost Martian slowship  interstellar expedition, their own motivations, and how Ulanyi, Gunners,  and other aliens tie into this. And also, maybe, the secrets of the  deepdrive.<br />It's all pretty cool, and well-imagined, distinctly  &quot;Bruce Sterling-esque&quot; (particularly reminiscent of some  Shaper-Mechanist stuff, like &quot;Swarm&quot;), and certainly exciting,  and yet ... It never quite won me over. I dunno why. Maybe it was too hard  to follow all the threads. Maybe I didn't quite believe in most of the  characters (Soph was well done, also her ex-husband Lightfoot, but I was  never convinced by the beautiful lesbian Ambryn Chretien or the big  bodyguard Elward Bakst, both of whose motivations and abilities seemed to  change to whatever the plot required). But, I'm sort of worried, is my  &quot;Sense of Wonder&quot; dulling?  What I mean is, I think maybe 20  years ago all the cool stuff, the aliens, the biotech, the plots within  plots, would have overwhelmed me and carried me along. And it didn't do  that for me now.<br />On balance, I'd still recommend Deepdrive. But I can't  give it full marks.	2000-08-09
US	52417414	RSWTCFODOU2W3	0812551109	247497065	The Last Hawk	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fun SF novel which plays with Romance conventions	The Last Hawk takes place roughly at the same time as the action of Catherine Asaro's first novel, Primary Inversion, but on a completely  isolated planet.  The connection to her other Skolian novels is that the  protagonist, Kelric, is a member of the Ruby Dynasty, ruling family of the  Skolian empire. He crash-lands on an isolated, restricted, planet, Coba,  and becomes a pawn in an extended power struggle.<br />The novel is really  concerned with the social and political setup on this planet. The society  of this planet is female dominated, and a powerful male like Kelric is a  threat, both to the societal structure, and to the political independence:  this last because if he is found by the Skolians, the restricted label is  likely to vanish, and Coba will be absorbed into the Empire.<br />There are  other key aspects to the social structure: Coba is dominated by a number of  Houses, each with a female head. The planet has replaced war with a game  called Quis. Each House has some first rate Quis players: the Head of the  house, and members of her household, especially including her  &quot;husbands&quot; (or &quot;akasi&quot;s). Information is transmitted by  Quis playing, and very good players can influence &quot;public  opinion&quot; by innovative playing. I found this concept fascinating,  though in the end quite unconvincing. An important aspect of this is that a  Calani (male Quis player) from one household is very valuable to another  household, because of his &quot;inside knowledge&quot;, as it were, and a  certain flexibility he seems to gain from being exposed to different styles  of Quis. Thus these Calani become, essentially, prize commodities, tradable  for money or political favors.<br />After his crash, Kelric is rescued by a  team from the leading allied house to the &quot;ruling&quot; house. Kelric,  damaged and also unable to tolerate some of the local chemistry, barely  survives. Soon, however, he has &quot;married&quot; the head of Dahl house(the house which found him), and he has met the heir apparent to the ruling  House. Despite his emotional ties, he eventually tries to escape, and  accidentally kills someone, as a result ending up in prison. However, he  has two important things on his side: he is a natural genius at Quis  (helped somewhat by his Skolian biomechanical enhancements); and he is very  sexy, and the powerful women of the Houses tend to fall in love with him.  The story follows him through a variety of Houses as the disruptions his  presence causes begin to threaten the structure of Coban society.<br />This is  an interesting novel, with much to recommend it, and very readable. I had  problems with couple of things: the ultimate improbability of Quis is one,  including the improbably sudden scientific advances supposedly resulting  from Kelric transmitting ideas from Skolian culture to the Cobans via Quis.  Also, a couple of villains who were almost too bad (though Asaro really  tries hard to make them plausible and close to sympathetic), and I had a  certain difficulty in staying emotionally involved with Kelric's many  romances and quasi-romances. Kelric's amazing Quis ability was a bit of a  cliche (though to be fair, Asaro provides at least some justification for  it, in the form of his bio-mechanical enhancements), and the actions of  some of the characters at times seemed to be designed to advance the plot  rather than to arise from their own characteristics. The female-dominated  society was quite well handled, I thought. Sometimes Asaro was too clearly  engaging in allegory though, having the Coban women, generally good people,  casually treat their men in blatantly sexist ways: all this seemed  obviously a reversal of male sexism in our society: a fairly effective  device for the most part, but a bit too pat and obvious in places. The  novel's structure, in six parts corresponding to the six Houses of which  Kelric becomes a member, allows Asaro to explore Coban society from many  angles: some of the Houses are traditional, some modern, some strong, some  weak: so we get a fairly varied look at the planet and society. That said,  I didn't get a strong sense of a &quot;complete&quot; planet: rather, the  society seemed to consist of smallish, isolated, enclaves.<br />When I  originally finished this book, I thought &quot;Fast, fun, read. Some nice  ideas. Not quite successful.&quot; But it has improved in memory.  Even if  I found the basic idea of Quis unbelievable, it is a clever idea, and  moreover one which works very well thematically. Also, I believe some of my  original mild disappointment was due to the failure of the novel to conform  to typical Romance plot expectations. But on reflection, this is a  strength, and not a weakness. I feel sure, too, that this novel plants a  charge waiting to be detonated later in the Skolian series, whenever Coba  confronts the Universe at large.	2000-08-09
US	52417414	R22K23AQ9MYBPR	0140248307	667558266	The Cunning Man	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Interesting but not his best	Robertson Davies was a Canadian author, arguably the finest Canadian  writer ever, who wrote plays and novels on generally Canadian subjects. The  novels fit generally into trilogies: The Salterton Trilogy, The Deptford  Trilogy, and The Cornish Trilogy, in order of composition, represent his  first nine novels. All his novels, however, can be read independently  (although at least The Deptford Trilogy probably reads best in order.) To  say, as I have said, that his novels are &quot;about Canada&quot; is a  laughable understatement, however. I tried to summarize the subjects which  Davies covered once for a friend, thinking it would be a tidy list, and I  kept going and going: Theatre, Music, Vaudeville, Toronto, Hagiography,  Jungian Psychology, Art (particularly &quot;The Old Masters&quot;), aging,  medicine, Canadian politics, war, finance, schools (both Canadian  &quot;boarding schools&quot; and Universities), and on and on. Suffice it  to say that his novels are fascinating, hypnotic, works, usually centered  on an artist of some kind.<br />Anyway, his last two novels (barring a  posthumous work) are Murther and Walking Spirits and The Cunning Man, which  appear to be the first two parts of another loose trilogy, although both  are capable of being read completely independently. The Cunning Man is the  story of Jonathan Hullah, a Toronto doctor of somewhat unusual reputation.   Hullah narrates the book, and tells his own life story beginning in about  1920 in a very isolated part of Northern Ontario, and continuing through  early experiences with the local doctor, and also a Native American  healing-woman (treated with respect but without Political Correctness),  boarding school, medical school, World War II, and his postwar  establishment of his own rather unusual medical practice, which is treated  as a court of last resort for cases other doctors have considered hopeless.  The key elements of the book are Hullah`s relationships with various  people, in particular his school friends Charlie Iredale and Brocky  Gilmartin (the latter the father of the narrator of Murther and Walking  Spirits), his English lesbian landladies, called The Ladies (also treated  with respect but without PC), and the community surrounding the Very  &quot;High Church&quot; Anglican church of St. Aidan`s, next door to  Hullah`s practice. At the heart of the story is the mystery surrounding the  death of the pastor of St. Aidan`s, Father Ninian Hobbes, and the attempts  of Charlie Iredale, now an Anglican priest and Fr. Hobbes` assistant, to  have Hobbes declared a saint.<br />As usual, the main interest of the book is  in the characters, and in the curious subjects which come up as a result of  the story: medieval saints tales, Anglican ritual and especially Church  music, acting, a somewhat psychosomatic theory of disease, church politics,  some Freudian psychology, and a great deal more.<br />For me, this book ranks  in the middle range of Davies' work, which of course still makes it highly  recommended. However, my interest flagged at times, and the book failed to  completely involve me in the way that Davies' very best books do. Also, the  central story is less compelling than in most of Davies` books, so the  interest devolves even more to the characters and the somewhat arcane  knowledge and theories that Davies discusses. These are interesting indeed,  but a real gripping story would be still more interesting.	2000-08-09
US	52417414	R34DG151V07JGW	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Enjoyable but implausible space adventure	Expendable is based on a wacky and to my mind thoroughly implausible premise: that the morale of spaceship crews would be thoroughly undermined  if quote normal unquote people were to die while exploring hostile planets.   However, if abnormal, deformed, people die, nobody will much care.  Those  people are, see, expendable.  Thus the Explorer Corps in James Alan  Gardner's future space Navy is made up of people with defects, such as the  port wine birthmark disfiguring the face of this book's narrator Festina  Ramos.  These people are so useful to the Navy, mind, that conditions such  as Festina's, which could be easily fixed by future medicine, are purposely  left untreated.<br />That's a lot to swallow, and frankly I can't, really.   But once you get past the absurd premise, the story told in Expendable is  imaginative and fun.  The other odd premise of Gardner's future is that  very advanced aliens control the Galaxy with one law: that noone who would  kill another sentient creature can travel in space.  But people look for  loopholes, and one seems to be to send unwanted sorts to dangerous planets  to explore them.  Festina and her partner are assigned to accompany an old  Admiral, who has become a thorn in the side of the leaders of the human  people, to a legendary dangerous planet, from which no Explorer has ever  returned.<br />When they get there, they find that the planet is implausibly  similar to Earth in its conditions: gravity, atmosphere, climate, etc.   Sent to the surface, they don't die immediately, as they've expected, but  their means of return is withdrawn.  Soon the mysteries begin to mount.   Festina encounters a strange person apparently made of glass, and that  person takes her to a city made of glass.  It becomes apparent that there  are several such cities on the planet, occupied by the immortal glass  people, and by the previously marooned explorers.  Is there any way back to  the civilized Galaxy?<br />This is fast-moving, fun, adventure, with some wild  ideas.  Some of the ideas are pretty neat, and some are frankly silly.  The  plot is similarly inconsistent.  It's worth reading, and the sequels  (Vigilant and Hunted) are even better.	2000-08-08
US	52417414	R21WM7NVYOWG9R	0812575725	553767846	Deep Secret	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Infectious and Absorbing Alternate Worlds Fantasy	Seldom recently have I simply enjoyed reading a book as much as I enjoyed  Diana Wynne Jones' Deep Secret. Jones employs a mixture of engaging  characters, interesting fantasy concepts, and a light touch with serious  undertones, to create a novel that is infectious and absorbing. <br />Right  from the beginning we know something is up, as narrator Rupert Venables is  called away to the Koryfonic Empire, to give his stamp of approval as a  Magid to a legal preceding there.  Koryfonic Empire?  Magid?  We are told  that the Multiverse consists of worlds arranged in a sort of infinity  figure, with one half (including Earth), negative magically (this is the  Naywards half).  These worlds tend not to believe in magic, and magic is  harder to do there.  The other (Ayewards) half are positive magically, and  creatures such as centaurs can exist there.  The Koryfonic Empire is  somehow very important, and it occupies the exact middle of the infinity  sign.  And Magids are some variety of wizard, with the duty to subtly  influence events on whatever worlds they are responsible for in the  appropriate direction.  Rupert is Earth's junior Magid, and he is fresh  from helping out in Yugoslavia and Northern Ireland, when he gets sent to  the Empire.<br />This is a bit of a complicated setup, but it's not really  necessary to worry about it too much.  Rupert is soon engaged in two  succession problems.  His mentor has died, and he must select a new Magid  from among several human candidates.  In addition, the Koryfonic Emperor is  assassinated, and he has to try to track down the proper heir: a process  complicated by the previous Emperor's paranoia, which caused him to hide  away his heirs so they wouldn't try to take over before their time.  An  alternate narrative path starts to follow Maree Mallory, one of the Magid  candidates (which ought to be a clue to any reader).<br />The action converges  at a Science Fiction convention.  Much of the action is superficially light  intone, including some funny bits involving the difficulty of navigating  the hotel's corridors, which reminded me of stories of real world  conventions.  But at the same time the concerns are deadly serious, and  Jones doesn't cheat us there: real mistakes are made, people are really  hurt and killed.  So it's not just a light-hearted romp, and though it's  often funny, Deep Secret is not a comedy.<br />What it is, is a thoroughly  involving book.  Jones is one of those natural storytellers: her books  compel reading.  The characters are real, and very likable.  The plot is  exciting, and resolved logically.  The magical system is lightly sketched,  but what we see is interesting and well drawn.  The resolution is largely  what we expect, but it also involves satisfying surprises.  This book kept  me up late at night reading, and made we eager for each chance to read  another chapter.  It's not perfect: the overall setup, though interesting,  is a bit strained, and a bit too lightly sketched, which for me reduced the  immediacy of some of the events.  And structurally there is a slight burp:  the book ends, more or less, and then there is an odd sort of coda, which  really fills us in on an event from the earlier of the book that we had  missed.  But Jones finds a way to round up that coda nicely, without  causing a muffled end to things.  And I came away from this book a  satisfied customer.  Highly recommended.	2000-08-07
US	52417414	R3B492RMCWV3S6	0312863276	90385230	The Fortunate Fall	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Brilliant Post-Cyberbunk Debut Novel	This is really, really, good. Set in the 23rd century, the Russian narrator (Maya) is a telepresence &quot;camera&quot;: she  &quot;witnesses&quot; news events, or anything which could be a story, and  her total impressions (sensorium, plus memories: the latter including  implanted memories of research on the subject) are transmitted over the net  to her audience, although the output is &quot;screened&quot; by another  individual (a &quot;screener&quot;) who is totally linked with the camera,  and who apparently filters sensitive or personal material, and makes sure  that the sensorium output comes through OK (red looks red, stuff like  that). We slowly learn that Maya has a &quot;past&quot; which she cannot  remember, because memories of it have been suppressed, and that that past  is related to her love life. We also learn that her world has emerged in  recent decades from the domination of a group called the Guardians, and  that it is now bifurcated into the technologically advanced, but isolated,  African continent, and to something called the Fusion of Historical  Nations, which seems to be a shaky reestablishment of roughly 20th century  political boundaries.<br />Maya's latest story is about some of the key events  in the liberation of Russia from the Guardians. As she begins her story,  her old screener quits and she gets a new one. This new screener is  revealed to have quite remarkable abilities, and also seems to quickly fall  in love with Maya, which is difficult for Maya to handle because her sexual  emotions are suppressed. Maya and Keishi (the new screener) begin to  investigate some details of the defeat of the Guardians, details which are  for some reason potentially embarrassing to the &quot;new world  order&quot;. Staying one step ahead of the law, Maya travels across Russia  and through the net in search of an interview with a man who has some  secrets about the Guardians, their successors, and the nature of the world  and the net.<br />Carter pulls off a number of exciting, brilliant things. The  nature of this new world and its history are carefully and slowly revealed,  along with Maya's own past, and the resolution is well integrated, the  tragic ending is both a surprise and not a surprise, and is  &quot;earned&quot;. <br />The technological and social details of life in the  FHN are wonderfully well realized. In many ways, this book is reminiscent  of Bruce Sterling in the way future tech and future society are densely  integrated with the narrative, and seem so possible. The terminology  (Postcops, Weavers, greyspace, etc.) is intriguing, and is introduced in  such a way as to seem natural (there are very few lectures), but also be  part of the mysteries which are slowly revealed. The realization of the how  &quot;mindlink&quot; technology might really affect the world, and also the  images of cyberspace, are believable and original. <br />The prose is very  good, mostly clean and elegant, not showy, but occasionally erupting in apt  and memorable images. In addition, the story has true momentum: it makes  you want to keep reading. This is a gift that not all good writers have,  and it's a great plus.<br />The book falls slightly short in a couple of areas  (mere quibbles, really). Much of the second half of the book is a long  narrative by the interview subject, and this method of telling the story  seemed to me to create a bit of disconnectness. The story really has two  protagonists, Maya and Voskrosenye (the interviewee), and their stories are  well integrated, but still there is a slight slackening in that the two  stories (Maya's personal one, and the story of the nature of Maya's world,  which is mostly told through Voskrosenye) don't quite end in synch. Also,  the Guardians are a bit stock as villains (though to be sure they are not  the only villains). And I thought Maya's original crime was, well, not  likely to be such a crime in the 23rd century. But I could be wrong about  that.<br />This book really provokes thought. One virtue is that much is  implied and never told, and we have a sense of a whole fascinating  underpinning to this world (such as what the African culture is really  like) which is hinted at but not explained. Also, the main themes of guilt  and personal responsibility are well handled, and there is some very good  stuff about the nature of love, and the nature of love on the net, or in  Cyberspace, or whatever.	2000-08-07
US	52417414	R175SSL9LBB8NW	0312873352	42353892	The Sky Road (Fall Revolution)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent, Engaging Novel of Politics and AI	This is another excellent, engaging, novel from a fairly new Scottish  writer, just now making his mark in the United States.  This probably does  not quite jar my favorite of his novels, The Stone Canal (1996), from its  position at the top of my personal MacLeod heap, but it's very fine, with  yet another differently organized somewhat anarchic semi-utopia on display,  as well as yet another look at the turbulent 21st century, and the menace  of Artificial Intelligence.<br />Ken MacLeod's new book is an intriguing  offshoot from his previous three novels. (It is not necessary to have read  those books to appreciate The Sky Road.) In this future, the world has  fractured into numerous smaller states by the early 21st Century,  essentially in a continuation of the process begun in the ex-communist  states in the 1980s.  In addition, Artificial Intelligences begin to  emerge, not always planned, and not always benevolent.  The three books, in  addition to the persistent worry about AI's, portray a variety of political  organizations, and forms of organization, most notably perhaps the  anarcho-socialist society of the Solar System and the anarcho-capitalist  society of New Mars, in the time of The Cassini Division.<br />The Sky Road is  kind of an &quot;alternate history&quot; of MacLeod's future. The earlier  parts, chronologically, of The Stone Canal, and all of The Star Fraction,  are set in a common past to both The Sky Road and to The Cassini Division,  but one of the events in The Stone Canal goes a different way in The Sky  Road. Like The Stone Canal (and, to a lesser extent, The Cassini Division),  this book is told in two threads, one in the past, in 2059, and the other  some centuries in the future. The pastward thread follows Myra  Godwin-Davidova, a minor character in The Stone Canal.  Myra, 105 years  old, is the head of the government of a mini-state near Kazakhstan, called  the International Scientific and Technical Worker's Republic. At the  opening of the action, the Sino-Soviet Alliance, or the Sheenisov, is  advancing on Kazakhstan. Both the reformed UN and Dave Reid's Mutual  Protection Society are trying to take control of the world, partly from  space, and to stop the Sheenisov. Myra goes on a whirlwind tour of  Kazakhstan, Turkey, the US and the UK, looking for military assistance.  What she has to offer are the world's remaining supply of nuclear weapons.  But her problem is, it's not at all clear who the real enemy is, or for  that matter how many enemies there are. She also deals with her personal  problems: her age, her guilt over such betrayals of her past ideals as the  use of slave labour, and the selling of nuclear protection, and her loss of  yet another loved one in suspicious circumstances.<br />The other thread  features Clovis colha Gree, a young student in an odd, somewhat Utopian,  Scotland. He is working on a project building a spaceship: the first  spaceship to be built since the mysterious &quot;Deliverance&quot;. It  seems that since this &quot;Deliverance&quot; the world has reorganized  itself on a rather pastoral model. Clovis' field of study is history,  particularly the life of the &quot;Deliverer&quot;. (The reader figures out  right quick that the &quot;Deliverer&quot; is Myra Godwin-Davidova.) Clovis  meets a beautiful woman called Merrial, and they fall tumultuously in love.  But Merrial is a tinker, and the tinkers are regarded with suspicion by the  rest of society, as they are the only people who deal with the somewhat  restricted computer technology available in this future. Clovis is drawn by  his love for Merrial and his thirst for knowledge about the Deliverer to a  questionable search for secret files of the Deliverer's: ostensibly to help  protect the spaceship project. But this search leads them not only to some  anti-hagiographic knowledge about the Deliverer (her use of nuclear  weapons, for example), but also to some potential use of the &quot;black  logic&quot;, the &quot;path of power&quot;.<br />The two threads converge to  reveal to the reader some, at least, of what's going on: what the  Deliverance really was, and what &quot;black logic&quot; might be, and part  of the nature of this future society. It's intriguing, and clever, and by  the end quite moving.  The only weakness is that I found Merrial and  Clovis' affair just a bit convenient: not all that easy to believe. (To  explain exactly why would involve spoilers.) I also found the political  machinations of Myra's time hard to follow, but that weakness is in me,  partly, and partly, I think, its a feature: MacLeod 21st century really is  a chaotic time. I also was impressed again by MacLeod's clever way with a  phrase. His prose is sound, but only some of the time does it sing. (The  first chapter is quite impressive in this way, but he doesn't really  maintain that peak level.) However, throughout there are dry asides, and  clever plays on words, and mordant observations that hit home.<br />Ken  MacLeod continues to be one of the most exciting new SF writers. His books  are politically intriguing, and honest, also full of nice SFnal speculation  about future technology, nicely written, and fast moving. The characters  are well-drawn, and almost always ambiguous. Each of his books is worth  reading, and The Sky Road is one of his best.	2000-08-07
US	52417414	R4PR6K6K6SVG1	0312865848	166772368	Corrupting Dr. Nice	Books	4	5	7	N	N	First-rate Time Travel Screwball Comedy	I consider Kessel's first solo novel, Good News from Outer Space, to be one of the best (and oddly neglected) SF novels of the past decade, and  stories such as &quot;Not Responsible! Park and Lock It!&quot;,  &quot;Another Orphan&quot;, &quot;The Big Dream&quot;, &quot;The Pure  Product&quot;, &quot;Buddha Nostril Bird&quot; and last year's &quot;The  Miracle of Ivar Avenue&quot;, among others, are part of a fine, memorable,  corpus of short fiction. So I was eagerly anticipating Corrupting Dr.  Nice.<br />Kessel's most familiar mode, it seems to me, is satire, often quite  savage, as in &quot;The Pure Product&quot; or the well-known Good News  outtake &quot;Mrs. Shummel Exits a Winner&quot;, but he can also wax  lyrical, and passionate (see &quot;Invaders&quot; or &quot;Buffalo&quot;,  for instance). And lately he has shown a distinct flair for out-and-out  comedy, as in his explicit Preston Sturges hommage from 1996, &quot;The  Miracle of Ivar Avenue&quot;. Corrupting Dr. Nice is in this latter mode, a  screwball comedy, also dedicated to Sturges (as well as a host of other  screwball directors). It is quite successful on those terms, as well as  being successful as SF, with a well-expressed core message  (over-simplified, that people in the past are still real people) which is  resolved in a satisfactory manner.<br />The story opens by introducing August  and Genevieve Faison, a father-daughter team of time traveling con artists.  They have just completed a successful scan in revolutionary Paris, and are  escaping into the past, when the canonical &quot;meet-cute&quot; occurs, as  the very rich Paleontologist Owen Vannice (nicknamed &quot;Dr. Nice&quot;)  literally stumbles out of a time-machine in Jerusalem, 41 C.E., and into  the arms of Genevieve. Owen is transporting a baby apatosaurus (echoes of  BRINGING UP BABY strictly intentional, I trust) back to his present (2062),  but time travel equipment problems strand everyone for a while in 41.<br />An  appropriately wacky plot ensues, involving August's plan to steal the  apatosaurus, Owen and Genevieve falling in love, and a plot involving Simon  the Zealot and a band of Hebrew revolutionaries trying to expel the time  travellers. All these threads collide nicely, various disasters occur, and  the main action winds up with a courtroom scene featuring two historical  heavy-hitters (to say the least).<br />The novel is very entertaining, a fast  and funny read, yet with a core of serious thought about the exploitation  of the people in the past by those of the future. The characters are  well-realized, particularly Owen and his AI security implant Bill,  Genevieve, and Simon the zealot (and his son). The resolution to the plot  threads are satisfactory, and honest, though the courtroom scene may have  gone a bit over the top. The weaknesses of the novel are to some extent  endemic to the screwball comedy form: the characters are well-enough  realized that their motivations for the acts that propel the plot sometimes  seem thin (and Owen and Genevieve don't quite convince me as a likely pair:  this in particular seems common in screwball comedies), also, things move  so fast that not everything quite makes sense. I could quibble, for  instance, about some holes in the time-travel setup: though as I said,  Kessel talks a good enough game to let us ignore these while reading. I  must say, though, that these quibbles and weaknesses are basically excused  by the constraints of the form Kessel is working in (that is, screwball  comedy). Things aren't necessarily supposed to make sense.<br />In summary,  highly recommended. A first-rate comedy, and a fine SF novel to boot.	2000-08-07
US	52417414	R1NE2TA622P39S	156478214X	833071710	The Third Policeman	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Strange and Blackly Funny	This is one of the strangest novels I have ever read.  It was written in about 1940, but not published until 1967, a year or two after the author`s death.  O`Brien is a pseudonym for the Irish writer Brian O`Nolan, who was  also a celebrated newspaper columnist using the name Myles na gCopaleen,  the latter name apparently Gaelic.  O`Brien`s other masterpiece is At  Swim-Two-Birds, which was published in 1939.  His &quot;Myles&quot; columns  is also well-regarded, and such novels as The Poor Mouth and The Hard Life  are well worth reading.  <br />The Third Policeman is quite funny, quite  absurd, and, at bottom, very disturbing.  The narrator is a very unpleasant  man, who announces in the first sentence &quot;Not everybody knows how I  killed old Phillip Mathers, smashing his jaw in with my spade;&quot; not  only is he a murderer, but a very lazy man who ruins his family farm, and  spends his life researching the works of a madman named De Selby, who  believes that, among other things, darkness is an hallucination, the result  of accretions of black air.  The narrator relates his early life briefly,  leading up to his association with another unsavory character, John Divney,  who parasitically moves in with the narrator and helps squander his  inheritance.  Divney and the narrator plot to kill their neighbor, Phillip  Mathers, to steal his money.  After the murder they decide to leave the  money for a while until the coast clears: however they distrust each other  so much that they never leave each others company.  Finally they go to  Mathers`s house to fetch the strongbox with his money: then Divney sends  the narrator ahead to the house alone, while he stands lookout, and things  get very strange!<br />The narrator meets Phillip Mathers, acquires a sort of  soul which he calls &quot;Joe&quot;, and sets out looking for three  mysterious policemen.  The first two are easily found, and the narrator  discusses bicycles, boxes, and other unusual subjects with these policemen.   Finally they decide to hang him (for bicycle theft, I think), but he is  rescued by the league of one-legged men (the narrator himself has but one  leg).  He returns to Mathers` house where he encounters the third  policemen, and eventually is reunited with John Divney.<br />The above  summary, obviously, does not represent the action or interest of the book  at all.  The book is full of off-the-wall philosophical speculations, some  based on the mad works of De Selby, others original to the policeman (the  latter including a theory about bicycles and their riders which has to be  read to be appreciated, also a mysterious trip to an underground cavern  where anything you can imagine can be created).  There are a lot of  footnotes discussing De Selby and the controversy surrounding his work:  these make the book somewhat reminiscent of Pale Fire by Vladimir Nabokov  (also reminiscent in being the first-person narrative of an insane  murderer).<br />Wholly original, blackly funny, brilliantly written.  A  wonderful book.	2000-07-25
US	52417414	R1PXRFTSTM51XR	0963120360	593666168	Satan is a Mathematician: Poems of the Weird, Surreal and Fantastic	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wide Ranging Collection of Interesting SF/Fantasy Poetry	Here is Satan is a Mathematician, a collection of poems, dating from as far back as 1980, but mostly from the 1990's, which cover a wide range of subjects, science-fictional, fantastical, horrific, and scientific. Keith  Allen Daniels is an interesting poet, and at the high end of his range is  very fine. <br />The book is subtitled &quot;Poems of the Weird, Surreal, and  Fantastic&quot;, which is pretty much what we get.  In a previous draft of  this review I dithered about trying to define &quot;SF poetry&quot;, or  &quot;Fantastic poetry&quot;.  To some extent I was interested in  disproving the existence of such a beast: after all, poetry is about sound  and emotion (and ideas), and at least the first two seem not to be  definable in genre terms.  But then, some poems really are about ideas, and  ideas, famously, are the stuff of much science fiction.  And some emotions  are perhaps best evoked by images from SF or the fantastic.  A trivial  conclusion, I'm afraid.  I will say, though, that it seems to me that I  read poetry of all sorts for the same reasons: sound and emotion, while I  read science fiction, at times, for explicitly different (neither superior  or inferior) reasons than I read mainstream fiction.  Enough, though.  What  of the poems at hand?<br />One of my favorites is &quot;The Poetasters'  Cafe&quot;, which takes a harsh look at the contemporary  &quot;coffeehouse&quot; fashion for poetry readings and overly confessional  writing.  It's a fine poem, but it's not SF, unless the use of vocabulary  such as &quot;coelecanth&quot; and &quot;phagocyte&quot; is sufficient to  so mark a poem.  On the other hand, &quot;Sciomancy Nights&quot;, another  fine effort, uses an explicitly fantastical device, raising the spirits of  the dead to speak to them, to consider, in a slightly humorous manner, four  historical figures (Bierce, Archimedes, Aldous Huxley, Lincoln).  Another  angle Daniels uses is pure science: &quot;The Discourse of the Stones&quot;  imagines &quot;deep time&quot; through the history of rock.  Not SF poetry,  perhaps, but &quot;geology poetry&quot;.<br />On the whole these are  interesting poems.  Occasionally Daniels seems to believe that an exotic  use of vocabulary is sufficient to make a sequence of words poetry; on  other occasions, the poems seem not much but doggerel.  But that is to  complain about the lesser works of what is, after, quite a long collection  by poetry standards.  The best poems here are very good.  For example,  &quot;Leap to Infinity&quot; is a lovely double haiku: &quot;A doe's leg,  fractured/ in mid-leap and torn in half/ hangs from the barbed wire.  On  the ground beneath/ her body has fallen far/ behind her spirit.&quot;  Or  the fine extended metaphor in &quot;Lithic&quot;: &quot;in caverns of the  forebrain/ suffering forms grottos/ of fanciful dripstone ...&quot;.  Or from  &quot;The Poetasters' Café&quot;: &quot;There the poets are mired in self/  like insects in pitcher plants/ of their own device.&quot; <br />Anyone  interested in contemporary poetry would do well to check out this book.   And if you are also interested in SF and fantasy, attuned to the vocabulary  and images of science and &quot;the weird, surreal, and fantastic&quot;,  you'll be even more likely to be attracted by Keith Allen Daniels' favored  image sets.	2000-07-25
US	52417414	R37KLMID8SFQZL	0312870531	43847489	The Stone Canal	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Intriguing SF About Artificial Intelligences and Politics	The Stone Canal is Ken MacLeod's second novel. It is in the same future history as his first novel (The Star Fraction) and his third novel (The Cassini Division) but it can be read without difficulty on its own, and I  found it to stand alone just fine. At a first brush, MacLeod reads like  &quot;Iain Banks meets Bruce Sterling&quot;. The novel's opening, with a  somewhat smart-alecky &quot;human- equivalent&quot; robot briefing a  confused newly-awakened man, and its structure, alternating chapters on  different timelines, definitely echo some of Banks' work. (Note that Banks  acknowledges MacLeod's help with Use of Weapons, in terms which suggest to  me that he may have helped with that book's unusual structure.) The deeply  political concerns, and central character's habit of talking at length  about politics, as well as some of the technology and the attitude towards  technology, reminded me of Sterling (and also, in a different way, Kim  Stanley Robinson. Which is to say, at times this book is a bit talky.) But  in the final analysis, The Stone Canal is a very original, very impressive  novel. It's true SF, chock full of sense of wonder concepts, interested in  new technology, in future politics, and in how technology affects politics  (and human life in general).<br />The novel opens with a man awakening in the  desert of a Mars-like planet, accompanied by a &quot;human-equivalent&quot;  robot. Soon we meet another robot, Dee Model, this one a &quot;gynoid&quot;  (female android), who has escaped her owner (for whom she was a sex toy),  and is proclaiming her autonomy. The man is soon revealed to be Jonathan  Wilde, a legendary figure of political resistance among the inhabitants of  New Mars, and the gynoid is based on a clone of Wilde's long-dead wife. The  two encounter each other, and both end up in the hands of the  &quot;abolitionist&quot; movement, which favors freeing intelligent robots  from human slavery. Soon they are jointly involved in lawsuits brought by  Dee Model's owner, who is Wilde's friend, long time rival, and apparent  murderer, Dave Reid.<br />This seems like plenty of background for a novel in  itself, especially given the interesting environment of New Mars, with its  single City, 5/6 of which is given over to &quot;wild machines&quot;, and  with the pervasive semi-VR technology, the grounds for speculation about  the nature of human vs. machine intelligence, and the semi-anarchist  political structure of the colony. But in parallel tracks we follow the  early life, on roughly present-day Earth, of Jonathan Wilde, Dave Reid, and  the two important women in their lives: Myra and Annette. Reid is a diehard  Trotskyite socialist, and Wilde an anarchist and &quot;space nut&quot;; and  the tension between their political views, as well as the tension resulting  from their relationships with the two women, is followed over the decades.  Both men become very powerful in the decaying near-future environment; as  both in their ways push to open up space travel for people in  general.<br />The two timelines inevitably converge, and the real concern of  the novel comes clear: understanding of the nature of the &quot;fast  folk&quot; (originally human simulations run on very fast computer  hardware), and understanding the link between New Mars and Earth. MacLeod  speculates fascinatingly on nanotechnology, virtual reality, and  astrophysics. Everything is well-tied together in the end, although in a  slightly disappointing manner.  (The first and last lines of The Stone  Canal, by the way, are both stunners, if a bit contrived also (as overtly  &quot;stunning&quot; lines often are).) The characters of Wilde and Reid  are very well presented, though the female characters are a bit sketchier.  The novel's weaknesses are an occasional tendency to talkiness, the rather  familiar setup of the relationship of the main characters, along with their  realization of enormous political power, and the slight flatness ofthe  ending. But all in all this is an excellent pure SF novel, and one which  bodes well for a career to watch.	2000-07-25
US	52417414	R3A3ZA26DIHYSJ	1564781372	437089888	Complete Fiction of W. M. Spackman (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Gorgeous, glittering prose, breathlessly funny novels	I was wandering through the Literature section of a local bookstore the other day, looking at the &quot;usual suspects&quot; (Amis, Davies, Borges, Powell, and so on), really just checking out their selection, not expecting  to find anything new, when I thought: &quot;I'll bet I can stump them.   Let's see if they have any W. M. Spackman!&quot;.  Spackman is one of my  secret pleasures: a rather little-known writer, born in 1905, died 1990,  who published 5 novels, _Heyday_ in the early '50s, then 4 very short,  utterly charming, stories of men and woman and guiltless affairs, published  from 1978 through 1985.  Spackman was a Philadelphian, at a guess  &quot;Main Line&quot; or very close, very patrician, rather academic (he  was a professor by main career), seemingly quite well off.  His later  novels (the early Heyday is somewhat uncharacteristic: sadder, dealing with  younger people), are all concerned with older (and very well-off) men  (usually in their 50s) in guilt-free adulterous relationships with younger  women (from late teens to 40s in the various books).  As such they have  always struck me as full of wish-fulfillment.  On the other hand, it's a  wish that part of me secretly shares.  Moreover, the prose style of these  novels is stunning, gorgeous, complex, utterly elegant: worth reading  almost as poetry.<br />Anyway, I had assumed (rightly until this book) that  Spackman's stuff was OP: over time I've tracked down the novels in used  book stores, but I've had a secret hope that I missed one, or that there  might be short stories, or ... anyway something! <br />Went over to the S's.   No expectations of success whatsoever.  And what do I see: _The Complete  Fiction of W. M. Spackman_.  All five published novels (Heyday in a much  revised form that he was working on when he died), one never-published  novel, and two short stories!<br />What a find!  This is a new book, published  in 1997 by The Dalkey Archive Press.  And I should plug that publisher:they seem to have been formed to republish the works of Flann O'Brien  (another of my &quot;secret pleasures&quot;, though O'Brien is actually  quite well known), as they take their name from the title of one of  O'Brien's novels, but they also publish a number of other very deserving  writers.<br />And Spackman is very deserving indeed.  As I have said he is  most obviously notable for his bravura prose, but his characters are  well-limned, and the events are funny and interesting.  And behind all the  blithe lovemaking is the shadow of aging and coming death: even in Heyday,  which is about people in their 20s.  Beautiful stuff.	2000-07-25
US	52417414	RU88WU01YXO2A	0380802090	78863271	Hunted (League of Peoples, Bk. 4)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Brisk and Imaginative Adventure SF	Sometimes I think contemporary SF is missing a sense of freedom of imagination. Reading old 50s books I am struck by the insouciance with which authors threw in concepts like easy FTL, psi powers, weird alien  species, super technology, and so on. It's not that you can't find these  anymore, but often there is a sense of constraint. We are much stricter  about scientific plausibility. But there are still writers who let their  imaginations go, while sticking to traditional SF ground. And when a good  writer does this, the results can be enormously fun. <br /> James Alan  Gardner's new novel, Hunted, is a very fun novel to read. It's set in the  same future as his other novels, and a major character is again Festina  Ramos of the Explorers, who appeared in Expendable and in Vigilant.  Recurrent elements of this future are the League of Peoples, an association  of extremely advanced races who enforce just one rule on the many lesser  races of the Galaxy (including humans). That rule is that anyone who kills  (or intends to kill) another sentient being is killed if they travel out of  any solar system. The idea is that wars will thus be restricted to single  planets. It's hard to believe in the absolute enforcement of this rule (by  mystical means) that we are shown, but I'm willing to suspend disbelief.  (The crimes involved in this rule seem to me to be a bit of a moving  target, as well.) Perhaps the neatest thing about this setup is that it  allows Gardner to play with a whole array of alien races of roughly human  intelligence and tech level, while still allowing for races of much greater  advancement. Humans themselves are ruled by the Technocracy, controlled by  a High Council of Admirals. There are a number of human-colonized  planets.<br />This book deals with Edward York, the son of a member of the  High Council.  Edward and his sister Samantha were illegally modified  genetically, in an attempt to boost their intelligence and strength.   Edward's mods failed, so he has spent his life as a dumb bodyguard for his  brilliant sister.  But 20 years before the action of the book, war broke  out on the planet Troyen, where Edward and Samantha were part of the  diplomatic corps.<br />Edward has finally been rescued and taken to Celestia,  a human colony which has accepted a great many refugees from Troyen.  These  refugees were Mandasar children (the Mandasar being the non-human race  native to Troyen).  The Mandasar are intriguing aliens: they have several  &quot;castes&quot;, like ants, and they have a Queen, like ants.  Once on  Celestia, Edward realizes something bad is going on with the refugee  Mandasar children, now grown to adulthood.  They are being enslaved,  victims of the lack of adult Mandasars.  He meets Festina Ramos, heroine of  Gardner's earlier books, who also suspects wrongdoing.  Festina, Edward,  and some of the Mandasars are soon on their way back to Troyen, to try to  figure out what's really going on behind the scenes.  The book is  action-packed, and full of neat ideas as well. <br />It's instructive just to  list the ingredients Gardner has thrown into his pot: several neat alien  races, nanotechnology, telepathy and some clever uses of it, precognition,  a man with a glass stomach, at least two varieties of human/alien hybrid,  genetic engineering, some diabolical weapons tech. Mix in plenty of  scheming, plenty of action, plenty of colour. The result is a compelling  adventure story, and lots of fun for the reader.<br /> The book isn't perfect.  You do have to swallow some of the basic implausibilities of the entire  series: mainly the League of Peoples' ability to detect and kill  &quot;dangerous non-sentients&quot; (and what seem to me to be inconsistent  and sometimes changing rules defining &quot;dangerous non-sentients&quot;),  as well as the hard-to-believe rationale behind the &quot;expendable&quot;  Explorer Corps. In addition, the bad guys are pretty cartoonishly bad. And  the ending, whilesatisfying, has aspects of deus ex machina to it, though  those aspects were at least foreshadowed fairly well. (I'd quibble, too,  that as psi powers go I hate precognition, but I think that's a personal  quirk of mine, and it can't be held against the book.) But these weaknesses  didn't stop me from enjoying myself immensely as I gobbled this book down.	2000-07-24
US	52417414	RCG1CSVMELBCH	0380802082	293706045	Vigilant (League of Peoples)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fast-moving, enjoyable, off-Earth adventure	Vigilant is James Alan Gardner's third novel.  This story is narrated by Faye Smallwood, a human woman living on Demoth, a colony planet which the humans of the Technocracy share with a genetically-engineered variant  variant of the alien Divians: Ooloms, in this case, sort of large,  humanoid, flying squirrels.  The harrowing opening tells of a plague in  which 93% of the Oolom population was killed, until Faye's father found a  cure.  But after his death, Faye spirals downward into a self-destructive  way of life.  She emerges in her mid-30s, after such bad experiences as  lots of drugs, casual sex, and self-mutilation; and such good experiences  as her group marriage; to become a proctor for the Vigil, a sort of group  of political ombudsmen for the joint Oolom/Human government of  Demoth.<br />The main action, then, begins with Faye's first job as a proctor,  which happens to correspond with an eruption of killer androids, who murder  several other proctors.  Faye is saved only by a mysterious entity which  seems to be a movable wormhole.  In quick succession, Faye is kidnapped by  members of the Technocracy's Admiralty, who are interested in the  &quot;wormhole&quot;, rescued by Festina Ramos of Expendable, and   investigating the police investigation into the killer android episode.   This finally leads to an interlaced series of confrontations with the past:  Faye's past (an understanding of her Father's secrets, and a rapprochement  of sorts with her mother), the planet's near past (the Oolom plague), and  its much farther past (its mysterious previous alien occupants).<br />The book  is very action-filled.  The early pages seem to promise a story to do with  the fairly interesting political concept of the Vigil, tied in with,  perhaps, Human/Oolom relations, and with Faye's personal growth.  While  these features aren't precisely forgotten, they tend to be submerged under  the fast-moving plot, which soon involves a different Divian species, trade  negotiations, ancient alien archaeological sites, new plague outbreaks, and  some very old crimes.  Gardner piles quite a few concepts on top of each  other, and for some time I was keeping a list of outrageous coincidences on  which he was supporting his plot structure, as well as some unfairly  mystical technology: but I was unfair.  Most of his coincidences turn out  to be not so coincidental after all, the tech is quite well explained, and  all is resolved in a fairly tightly constructed denouement.<br />This is  definitely a fun read, and an interesting book with plenty of clever ideas,  as well as pretty much nonstop action.  On the negative side, even though  the coincidences, as I said, are generally well explained, the complex  structure of motivations and plots tends to give the book an artificial  feel, and tends to make Faye, the central character, seem to be a pawn in a  story really involving much different, non-human, entities.  Thus the final  unfolding of the plot, even if reasonably logical, isn't quite as  personally involving as one might have hoped.  And the high tech mysteries,  while once again well explained, also come off to an extent as dei ex  machinae, at least at the Human/Oolom level.  Furthermore, the main human  villains (including the Admiralty thugs who kidnap Faye), really act in  very stupid and dangerous ways.  Some of this is explained away, some seems  to be necessary mainly to propel the book's plot.<br />Thus on the whole I can  recommend Vigilant as an enjoyable, fast-moving, off-planet adventure, with  the caveat that character development and general plausibility sometimes  take a back seat to plot requirements.  At the same time, Gardner clearly  can do characters well, and Faye in particular is a well-depicted, less  than perfect but still likable, viewpoint character.  Gardner's Technocracy  seems an interesting universe in which to set stories, with an intriguing  if basically implausible central law: no killer of another  &quot;sentient&quot; can ever engage in interstellar travel.	2000-07-24
US	52417414	R3VFZOJKOJIYYV	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thoughtful look at a man reliving his life again and again	Ken Grimwood's Replay is the 1988 World Fantasy Award winner.  It's about a man who dies in 1988, only to wake up 25 years in his past, replaying his life.  He retains all his memories.  First time around, he makes a fortune  by betting on remembered sporting events, but when he tries to do something  major (save Kennedy), he is frustrated.  He decides he can't really make  significant changes.  He builds a decent life, then in 1988 - wham! he dies  again.  This keeps happening, and he goes through several permutations: a  wasted cycle of drugs and sex, a careful rebuilding of a relationship he  had previously messed up, and finally he meets another replayer, a woman.   Working together, they try to change history for the better, with  unintended consequences.  Soon they realize that they are coming back later  and later in time.  What will happen when there replays start in 1988?   <br />The novel is pretty good, but not great.  The best part is the  examination of what it really means to live a &quot;good&quot; life.  What  makes a life worth it?  On the down side, the characterization is a bit  thin and convenient: Jeff, the hero, for one example, is apparently a babe  magnet: he never has serious trouble getting together with whichever  beautiful woman the plot needs him to get together with.  But Grimwood does  a decent job of ringing most of the reasonable changes on the idea.  He  never explains things (how could he?), and I'd quibble with his assertion  that the small changes Jeff and Pamela make wouldn't have larger overall  effects. (Among other things, I think they risk changing the future enough  so that their &quot;psychic&quot; investments and avoidance of plane  crashes, etc., won't work, but Grimwood posits that they do: except in the  one case where they purposely try to make major changes.)  The resolution  is pretty well handled.  I liked it, but not as much as its reputation  would have seemed to indicate I would.	2000-07-24
US	52417414	R1MKYHK2JUYO9Z	0226677184	448679289	A Dance to the Music of Time: Fourth Movement	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Last segments of the finest English novel of the 20th C.	_A Dance to the Music of Time_ is an extremely absorbing and well-crafted novel (composed of 12 smaller novels).  Its subject is the decline of the English upper classes from the First World War to about 1970, a decline  seen is inevitable and probably necessary, but somehow also  regrettable.<br />Such a description might make the novel seem stuffy, but it  is not.  _A Dance to the Music of Time_ is at times very funny indeed, and  always interesting. always involving.  It features an enormous cast of  characters, and Powell has the remarkable ability to make his characters  memorable with the briefest of descriptions.  In addition, Powell's prose  is addictive: very characteristic, idiosyncratic, and elegant.<br />The long  novel follows the life of the narrator, Nicholas Jenkins, from his time at  Eton just after World War I to retirement in the English countryside in the  late '60s.  But Jenkins, though the narrator, is in many ways not the most  important character.  The comic villain Widmerpool, a creature of pure  will, and awkward malevolence, is the other fulcrum around which the novel  pivots.<br />This final volume of the University of Chicago's beautiful Trade  Paperback edition includes the last three books.  _Books Do Furnish a Room_  is set shortly after World War II, when Nick Jenkins is moving in London  literary circles, dealing with such characters as the doomed, eccentric,  novelist X. Trapnel, his mistress Pamela Flitton Widmerpool, and of course  Kenneth Widmerpool himself, clumsily but successfully trying to maximize  his political influence with the help of a literary magazine.  _Temporary  Kings_ features Jenkins at a conference in Venice, then back in London, and  introduces a couple of curious Americans, Louis Glober and Russell  Gwinnett.  It also features the final destructive acts of the terrible  Pamela Flitton's life.  _Hearing Secret Harmonies_ concludes the sequence,  as Jenkins rather bitterly views the radicalism of the '60s, andespecially  Widmerpool's usual attempts at ingratiating himself with the latest fads in  power.  The novel closes with a remarkable vision of Widmerpool's end,  oddly, bitterly echoing his first appearance.  <br />A great, great, series of  novels.  Incomparable.	2000-07-14
US	52417414	R12I6CVHLHF0LM	0226677168	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: Second Movement	Books	5	13	14	N	N	More of the greatest 20th Century English novel	_A Dance to the Music of Time_ is an extremely absorbing and well-crafted novel (composed of 12 smaller novels).  Its subject is the decline of the English upper classes from the First World War to about 1970, a decline  seen is inevitable and probably necessary, but somehow also  regrettable.<br />Such a description might make the novel seem stuffy, but it  is not.  _A Dance to the Music of Time_ is at times very funny indeed, and  always interesting. always involving.  It features an enormous cast of  characters, and Powell has the remarkable ability to make his characters  memorable with the briefest of descriptions.  In addition, Powell's prose  is addictive: very characteristic, idiosyncratic, and elegant.<br />The long  novel follows the life of the narrator, Nicholas Jenkins, from his time at  Eton just after World War I to retirement in the English countryside in the  late '60s.  But Jenkins, though the narrator, is in many ways not the most  important character.  The comic villain Widmerpool, a creature of pure  will, and awkward malevolence, is the other fulcrum around which the novel  pivots.<br />This second volume of the University of Chicago's beautiful trade  paperback editions features books 4, 5 and 6 of the novel series.  _At Lady  Molly's_ is centered around the eccentric title character and her parties,  as well as such other characters as her eccentric husband, Ted Jeavons, and  even Nick Jenkins' wife-to-be, Isobel.  _Casanova's Chinese Restaurant_  opens with a bravura prose set-piece of flashback within flashback, and  deals with Jenkins' great friend the composer Hugh Moreland, and with the  tragically unhappily married critic Maclintick.  The subject of the novel  is marriage.  The last novel in this book is _The Kindly Ones_, which deals  with the coming of World War II.  It begins with a flashback to 1914, as  the First World War breaks out and impinges on Jenkins' childhood, then  continues in the late '30s as Europe heads again into war..	2000-07-14
US	52417414	R2ZWCBR2AOCA68	0226677176	972532291	A Dance to the Music of Time: Third Movement	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The &quot;War Trilogy&quot; within Powell's great novel	_A Dance to the Music of Time_ is an extremely absorbing and well-crafted novel (composed of 12 smaller novels).  Its subject is the decline of the English upper classes from the First World War to about 1970, a decline  seen is inevitable and probably necessary, but somehow also  regrettable.<br />Such a description might make the novel seem stuffy, but it  is not.  _A Dance to the Music of Time_ is at times very funny indeed, and  always interesting. always involving.  It features an enormous cast of  characters, and Powell has the remarkable ability to make his characters  memorable with the briefest of descriptions.  In addition, Powell's prose  is addictive: very characteristic, idiosyncratic, and elegant.<br />The long  novel follows the life of the narrator, Nicholas Jenkins, from his time at  Eton just after World War I to retirement in the English countryside in the  late '60s.  But Jenkins, though the narrator, is in many ways not the most  important character.  The comic villain Widmerpool, a creature of pure  will, and awkward malevolence, is the other fulcrum around which the novel  pivots.<br />The third volume of the beautiful University of Chicago Press  trade paper edition of _A Dance to the Music of Time_ consists of what is  often called the &quot;War Trilogy&quot;.  These three novels ( _The Valley  of Bones_, _The Soldier's Art_, and _The Military Philosophers_) cover Nick  Jenkins' experiences in the war.  As a consequence, many new characters are  introduced, though old favorites still show up; and the tone is somewhat  different.  They are still remarkable, often very moving, and often very  funny, novels.	2000-07-14
US	52417414	R1HMUZS6APVJZV	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Moving and very real-seeming story	_The Blue Flower_ is the story of the romance of Friedrich von Hardenburg, later famous as the German Romantic poet-novelist-philosopher Novalis, with a 12-year old girl, Sophie Von Kuhn. The story is told in brief chapters,  from the points of view of several characters: Hardenburg himself, a female  friend who may fancy herself a rival of Sophie's, Hardenburg's sister,  Sophie's sister, and so on. The large cast of characters is wonderfully  described, each character briefly and accurately limned, and all treated  with humor and affection. In addition, details of how life was lived in  18th century Saxony are casually strewn throughout the book, and a very  accurate-feeling picture of everyday life, and more importantly, how  everyday people thought, is the result.<br />The main characters are odd but  interesting: Fritz von Hardenburg is a young artist with Romantic  attitudes: and at the same time realistically a brother and a son, and also  a fairly conscientious apprentice salt-mine inspector. Sophie is a 12-year  old girl of very little intelligence, and is unsparingly presented as such  (indeed, her character is probably treated with less sympathy than any  other in the book.) <br />As far as I can tell, every character in the book  (at least every even moderately prominent character) is historical, though  it is hard for me to be sure how closely Fitzgerald's characterizations  resemble the historical record. Knowledge of the historical events depicted  here cast a sort of pall over the events of the novel: we know that Sophie  will die very young, and von Hardenburg not much later. (Novalis first  became famous for a series of prose poems written in Sophie's memory  (&quot;Hymns to the Night&quot;), and his major work, the novel _Heinrich  von Ofterdingen_, was left uncompleted at his death.) Despite this pall,  the book is funny, engaging, and beautiful in a delicate-seeming fashion.	2000-07-14
US	52417414	R176VQO7F6FQGM	0226677141	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: First Movement	Books	5	71	75	N	N	The Finest English Novel of the 20th Century	_A Dance to the Music of Time_ is an extremely absorbing and well-crafted novel (composed of 12 smaller novels).  Its subject is the decline of the English upper classes from the First World War to about 1970, a decline  seen is inevitable and probably necessary, but somehow also  regrettable.<br />Such a description might make the novel seem stuffy, but it  is not.  _A Dance to the Music of Time_ is at times very funny indeed, and  always interesting. always involving.  It features an enormous cast of  characters, and Powell has the remarkable ability to make his characters  memorable with the briefest of descriptions.  In addition, Powell's prose  is addictive: very characteristic, idiosyncratic, and elegant.<br />The long  novel follows the life of the narrator, Nicholas Jenkins, from his time at  Eton just after World War I to retirement in the English countryside in the  late '60s.  But Jenkins, though the narrator, is in many ways not the most  important character.  The comic villain Widmerpool, a creature of pure  will, and awkward malevolence, is the other fulcrum around which the novel  pivots.<br />This first volume of the University of Chicago Press' beautiful  four-volume Trade Paperback edition contains the first three books: _A  Question of Upbringing_, which follows Nick Jenkins and his friends Charles  Stringham and Peter Templer, along with Kenneth Widmerpool, through the  last few terms at Eton, and summer spent in France, and then time at  Oxford; _A Buyer's Market_, which covers Nick and his friends in their  early 20s, attending dances and dinners, having love affairs, and beginning  to make careers; and _The Acceptance World_, which shows the young men  becoming settled in their careers, and beginning to marry and divorce and  have more affairs as their &quot;dance&quot; continues.<br />This is simply  outstanding stuff.	2000-07-14
US	52417414	R2FHIDAAFS8QZX	0812571924	434873155	The Stars Asunder: A New Novel of the Mageworlds	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Fine Space Opera with real Mages	This is an exciting and colourful adventure story, set in a universe where high technologies such as spaceships and robots interact seamlessly with what appear to be magical powers. As such it could be regarded as a book on  the diffuse borderline between SF and Fantasy, though the rigorous approach  to the use of the magical system, as well as, to be sure, the space-going  setting, gives the book a feel that is distinctly SF. <br />Debra Doyle and  James D. Macdonald have been publishing their Mageworlds series of  unabashed Space Opera since 1992. The books feature a conflict between the  Republic and the Mageworlds, both loose associations of solar systems,  separated by a large starless gap. The first five books have all been from  the point of view of the Republic. This book is set some 500 years prior to  the preceding books, and it is set mostly in the Mageworlds, prior to their  contact with the worlds of the Republic. While the Mageworlds appear to be  the &quot;bad guys&quot; in the other books, in this book we see the action  through their eyes, and their motivations are a usual human mixture of  noble and venal.<br />The story follows several threads: one involving 'Rekhe,  a young man of the eus-Peledaen family, who becomes a mage; another  involving his mentor, Garrod, who plans to cross the ancient gap caused by  the &quot;Sundering of the Galaxy&quot;; another involving 'Rekhe's lover's  fleet career; and a complicated thread involving political machinations  concerning the domination of the star fleet families over Mageworlds  trade.<br />The story takes a while to get going, because there are many  threads to initiate. But eventually Garrod makes his exhausting  quasi-magical trip across the gap, and 'Rekhe persuades his family to  sponsor a trip to the world Garrod finds. But the technological situation  across the &quot;sundering&quot; is rather different from what the  Mageworlds are used to, and it isn't at all clear if this contact will be agood thing. At the same time, the various plots coming to a head back home  threaten to disturb the settled, somewhat peaceful, order of the  Mageworlds.  The conclusion is exciting and satisfying. The plots turn out  to be more convoluted than expected, and in a sensible way. The authors  manage to make the people of the Mageworlds believable and basically good,  while at the same time setting them up to be the villains they become in  future books. The various characters are also believable, and mostly  likeable, even when they act in questionable ways.	2000-06-30
US	52417414	R30FHCYA7SEP6Q	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Best SF Novel of 1999	This is a wonderful SF novel.  It's the first novel in a while to really engage me on the sense of wonder level, and to again awaken the feelings of awe and of &quot;I want to be there&quot; that were so central to my early  reading of SF. <br />The story is deeply involving and never boring despite  the length of the book.  Briefly, it involves the encounter between two  groups of starfaring humans: the trading Qeng Ho, and the authoritarian  Emergents, at a strange star called On/Off, because it shines for only some  40 years before turning &quot;off&quot; for over 200 years.  The Emergents  overwhelm the Qeng Ho, but destroy both groups star travelling capability  in the process.  Thus, both groups must struggle through an &quot;Off&quot;  period of the star, waiting for the spiderlike aliens on the star's planet  to awake from hibernation when the star comes on, and hopefully help the  humans repair their ships.  The two threads of the story follow, in space,  the Qeng Ho resistance to the evil (but cleverly so!) Emergents, and on the  planet, the appearance of a genius among the aliens, who helps bring  achieve a technological civilization with great rapidity. <br />What's so good  about this book: with Vinge, I suppose I always think ideas first.  He has  come up with several really nice ideas.  First, his concept of an extended  human future in space with strict light-speed limits (as far as anyone in  _Deepness_ knows), is very well-worked out and believable and impressive  and fun.  It depends on basically three pieces of extrapolation: ramships  that can get to about .3c, lifespans extended to about 500 years, and  near-perfect suspended animation or coldsleep.  Second is the On/Off star.   The idea of a star that shines for 40 or so years and turns off for 210  years is neat, and then giving it a planet and a believable set of aliens  is great fun.  The aliens are really neat: they are too human in how they  are presented, but Vinge neatly finesses this issue, in at least a  half-convincing way, and he shows us glimpses that suggest real alienness,  too.  The third especially neat idea I won't mention because it might be  too much of a spoiler, but the key &quot;tech&quot; of the bad guys is  really scary, and a neat SFnal idea.   And handled very well, and subtly.   Furthermore, the prose is very impressive, sometimes beautiful, and   also  subtle and clever, with things like the authoritative bad guy wondering how  the trading Qeng Ho gave their ship Invisible Hand such a perfect name.  He  doesn't know what it means: he thinks its a metaphor for perfect security  tech.<br />And, above all, the characters are involving, including the alien  characters; and the story is full of adventures and is resolved in a deeply  satisfying way.<br />A wonderful book.	2000-06-28
US	52417414	R2IDH9KN7OBGJW	006014789X	847882027	Doorways in the Sand	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Engaging and original romp	_Doorways in the Sand_ has been a favorite Zelazny novel of mine since I read it in the Analog serialization in 1976.  On recent rereading, it was pretty much as good as I remembered.  Fred Cassidy is a permanent student,  partly because he likes learning, partly because he continues to draw from  his rich Uncle's trust fund as long as he is in college.  Meantime various  advisors scheme to get him to graduate, while Fred, an acrophiliac, climbs  all over the roofs of the college town.  But all of a sudden he has a lot  more to worry about.  Various beings seem convinced he knows the  whereabouts of the alien &quot;starstone&quot;, a cultural artifact given  to Earth in exchange for the British Crown Jewels and the Mona Lisa, and  the maintenance of which in good condition is essential to Earth's nascent  status in Galactic civilization.  These folks memorably include some alien  cops who like to dress up as marsupials.  There follows a lot of action,  all well done if sometimes a bit implausible, and a decent resolution  involving a not absurd view of our place in the universe, etc. etc.  It's  not a great novel, but it's great fun.	2000-06-28
US	52417414	R2OW1Y20SZ0F1T	0671578510	862976515	Telzey Amberdon	Books	4	85	85	N	N	Welcome reissue of a fine SF writer	James H. Schmitz was one of SF's most popular writers of the 1960s and early 1970s.  His stories were published between 1943 and 1974, but despite early successes such as &quot;The Witches of Karres&quot; (1949), the  _Agent of Vega_ stories in the early 1950s, and &quot;Grandpa&quot; (1955),  his most significant work dates to the last 15 years of his career.  This  period included his five novels, short stories like &quot;Balanced  Ecology&quot; and &quot;The Custodians&quot;, but most significantly, his  closely linked stories about two young women: Telzey Amberdon and Trigger  Argee.  These stories, appearing for the most part in Analog, were very  popular indeed at the time, particularly the Telzey stories.  But Schmitz'  popularity hasn't really proved enduring, except among a dedicated small  group.  He was just good enough to last in the minds of a certain cadre of  readers, but even at his peak he never attained quite the notoriety or  sales to ensure enduring print runs.  And after all the latter distinction  is rare indeed.<br />This new edition, however, begins to bring some of  Schmitz' best work back into print.  Inclued are six Telzey stories:  &quot;Novice,&quot; &quot;Undercurrents,&quot; &quot;Poltergeist,&quot;  &quot;Goblin Night,&quot; &quot;Sleep No More,&quot; and &quot;The Lion  Game.&quot;  The first two have been published together as the novel _The  Universe Against Her_, but they are really independent stories.  The last  three have been published as the novel _The Lion Game_, and in this case I  think they work together pretty well as a novel: a problem introduced in  the first story is not resolved until the last.  &quot;Poltergeist&quot;  has not previously been reprinted, and serves as a bridge between the two  novels, hinting at the reason for a noticeable change in Telzey's attitude  between &quot;Undercurrents&quot; and &quot;Goblin Night.&quot;<br />These  stories are very fun reading (my favorite is &quot;The Lion Game&quot;),  and they feature an engaging young heroine, and clever plots built around  Telzey's psi powers.  In addition to the Telzey stories, there are two  fairly little known stories, both decent stuff, which have a tangential  relation to the other stories in the book: &quot;The Star Hyacinths&quot;  and &quot;Blood of Nalakia&quot;.<br />Finally I should mention that these  stories have been edited slightly from the original publications.  Most of  the editing is aimed at making the series of stories read more smoothly  together.  (More like a unified novel).  I am familiar with the earlier  printings, and in my opinion the editing has been done in a reasonable way,  and the stories have not been harmed, and in some cases have been improved.	2000-06-08
US	52417414	R2GOMJVPF2SM7H	0380805502	364694745	Carthage Ascendant : The Book of Ash 2	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exciting and scary second installment in a fine new series	The second volume of the US edition of Mary Gentle's brilliant novel _Ash_ (published as one HUGE book in the UK) takes the young woman mercenary Ash to Carthage.<br />There she learns more about her mysterious \\"twin\\", and about the strange darkness that covers Carthage.  And the reader learns more about the curious nature of the alternate history Gentle has created.  The book is also full of bloody action and bawdy humour, as with pretty much everything Gentle (what an inappropriate name in some ways!) has written.<br />The entire novel is excellent work, highly recommended.	2000-06-08
US	52417414	R3ROSUSH90GIAD	0380788691	166781184	A Secret History: The Book Of Ash, #1	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Absorbing Alternate History/Fantasy	This is the first installment of an impressive new novel (or novel series) by Mary Gentle.  In brief, it's the story of a female mercenary captain, Ash, in the 1470s, at the time of the fall of the Duchy of Burgundy.  (By coincidence, these events occur at about the same time as yet another  unusual alternate history/fantasy, John M. Ford's The Dragon  Waiting.)<br />The Book of Ash purports to be a straight-forward translation  of a few contemporary manuscripts about Ash's life, and indeed there is a  frame story consisting of letters and email between the translator and his  editor. As such, they start out seeming to be &quot;normal&quot; historical  fiction, with a very realistic and believable portrayal of Ash's childhood  as a mercenary camp follower, then jumping to portrayal of her role as the  Captain of some 800 mercenaries at the age of 19 or 20.  All this is  presented starkly: Ash's rape at the age of 8, and her subsequent killing  of her attackers; the filthy conditions in her camp; the blood, pain, and  discomfort of battle.  Throughout, we get very nice details of such things  as what sort of armour was worn.  But slowly we realize that the world  described doesn't seem to be part of our own history.<br />At first, we notice  little details, such as the voices Ash hears, or the references to a  different-seeming variety of Christianity, involving the &quot;Green  Christ&quot;, or the odd mention of Carthage and the Eternal Twilight.  As  the book goes on, we learn that somehow Carthage has survived into the 15th  century, or has been re-established, and, more strangely, that the Sun  never shines in the area of Carthage.  Before long, we are encountering  robots (Stone Golems) used as weapons of war, unusual speculation about  parallel worlds, long-term breeding projects, and other decidedly  fantastical (or perhaps even science-fictional) devices.  But the centre of  the story remains Ash, a charismatic character, wholly believable as a  leader of her men, wholly sympathetic but thoroughly a professional killer,  harrowed by bitter personal questions about her identity, her lust for a  man she cannot abide, her affection for a man whose love she cannot return,  her loyalties to all her company.  I found this  book terrifically  exciting, with well-described battle scenes, fascinating weird background  concepts, and a compelling overarching story-line.<br />Besides the exciting  adventure plot, the characters in these books are very well done: their  motivations are real, they face difficult decisions and don't always choose  rightly, they seem reasonably true to their time.  Even the villains are  believable, and by no means thoroughly evil.  The 15th-century milieu is  realistically presented. And the revelations of the secrets behind the  scenes are made with great cleverness and subtlety.  Here the frame story,  as well as footnotes, are used to very good effect.  I am eagerly awaiting  the final three installments.	2000-04-25
US	52417414	R3G1L8WXO8OP14	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Welcome Reissue of a True SF Classic	Lord of Light is a wonderful novel, fully worthy of the praise it has garnered.  It is set many centuries in the future, after &quot;the death of Urath.&quot;  On a colony planet, men have battled the previous inhabitants and won, and have established a society.  This society is based on  technological means of imitating the Hindu religion.  Specifically, when  the body nears death, it is possible to transfer the &quot;mind&quot; or  &quot;soul&quot; to a new body, even the body of an animal.  But some of  the earliest colonists, including the &quot;First,&quot; have additional  powers, which give them the status of gods.  They also have taken control  of the means of reincarnation, and a faction among them is using that means  in political ways: punishing their enemies with reincarnation as animals,  or with the &quot;true death.&quot;  The result is a society of humans  living in a world in which something resembling Hinduism is literally true.   Furthermore, the leading faction of &quot;gods&quot; is using its powers  to keep the technological level of human society low enough that their own   position cannot be threatened.  The novel tells of the hero, one of the  &quot;Gods&quot;, and his two attempts to free the people of this  world.<br />This is definitely worthy of its place among the standard-bearing  works of science fiction.  Not only does Zelazny pull off the intriguing  feat of creating a scientifically plausible world  (given some extremely  advanced technology, and a fair bit of handwaving) in which a fairly close  rendering of the Hindu system of gods, demons, and their powers -- and  reincarnation -- is real; he makes that just a nice background to an honest  and moving story of a believable man. And his story is grounded on a sound  theme.  And finally, all the clever background ends up as more than just  background: it reinforces the central meaning of the book.  Definitely  recommended, and it's nice to see that new readers will be getting a chance  to encounter this excellent work.	2000-04-25
US	52417414	R1CCW0BT5AAK9B	1929611013	822352231	Journey to Fusang: The Original, Uncut Text	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Vastly Enjoyable Comic Alternate History	This novel was first published by Warner Questar in 1988, and I read it and liked it a lot then.  I think I like it even more on rereading.  This new edition, by the way, is a restored text: a few scenes have been added  that were cut from the first edition.  The story is told by an Irishman,  Finn of No Fixed Abode, an appealing rascal who ends up on an Arabian  slaver headed for North America, after his affair with the High King of  Ireland's daughter bore too much fruit, as it were.  In this timeline, the  Mongols invaded Western Europe and stuck around for a while, and as a  result Europe is a backwater and the world is dominated by Islam and China.   The Eastern half of North American is nominally Islamic, and the Western  portion (Fusang) is Chinese.  Mexico is ruled by a still powerful Aztec  empire.  Finn joins up with a Jew, Yusuf, and an Englishman, Alfred, as  well as (eventually) a gorgeous redhead named Maeve, and they wander  uncertainly across America, encountering many dangers on the way, most  especially a mad Cossack who wants to take over North America.  The book is  extremely funny and clever, with a well-resolved plot, and engaging  characters.  And despite the comic tone, it effectively portrays the  horrors of war and slavery.  Highly recommended.	2000-03-10
