US	52423461	R2E6IQYQNE5MQW	0141019646	643055675	In Command Of History: Churchill Fighting And Writing Second World War	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Politician as Historian or Vice Versa?	I found this volume to be extremely interesting, even fascinating at times.  It focuses upon the writing of Winston Churchill's epic \\"The Second World War,\\" whose six volumes were a major publishing event around the world, and eventually earned Churchill a Nobel Prize for literature. It is really several different books in one. <br /> <br />    First, much like Ashley's \\"Churchill as Historian,\\" the author discusses the actual mechanics of writing so massive a project when Churchill had plenty of other things to keep him busy.  The \\"syndicate\\" of experts who assisted him, including even the Parliamentary Cabinet Office, is analyzed in great detail. According to the author, the \\"three D's\\" were the core of Churchill's method.  That is, first he had set in type the key documents which he had collected during his wartime service as Prime Minister. Then he tied the documents together with dictated reminiscenses.  Finally, the third \\"D\\" consisted of a very large number of drafts whereby the documents were edited down and the connecting narrative supplemented with WC's own recollections or papers drafted by syndicate members. Ironically, it is Churchill's heavy reliance upon documents that at once has yielded much praise from other historical researchers (since otherwise they would not have been made public for as much as 50 years after the war's conclusion),but also generated negative reactions from lay readers, especially in the U.S. <br /> <br />     Next, the really interesting issues are tackled.  For example, how candid and accurate was WC regarding his actions during the war?  The author extremely well documents how WC would edit documents, or even modify them, in order to (not surprisingly) put himself in the best historical light.  Also, he was duty bound not to reveal the existence of \\"Ultra,\\" which was the designation for breaking the German code during the war. Given the fact that in the postwar period, others were also writing books (e.g., Ike with his \\"Crusade in Europe\\" and Sherwood's \\"Roosevelt and Hopkins\\"), WC would frequently modify his drafts in order to obviate any possible taint regarding his decisions and actions while PM in a stab at vindication.  One good example was the dispute that arose over whether WC had favored or retarded the \\"Overlord\\" invasion of France in 1944. Churchill also faced the practical constraints of the Cold War being on-going and also acting as head of the Conservative Party and ultimately PM for a second time.  These factors too influenced how he structured the text. <br /> <br />     Of course a most intriguing question is did WC really write the work given the extensive assistance he received?  The author suggests a useful analogy: WC was like a master chef at a large restaurant who designs and directs the menu, while others do much of the actual food preparation.  He also likens it to a group project in science, where a number of folks collaborate on a paper which is attributed to the lead author. Clearly, it is Churchill's book even though he did not write all of it himself--but he reviewed every sentence and corrected or struck out that with which he disagreed.  <br /> <br />    Finally, in a most interesting discussion, the author recounts the arguments that arose during the 1955-1965 period as other historians, military figures, and the leaders of other countries (such as De Gaulle) took aim on Churchill's analysis.  Not quite as challenging as fighting Hitler, but still quite a nice war of its own.  The author, Professor of International History at Cambridge, has done just a superior job.  Be warned, it is a long book (over 600 pages) and the Penguin edition is set in very small type.  But the rewards of the book more than compensate for these problems, especially for those of us interested in Churchill. The stream of Churchill volumes continues unabated and has even increased recently--but this book should be singled out for the unique perspective it affords us on \\"the great man.\\"	2005-10-13
US	52423461	R3EQZNWJ2EKKM4	1594200300	61896554	Making Friends with Hitler: Lord Londonderry, the Nazis, and the Road to War	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	"Anglo-German Fellowship"	Ian Kershaw continues to add to his list of extraordinarily valuable books on Nazi-era Germany in this volume focusing on Lord Londonderry's activities prior to the World War II.  Londonderry (ironically, a cousin of Churchill) took the lead in attempting to improve relations between Britain and Hitler's Germany and, thereby, head off war.  By focusing on Londonderry (1878-1949), the reader can come to understand the various reasons why appeasement appealed to so many British politicans and the general public. <br /> <br />Of course, the interesting question is why did Londonderry so embrace the German point of view that he ended up publicly disgraced?  Certainly some personal motives played a role, most directly his desire for vindication after being removed from the Cabinet as Air Minister (not to mention his failure to be named Viceroy for India) and generally being humiliated for his visits to Germany (Goering in particular), return visits from Nazi luminaries like Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop, and very public pro-German activities and writings. Kershaw suggests that like many in his aristocratic class, facing increased dimnishment of their wealth and power, Hitler was seen as a helpful bulwark against \\"Bolshevism\\" and domestic socialist movements. In exchange for a free hand in Europe, Hitler would protect the prerogatives of the 0.1% of the population that owned 1/3 of Britain's wealth. <br /> <br />Kershaw argues that Hitler was quite masterful in his manipulation of British public opinion--and one can hardly disagree. He also successfully exploited a split in the positions of France and Britain. Through Kershaw's skillful analysis, the genesis and appeal of the appeasement movement become evident.  It is no wonder that Chamberlin fell into the trap. For Londonderry and this group, the agreement at Munich was a triumph, because it avoided war and insured a valid sphere of control for Germany. It took both \\"Krystalnacht\\" and Hitler's blatant invasion of theremainder of Czechoslovakia before Londonderry began to get the picture. Perhaps the rapid slide downward of the aristocracy after the war is, in part, attributable to the fact that many members shared Londonderry's perspective--and the rest of British society knew it. <br /> <br />As is to be expected, superb research and invaluable notes are part of the package.  Like all of Kershaw's volumes, it is well written and easy even for us Yanks to follow as he maneuvers through the ins and out of British politics of the 1930's.  The bottom line: the whole appeasement movement (which in hindsight seems somewhat inexplicable) becomes quite understandable after reading this book.  That is its greatest contribution.	2005-10-11
US	52423461	R18MR62VK8MJ9M	0195159330	938924866	David Hackett Souter: Traditional Republican On The Rehnquist Court	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A Superb Judicial Biography of Justice Souter	Writing judicial biography can be a challenging undertaking.  How much of the judge's family history should be included?; what elements of the judge's pre-court career merit careful examination?; how extensive should the discussion be of how and why the judge was selected for the position?; and finally, how many of the judge's decisions should be reviewed to round out the picture?  It is a pleasure to report that Professor Yarbrough has mastered the craft well, having written prior biographies of both Justices Harlan, Judge Frank Johnson, and District Court Judge Waring.<br /><br />This an enormously valuable resource for understanding Justice Souter. It gives just enough attention to his family background and his pre-Court career. Many judicial biographies rush over the process whereby the subject is selected; not so here.  This chapter is particularly of pertinent interest given the current Roberts' hearings.  It is surprising to see Souter, labeled by many as the \\"stealth nominee,\\" being far more candid with the Judiciary Committee than Judge Roberts in his testimony.<br /><br />It is a particularly difficult task to discuss the judicial philosophy of a subject who is still on the court.  In fact, Justice Souter will finish out 15 years in October, 2005.  Once again, Yarbrough is up to the task.  Much attention is devoted, and rightly so, to Souter's \\"common law\\" adherence to precedent.  Over the 15 years so far, the Justice has developed a position of moderate liberalism (with the exception of criminal justice) on such issues as establishment, maintaining Congressional authority, limiting \\"state sovereignty,\\" restricting the reach of the \\"taking clause, Bush v. Gore, and protecting the right to privacy.<br /><br />The book is especially valuable in discussing Souter's interactions with other members of the Court, particularly as regards the critical Planned Parenthood v. Casey decision. Yarbrough here relies heavily on Justice Blackmun's now public court files to trace the maneuverings that occurred in this case.  As I explained in my Amazon review of Linda Greenhouse's Blackmun biography, I am still a bit uncomfortable with the private memos of sitting justices being studied, even though they add enormously to the value of Yarbrough's discussion.  His chapter on Bush v. Gore is also very strong in terms on explaining exactly what motivated various of the Justices in that case.<br /><br />I would have liked Yarbrough to have included a bibliography, to compliment his extensive notes.  He also apparently has made little use of the professional literature (such as law review articles) on Souter, although I was surprised to discover that there is not that much attention that has been devoted to the Justice.  All the more reason to be appreciative of this fine judicial biography that admirably fills the gap.that occurred in this case.  As I explained in my Amazon review of Linda Greenhouse's Blackmun biography, I am still a bit uncomfortable with the private memos of sitting justices being studied, even though they add enormously to the value of Yarbrough's discussion.  His chapter on Bush v. Gore is also very strong in terms on explaining exactly what motivated various of the Justices in that case.    I would have liked Yarbrough to have included a bibliography, to compliment his extensive notes.  He also apparently has made little use of the professional literature (such as law review articles) on Souter, although I was surprised to discover that there is not that much attention that has been devoted to the Justice.  All the more reason to be appreciative of this fine judicial biography that admirably fills the gap.	2005-09-26
US	52423461	R4GA6WI02EJ2M	0674013174	528738405	Death in the Tiergarten: Murder and Criminal Justice in the Kaiser’s Berlin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Look at Criminal Justice in Late Wilhelmine Berlin	I found this to be just an extremely interesting and valuable book on a topic that has received relatively little attention in this country.  While there has been much speculation on the issue of whether the legal positivism of the late 19th and early 20th centuries facilitated the Nazi co-opting of law, there have been few if any empirical studies in English of how criminal justice operated in Wilhelmine Germany, and Berlin in particular. The focus here is on the culture of the criminal courtroom, and how such influences as interest groups, an aggressive press, juries, the changing role of defense counsel, public opinion, the use of experts, and sociological theories of crime all impacted on the process. <br /> <br />     The book is very well structured to lead the reader through vauable background before getting to the heart of the analysis. Hence, such topics as the \\"free law movement\\", the German criminal code, the role of the judge, the three stages of a German criminal trial, the power of prosecutors, the quality of defense counsel, and the role of the new mass press are all discussed.  One of the most interesting facets of the book (at least to me as a defense counsel) is how tame and even passive the few defense counsel were initially. Professional norms, backed up by the \\"Honor Courts\\" ensured that vigorous criminal defense was foreclosed, although this was to change in the early 20th century. This resulted in a particular disability for defendants, since false confessions were so prominent a feature of proceedings at this point.  <br /> <br />      But, as the author so cogently explains, much was to change in the period immediately prior to Weimar.  More use of documents at trial became the norm; police procedures were reformed; mental disability as a defense was developed; expert witnesses began to limit the power of prosecutors, and a more vigorous defense bar emerged. The book examines several trials in detail affording a valuable empirical perspective on the changes infilitrating the criminal trial process. <br /> <br />     Professor Hett's research is prodigious, and the extensive notes are extremely useful, though most sources are in German. His command of the material is superb, and, when coupled with his well-constructed discussion, this makes for an extremely valuable resource. An absolutely indispenable source for anyone, beginner or advanced student, interested in this fascinating topic.	2005-09-19
US	52423461	R2XZHTTI8Y23TA	0195300211	357163251	Advice and Consent: The Politics of Judicial Appointments	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Super Introduction to Judicial Appointments	This is just an extraordinary book on judicial appointments written by two distinguished political scientists with decades of experience studying the federal courts.  While it obviously is primarily designed to be a brief (168 pages, including the extensive notes) introduction to the process of judicial selection for the general reader, it skillfully incorporates some of the most significant research findings drawn from professional journals and papers. As a result, even those who are somewhat familiar with the topic and the professional literature will derive some valuable new insights. The writing is brisk and moves quickly and smoothly through the material, with the assistance of some helpful charts.  In addition, the book's coverage is not limited to the Supreme Court but covers all three levels of the federal judiciary. One nice feature is that some interesting statistical data from \\"The Supreme Court Compendium,\\" edited by one of the co-authors, are sprinkled throughout the discussion (e.g., no more than 20% of lower court nominations have generated any opposition). The authors' discussion of \\"do Presidents get what they want?\\" in making nominations, and if so, for how long, is particularly effective. After all, how accurately can Presidents, Senators or the rest of us predict how a nominee will perform once safely on the bench? A most timely contribution given the current Roberts nomination process and the unknown Associate Justice nominee yet to come.	2005-09-16
US	52423461	R3OFS69TH8SZW0	0674015126	726075574	The Transatlantic Constitution: Colonial Legal Culture and the Empire	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Colonial Rhode Island's Legal Autonomy within the Empire	This is a book of serious legal historical scholarship.  Ms. Bilder is a Law Professor at Boston College Law School, and holds a Ph.D. in American history from Harvard.  As such, portions of it may be heavy-going for the general reader, but enough of the general analysis comes through to make this a valuable resource for anyone interested in the judicary and colonial legal history. At issue is how tiny Rhode Island managed to maintain a very substantial degree of legal autonomy within the British Empire.  To answer this query, Bilder focuses upon the central principle of the Empire that while \\"a colony's laws could not be repugnant to the laws of England [they] could differ according to the people and place\\" (p. 1). This principle was implemented as to all the American colonies, and gave each colony much maneuvering room to maintain a healthy degree of local autonomy. <br /> <br />    While we have an exceptional general overview of London v. colony in Joseph H. Smith's, \\"Appeals to the Privy Council from the American Plantations,\\" he obviously cannot probe in great detail any individual colony's experience with this system. That Bilder does do in taking up such topics as \\"Women, Family, Property,\\"  \\"Personnel and Practices\\" (a very interesting chapter), \\"Religious Establishment and Orthodoxy,\\" and other issues. Her discussion of the Privy Council and the development of the appeal is particularly effective. Basically, over time, the \\"repugnance\\" and \\"divergence\\" principle was ambiguous enough to fuel an effective sharing of responsibilities within the Empire (sort of a variant of \\"salutary neglect\\"), though over time with the tightening of control from London this flexibility was constricted, prompting the American Revolution. <br /> <br />       Bilder's final chapter is probably the most valuable for the general reader and scholars alike.  What effect did this experience with the \\"repugnancy principle\\" have on the development of judicial review within the new states, the institution of federal judicial review of state and Congressional legislation, and the evolution of federalism?  In sum, a very fine contribution indeed by Bilder based upon impeccable research (the notes run over 80 pages) and an impressive command of the topic.	2005-09-09
US	52423461	R27KS1QTMAWA0H	0812972597	585019467	The Egyptologist: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Certanly Something Different!	This is really an unique novel, quite distinctive in its approach.  Some parts are comedic; some are tragic; and a lot of history is thrown in--yielding a fascinating narrative mixture.  Set in the 1920's (around the time of the discovery of King Tut's tomb) and the 1950's -- and switching back and forth between the two eras -- the story focuses upon the search by the central character for an as yet undiscovered Pharaoh's tomb three or four years after the end of World War I.  The intriguing device is that the main character spells out his progress through a diary and letters to his fiance as his search progresses.  Intertwined with this narrative are letters from a retired detective in Australia (written in the 1950's) recounting his investigation during the 1920's of the central chracter at the time of his Egyptian search and excavation.  I found the novel overly long, and the central plot device (which I will not reveal) to be fairly obvious long before the book concludes.  The final pages left me feeling as if a number of issues had not been resolved.  Nonetheless, really quite a creative piece of writing and a good read.	2005-08-31
US	52423461	R13KPNBYKVG041	0374299625	440745925	Specimen Days	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Three Interconnected Tales plus Walt Whitman	This new novel by Michael Cunningham consists of three loosely connected tales, much as was the case in the author's previous novel,\\"The Hours.\\" All three are set in New York City for the most part: the first in the early 20th Century (around the time of the Triangle Shirtwaist factory fire in 1911); the second a bit in the future; the final one 150 years into the future.  \\"The Hours\\" was effective due to the skillful interconnections between the three episodes; I found it harder to make the necessary connections this time.  One key element in all three stories is the involvement of Walt Whitman, either in person or via his writings having a decisive impact on the characters.  Though interesting, since it raises the specter of \\"man v. machine,\\" I found the first episode the weakest of the three; the second to be the strongest and most interesting story; and the final episode to be highly unique (since it has aliens interacting as members of a futuristic human society which has turned NYC into a giant amusement park). Cunningham certainly draws the reader in, and he knows NYC only as someone who lives there can. All and all, a good, solid read which may, as a byproduct, hopefully stimulate interest in this guy \\"Walt.\\"	2005-08-30
US	52423461	RVQQ9NQUT989P	0345460057	428222705	The Romanov Prophecy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entirely improbable but great fun!	As is the case with the \\"Amber Room,\\" this novel is not only fast-paced, but demonstrates Berry's careful historical research and knowledge of Czarist Russia, the Soviet Union, and the current Russian state.  The fact that it is so entirely improbable only adds to the pleasure of reading a good yarn.  The premise of the novel is that the current Russian citizenry is so upset with the way things are going, that they overwhelming vote to elect a new Czar to take over the government and get things back on track.  It is also decided that whomever has the greatest genetic ties to the Romanov dynasty will be selected as the new Czar.  There is, as is to be imagined given the prize, much skullduggery and hi-jinx a foot. Nonetheless the search is on, ultimately shifting to the American South of all places, which would seem to be a strange locale to look for a Romanov heir. Interspersed are flashback scenes with Nicholas and Alexandra, among others. My only complaint is that the central characters seem totally oblivious to the most obvious things going on around them--but I guess that is necessary to have a good story.  Bottomline: you take a book like this on its own terms, as a page-turner, and don't expect to get \\"War and Peace,\\" but you do get a pretty good yarn that will capture the reader's interest.	2005-08-11
US	52423461	RTHZJ4NZP5ET	0820327115	700701523	Henry Adams & the Southern Question (MERCER UNIVERSITY LAMAR MEMORIAL LECTURES)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Henry Adams as a critic of southern culture	In his \\"Education,\\" Henry Adams declared:  \\"Strictly, the Southerner had no mind; he had temperament.  He was not a scholar; he had no intellectual training; he could not analyze an idea, and he could not even conceive of admitting two.\\"  It is this \\"slur\\" which Professor O'Brien (author of the awesome \\"Conjectures of Order\\" and other tomes on Southern intellectual history) posits at the center of this most interesting volume. So,upon what experiences did Adams base his rather pessimistic assessment?  One source of contact with the South was his grandmother Louisa Catherine Johnson Adams, originally from Maryland, wife of John Quincy Adams. Much space is devoted to Louisa, perhaps too much, but this chapter does afford an interesting perspective on the formative stages of young Henry.  More pertinent is the chapter on Henry Adams period of living in Washington and how this afforded him first-hand opportunities to encounter Southern traditions and attitudes. Any student of Adams will find this chapter irresistible. Another chapter (\\"American Types\\") focuses upon Charles Francis Adams, Jr., Henry's elder brother, who served extensively in the Civil War, and his potential influence.  However, there is much fascinating information in this chapter aside from CFA, Jr., including a discussion of some of Henry's earlier writings which related to the South (the Randolph biography, e.g.) and his two novels.  Finally, the author focuses upon Adams' later works (Mont-Saint-Michel and Chartres and the Education) to probe the mature Adams view on Southern culture. Along the way there are interesting detours, such as some comments about W.J. Cash's \\"Mind of the South\\" and why there is definitely some sensitivity and defensiveness on this topic which linger even until today.  Many interesting illustrations are included, among them some fine pictures taken by Clover Adams.  The notes are extremely valuable. I don't know if we ever get to the point of completely understanding what causative factors shaped Adams' views of the South, or even if we are exposed to the entire range of his views, but this book is absolutely essential for gaining an invaluable insight into Adams.	2005-08-10
US	52423461	R35CL5U0S07RZR	0791461033	291965793	Oral Arguments and Decision Making on the United States Supreme Court (American Constitutionalism)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Does Oral Argument Really Make a Difference?	There has always been a split of opinion as to the impact of oral arguments in the Supreme Court.  Some have contended that the Justices have already made up their minds before argument, and therefore it is a wasted effort.  Reports, for example, that Holmes wrote his correspondence while sitting support this contention.  On the other hand, different students of the Court, including some who have made arguments, maintain that the Justices do listen, interact, and respond to critical points and it is possible to sway judgments.  This is the first book I am aware of where supposition and hypothesis take a back seat to developing data on the issue.  But a word of caution to the non-poliltical scientist reader: don't be scared away by the tables  and statistics.  The author has relegated his methodological analysis to specified sections which need only be read if you have a high pain threshold. The author's findings are interesting and suggestive:  oral argument facilitates developing information not submitted in the formal pleadings; assists in identifying and forming coalitions supporting or opposing various positions; does play a role in conference and opinion writing; and can have an impact in the most critical stage, making the actual decision. Given that the author has relied upon the private papers of a very few Justices to substantiate some of his points, and further since this is a pioneering effort, there are some substantial weaknesses present in his analysis. The author sometimes overstates his case given the supporting data.  However, one purpose of the book would seem to be to stimulate others to examine this topic and present their findings and justifications.  The first to blaze a new trail usually ends up with an arrow or two in their hide--but that how progress is made.	2005-07-06
US	52423461	RH9XHJD4FXBA3	0674387511	961148034	Henry Adams: The Major Phase (Belknap Press)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Concluding Volume of this Indispensable Biography	This is the third and concluding volume of Professor Samuels' Pulitzer Prize-winning, definitive biography of Henry Adams. The focus for this volume is the 1890-1918 period.  Samuels' approach is what we used to refer to as an \\"intellectual biography.\\"  That is to say, he devotes at least as much space and attention to Adams' writings during this period as he does to the details of his life.  This is to be expected since Samuels' [now Emeritus] taught English at Northwestern and has written extensively on Adams' works.  This approach is particularly welcome during this period, for this is the span during which Adams writes his Education, Mont-Saint-Michel and Chartres, his Tahitian histories, The Life of George Cabot Lodge, A Letter to American Teachers of History, and other works. The book was originally published in 1964, and of course much Adams' scholarship has flowed under the bridge in the interim.  Particularly important in this regard is the three volume more recent biography by Edward Chalfant, which focuses more on Adams' personality and biographical details than his published writings.  Nonetheless, Samuels holds up remarkably well despite its vintage. His biography continues to be the essential starting point for any serious student of that remarkable character of Lafayette Square, one Henry Brooks Adams.	2005-07-05
US	52423461	R3I3GUOG5APNQ6	0374261873	887740058	In the Shadow of the Law: A Novel	Books	4	13	17	N	N	The Lives of Washington big-firm associates-perhaps	This is an interesting novel, set in a (hopefully) mythical Washington, D.C., law firm focusing principally upon a small group of associates and partners and several dynamic cases (one death penalty appeal and a gruesome class action). The Washington Post review of this book emphasized the usual things one finds in such novels, principally associate hour-building strategies, overbearing partners, the toll endless hours of labor exact upon bright young minds (aka \\"is making partner really worth it?\\"), and how litigation is really a cooperative venture between adverse law firms with the purpose and intent of extracting huge amounts of money from their respective clents. Fortunately, I found there to be much more substance to the novel than I had anticipated.  For one thing, the author clerked on the Supreme Court and (apparently) draws upon his own experiences in detailing the role of clerks in dealing with last-minute death penalty petitions, as well as demonstrating how death penalty litigation is conducted.  He also makes good use of the recently-published memoir of John Knox, who clerked for the infamous Justice McReynolds in the late 1930's, as the basis for recounting the clerking experience of a lead character during the same period.  I think he well captures the frustrations and satisfactions of being an associate in a major law firm, as well as demonstrating that not all partners are identical in their personalities or the way they practice law.  But, alas, there are problems with the novel as well. After a while it is hard to remember who is who, since there are many characters introduced into the narrative.  The novel eventually focuses upon a pro bono effort to save a death row inmate via a habeas corpus proceeding--which is depicted in a completely unrealistic fashion since the U.S. District Judge falls all over himself to grant the petition after an innocuous argument by a novice associate--my experience is that such victories are few and far between. However the most surprising plot twist is at the end of the novel where several associates decide to, in effect, sabotage their own client by producing damaging documents in discovery because the client deserves to lose. Needless to say, the manifod ethical ramifications of such conduct are not discussed. Nonetheless, Alan Dershowitz likes the book and so do I--a good summer read.	2005-06-30
US	52423461	R12GFQ3A84PWVP	0674526856	168810523	The Letters of Henry Adams, Volumes 1-3: 1858-1892 (Volumes 1 Thru 3) (Volume 1-3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Must Reading for those interested in Henry Adams	After years of grappling with Henry Adams I am convinced that one cannot really begin to understand him without having read his letters.  And what letters they are! Adams as a correspondent is equalled only by Justice Holmes and Isaiah Berlin in my experience.  These three volumes, covering 1858-1892, edited by the distinguished Adams scholars J.C. Levenson, Ernst Samuels and others, contain the most extensive collection of Adams letters ever published--some 1857 pages worth.  Each letter has been skillfully annotated with useful information.  A cast of characters familiar to students of Adams make their appearance--Henry Cabot Lodge, John Hay, Clarence King, Elizabeth Cameron, Clover Adams, George Bancroft, President Eliot of Harvard, and Charles Francis Adams, Senior and Junior, just to name a few. Each volume contains fascinating photographs and other illustrations.  For example, Vol. II contains a nice selection of Clover Adams photographs; Vol. III presents some Adams watercolors (reproduced in beautiful color) done under the tutelage of John La Farge while the two toured Polynesia during 1890-91. A comprehensive introductory essay in Vol. I serves as an invaluable preface to these three volumes, as well as the later three volumes which cover the period from 1893-1918. A helpful \\"Editorial Note\\" discusses how the material was assembled and organized.  A comprehensive index is contained at the end of Volume III.  These are truly exceptional works of editorial scholarship, well worthy of Adams and those who seek to understand him.	2005-06-23
US	52423461	R2LKSPVI10RDL9	0345460049	601148044	The Amber Room: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Quite an imaginative yarn	This is quite an engrossing novel by the author of \\"The Romanov Prophecy.\\"  Much like the later Romanov book, it is carefully researched so that historically (to a certain point)it is factually accurate to the smallest detail. As the author writes in an afterword, \\"Of course the primary goal of a novel is to entertain, but I also wanted to accurately inform.\\" The novel's focus is the breathtaking Amber Room contained in the Catherine Palace in Tsarskoe Selo, near St. Petersburg, which was removed during World War II and subsequently disappeared. Fortunately, the Russians had photographed the room before dismantling it and if you visit the palace today, these extensive photos are on display and have been utilized in reconstructing the room. So, the mystery of the vanishing amber sheets used in the room is the driving force in the novel.  It jumps from a concentration camp, to current day Atlanta, to Germany and the Czech republic. It is somewhat violent and more sex intrudes than in the Romanov novel. While it is seriously contrived at points, so was James Bond and this book is just as much a page turner as Ian Fleming every turned out.  So, just sit back and start reading and  you will soon find yourself engrossed in this fascinating yarn.	2005-06-06
US	52423461	RD9581C8HU7X8	0195181093	481614067	Electing Justice: Fixing the Supreme Court Nomination Process	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Timely Contribution Regarding Supreme Court Nominations	It is hard to think of a more opportune time to read this new book on the strengths and weaknesses of the current Supreme Court nomination process.  With the upcoming expected retirement of the Chief Justice, and the current foolishness occuring in the Senate over judicial filibusters, the solid and unemotional analysis offered by Professor Richard Davis is welcome to say the least.  The author is very good in explaining how we have gotten into the current nomination mess: the role of the press in shaping nominee images; the incredible importance of interest groups and their energy in driving the process; the public expectation that nomination consideration will occur as much as possible in the open and not behind closed doors as in the past; and the role of nominations in reaffirming pertinent constitutencies for the groups, parties, and the pertinent president.  In short, the process is no longer one conducted by the Senate in accordance with its own practices--instead each nomination (and the author does discuss particular examples such as Clarence Thomas, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, David Souter, and of course Robert Bork) has become a major public event and battleground as the various players maneuver for advantage.  What we have lost as a result of this \\"take no prisoners\\" approach to nominations is all too evident.  While the author does not unleash any startling new insights, the book stands as perhaps the best introduction for anyone interested in gaining an understanding of how the process currently functions. The final chapter is devoted to \\"Reforming the Process,\\" and the author examines a number of thoughtful proposals for mitigating the current mess.  Alas, given the current political malaise floating over Washington, one can only reply: \\"dream on, Professor.\\"	2005-05-18
US	52423461	R3H991YLOV6JRA	1400063701	661541780	Rules for Old Men Waiting: A Novel	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A Good, but not Great, Debut as a Novelist	I found this first novel by the distinguished classicist and former Amherst president Peter Pouncey to be a definite mixed bag.  The premise of the novel, that an elderly retired academic creates some rules for himself to live by so that he may stave off death and complete a fictional work in progress, is intriguing.  Unfortunately, much more of the book is devoted to the World War I story he is composing painfully day by day. We hear relatively little about his rules after the initial section of the novel.  It certainly helps that the \\"story within the novel\\" is quite a yarn, and that the writing is articulate and expressive.  But I think a better novel would have emerged had more of the author's focus been on the very rules that give the novel its title.	2005-05-17
US	52423461	R288TK1OMNVT33	0375412026	352974810	American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Extraordinary Examination of a Most Enigmatic Individual	This biography is the most exhaustive examination we have of J. Robert Oppenheimer. Co-author Sherwin worked on this project for several decades before he was joined in the final writing by Kai Bird, author of fine biographies of John J. McCloy and the Bundy brothers -- and it shows in the extraordinary amount of research undertaken in the book's preparation and the crisp writing.  The book follows a chronological format, but it focuses as much on the context of Oppenheimer's activities as it does on personal details.  Unlike many other treatments of Oppenheimer, the authors do not waste space trying to prove or disprove his possible Communist party membership, since it is obvious that he was not a card-carrying member.  Rather, one comes away understanding that the real issue was not CP membership but rather that Oppeheimer's lapses of judgment in his acquaintances in the 1930's and early 1940's created a trail that his enemies were all too willing to exploit during the postwar period when national security concerns were extreme. In short, Oppenheimer in many ways was his own worst enemy when his actions were minutely examined in later decades.  The book's coverage is particularly strong regarding Oppenheimer's exposure to quantum mechanics in Germany in the 1930's; his directorship of the Los Alamos bomb project; his postwar directorship of the Institute for Advanced Studies; and his security hearing battles at the AEC which eventually stripped this distinguished and patriotic scientist of his crucial security clearance. His early death only adds to the mystery of what this man was all about. While it is a very long volume, if your interest is trying to understand this enigmatic individual, this is the best tool you are going to encounter.	2005-05-12
US	52423461	R2KO6CUI9HTLKM	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Solid History that is Fun to Read	Some books one reads because they are \\"good\\" for you, and you feel you should read them out of a sense of duty.  Other books are just fun to read and you zip through them hungering for more when the book is completed. It is the rare book indeed that is both good for you and fun to read--this is that book!  I was concerned that there was little new to say about FDR or Churchill, either individually or together.  This fine volume disproved that sentiment immediately.  The author's research is impeccable; the writing is gladsome; the coverage of the relationship of the two world leaders is comprehensive.  A reader cannot help but have a deeper and richer understanding of both subjects after reading this exceptional book--no matter how much printed matter the reader previously has consumed about Churchill and FDR.  Truly a unique and invaluable perspective on two shapers of the modern world.	2005-05-09
US	52423461	RI8OFBQN0HW9A	080507791X	885396602	Becoming Justice Blackmun: Harry Blackmun's Supreme Court Journey	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	An Invaluable Insight into the Supreme Court	Linda Greenhouse, long-time Supreme Court correspondent for the New York Times, was permitted early access to the papers of Justice Harry Blackmun which became publicly available in 2004, five years after his death. Utilizing this treasure trove of Supreme Court files, enhanced by her more than twenty-six years covering and studying the Court, she has crafted a book of unusual insight and value for students of the Court. Through the use of Blackmun files, and the reproduction in the book of key documents, it is possible to gain an understanding of how the Justices interact with each other, how they reach consensus on opinions, the techniques through which they express disagreement and displeasure with one another, and the various persuasive strategies that they may follow.  This is particulary the case with the abortion controversy that Blackmun, the author of Roe v. Wade, faced for much of his Court tenure. While not a conventional biography of Justice Blackmun, we do learn quite a lot about his career and standards from his pre-Court papers. But it is Blackmun on the Court (1970-94) that is the meat of this volume.  One of the most valuable aspects of the volume is the insight it affords into Chief Justice Warren Burger, Blackmun's friend from childhood who is instrumental in securing his nomination.  Burger has not been the subject of a full-length biography, and Greenhouse's discussion of his interaction with Blackmun (including the deterioration of their relationship) and his leadership of the Court is quite helpful in filling this gap. Aside from the book itself, and its many virtues, the question does arise as to the propriety of Blackmun's papers being made public so soon after his death, especially considering that he served with all members of the present Court with the exception of Justice Breyer. Included in the book are memos from Justice Kennedy for example, as well as Blackmun conference notes relating the positions of Justices Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia and Kennedy on the Webster abortion case in 1989. However it is difficult to argue against such early release given the splendid contributions Greenhouse had made in this truly monumental volume.	2005-05-04
US	52423461	R1SXQR71YOAQFK	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	4	31	41	N	N	A Pleasant Change from the Usual Anti-Supreme Court Books	Until I saw Levin on C-Span, I did not plan to buy this volume--I assumed it was just another in the long string of whacky \\"the Supreme Court is destroying our nation\\" genre of diatribes.  Well, while I disagree with much of Levin's analysis, this is certainly a substantial volume deriving of serious attention.  That being said, Levin's methodology is flawed in several respects.  First, he equates judicial activism with non-originalist interpretation--yet many of the Court's supposed judicial \\"originalists\\" [Scalia, Rehnquist, Thomas] have been extremely activist in utilizing Court power as witness the 2000 election decisions. Second, much of the initial chapters is devoted to Levin simply ticking off various Supreme Court decisions which he considers to be subversive, crazy or both. Some of these decisions do certainly qualify as \\"self-inflected wounds\\" to be sure, but this approach becomes a bit tiresome. Things pick up, however, later with very strong chapters on immigration, the commerce clause, state power and other topics. It is clear that, to the extent Levin represents the \\"Federalist Society\\" point of view, Justice Kennedy has become a prime target of criticism, as to a lesser extent has Sanda Day O'Conner due to their \\"lapses\\" in upholding conservative interpretations of the Constitution in key cases. To his credit, Levin criticizes both the Florida Supreme Court (extensively) and the U.S. Supreme Court (a bit) relative to the 2000 election decisions. One of the most interesting and valuable sections of the book is Levin's focus on \\"liberal\\" interest groups hooking up with supporters on the Hill to try and frustrate conservative judicial nominations.  He includes as an appendix various memos exchanged between interest groups and Senate staffers which are quite interesting to read.  While they are, hardly, as shocking as Levin suggests, nonetheless they are quite fascinating--especially given the upcoming warfare that will ensue when President Bush nominates a Justice or Chief Justice.  All told, a good solid read that stimulates the adrenalin.	2005-03-14
US	52423461	R3PFH9VZ90NSLI	037541469X	465669106	The Nuremberg Interviews	Books	5	53	55	N	Y	An Unique Perspective on the Nazi Leadership	This is a most useful book, and one that is quite interesting to read for the most part.  The author, who died in 1961, was an Army psychiatrist assigned to interview a number of the Nuremberg defendants and some of the witnesses (many of whom later were tried themselves).  The editor has reclaimed the author's notes (which are almost verbatim transcripts) of the interviews and put them into a handy format for review, including introductory brief biographies. While at times repetitive (e.g., the individual knew nothing of the \\"final solution\\" because Hitler insisted that each official only be concerned with the work of his own department; they point to Bohrmann, Goebblels, and Himmler as being the real malignant characters more than Hitler), there is nothing comparable to hearing defendants like Goering, Hans Frank, von Ribbentrop, Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski, Oswald Pohl and Erhard Milch recounting their views of the war and Hitler.  There is a nice representation of civilian and military leaders. I found the interviews of Hitler's translator, Paul O. Schmidt, and that of Rudolf Hoess, commandant of Auschwitz, particularly interesting. Not surprisingly, most of the interviewees were not especially interested in talking about concentration camps and Jewish extermination--rather, a wide number of topics are touched upon relating to the Nazi party, Hitler, and military tactics.  A helpful introduction and a discussion of how the interviews were obtained and preserved compliment the interviews themselves.	2005-03-03
US	52423461	R33EO9U85D17YJ	0738206954	604714841	Though the Heavens May Fall: The Landmark Trial That Led to the End of Human Slavery	Books	4	29	31	N	Y	A Handy Treatment of the Epic Somerset Case	This volume is a compact, but complete, treatment of the famous 1772 Somerset decision by Lord Mansfield that confirmed that slavery was not legal within Great Britain (but left slavery intact in British colonies and possessions).  The key actor upon which the entire narrative focuses is abolitionist Granville Sharp, who initiated several cases challenging the legality of slavery in Britain until he was finally successful in Somerset. His crusade demonstrates the merits of not being easily discouraged by initial setbacks.  Given the fact that he subsisted on and financed litigation through a clerk's salary, one can only stand in amazement at his determination to terminate the practice. The author does a good job in discussing the background and character of Lord Mansfield, certainly one of the most influential actors in the development of English law. The reconstruction of the trial itself is well done. While the research is predominantly based upon secondary sources, as is appropriate in a \\"popular\\" history, the narrative is quite easy for the non-lawyer as well as the legal professional to read and profit from--no mean accomplishment in legal history volumes. The endnotes identify valuable sources for further reading on this topic. I found chapter 16, \\"The Mansfield Judgment,\\" particularly interesting in that apparently there is no 100% official text of Mansfield's decision.  The author also does a good job in discussing post-decision developments that reflected the impact of the holding, including some in America. A good solid treatment of an incredibily important legal development.	2005-02-08
US	52423461	R5N1NZMBGSB9F	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	24	32	N	N	A Novel with Footnotes, Graphs and Bibliography Yet!	It's difficult to know quite what to make of this novel.  I say this as a devoted Crichton fan.  It is one part novel, though not particularly impressive in that regard.  It is another part a highly-effective polemic against the advocates of global-warming (including \\"eco-terroists\\"), which in itself is no problem since Norris' \\"The Octopus\\" and Upton Sinclair's \\"The Jungle\\" were likewise polemics in the form of novels. The question is whether the ideology trumps the qualities of the novel.  There is some of the most wooden dialogue I have ever encountered in a novel present in this book; almost always the pro-global warming characters are easily demolished in argument with the anti-group. Totally unbelievable plot situations arise, because they afford the occasion for taking another whack at the global warming concept.  On the other hand, Crighton has done his homework, since the book is loaded with charts, footnotes, bibliographical references, and easily-digested scientific information. A reader can't but learn a great deal about the whole issue by the time the novel is completed. But the price for this instruction is an overly-long, contrived, and exhausting novel that buries its good points (yes, Crichton can still spin a yarn with the best of them) under layers of proselytization, much like the glaciers in the story. A mixed bag to be sure, but with substantial redeeming value.	2005-01-24
US	52423461	R31UFSUNBZFW17	0805067620	989430058	The Guardians: Kingman Brewster, His Circle, and the Rise of the Liberal Establishment	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	When There Was an "Eastern Establishment"	This is a very interesting, but quite long, book which focuses upon Kingman Brewster and other members of the so-called \\"liberal establishment\\" that shaped national policy during the 1945 through 1970's period.  In addition to Brewster, long-time Yale president, the author discusses the Bundy brothers, Cyrus Vance, Elliot Richardson, Bishop Paul Moore, John Lindsay, William Sloan Coffin, and even William F. Buckley.  While most attention is devoted to Brewster's tenure as Yale's president, including the infamous Black Panther trial and May Day riot that did not occur, I found the discussions of the Vietnam war and McGeorge Bundy's period as head of the Ford Foundation extremely interesting.  In some ways, the method of analysis is similar to \\"The Wise Men,\\" who also, incidentally, make appearances in the book (especially Dean Acheson). Accordingly to Buckley and other critics, the \\"Establishment\\" consisted of old-line WASP families, of a liberal political orientation, usually well to do, with superior secondary private educations gathered at places such as Groton and St. Paul's, and then onto Yale or Harvard undergraduate, and then usually Harvard Law School or Harvard administration (such as McGeorge Bundy).  This led to appointments in the State Department, Justice, some cabinet designations, and involvement in various presidential staffs, particularly JFK and LBJ. In short, a network of individuals, exerting tremendous influence on government policy, who knew each other over long periods of time and who could promote the careers of their fellows.  This group also constituted the liberal-centrist wing of the Republican Party (yes, Virginia, there once was a progressive wing of the GOP), that was gradually displaced from leadership as the party headed toward the radical right. The author's research is truly monumental, consisting of archives and, particularly, dozens of Oral History interviews gathered by various collections. One does wonder, though,whether the so-called \\"establishment\\" ever exerted as much influence and power as the author suggests--what is clear is that no similar group exercises much influence in the era of Reagan and the Bushes.	2005-01-24
US	52423461	RADIO1P7T20HA	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Interesting Departure for Grisham	The views about Grisham's writing range across a broad continuum. Some folks only like books such as \\"The Firm\\" and \\"The Pelican Brief,\\"--real page turners that the reader simply cannot put down. It is hard to argue with this viewpoint given that \\"The Firm\\" is probably the best suspense novel I ever have read. Others, however, point to his best work as those insightful novels which focus upon various facets of the legal profession, such as \\"The King of Torts\\" or \\"The Client.\\"  Others were delighted,as was I, with the humorous side Grisham unleased in \\"Skipping Christmas.\\"  It is hard to fit \\"The Broker\\" into any of these categories. It is not a page turner, in fact it drags badly in spots, although things do pick up toward the end.  It does not really deal with the legal profession, although the lead character is, as it happens, a disbarred convicted lawyer. And it certainly is not a work of humor (unless you consider Grisham's multiple references to \\"Red China\\").  What it does represent, however, is a long-developing trend in Grisham's writing--the development and honing of his skills as a novelist, able to skillfully develop a storyline, write realistic dialogue, and bring things to a satisfying conclusion.  Michael Crichton, please take note!  By any measure, this is not his best book--but he once again demonstrates his ability to \\"spin a yarn\\" in a most effective manner. The reader may not love this book to death, but it would be next to impossible not to enjoy it.	2005-01-18
US	52423461	R1L7CH81R95UHG	0199270228	770915572	Frederick Pollock and the English Juristic Tradition (Oxford Studies in Modern Legal History)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Frederick Pollock Gets his Due at Long Last	It is shameful to recognize that there never has been either in this country or the UK any sustained examination of the innumerable contributions of Frederick Pollock (1845-1937) to English law and jurisprudence generally.  This superb (and extremely expensive) volume by Professor Duxbury at long last corrects that deficiency. Too often, Pollock has been seen as a \\"junior partner\\" to more prominent figures, such as F.W. Maitland (in their invaluable \\"History of English Law\\") and Holmes (in their published correspondence). At last the focus here is on Pollock alone--the wait almost has been worth it. <br /> <br />This is not a full-scale biography of Pollock, such as Nicola Lacey's recently-published definitive life of H.L.A. Hart--rather the book concentrates on Pollock's substantive activities with one early chapter (\\"FP\\") devoted to biographical background. The research undertaken by Duxbury is simply amazing; he apparently has read everything that Pollock wrote (an incredible amount) and virtually all material written about him by others. For once, Oxford University Press has consented to placing the notes at the foot of each page, which is of tremendous assistance to the reader. Nonetheless, the narrative flows smoothy and engrosses the reader. <br /> <br />Duxbury is careful to study Pollock within the \\"English Juristic Tradition,\\" and so one learns a great deal about English jurisprudence as a valuable background to the discussion. For example, there are highly incisive insights offered on the long-term impact of John Austin and his analytical approach upon English jurisprudence.  Separate chapters address Pollock's views on the \\"sanctification of the common law,\\" Pollock's substantive texual writings on English contract and tort law over many decades, as well as the enormous influence he exerted as editor of the English Law Report and the \\"Law Quarterly Review.\\" All of this material is covered in around 320 or so pages, making for a convenient treatment.  Simply put, for anyone interested in English law, jurisprudence, and the development of \\"our lady the common law,\\" this book is an absolute necessity.	2005-01-13
US	52423461	RANUPP0DQE980	0199274975	126671957	A Life of H. L. A. Hart: The Nightmare and the Noble Dream	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Massive Void Filled at Last	For far too long there has not been a full-scale biography of H.L.A. Hart, author of \\"The Concept of Law.\\"  That gap has now been eliminated by this superb biography by Nicola Lacey of LSE. And this is a biography, and not an \\"intellectual biography\\" (such as Duxbury's masteful book on Frederick Pollock)which focuses primarily upon the subject's writings and theories--although Lacey addresses Hart's jurisprudential concepts within the framework of developing his life.  For those who want to use this volume as an introduction to Hart's substantive work, ample references support the incisive discussion within the text.  But the focus here is his life.  As such, it is helpful to also read his wife Jennifer Hart's autobiography, \\"Ask Me No More.\\" <br /> <br />     Lacey had access to the most private of Hart's papers, his private diaries.  While invaluable insights result, one is almost at times uneasy with the most intimate thoughts that Hart expressed in these writings.  Lacey shares this concern, and in a \\"rule of thumb\\" describes what guidelines she imposed upon herself in the use of this material.  This leads naturally to a second fundamental question--do we really need to know about such intimate issues as sexual orientation in the biography of a jurisprudential thinker?  Each reader will have to make their own decision--but one really does get an incomparable insight into Hart the person as a result. In my view, it is healthy to be reminded from time to time that major figures such as Hart are people just like the rest of us and don't reside on some intellectual Olympus. <br /> <br />    The narrative is crisp and with the exception of an overly long chapter on Hart's wartime service, never ceases to spark interest.  The blending of Hart's theoretical contributions within the context of a biography is a challenge that is more than well met. The fact that Lacey personally knew Hart adds an important dimension as well. Also making apperances are a number of fascinating characters, including Hans Kelsen, Julius Stone, Lon Fuller, Ronald Dworkin and a host of Oxford philosophers. In her \\"Biographer's Note,\\" Lacey explains a number of key issues she confronted in writing Hart's life, which in itself is an  important contribution to the literature on biographical writing.  Whether one is particularly interested in legal theory or not, this is simply one of the most extraordinary and important biographies to appear in recent years.   <br /> <br />	2005-01-12
US	52423461	R3JE93YTHNAL1A	0786714379	824855104	Jefferson's Vendetta: The Pursuit of Aaron Burr and the Judiciary	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Jefferson, Burr,  and John Marshall--What a Line-up	This is a very solid account of the Burr treason trial engineered by Jefferson and presided over by John Marshall.  The trial established important precedents regarding executive privilege and the meaning of treason under the Constitution.  It also allowed both Marshall and Burr to tweak Jefferson's nose and cause him no end of embarrassment. The book does a good workmanlike job in describing the purported \\"conspiracy,\\" the conduct of the trial, and the political overtones of the episode.  It is very effective in explaining some fundamental legal concepts in layperson's language.  While there are many books on the trial, this volume is a fairly concise and well written introduction to this important episode in our legal history.	2005-01-11
US	52423461	R33EPU6FJUCY3Y	0670030759	652704805	Hitler's Scientists: Science, War, and the Devil's Pact	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Rich Perspective on the Role of Science in Nazi Germany	John Cornwell, author of \\"Hitler's Pope\\" has made another major contribution to our understanding of the Hitler era in this book.  As is to be expected, there are chapters on such topics as medicine, physics, eugenics, jets and other \\"wonder weapons,\\" and medical experimentation, all thorough and based on solid research.  In addition, there are several topics discussed which are more novel and extremely valuable.  Cornwell has an early chapter on \\"Germany the Science Mecca\\" which focuses upon the absolute dominance of German science prior to the war.  This is coupled with an examination of \\"Hitler the Scientist\\" which is crucial for understanding why Hitler did not really pick up on major scientific developments which could have altered the course of the war--he just didn't get it when it can came to science.  The author also has an extended discussion on German atomic bomb development, which incorporates the latest material released by the Neils Bohr foundation relating to the famous Bohr-Heisenberg 1941 meeting in occupied Copenhagen, which is the subject of Michael Frayn's recent play. Cornwell comes out on the side of those who argue that Heisenberg did not delay the development of a German bomb intentionally, for forces beyond his control doomed the German bomb from being developed in time. He also includes a discusson of the British \\"Farm Hall\\" tapes made of captured prominent German scientists after the war to cast further light on this issue. All-in-all, an extremely valuable volume.	2005-01-04
US	52423461	R3HGLZL7ITGL15	0807828661	673327422	Salt of the Earth, Conscience of the Court: The Story of Justice Wiley Rutledge	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	A Fine Biography of a Neglected Justice	At long last, thanks to Judge Ferren, we have a complete biography of Justice Wiley Rutledge.  While Rutledge is not much remembered today, and his tenure on the Supreme Court was relatively brief (1943-49), his significance merits more attention than he has received.  Judge Ferren employs a completely different approach than the only other biography of the Justice, Harper's \\"Justice Rutledge and the Bright Constellation\\" (1965).  Harper focused almost exclusively upon Justice Rutledge's decisions. Judge Ferren does not get Rutledge on the court until page 222 (out of 548).  While one might conclude that perhaps too much detail occupies the pre-Court discussion, I can't think of another judicial biography that so effectively affords one a feeling of becoming so intimately familiar with its subject. This initial section is particularly effective in discussing the political maneuvering that accompanied filling several vacancies on the Court, including Rutledge's. The book's central focus, Rutledge on the Court, is very well developed.  Judge Ferren not only brings his own insight into the judicial process to his analysis, but discusses some unique aspects as well, such as Rutledge's habit of asking trusted law faculty members their opinions on issues before the court, and Rutledge's exhaustive preparation for writing opinions. The book also adds to our understanding of the personal interplay in that most bombastic of Supreme Courts, that chaired by Chief Justice Stone. Interspersed with the discussion of Court cases is additional biographical material relating to the Justice. Finally, the underlying research is simply awesome--truly a labor of love.  While it is a very long book, if you are interested in Justice Rutledge or his period on the Court, it makes for indispensable reading.	2004-12-14
US	52423461	RL64IVA8HI7IB	0375756973	317275976	I Will Bear Witness 1942-1945: A Diary of the Nazi Years	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The Continuation of a Most Poignant Account	The second volume of Klemperer's Nazi-era diary is even more moving than the first, though the initial volume should be read before this installment.  Here, the Klemperers are inside Nazi Germany for the final four years of the war.  Now there are not simply rumors to generate fear, but the actual disappearance of friends, incredible hardships inflicted upon the civilian population (with particular vengeance upon those of Jewish origin, even those with a non-Jewish spouse as in Klemperer's case), the gradual dawning of recognition about the real purpose of \\"resettlement\\" to concentration camps, and the gradual but persistent physical and mental deterioration resulting from near starvation conditions.  How the Klemperers survived, when so many others perished under these conditions, is simply more incredible than any fiction.  Of particular interest was how completely the Klemperers were closed off from newspapers, radio broadcasts, and other sources of information we take for granted--and the resulting isolation and ignorance of what was going on outside their own community this entailed. The Klemperers final escape from Dresden after its near total incineration, on the eve of their own scheduled \\"resettlement,\\" makes one realize how truly fortunate they were to come out of this experience alive. Now that the third volume (covering the postwar years) is available, Victor Klemperer has recounted his total story--one from which we can all learn.	2004-12-02
US	52423461	R3AK4B8Y67UYKF	0060527218	527640160	Judging Thomas: The Life and Times of Clarence Thomas	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A Balanced Biography of a Most Controversial Justice	Any book about the current Supreme Court's most controversial justice is not going to please everybody.  Thomas remains radioactive as a topic even after more than a decade on the Court.  The author, an investigative reporter for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, however has written a fairly balanced biography that neither embraces Thomas nor condemns him.  In fact, although the author did not have access to the Justice's private papers and correspondence, he did extensively interact with Thomas in covering the Court and in researching this volume. This is not to say the book is without deficiencies.  The most notable problem is that a very limited amount of attention is devoted to Thomas's decisions.  Instead, readers are referred by the author to Gerber's First Principles: The Jurisprudence of Clarence Thomas for in-depth analysis. The focus here is predominantly biographical and that has strengths and weaknesses in doing a judicial biography.  The acid test of any Thomas biography, of course, is the Anita Hill controversy; here the author is somewhat too inclined to stake out an unsatisfying middle position: \\"Although it was plausible that Thomas said what Hill alleged, it seems implausible that he said it all in the manner Hill described\\"(at 251). Whatever one's views of Thomas, this book does afford a valuable insight into the forces that shaped him and how he ended up arriving on the Court. It will be interesting to see how Thomas's own forthcoming autobiography addresses the same issues as are covered here.	2004-08-23
US	52423461	R2EV74G2UF4ZM7	0300095643	467205862	History of the Yale Law School	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	More than just a history of Yale Law School	Law school histories run the gamut in quality.  For example, those dealing with Columbia (by Goebel) and Harvard (Charles Warren) add a rich dimension to our understanding of legal education and the role of law schools in the bigger picture.  Other histories can be mundane and so narrowly focused upon the school itself that they are of little general interest. This volume, edited by former Yale Law Dean Anthony Kronman, falls into the first category and employs a unique approach in doing so. This is because the book is not a chronological history of YLS, but rather consists of six essays by five different authors focusing upon differing facets of the School's history. However, each author also addresses a broader area of interest than just what was going on at YLS.  For example, excellent essays by Robert Stevens and John Langbein place the founding of YLS within the larger context of legal education in 18th and 19th centuries. A second essay by Langbein discusses the unique approaches to legal education YLS developed. Perhaps the strongest essay is by Robert Gordon who focuses upon some of the Legal Realists at YLS during the 1930's (Arnold, Douglas, Frank and Hamilton) who gravitated to the larger stage of the New Deal and became national policymakers.  Laura Kalman, who is writing a full-length history of YLS, contributes a perhaps too extensive essay on the so-called &quot;Dark Ages&quot; at YLS in the 1960's and 1970's when student unrest and faculty dissention became notable features of the YLS landscape. Each essays rests upon extensive footnotes, adding an invaluable dimension to the book's value. All told, this book should be of value to anyone interested in the development of legal education, the New Deal, the turbulent 1960's and 1970's, as well as those whose interests are limited to the Yale Law School itself.	2004-07-06
US	52423461	RKTQR5Y201O4I	052183368X	409757186	Isaiah Berlin: Letters 1928-1946 (v. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	700 Pages of Irrepressible Isaiah Berlin	If you are interested in Isaiah Berlin, and in understanding his roots and evolution, this is the book for you.  These letters cover the period of 1928-1946, and deal with some very fascinating topics such as Oxford in the 1930's, Berlin's service in Washington and New York during World War II, and a cast of well known British, Continental and American characters. The collection is immeasurably enhanced by yet another superb job of editing by Henry Hardy, including an extended preface, extensive notes and a biographical directory which save the American reader from becoming too lost. But Berlin being Berlin, the letters are sometimes overly long, may deal with mundate topics, can be maddeningly repetitive, or lose one in the intricacies of Oxford and the academic life.  Berlin is absolutely unrestrained in his comments, both pro and con, since these were meant to be private letters, and his views of some fellow academics can be devastating.  However, he can positively support some individuals, such as H.L.A. Hart whose initial appointment as Fellow and Philosophy Tutor at New College Berlin strongly advocated.  The book is dedicated to Hart's wife who provided indispensable assistance to Hardy in putting all this material together.  As the letters illustrate, Berlin's prolonged struggle in writing his book on Karl Marx goes a long way toward explaining why his book output was so limited and he preferred to express his thinking in essays.  This first volume concludes when Berlin is 37 and has returned to Oxford.  By this point in the letters, one begins to have a very solid grasp of Berlin's character, interests, interactions, and ambitions.  \\"Berlin on Berlin\\" is beyond question the best way to come to know and understand him.	2004-06-24
US	52423461	R3CDU858LUT1U6	0300099320	364708872	A Dangerous Mind: Carl Schmitt in Post-War European Thought	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	The Resurgence of Carl Schmitt	During recent years, considerable attention both in Europe and in this country has focused upon the work of the late Carl Schmitt (1888-1995).  Schmitt, of course, continues to be a highly controversial figure, given his past designation as the \\"Crown Jurist\\" of the Nazi legal establishment. His successful efforts to undermine the Weimar Constitution (including his legal duel with Hans Kelsen) and to lay a legal foundation for the Nazi legal system are well known.  His criticisms of democracy, liberalism and parliamentary government are biting.  But Schmitt lived a long time and wrote incessantly on a variety of topics, including international relations, the concept of statehood, and political theology. As the subtitle of the book suggests, this is not really a biography of Schmitt, although there is a brief outline of his life developed throughout the book. Rather, it focuses upon Schmitt's impact primarily upon post-World War II European thought.  As such, it is quite a challenging monograph unless one is conversant with postwar trends in European and particularly German political and legal theory.  Without this background, as well as a solid grounding in Schmitt's manifold writings, at times it is hard to follow the book's analysis, though clearly it is a work of superior scholarship. Most of the sources cited in the footnotes are, as one would expect, articles and books in German. So, while it is not a good book for someone just becoming familiar with Schmitt, it clearly is most helpful (and perhaps even essential) for the more advanced Schmitt student.	2004-06-09
US	52423461	R2AKDJEE7MWTAE	0393059200	531927149	The Genuine Article: A Historian Looks at Early America	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	A Welcome Compendium from Edmund S. Morgan	Ordinarily, books that are collections of articles that appeared elsewhere often do not live up to their promise.  Have no fear--that most certainly is not the case here.  This is so for several reasons.  The first is that Morgan is Morgan--probably the dean of American colonial and early American historians, still at it as he nears 90 years old. Second, each of the individual pieces (which originally appeared in the New York Review of Books between 1974 and 2002) reflects the typical Morgan virtues--extraordinary command of the pertinent literature, judicious comments, quick to offer praise where it is due, reluctantly critical when necessary, but always moderate and extraordinarily thoughtful in his judgments. Third, the books that comprise the focus of the individual essays are among some of the most significant published in the field. This makes for lively discussion by Morgan. The book is divided into four sections: \\"New Englanders,\\" \\"Southerners\\", \\"Revolutionaries\\" and \\"Questions of Culture.\\"  Some of the better essays are on Franklin, \\"Plantation Blues,\\"\\"How the French Lost America,\\" and \\"The Great Political Fiction.\\"  Never one for quantitative history (\\"counting and computing\\"), Morgan only becomes cranky when that topic presents itself, although he does unload on the Library of America's collection of \\"American Sermons.\\" The book is simply a feast for those interested in this period and fine historical writing.	2004-06-08
US	52423461	R2H29QDBX9DY2K	0875803202	797178935	Guardians of the Moral Order: The Legal Philosophy of the Supreme Court, 1860-1910	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Gilded Age Supreme Court and Morality	Recently, there has been an increasing stream of revisionist studies of the Supreme Court, focusing on the New Deal period, designed to convince us that the Court really was not as reactionary and partisan as generally believed. Cushman's book on the New Deal Court and McKenna's volume on the Court Packing plan are two examples.  The author of this volume goes back to the Gilden Age Court to develop a complimentary thesis.  It is hard to be too critical of the book, given that the scholarship is impeccable and exhaustively examines an area not too well studied in the Court literature. Bailey's main thesis is that the Justices comprising the Court between 1860 and 1910 overwhelmingly based their decisions upon a shared heritage of morality and ethics, which gave them a &quot;moral compass.&quot;  The author reviews in depth the speeches and off-the-court writings of Justices Brewer, Field, Strong, Harlan, Bradley, Brown, McKenna and others to examine their private views of morality, ethics, and the role of law. He demonstrates that several Justices, especially Brewer and Harlan, held strongly Christian orientations.  The bibliography of original sources covers nearly ten pages and is a very valuable resource in tracing these viewpoints. But in final analysis, one asks &quot;so what?&quot;  The fact that &quot;moral&quot; and Christian justices unleashed the Income Tax decision, developed the concept of freedom of contract, and came close to suppressing the labor and reform movements is not made any more palatable because those Justices sincerely believed in what they were doing.  So the main contribution of the book, which is a substantial one, is that it gives us new insight into what made these Justices tick.  Nonetheless, their oath was to preserve and protect the Constitution, not to translate their religious and ethical beliefs into constitutional law.  Some Justices of the period appeared to have forgotten that fact.	2004-06-03
US	52423461	R23T6F3NGO52PO	0151005257	512087721	Letters : 1925-1975	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Arendt and Heidegger in Letters	This collection of letters is an absolute necessity for anyone interested in Hannah Arendt, and particularly her relationship with the controversial German philosopher (and mentor) Martin Heidegger.  The letters are well annotated and there is a helpful introduction as well.  The only problem is that there are relatively few letters from Arendt.  And those that appear in the collection are somewhat concise, whether from the editing or simply because they were not extensive. As a result, the reader does not get the intimate and expansive view into Arendt's thinking and activities that one comes away with from reading, for example, her collection of letters to and from Mary McCarthy. Of particular interest is the exchange of poetry between the two--somewhat ironic given Heidegger's controversial career and purported anti-Semitism during the Nazi period.  One cannot help thinking, as the letters pass by, as to why Arendt chose to treat Heidegger with such kid gloves; nonetheless, there is a touching quality about this late-in-life correspondence of two former lovers.  Quite pleasant and informative and not overly technical in philosophical terms.	2004-06-02
US	52423461	R3RZYVU9MDU14G	0226094820	381490396	The Cloaking of Power: Montesquieu, Blackstone, and the Rise of Judicial Activism	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Montesquieu, Blackstone, Holmes and Judicial Power	This is quite an interesting and serious book, although I found it somewhat perplexing. The author's ostensible goal is to trace how American judicial power became such a significant factor.  To do this, he develops a sustained examination of Montesquieu, which reminds us how important a legal thinker he was in addition to his contributions regarding the separation of powers.  Substantial attention is also devoted to Blackstone, Mansfield, Hamilton and Tocqueville.  The author's principal theme is that these individuals encouraged courts to \\"cloak\\" the exercise of their power and, when acting, to be guided by moderation and principle. This is all well and good, and particularly the chapters on Montesquieu are quite well done, though heavy going at times and somewhat repetitive. However, entering from the wings, is the villain of the book, none other than Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes to whom the author ascribes blame for a judiciary motivated by political (i.e., liberal), as contrasted with moral, concerns. Among other dismal fruits of this pragmatic approach are the abortion decisions.  While the author evidences extensive knowledge of his other characters, he does not appear to know very much about Holmes. For example, his bibliography places reliance upon Bowen's somewhat fictionalized \\"Yankee from Olympus\\" rather than the definitive biography by Ted White. He also parrots -- and cites in his bibliography -- postwar attacks by a theologian who equated Holmes with Hitler due to his refusal to identify law with morality. So one is left with the feeling that the entire purpose of the book is to proselytize a return to religious-based  natural law as the ultimate yardstick for the application of judicial power.  A number of recent books have likewise advocated this approach, so the author certainly is not alone.  The bottom line is that this is a book with a number of fine qualities--but it does engage it advocacy as well.	2004-05-25
US	52423461	R3HBUSPQ2QV1T9	0375753788	684412710	I Will Bear Witness: A Diary of the Nazi Years, 1933-1941	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The human impact of Nazi anti-Jewish policies	This poignant book is quite unique.  Written as a diary, and not intended to be published, Klemperer's book is like no other I have read in conveying the impact upon one couple of the Nazi's repressive regime. Virtually day after day, Klemperer recounts how he and his wife (who was not Jewish) bear the brunt of an endless array of irritating and debilitating Nazi policies.  For example, he loses his teaching position; he is divested of his car; his house is \\"rented\\" to an Aryan; the couple is forced to move into and share a home with other Jewish individuals; his bank accounts are frozen; the couple's food and clothing rations are cut; and on and on in and endless procession of indignities.  The human dimension of these repressive Nazi practices emerges with such startling force one simply is amazed that the couple surived at all.  A moving and valuable addition to the literature of the period.	2004-05-24
US	52423461	R27D4FQE67UT2G	0374135770	849361930	Inside Hitler's Bunker: The Last Days of the Third Reich	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Not Much New Here	Given Fest's reputation as a -- or even the -- leading German historian of the Nazi period, I found the book somewhat disappointing.  Its sketchy narrative really adds nothing new to our understanding of the bunker period. It is best seen as a very brief introduction to the terminal period of the Third Reich and some of its more significant figures, but that is about the extent of its contribution. As others have noted, there are many far superior books available for those with an interest in this topic.	2004-05-18
US	52423461	REYSHEZFJRNST	0231131089	16222530	The Fall of the House of Roosevelt: Brokers of Ideas and Power from FDR to LBJ (Columbia Studies in Contemporary American History)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	That Old FDR Gang of Mine	This is very unique book in that it intersperses a discussion of some New Deal figures and their subsequent careers with the author's discussion of his own father, Eliot Janeway, and his mother.  Author Janeway has been criticized for this, and to a certain extent this criticism is merited.  The use of gossip or information from the Janeway parents, who were after all involved with most of the cast of characters including Justice Douglas, Abe Fortas, LBJ, Thomas Corcoran, Benjamin V. Cohen, Harry Truman, is fine when intergrated into the narrative.  However, to devote three entire chapters to &quot;In My Father's House&quot; does seem excessive and is distracting.  Also, Janeway seems to ascribe a greater degree of collective mindedness to these New Deal veterans than probably was the case.  These folks were all potent and highly ambitious individuals who were interested primarily in their own careers, not in passing on the legacy of the New Deal to a new FDR.  Nonetheless, the discussion of these individuals can be addictive--particularly Janeway's analysis of LBJ and his frequent injections of William O. Douglas.  Particularly of value is Janeway's chapter on the selection of Truman over Douglas as FDR's VP in 1944.  So the book has much of interest for the reader who is interested in these folks--though sometimes it is hard to separate fact from gossip.  But after all that is what makes a great Washington insider book.	2004-05-17
US	52423461	R35WX3H3JBXP1L	0195153456	750687144	Alger Hiss's Looking-Glass Wars: The Covert Life of a Soviet Spy	Books	4	40	44	N	Y	Not Just Another Alger Hiss Book	As is true with all of his books, Professor White's new volume on Hiss reflects stupendous research, thoughtful analysis, and clarity of expression. However he has set himself a somewhat impossible task--to try and determine why Hiss spent 60 years arguing that he had been wrongfully convicted and was not a Soviet agent. Certainly this is one of the key questions about Hiss; the more interesting question, to which much less attention is devoted,  is why did Hiss become a Soviet agent in the first place given his extraordinary Establishment credentials: e.g., Harvard Law, Clerk to Justice Holmes, the AAA, the Department of Justice, the State Department, and the Carnegie Endowment. Given that White cannot get into Hiss's head for answers, the book largely is devoted to recounting Hiss's campaign for vindication, the counter-campaign to nail him as a Soviet agent, and the crucial contribution of the recently opened Russian archives in definitively resolving the issue. While much of the material is familiar, there are some important new insights as well. For those who have not been exposed to the mounds of literature on Hiss, Chambers, Nixon and HCUA, etc. this volume is probably the most compact treatment to bring one up to speed on the entire controversy. For those already conversant with the Hiss drama, it superbly discusses recent developments which have proven definitive in resolving the dispute.  All readers interested in the Hiss debate can profit enormously from this volume.	2004-05-13
US	52423461	R363D1K6EIUFJG	0195168267	694945337	That Man: An Insider's Portrait of Franklin D. Roosevelt	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Robert Jackson Takes the Measure of FDR	This is a very interesting book which adds something of great value to the ever-growing mound of books on FDR.  The fact that the manuscript was uncovered in a closet some 50 years after it was written is something for which students of FDR and presidential power can give thanks. It presents an entirely unique view and highly personal perspective on interacting with Roosevelt. Some of the most interesting discussion relates to interacting with FDR and his circle on an informal basis, such as on those fishing trips FDR savored. Also of great interest is the light the book throws on Jackson's own career--from the Treasury, to the SEC, then to Justice where successively Jackson was in the Tax Division, headed the Antitrust Division, became Solicitor General and Attorney General, and ultimately was elevated to the Supreme Court. Along the way we gain a fascinating perspective on such events as the Court Packing plan. The strongest chapter is on \\"That Man as Politician;\\" the most interesting \\"That Man as Companion and Sportsman.\\"  The editor has done an outstanding job in providing extensive notes, material from other sources to supplement the narrative, and in providing a biographical directory. But it is Jackson's own narrative skill that makes the book read so well.  With a new major biography of Jackson himself on the horizon, this book becomes even more essential.	2004-05-12
US	52423461	RZKORVTRTARIW	081312073X	111762604	Short of the Glory: The Fall and Redemption of Edward F. Prichard Jr.	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Greek Tragedy Played out in Postwar Kentucky	Edward F. Prichard, Jr.'s life makes for high drama; this excellent biography makes for engrossing and informative reading. &quot;Prich&quot; was yet another of the terribly bright Frankfurter students at Harvard Law School in the late 1930's who gravitated to Washington, first as a Supreme Court clerk to Frankfurter, and later with involvement in New Deal and wartime public service. The Greek chorus appears when Prichard returns to his home state of Kentucky to practice law. The book superbly recounts his conviction in connection with a 1948 vote-tampering scandal, his incarceration, and his eventual return to the practice of law and a role as respected educational reformer in Kentucky.  Unfortunately, serious illness inflicted near blindness and other frailties which ultimately caused an early death at the age of 69. The reader can only sit back and wonder as to why one with such unlimited promise and talents chose the course he did.  Nonetheless, as the book traces Prich's life, it provides an fascinating perspective on Harvard Law, Frankfurter, the wartime FDR administration, the early presidency of Truman, and the rise of the super lawyer-lobbyists such as Thomas Corcoran.  One's time is well invested in reading this volume.	2004-05-11
US	52423461	R24B2NBPQ6LOM7	0300088795	447569326	Benjamin V. Cohen: Architect of the New Deal	Books	5	9	11	N	N	At long last a Ben Cohen biography	This is just a very fine biography of a virtually forgotten New Deal giant, Benjamin V. Cohen.  Cohen was one-half of the famed New Deal drafting team along with Thomas Corcoran. Among their handiwork are such epic statutes as the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Public Utility Holding Company Act--monuments of the New Deal to say the least. Perhaps Cohen's slide into obscurity stemmed from his desire to avoid the limelight--just the opposite of Tommy the Cork.  While his New Deal contributions are immense, the book explains that Cohen was more more than just a major architect of the New Deal.  He was involved in Zionist activities; helped draft the Lend Lease legislation; served in the State Department after the Second War; and slipped into the role of &quot;elder statesman&quot; during his retirement.  But above all, and always, Cohen was a superb and brilliantly-gifted lawyer. All of the many dimensions of Ben Cohen are in this extraordinary biography.  Perhaps his slide into obscruity will be reversed and Cohen recognized for his significant accomplishments.	2004-05-10
US	52423461	R2DFJ11ULFS0WV	1586420682	526849996	Tommy the Cork: Washington's Ultimate Insider from Roosevelt to Reagan	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Not just for the &quot;inside the Beltway&quot; crowd	It is somewhat surprising that it has taken this long to get a full-length biography of Thomas Corcoran, who along with Benjamin V. Cohen was responsible for much of the New Deal legislative program. After his government service, Corcoran pioneered in developing a highly influential legislative representation practice, concocting a unique mixture of law, politics and corporate America that continued until the late 1970's.  The book is a fair assessment of Corcoran, covering both his virtues and his flaws.  As to the latter category, the chapter on &quot;Lobbying the Court&quot; recounts in a dispassionate fashion the episode where Corcoran was accused of having gone over the ethical line in dealing with Justice Black on a pending case. The chapters dealing with Corcoran's clerkship with Justice Holmes, the Court Packing episode, and the drafting of key pieces of New Deal legislation are particularly effective. But there is much more of interest here as well: Corcoran's involvement with a whole cast of Washington characters including FDR, Jim Farley, Truman, Justices Douglas and Frankfurter, Eisenhower, Anna Chennault, LBJ, Nixon and Abe Fortas to name just a few. The book does a fine job in filling the gap in our political history that resulted from the absence of Corcoran getting his biographical due.  The book also nicely complements William Lasser's recent biography of Benjamin V. Cohen. Corcoran and Cohen together again!	2004-05-06
US	52423461	R36JAKZWGEM1RA	0472114255	437945516	With All Deliberate Speed: The Life of Philip Elman	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An Interesting Perspective on Brown v. Board of Education	While this fascinating book covers a number of interesting topics -- whether it be Harvard Law School in the 1930's; clerking for Felix Frankfurter; a long and distinguished tenure in the Solicitor General's office; or service as an activist FTC Commissioner -- probably the most significant issue is the relationship between Philip Elman and Justice Frankfurter during the Supreme Court's consideration of the Brown case.  In 1987, when Harvard Law Review published excerpts from the oral history interviews upon which the book draws, quite a storm of controversy arose over ex parte contacts between Elman (then in the SG's office) and the Justice.  Elman always defended  himself as Frankfurter's \\"law clerk for life\\" and argued that the contacts occurred before the government knew it would enter the case.  Others, such as Professors Randall Kennedy and Andrew Kaufman, were highly critical.  Whether or not such contact was inappropriate, the book offers an invaluable insight into the hammering out of Brown. A helpful \\"Afterword\\" discusses the controversy. The editor's outstanding and extensive notes add a great deal to the significant contributions of this volume.	2004-05-05
US	52423461	RLUD3IFFOG0HJ	0823221547	510356391	Franklin Roosevelt and the Great Constitutional War: The Court-Packing Crisis of 1937	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	FDR Goes to War with the Supreme Court	This is a very long book (563 pages of text), but it may well be the definitive study of the 1937 court-packing controversy.  Professor McKenna, emeritus University of Calgary, has devoted many years to the research and writing of the volume.  Her research is comprehensive and impeccable, involving not only published sources but original sources such as manuscript collections, oral histories, and interviews. The author develops some fresh insights in discussing the Court's decisions adverse to the New Deal that prompted FDR's reaction, drawing upon recent research by Barry Cushman and Ted White. Ms. McKenna is extremely critical of FDR, not only because she contends his administration's sloppily drafted laws helped cause the problems that irked the Court, but also in terms of a cavalier legislative strategy that the author feels guaranteed defeat of the proposal in Congress. While perhaps better editing could have reduced the book's length [the author admits that 100 pages already had been edited out by the publisher], this book offers some valuable insights into the court-packing controversy and should be required reading for anyone seriously interested in this topic.	2002-11-13
