US	52421621	RD9TGM56KKBWE	0071452257	815260573	What Works on Wall Street : A Guide to the Best-Performing Investment Strategies of All Time	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Interesting, But  Practically Useless for the Small Investor	So far, there have been two or three editions of this book.  I got the first edition from the library, and a friend lent me the latest edition.  This friend, an avid investor (or more correctly, stockpicker), swears by the author and the book.  I however, have my doubts.    I say this for several important reasons.  First, in looking at the two editions, I noticed that the data is exactly the same.  The latest edition should have benefitted by incorporating a few more years of data, especially those data points corresponding to the infamous internet boom (and subsequent bust).  Though I do not recall the exact start dates, I did notice that all data sets for both editions end in 1996.  Such a glaring omission in the 2005 edition of the book is a conspicuous red herring to me.    Second, both editions assume that the future will behave much like the past, and that back-testing different strategies should be the sole basis for investment decision-making.  This is all fine and good, so long as the markets favor the methods tested, but when they do not, then you will have a lot of irate investors slavishly following these methods.  As Keynes once said.\\"Markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent.\\"  I personally do not believe that these quantitative methods, however rigorous they appear to be, should be the sole criterion for investment decision making.  Relying solely upon these methods reduces a person to an activity little better than mindless stockbuying.    Third, and most important, the author asserts in both editions that the small investor having as little as ten grand can utilize these methods just as easily as institutional investors.  He suggests that the playing field has been leveled because of flat fee trading via internet brokerages.  To see how egregious this is, let us consider one example.  The rules of the author's game dictate buying 50 stocks which adhere to the strategy and holding them for one year, then rebalancing as needed to adhere to the strategy in the following year.  If we assume for the sake of simplicity that we had to perform a complete rebalance every year, and the flat fee was ten dollars per trade, then entering and exiting all trades would cost you one thousand dollars (five hundred to enter the trades, and five hundred to exit) at a maximum every year.  That works out to be ten percent of your stake.  Institutional traders can enter and exit trades for much less than one percent of their stake, according to an acquaintance in the financial industry.  In addition, most of these so-called low-flat fee online brokerages have trading minimums, and charge you steep (in)activity penalties if you do not make a certain minimum number of trades EACH MONTH.  Since the rules of the game dictate that you will at most make only one hundred trades in any one year, the steep trading costs for individuals, combined with the inactivity penalties would wipe out most of the small investor's gains for any particular year, if any (and in more than a few years, there will be steep losses, and these costs will piled on top of them).  Oh, and um, did I mention that capital gains hit of something like 20 or 25 percent at the federal level alone (and also a hit at the state level) for stocks held a year or less?  And um, for those smaller stocks, what is the little guy to do about the huge spread between bid and ask price?    When you consider this example, it becomes clear that the method chosen by the author clearly favors the institutional investor, who has a lower cost of trading, and can receive a more favorable spread on the bid-ask price.  If the small investor tried to implement these methods, once he or she factored in the 'all-in' costs, he or she would find that the net return from these strategies in any given year would be on the average, somewhere (well) below ten percent.  Seems to me you could do better throwing your money behind the Vanguard S&P 500 Index Fund, and that only charges an annual expense which is on par with what the institutional buyers pay.    Now, you could seek out a fund that adheres to the winning methods the author identified.  That might work, but with the capital gains penalties and higher than average fund expense ratios, I highly doubt the appeal of that venue, too.    Still, both editions had their good points. The books contain a lot of good general insights on various strategies and the investment conundrum.  Although I highly recommend it as a book to read, I would not base my entire investment approach on its findings.	2005-10-05
US	52421621	R2IM88Z83533CR	0521387760	445581997	Crop Ecology: Productivity and Management in Agricultural Systems	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Erroneous, Poorly Organized and Derisive in Places	I came across this book as part of a class on quantitative ecology (whatever that may mean).  Basically, this text strives to do too much, with little or no emphasis on quality or presentation.  Granted, the authors present all the fundamental concepts, defining them succinctly as they are introduced, but in their attempt to show breadth, no particular topic is covered in depth. <br /> <br />For instance, Chapter 10, which covers photosynthesis, could have been separated into three smaller, more focused chapters.  The same thing could have been said about Chapter 9, which dealt with water relations.  Chapter 9 was especially annoying, because the authors, in an attempt to appear quantitatively rigorous (via the superfluous use of equations), used the same symbols to connote two or three variables, and it was not long before the Professor and the students in the class got confused and gave up on the text. <br /> <br />Then there is Chapter 6, which deals with the aerial environment.  The authors repeatedly confused power and energy terms and units.  Chapter One was about as bad, but here they repeatedly omitted discussions of the basis and context of their numbers, calculations and equations.  I found their decision not to discuss the limitations of the concept of carrying capacity especially disturbing. <br /> <br />Furthermore, the authors tend to be quite derisive in places, especially with regard to Third World cropping strategies (Chapter 5) and organic and bio-intensive agriculture (Chapters 15 and 18).  Although I can understand their legitimate scientific criticisms of organic agriculture (and there are quite a few) and bio-intensive cultivation techniques (reliance on human power), their rich country bias shows when they deplore the low level of technological sophistication in the Third World.  Apparently, the authors do not seem to realize that not everyone has access to credit and ag extension services, and that assuming that modern farming techniques in America and Australia can be extended to anyone, anywhere.  The poor in the Third World do what they can with what they have, and the authors should appreciate this sad state of affairs, even if they don't respect it.  <br /> <br />Honestly, the book would have benefitted by some sort of comprehensive editting, as well as a list of symbols and notations at the beginning of each chapter.  That way, the reader would not have to flip back and forth to figure out what they meant by this abbreviation or that symbol or equation. <br /> <br />Still, the book did have some good points, those being the final chapter (Chapter 18- Towards an Uncertain Future), a list for further reading at the end of each chapter, and a large and comprehensive bibliography.  The discussion on energetic inputs to agriculture in Chapter 15 was decent, but I found their penchant to quote numbers- estimates, projections and statistics, for which there was not a single reference to be off-putting.  Finally, the authors do introduce all of the major fundamental scientific concepts underpinning modern economic cropping, so they can not be faulted for this, but the context is extremely limited- mostly the US and Australia, with one or two locations here and there thrown in the mix. <br /> <br />In sum, this is not a good book for study of the various quantitave aspects of ecology, but it might serve as a reference of limited utility.  A better book in the same category is W  Larcher's Physiological Plant Ecology, which covers pretty much all of the same topics, albeit with much better organization and more focus. <br />	2005-03-21
US	52421621	R26971QJ5GP4T	0763715867	4570060	Plants, Genes, And Crop Biotechnology	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Makes a Few Bold Admissions	This book contains twenty chapters plus a comprehensive index.  Each chapter is written by a distinguished individual in his or her field.  Each chapter consists of general opening remarks, detailed information about the subject of each chapter, a chapter summary at the end of each chapter, discussion questions and a list of references for further reading.  The lead authors have created a text that would serve double duty as either an adequate text for an introductory lower division course on agronomy/plant sciences, or as a supplemental text for an upper division plant biology course which looks at the social and ethical dimensions of biotechnology and genetically modified organisms.  <br /> <br />All the contributors share the belief that agricultural biotechnology in its current manifestation is merely an extension of biology in the natural world, and is but one consequence of Watson & Crick's monumental discovery. Chrispeels and Sadava, the two contributors responsible for compiling the text, boldly state that the biggest beneficiaries of the new GM technology will be those living in the developing countries, and as such reflects the standard party line of the pro-ag-biotech groups and organizations.   <br /> <br />All inherent biases aside, the book is highly notable because of several bold admissions made throughout the text.  First, the authors readily admit that agricultural biotechnology has no defensible place or justification in a world currently awash in plentiful food, but at the same time, they do believe that biotechnology will play an important role in tomorrow's world agriculture.  Second, the also readily concede that distribution of food, and not its production, is the main culprit for hunger, but other issues do play an important role.  Related to this is their admission that the ability to pay for food matters more than the supply of food itself; if people can pay for it, they will get it (here their words on the subject echo many of the thoughts put forth by Amartya Sen, and before him, Susan George).  Third, they admit that most scientists working in the field of population and demography in the late 1960s and early 1970s made flat out wrong predictions about the infamous 'population bomb', and that predictions made today many not come to pass tomorrow- they are just guesses about the future.  Here they appear to be backing away from the incendiary rhetoric of environmental luminaries such as Paul Ehrlich and Lester Brown.  Fourth, and quite possibly the boldest admission of the text, was their concession that agricultural biotechnology has been oversold.  Apparently, they saw fit to stop short of saying that ag-biotech has been and continues to be hyped into the stratosphere, but their very admission alone is satisfactory, as they later lay most of the blame for today's hysteria and urban myths surrounding ag-biotech and GM technologies upon the overselling of the technologies, where it justifiably belongs. <br /> <br />Indeed, the authors' concern for the overselling of the promise and potential of biotechnology is readily apparent in the final chapter of the book, where they address the myths and realities of agricultural biotechnology.  However, even the authors can not resist the temptation to sell the reader on the potential benefits of an agricultural biotechnology, and the book includes chapters on integrated pest management incorporating the scientific advances of ag-biotech (Chapter 16), weed control strategies using biotechnology (Chapter 17), GM technology as a tool for promoting green agriculture (Chapter 18), and the use of plants as biological factories (Chapter 19). <br /> <br />Generally speaking, Chapters 1 through 5 lay down the rationale for incorporation of ag-biotech in food production, and chapters 6 through 15 explain the how to, the ins and outs of the technology and how genetic modification of crops is achieved.  Also, chapters 6 through 15 cover all the standard topics one would find in a regular course on agronomy, crop science and plant biology, from plant cell and molecular biology, plant growth and development, seeds and seed technology, the ins and outs of photosynthesis and the physical, biological and environmental factors associated with it, soils and root zone systems, nitrogen cycling, to the historical basis for crop breeding (with some paleo-anthropological perspectives) and the gradual leap from breeding via classical techniques to modern, biotech based methods.  Chapter 15 also looks at crop disease and its management from a molecular genetic standpoint, and strikes me as a means to include students in plant pathology. <br /> <br />Additionally, the authors paid considerable attention to the problems and challenges of agriculture in Third World countries, in an attempt to demonstrate the veracity of their belief that GM technology can do much to assist the inhabitants there.  However, in the process, they belatedly demonstrate that these technologies have been developed to address symptoms of more complex and fundamental problems having an economic, environmental and/or socio-historical basis.  Yet, the authors must be credited for admitting that the real need in developing countries is for more research support to address their specific physical and environmental conditions, and for demonstrating that in every single instance where consumer incomes rise and the socio-economic status of women advances, there is an inevitable decrease in birth rates, hunger and malnutrition.   <br /> <br />Thus, the contributors freely admit that their research and scientific activities chase phantom problems and non-problems.  They also admit, albeit obliquely, that ag-biotech in its current manifestation does not address the needs or the fundamental problems faced in the developing or the developed world.  In fact, on the one hand, researchers have occupied themselves with testing the limits of GM technology, seeing what they can do, and exploring different directions, while on the other hand, government institutions and corporations have directed their efforts at technological developments for which they have proprietary control, and increasingly, total control over distribution and other supporting activities.  Alas, the authors have chosen, perhaps unwisely, to offer any comments on this state of affairs, and what it may mean for everyone. <br /> <br />In sum, this book makes quite a few bold admissions, some directly, but most indirectly, and as such, is a necessary read for those interested in the topics of ag-biotech, genetic modification technologies, food production and safety, and crop science in general.  It is definitely a good and comprehensive book, containing a level of honesty highly uncommon among textbooks on the subject(albeit couched among questionable pitches about potential benefits of ag-biotech), and its sources for further reading are indispensable.  I highly recommend the text to anyone looking to place this contentious scientific topic within a social and ethical context. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-03-21
US	52421621	RMJ6TEMCWX2NC	0471392286	61568632	Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A Clever, Yet Deceptively Effective Advertisement	Mr. Bogle would like you to believe that history will repeat itself.  He believes that the market performance is indeed repeatable.  He also believes that the unmanaged index fund will continue to outperform the majority of its managed peers by a sound margin, which will compound over time.  The outcome of next year's stock market performance, much like which baseball team will win the World Series, is certainly unpredictable, yet we still try to predict the outcome, even though we can not ask what will happen in many repetitions over the years.  Next year's market performance, like the World Series winner, will happen only once under a unique set of conditions, most of which we may never see again, and even if we do, will not be present at the same time.    As an answer to the question of market performance next year, or for that matter, any other year, if probability measures what would happen if we did something many, many times, Mr. Bogle's position is neither a probability nor a certainty, though it is wrapped up in many impressive statistics.  Probability is based on data about many repetitions of the same random phenomenon.  Mr. Bogle is giving us something else when he makes the case for the index fund- his personal judgment.  This is why I say that Mr. Bogle's book is a clever, yet deceptively effective advertisement.    While it is true that you are following and measuring the same number, total return, over time, the conditions used to generate this number are not the same, thus you can not use the rules of chance to determine what the total return will be going forward.  You can not even use the rules of chance, which tell us what the likely outcomes would be under the same conditions done repeatedly, to tell you even what the average total return would be, nor could you use it to give you a reliable range of returns.  However, you can use the tools and techniques of descriptive statistics to tell you the distribution of total returns in the past,  but you could not use them to make inferences (that is, to draw conclusions) about the future.  To do this, you would have to assume that the future will be like the past, and you have to assume that prevailing conditions today will also be the same tomorrow.  Both assumptions are ridiculous.  There were some conditions prevalent in the past that we will most likely never, ever see again, and do much to explain the impressive performance, expressed as annualized total return, of the stock and bond markets.  Mr. Bogle's analysis considers only market performance.  It does not consider the demographic, socio-economic and political trends underlying this market performance.    As an anwer to the question of relative performance between the index fund approach and the managed fund approach, first let me say that Mr. Bogle is not the first to point out that an unmanaged index outperforms its managed peers.  Indeed, the first to point this out was a Mr. Cowles, who created the Cowles Commission sometime around the Great Depression.  The Cowles Commission was devoted to looking at the nature of stock market returns among managed (then held by various banks, insurance companies and brokerages) funds versus the broader market.  The work of the Cowles Commission was later absorbed by Standard and Poor's, and more than a few big name academics at the University of Chicago (Fama and Markowitz just to name a couple) got their start doing work with the Cowles Commission.  It comes as no surprise to me, or for that matter, to market insiders, that most managed funds fail to beat a benchmark index (though over the years, the proportion that has failed to do so has steadily fallen).    Second, the indexing approach does have merits, but in my mind, it works best for bonds, simply because one requires a lot of cash (usually 100K) to get a piece of any one particular issue, otherwise trading costs are prohibitive, and good diversification at those amounts would run into the millions.  Moreover, returns on bonds do have an upper bound, and when the bonds come due, the principal is all you get.  This is especially true for corporate bonds, but less so for Treasuries.  Fees (expenses and loads), combined with taxes and inflation do the most damage to bond funds, because the return is limited, so using a bond index to limit one's costs seems like an intelligent move to me, so long as one pays close attention to the credit rating of the issues in the fund and in the case of the bond index fund especially, the average number of years to maturity.    Third, the stock index approach works best for those who have better things to do than pick stocks, and look upon the activity as being about as fun as having a root canal without an anesthetic.  While any individual electing to take the index approach will not ever get the highest possible return, those returns, in most periods will likely be better than those obtained by any managed fund.    You need a relatively strong background in mathematics, especially in the areas of statistics and elementary calculus, to understand this book.  Mr. Bogle argues for low cost (and preferably indexed) funds in any style category or asset class and elaborates on their inherent superiority; after all, he operates several low cost index funds, so he should know, right?  Basically, what you the investor need to know boils down to this:  if you intend to 'play' the market, you might as well be the market, or at least the closest facsimile of it you can be.  However, as Mr. Buffett has pointed out, by becoming the market, you get the good, as well as the bad, and if you can stand mediocrity, more power to you.  Given that mediocrity tends to outperform sophisticated stockpicking over time, it may not be that bad, after all.      This book should be retitled as \\"The Case for the Index Fund\\".	2005-03-20
US	52421621	R1HA8I9MTP5IGY	0930031644	3964814	Wind Power for Home & Business: Renewable Energy for the 1990s and Beyond (Real Goods Independent Living Book)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A Good Intro to a Much-Hyped Technology	Many would like to take advantage of the wind, a so-called 'free' energy resource to do things ranging from pumping water for irrigation to supplying their home or business energy needs.  Over the course of the book, via extended examples of practical, functioning and active wind power systems, Paul Gipe makes clear just how 'free' this free energy source actually is. <br /> <br />While Mr. Gipe concedes readily that the wind can be harnessed to provide energy, he also patiently explains the limitations in doing so.  Mr. Gipe is probably the technology's most level-headed advocate, and he makes clear what these systems can and can not do. <br /> <br />Although wind energy systems have lots of potential, they often fall short for several practical reasons.  As Mr. Gipe quickly points out, not all sites are suitable for harnessing the wind, and the most important criterion for wind energy development is the stability of the wind resource, and not necessarily its maximum speed (as it turns out, practically all commercially available systems will not produce any energy above a certain speed, for aerodynamic reasons).  This is the first and most common misconception that Mr. Gipe dispels, and throughout the book he provides a lot of clarification on many other wind energy myths and misconceptions.  A second very common misconception among the public, who have been sold these energy systems based on their clean image (zero greenhouse gas emissions), is the ongoing confusion between power and energy, which many consider to be equal.  Gipe takes us slowly through the mathematics, and shows us the important difference between power and energy. <br /> <br />Many unscrupulous advocates of so-called 'free' energy- solar and/or wind power have fooled more than a few technological neophytes by citing the high efficiency of such systems at converting the wind to power, er, ah, I mean energy.  However, this is misleading for two reasons.  First, power is not what we at home pay for; we pay for energy.  Second, and most important, these knaves often cite efficiency at hub height, and not in terms of final output (which is what you really are paying for), when they 'sell' (more like hype) wind power.  Granted there is lots of energy in the wind, but that is energy of motion, and that has to be ultimately converted into electrical energy to brew your coffee or run your toaster, and alas, the efficiency of such conversions is rather low, right around that for coal or petroleum fired electric power plants (and a bit below that of natural gas fired plants). <br /> <br />The book covers all the wind power basics, from estimating your wind resource (distribution of wind speeds for your particular site), to estimating your annual energy output with a given system, to costing the system and issues related to siting and installation.  All in all, it is a very comprehensive book, complete with chapters devoted to each aspect of an individual wind energy system- rotor, transmission, tower, as well as issues dealing with interconnection to the utility and proper transformation of voltage for home use. <br /> <br />For me, the most important admission made in the book is the fact that no one can say exactly how much power (uh, energy!) the system will deliver.  Because the wind is an intermittent resource, the amount of useful energy output depends to a great extent on the type of wind resource one has, namely the distribution of wind speeds throughout the year, and less on such things as the size of the rotor, the height of the tower and the efficiency of the entire system.  In fact, because each system is unique in that it has a different rotor diameter, hub height and total system efficiency, one must estimate for each and every system under consideration the annual energy output.  Failure to do so will mean overestimating the capability of your site and your wind energy system, and in turn, not getting all the energy you may require.  As a result, knowing your site and its wind speed distribution (generally five years of data) is more important than the type of system you choose. <br /> <br />As a result, I have come to see wind energy systems for the home not as an enabling technology but as a limiting technology.  This is the primary reason why investor owned and municipal utilities tend to use these systems as peak energy off-sets, and not as dedicated systems to meet fixed energy demands.  Though Gipe does not say this in so many words, he does admit that the technology, while having many possible applications and lots of potential, also has a lot of fundamental limitations. <br /> <br />Mr. Gipe has written a few other books on the subject, some of them a bit more recent than this one.  Still, this book makes for a good, clear and level-headed introduction to a much hyped technology. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-08
US	52421621	R2G7Y3ROJBC823	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Bit Too Chatty, But Still Top Notch	I have read four of the Stephanie Plum (mis)adventures, and I must say that I am steadily growing more interested in the character.  My first Plum (mis)adventure was Hard Eight, and from there, I read the series from the beginning.  Three to Get Deadly is my fourth helping of this girl sleuth. <br /> <br />Although the writing is subtly formulaic, and the author's romance writing past sometimes overpowers the storyline, each book delivers a powerful combination of non-stop laughs and often more hilarious action.  Three to Get Deadly is probably the best of the four I have read so far.  In it, our most favorite, bumbling (anti)heroine is still learning the ropes of the bounty-hunting trade, still pining for her one-time sweetheart Joe Morrelli, and still embarassing her parents by not getting a decent, regular (and perfectly safe) job at the button factory like her cousin.  This time around, she gets a 'plum' (heh heh) assignment from her cousin Vinnie: bring in an FTA who happens to be a lovable neighborhood candyman.  Sounds simple, right?  Yet, nothing is ever simple in these hilarious romps, and you will have to read it to find out why. <br /> <br />As always, the laughs are good and plenty, but what brings me back each time, besides the standard set-up of normally sane (but then, this is debatable) individuals caught up in insane situations, are the cast of supporting characters.  Ranger gets considerable time in the book, and Evanovich gradually puts the finishing touches on making Lula the fumbling sidekick to bumbling Stephanie.  I found the book a bit chatty and a little too busy with dialogue at points, but Evanovich delivers on the action.   <br /> <br />I liked this one so much, I put the next in the series, Four to Score, at the top of my To Be Read Now List (and I admit that I have committed blasphemy, as the book now is ahead of a Spenser romp).  Evanovich nails the introduction and the ending well, but sometimes the middle is kind of chatty.  Nonetheless, I still like to hang on for the fast-paced (and often hair-raising) ride. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-06
US	52421621	R1GWXU1ELEOC4T	0451209699	538986329	Blacklist (A V.I. Warshawski Novel)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good!	This is my first VI Warshawski mystery and represents a kind of departure from my usual reading.  A tough, nosey, but kind-hearted heroine, realistic settings, rich historical detail and a bittersweet ending all make for interesting and absorbing reading. <br /> <br />I had my doubts at first, but the book's premise and strong writing won me over.  Not as much action as I like to see, but still a good read.  However, I felt the whole set-up for the killer was implausible, but I can not give that away here.  However, I can say that I liked the aspect of the killer quite possibly weaseling out from under the consequences of the crime, using power, priviledge and the hysteria of the moment to maximum advantage. <br /> <br />The level of realism in the book took me by surprise, and the author's left-leaning politics were naked throughout the text.  However, I have to agree with Paretsky, who used the novel as an excuse to riff on the sorry state of the Bill of Rights these days.  Many weighty themes were skillfully handled, such as McCarthyism and the Red Scare (a horrible blight on US history), the ongoing discrimination against people of African-American descent, and the rabid climate of paranoia and fear that has enveloped America in the wake of the tragic events of 2001. <br /> <br />My only gripe with the author is the lack of action (characters only get shot once or twice), and I am afraid my (rabid) devotion to Robert B. Parker's Hawk (and that Spenser guy, I guess he's OK, seeing as he is Hawk's sidekick and all!) is a bit too apparent here.  Paretsky writes more in a procedural kind of vane, using background and detail more than pulse-pounding action.  Parker, in contrast, writes more hard-boiled, tough-guy, gun-slinging action with an economy of words.  Still, I have to make a note to check out a few more of VI's earlier romps, as she makes for absolutely fun reading.  Great work, Ms. Paretsky!	2005-03-05
US	52421621	R1MBE9CJ07JM4K	0471445509	467555011	Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits and Other Writings	Books	4	84	86	N	N	Be Careful with This One	Fisher is a growth stock adherent, and some have said that he is the Father of Growth Investing.  Many contrast him to Benjamin Graham, whom more than a few have dubbed the Father of Value Investing.  Fisher's book, Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits, provides an uneasy cornerstone for growth stock and technology stock investing.  However, at some point, growth stock investing became synonymous with technology stock investing.  As such, on one extreme, we have Fisher and growth (tech) stocks, and on the other we have Graham(and Dodd) and boring but predictable concerns with a margin of safety, and adherents to either extreme bicker back and forth as to which method for selecting common stocks for investment is better. <br /> <br />'Growth', I believe, is all fine and good, so long as you can find outfits that can hold their value, and continue to build value.  Moreover,  like its sister 'Growth', 'Opportunity' too is a wonderful thing, so long as 'Growth' and 'Opportunity' can be turned into profits and (dividend) checks in the mail. <br /> <br />Unlike Graham's sage advice, with which I agree 100 percent, I don't necessarily agree with Fisher's stance on many investment issues, but I do concede that the reasoning behind them does have merit.  Take his position on dividends, for example.  A company with excess cash and no reasonable opportunities for investment well within its circle of competence should send that cash to its shareholders, so long as it maintains a satisfactory reserve fund, can meet its financing needs, and has all of its investment needs met.  Long experience has shown that companies that sit on top of a large (and growing) cash pile inevitably succumb to the temptation to squander it somehow or another (usually on vanity purchases), always to the detriment of its core business.  Thus, companies that are generating cash in excess of their immediate and foreseeable needs (beyond a built-in cushion) should pay a dividend, and increase that dividendas earnings increase.  Firms that don't do this, I believe, simply do not make for wise investments. <br /> <br />Furthermore, many have legitimately questioned the applicability of one technique underlying Fisher's investment method- the use of scuttlebutt.  Most concerns have centered around how to go about doing it, which to me raises certain warning flags, and not on more important facets such as its usefulness (with regard to the kind of information gleaned) in practice and its potential (negative) consequences.  One must exercise extreme caution when using scuttlebutt, for the following reasons.  First, people, from individual investors to managers at publicly listed companies, especially the smaller tech outfits, know about this book, and so they also know how to use the book's information in order to present themselves so as to attract your investment dollars.  Second, reliance on scuttlebutt depends to a great extent on how it comes your way (and Fisher partially acknowledges this, but limits his discussion to 'disgruntled' former employees of a company under consideration), and you have to exercise caution here, for you may find yourself in big trouble with the Federal Boys, or worse- with legal vultures circling over your head, should you act on it.  Third, companies have a distinct disliking to scuttlebutt, as it may serve as one source of leaks of trade secrets or other sensitive information.  Fourth, related to the third point, companies may intentionally use 'scuttlebutt' to 'plant' dis-information or even mis-information before small-time investors, specifically, and institutional investors, always.  Finally, for those intrepid souls wondering how to put scuttlebutt to work, as an aside, for anyone who has attended college or some trade school, getting the inside story may be as easy as contacting the alumni office of your alma mater, or even as simple as hitting up a former frat, sorority or other college club member.  More simply, one can directlycontact folks involved in industry trade organizations as well. <br /> <br />In my mind, Mr. Fisher's method works best when one applies it to large and established concerns.  When I ponder the investment problem, I come to the conclusion that your most reasonable assessment of a company must rest on an analysis of the company's past behavior, coupled with a current snapshot of the company in the context of its industry, and not on scuttlebutt.  But then, Ben Graham said pretty much the same thing over and over again in his book Security Analysis. <br /> <br />Overall, I liked Fisher's Fifteen Points, but I liked the little mini-book, \\"Conservative Investors Sleep Well\\", which forms Part Two of the book, even better.  You could obtain the same information by reading a denser book like Competitive Strategy, by Michael Porter, but getting the same information, in condensed form, from a seasoned and successful practitioner like Mr. Fisher imparts a level credibility, reliability and trust that all other sources lack.  I also like Fisher's emphasis on understanding the business (and visiting the company if necessary to get detailed information, wherever possible, necessary and appropriate), a point that Graham, although he did not overlook it, did not specifically emphasize. <br /> <br />One must understand Fisher in order to know what to expect if all goes well with investment operations.  In contrast, one must understand Graham in order to know what to expect if everything goes to hell in a handbasket.  One can not successfully invest with only one or the other, as doing so will lead to mediocre results at best, and poor results more typically.  One needs to know both. <br /> <br />Although I will not put the concept of scuttlebutt to practice, as it strikes me as being both dangerous and speculative, I will put the rest of the information to work.  In sum, I will definitely keep the book, and it will sit next to my copies of Benjamin Graham's The Intelligent Investorand Security Analysis, where it will remain as one of my must-have and must-consult investment references. <br /> <br />	2005-02-20
US	52421621	R2PRU48Z9LDXBA	014200071X	929660080	How to Live Your Dream of Volunteering Overseas	Books	3	56	105	N	N	Exercise Extreme Caution with This Book	The bad air surrounding this particular book needs clearing, as it has a number of problems, though a few less than its erstwhile predecessor, Bridging the Global Gap, by Medea Benjamin and Ann Freedman, which first laid out the philosophical reasons for overseas volunteering, among other things.  Whereas Bridging the Global Gap crossed the line of irresponsible action at several points, this book comes close, and at times engages in a level of intellectual dishonesty that I found both off-putting and bordering on criminal.  Throughout the book, the authors walk a fine line between tactful encouragement and honest, blunt truth-telling, and at times, they eagerly sacrifice the (blunt) truth in favor of tact and encouragement. <br /> <br />On the one hand, the book does provide alternatives to volunteering overseas, and it does cover the mechanics of overseas volunteering- before, during and after, very well.  Both issues are discussed fully and copious resources for further inquiry are given.  These points qualify as the book's chief merits.  However, the book has a number of glaring demerits, several of which require an extended explanation and discussion. <br /> <br />The authors have clearly stated biases but an opaque agenda.  In particular, they appear to possess some legitimate objections to US Foreign Policy and the way such policy has been and continues to be implemented.  While I concede that volunteering overseas can do much to open the eyes of the volunteer, build bridges between people, especially those from the First and Third Worlds, and agree with their position that volunteering overseas may not be the most appropriate thing for many to do, I do not entirely agree with their methods and approach to overseas volunteering, and I have strong objections to their chosen presentation style.  A careful and critical reader can see quite clearly the hidden motives for this book, as well as its true, target audience. <br /> <br />First, there have been a numberof problems associated with the whole notion of overseas volunteering, from the organizations involved in the scene to the type of people that elect to volunteer.  The authors deal with the organizations issue squarely, clearly and forcefully in the fifth chapter of their text, and list in an extensive Appendix detailed information about organizations that they believe are on the level(that, however, doesn't mean they truly are, however).  In the authors' defense, they do provide the reader with the key defining characteristics of those groups, organizations or institutions that are not on the level or are somewhat less than credible, conscientious and stable. <br /> <br />Second, the real motivation for the book, reading between the lines, was to address the issue of 'problematic volunteers'.  Chapter Two of the book does an admirable job of addressing some of the more glaring and persistent problems due to the type of people that elect to volunteer, in the most tasteful and least off-putting way.  To say that the typical overseas volunteer of the past (and present) was clueless, idealistic, ignorant about world affairs and history and generally flaky doesn't quite do the issue adequate justice.  It would be more appropriate to say that overseas volunteers continue to be White or Western European, more typically female (about 70/30 in favor of women) and very much ignorant about more detailed manners, customs and historical background of the people he (or more typically she) will assist- facts that are widely known, but somehow the authors failed to include.  As such, this book addresses people, and not institutions, and represents the first and most glaring bias of the authors, as the two are inter-related in the following way. <br /> <br />Third, the authors profess a strong willingness to see more non-whites participate as overseas volunteers.  Unfortunately, that sentiment is not shared with the vast majority of groups, organizations and institutions.  While the authors appear to lament the traditionally low participation rates and the apparently low level of interest in overseas volunteering among non-whites, they generally adhere to the universal line that the former is the cause of the latter.  Although it is true that participation rates are and have been low, it does not stem entirely from a low level of interest or lack of any interest by non-whites.  If one looked at on-the-ground participation, then one would come to the same conclusion as the authors erroneously did.  Rather, the low levels of interest and participation among non-whites reflects the fact that the organizations to which they apply consciously, selectively and intentionally filter them out of the process- before, during and after recruitment, application and final selection.  This is the real reason why both interest and participation rates are very low, and I must wonder why the authors did not address this in their book. <br /> <br />Fourth, although the book talked about the reasons why some choose to volunteer overseas, it falls short of being blunt, principally out of fear of alienating a particularly desirable demographic.  Having done some volunteer work overseas, and interacted with both aspiring and seasoned volunteers, I can say bluntly that many if not most individuals gravitate to overseas volunteering for one of two reasons.  If they are young and preferably white and female, they are typically trying to kick start a career of some sort, often after having failed to land a post at one of the high-profile, name-brand organizations such as the US Peace Corps, the State Department or the UN.  Less often, they are following a charismatic young male bent on Saving the Whales, the Birds, the Amazon or the Planet(or whatever may be fashionable to 'save') like a starry-eyed puppy.  I believe we know what eventually comes to pass for the latter, but for the former, they usually tend to fall into something close to what they originally desiredafter an extended period of struggle and difficulty.  If, however, they are white and male, no matter their age, they tend to look upon the opportunity as a chance to pursue a series of exotic amorous (mis)adventures, often with disastrous consequences.  As a result, when it comes to the males, many organizations have become good at filtering out such knaves, but at the expense of losing some good, highly qualified men, for the knee-jerk reaction is typically to exclude all males.  However, these same organizations have done little or nothing to address the same problem among their female recruits, under the erroneous assumption that women don't engage in their own destructive forms of 'romance tourism', ultimately with often tragic results.   <br /> <br />Therefore, the authors' opaque agenda is simply this: they want to continue the endless stream of desirable recruits (preferably young, white and female) but at the same time make them aware of some things that quite frankly they really ought to be aware of already.  As such, I have to call into question the basis for calling such individuals 'desirable recruits'.  The book was not so much written to help people volunteer in an appropriate fashion as it was to warn the most desirable demographic of overseas volunteering about the real but wholly avoidable pitfalls. <br /> <br />I give the book three stars for two very important reasons.  First, the text neglected to address the very real possibility of overseas volunteers getting killed.  Deaths among overseas volunteers have occurred, for a variety of reasons, and those electing to go to any Third World country should know the exact lay of the land and political situation before embarking.  Second, the book does not firmly rebuke going abroad alone as a volunteer, without a plan, program, sponsor or support.  I found Chapter Six, which discusses this option, to be both egregious and an exercise in stupidity, and I really can not understand why the chapter was included in a book on 'sensible' overseas volunteering.  If one thinks about it for a while, one will clearly see the very real problems and risks that are associated with going it alone, and electing to do so merely serves to raise the chances of mishaps and tragedy to near certainty.  Additionally, such a course of action is not only foolhardy, but also arrogant, for it tacitly assumes that the downtrodden of the Third World will accept some clueless but wealthy First Worlder with open arms.  Finally, I was extremely dismayed by the authors' choice to highlight and showcase only the successful instances of overseas volunteers who went it alone, even though they (should) know full well how often tragic and unsuccessful instances have come to pass. <br /> <br />Those readers mulling the idea of volunteering overseas should exercise extreme caution with this book, as it openly sacrifices hard, blunt truths in favor of deceptive tact and bubbly encouragement.  <br />   <br /> <br />   <br /> <br />    <br /> <br />	2005-02-19
US	52421621	R1DORDCONWAE44	0312422504	396161333	The Eagle's Shadow: Why America Fascinates and Infuriates the World	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Deceptive But Humorous Sleight of Hand	Previous reviewers have correctly pointed out that this book does not provide a means for Americans to learn the opinions of (some) non-Americans about America.  Rather, Mr. Hertsgaard has taken the opportunity to inform the reader as to his opinion of what he believes foreigners think of America, and more to the point, what he thinks of America and Americans.  Thus, on that score, the book is deceptive. <br /> <br />Hertsgaard structures each chapter as follows: he begins each chapter with a comment from a foreigner about America, he then explores a central theme, placing particular emphasis on its relationship to US Foreign Policy and finally, he ends each chapter with a prescription for beneficial change.  One can discern various themes throughout the book.  First and foremost among these themes is the lamentably true fact that Americans know less about the world than the world knows about America.  This insight has a number of disturbing implications, which Hertsgaard adequately demonstrates in the book. <br /> <br />Additionally, Hertsgaard helps to remind the reader of the crucial difference between Americans and the American government.  He also shows us how any issue, be it domestic or foreign policy, is shaped and formed, by both a powerful minority (who are also wealthy, but not necessarily tremendously so) and their most agreeable media henchmen.  Most important, he looks behind the rhetoric, and instead of parroting the same old, tired litany (America, The Hated Empire), he dares to ask why some people hate us. <br /> <br />This last point turns out to be a very important discussion, as many Americans believe that the world hates America and Americans.  After all, this is the incessant litany our leaders and the media feed us every day via highly charged, but empty rhetoric.  The reality, however, is far more complex, and among non-Americans, feelings about America vary from an extreme of admiration and adoration to outright disgust, naked contempt and pathological hostility.  The truth, alas, is somewhere in the middle of this range, and it is unfortunate that this book did not assist in uncovering it. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, I found the book, although at times overflowing with the naive optimistic idealism that so characterizes many left-leaning individuals, to be a surprisingly even-handed, though always critical and insightful musing on US Foreign Policy.  Hertsgaard also managed to inject humor into an otherwise staid and dull topic on several occasions, making it more interesting than it typically is. <br /> <br />I leave the reader with one final quote from the book, apparently made by a Briton: \\"Texans are the worst...  I like most Americans, but it is quite amazing how they don't know anything about other places in the world, unless they're invading them.\\" <br />	2005-02-12
US	52421621	R3NE666YBFERRD	1580627838	236170281	The Everything Understanding Islam Book: A Complete and Easy to Read Guide to Muslim Beliefs, Practices, Traditions, and Culture	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Very Accessible Introduction to Islam the Religion	I actually wanted to pick up a book on the history of Islam in order to refresh my memory, but after a little thought, considering the breadth of the subject matter, I chose this book instead.   <br /> <br />I consider myself fortunate that I did choose this book.  The author delivers everything stated in the title, plus gives the reader a little of the early history of Islam and some brief but concise and very relevant information on the major divisions of Islam today.  From this book, I learned that not all Muslims share the same outlook or beliefs, much like Christians, and that deep philosophical and intellectual rifts exist within Islam.  In essence, there are progressive and fundamentalist elements within the religion, just as there are in Christianity, and more important, there are sects possessing pseudo-Islamic elements, just as there are in Christianity.  After reading this book, I actually came away thinking that both Islam and Christianity are more similar than different, with respect to the fact that the power structures in both are male-dominated and male interpreted, and also that although the religions both have benevolent overtones, their most zealous adherents clearly display malevolent tendencies.  <br /> <br />Anyone, from kids to adults, can pick up this book and learn something.  The book introduces a lot of terms, most likely in Arabic (romanized of course), but without a phonetic sounding of them I am afraid that I may be butchering the pronunciation of the terms when I say them in conversations with friends about Islam.  My only real complaint with the text is that it does not give the reader much of the history of Islam, but then no book can provide one with a whole history of a world religion in a mere 250 pages. <br /> <br />The text is an excellent, non-partisan introduction to a world religion counting more than a billion followers.  I heartily recommend it to those looking to learn more about Islam- its belief and its practices, but for those of you looking for books focusing on Islam in either a historical or geopolitical context, you will find this basic text unsatisfactory for your needs.  I suggest you read something like Jihad vs. McWorld, or some other text along those lines such as the works of the late Edward Said. <br /> <br />Given the current world situation we all face today, this book should be required reading for everyone.	2005-02-08
US	52421621	RAYQG5K9MBEHP	0394721039	106834303	The Money Game	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Moments of Clarity, Moments of Comedy	'Adam Smith's' The Money Game presents the reader with some interesting musings on modern finance, as practiced in the late 1960s, and depressingly, today.  The book's content actually came from a group of (in)famous essays submitted by the fictitious Mr. 'Smith' to a variety of financial publications during the Fabulous Go-Go Years which spanned from about the mid-1960s to early 1971. <br /> <br />In this book, we see the market revealed for what it truly is.  All markets consist of people, and contrary to popular belief (and all common sense), not all people participate in financial markets to make money.  Such insights make up the core theme of the book, and Mr. 'Smith' explores this theme in detail in the first part of the book.  While it is true that many people do come to the market to make money and hopefully get (filthy) rich, and equally true that most people exit the market chastened, embarassed and with empty pockets, wallets and bank and equity accounts, most secretly approach the market as either a diversion from an otherwise staid and desultory life, a form of entertainment and excitement, or as some sort of perverse challenge.  The truly successful in the marketplace, however, approach it as a game, like any other, and as such have acquired a philosophical outlook on the markets and life.  As such, shades of Nasim Nicholab Taleb's remarkable financial book, Fooled by Randomness, resonate with particular force with this book. Thus, Mr. 'Smith' admonishes the reader to understand our reasons for participating in the market, and along the way, he divulges the real secret to getting rich in the stock market (besides either running the market or being some sort of middleman in the market).  Mr. 'Smith' also admonishes potential players to look upon the market as a Game (with a capital 'g'), and this particular insight makes for the second major theme of the book.  Here he relies on the words of Lord Keynes and the legendary founder of the Fidelity Group for support.   <br /> <br />In Part Two of the book, he puts both ivory tower foolishness and market foolishness to the test, and as most intelligent readers might accurately guess, both fail spectacularly.  Based on his treatment, we learn that the random walk theory and the Dow theory share opposite sides of the same coin.  Adherents to one or the other champion them with equal fervor (and trash their counterparts with the zeal of religious fanatics), and while one says that prices can be predicted from the past moves, and the other says no such luck, both profess to be the one true path to riches.  Part Two really gets to the heart of investing.  Who has the best system?  It turns out that nobody does, and that is the central message, along with the fallibility of numbers, trends and past data (and the slavish and potentially bankrupting reliance on computers and programmed trading).  All 'systems' for money-making depend on the analysis of the past to determine the future, and though this works well in the controlled environment of the science lab, it fails spectacularly in the uncontrolled marketplace. <br /> <br />In Part Three, Mr. 'Smith' paints a disturbing picture of professional money managers.  The reader gets to see the pros in action, and even though the pros have more money and information, they too often act as clueless as the Little Guy whose money they take and quite often berate.  Part Four of the book allows us to partake in a little roasting  of the financial doomsayers, ever-present then as they are now, and always seeing signs of the Apocalypse in every upward or downward movement in one or more economic indicators.  Here, Mr. 'Smith' reminds us that goldbugs and other fear mongering speculators and opportunists will always be with us so long as there are marketplaces in which to trade. <br /> <br />Part Five winds up the book, and Mr. 'Smith' reminds the reader that in the end, the market and investing are best approached when looked upon as aGame.  Whether it is the Go-Go Sixties or internet New Economy Nineties, the players and their passions, hopes, dreams and desires all remain the same.  Change the names and the dates and you really couldn't say for sure if you were in one period or the other.  The wise reader would do well to look inward first before making any outward financial moves going forward.  Readers of this book who desire to learn more about the history and cyclical nature of business, industry, markets and money may want to read Devil Take The Hindmost by Edward Chancellor. <br /> <br />	2005-02-07
US	52421621	R3685DRLEIOXTV	0932020739	266857142	Bridging the Global Gap: A Handbook to Linking Citizens of the First and Third Worlds	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An Idealistic, Dated But Fair Intro to the Global Divide	A good friend of mine with an intellectual bent gave me a copy of this book to read.  I obtained the book shortly before the hostile festivities broke out in Iraq and gave it a read.  While I do not agree with all of its content, and do not espouse or support some of the book's more objectionable forms of advocacy and support of certain causes, I did find the text to have particular insight into some of the problems, well-publicized or not, that all of us on the planet face. <br /> <br />The book seeks to redefine travel and tourism not as opportunities to escape, take a break or unwind but as chances to learn and connect with others.  The text places a lot of weight on communion and solidarity with the down-trodden in the Third World.  I regard these to be admirable sentiments, but I object to the author's advocating that readers should put themselves in harm's way to engage and confront pressing world problems.  While visiting war-torn or strife-filled areas does indeed have its merits (first-hand eyewitness accounts and whatnot), these areas are inherently dangerous, and the natives may question your sincerity for being there (if they do not harm you directly or indirectly regardless of your sincere intentions). <br /> <br />Some have rightly criticized the approach advocated by the authors, but no one can heap abuse upon them for the reasoning behind it.  We often receive a biased account of things and events from traditional and established media sources, and we should, wherever possible, seek out all forms of information wherever possible.  However, I do not think that such information gathering should legitimately include putting oneself in harm's way, but this is just my opinion. <br /> <br />The real value of the text rests in its exposure of the exploitative aspects of tourism, especially in the developing countries and the Third World.  Granted, we do not travel in order to see other people's problems (as we generally travel to get away from our own problems for the most part), and when we do take a break in an exotic foreign locale, it is with the purpose of having fun in mind.  However, we must also keep in mind that our desire to have fun often comes at the expense of others and their environment, and our travel dollars often do not benefit the natives of the exotic locale at all.  Rather, concerted effort has been taken to exclude them from the tourist experience at every conceivable opportunity. <br /> <br />While the book does delve into the exploitative nature of tourism in the Third World, one does not have to go outside the country to see just how a dependence on tourism ravages an economy and demeans and exploits a group of people.  Anyone who has traveled to Hawaii can see this very easily. <br /> <br />Although the focus on tourism is a big theme of the book, the book also devotes space to ways in which those in the First World can connect with those in the Third World, chiefly through things like Fair Trade outlets featuring goods from a particular country or region, or through grassroots organizations.  Much of the content, however, does reflect a lot of the misplaced idealism of the middle to late 1970s and early 1980s.  Most notably, a few of the pictures, particularly those of idealistic young men and women sporting afros (complete with afro-piks!) and bell-bottom pants, gave me a few chuckles.  I have no problems with ideaslism, and I believe it to be a good thing, so long as it is grounded in the real world and put to practical use and sensible use. <br /> <br />So, in spite of its dated nature and at times idealistic rhetoric, I liked the book.  The reading was a little dense at times, but the topics were important and dead-on.  The text forced me to think deeply about some topics and issues that I previously had not considered, or simply had given short shrift.  Once again, I do not recommend that people place themselves in harm's way to obtain information, or show 'solidarity' with some dubiouscause, as this book advocates, but I do encourage people to read this book, and reconsider the whole idea behind such things as eco-tourism, romance tourism, and sex tourism, and what effect such activities have on the people of the Third World.	2005-02-06
US	52421621	R2V8UHQ7RND9E7	0895263270	830768654	Allan Quartermain and the Lost City of Gold (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Near Zenith of High Adventure	The book, Allan Quartermain appears to be the last of a series of books penned by H. Rider Haggard about the exploits of a fictitious Englishman and African big-game hunter.  In it, the leading man, Allan, is a bit more philosophical about life and his place on earth, and we follow his last great adventure in deepest, darkest Africa before he passes on, fully satisfied with his life and accomplishments, to the final Beyond. <br /> <br />Once again, Quartermain teams up with his good friends, Captain Good and Sir Henry Curtis, this time around to find a fabled lost race of people(whom Quartermain later suspects as being a lost tribe of Persians when he finally finds them).  Once in Africa, the intrepid English trio re-unite with the Mighty Umslopogaas, a bloodthirsty Zulu warrior and loyal friend and servant who also happens to have a heart of gold.  Then, the Fabulous Four sally forth, and take on in short order a tribe of savage Masai, save a proper English damsel (of course very much in distress), undertake a perilous journey to an uncharted region of Africa, and inadvertently begin (and bloodily end) a civil war amongst the lost tribe they have sought. <br /> <br />Without a doubt, the best character in this book is Mighty Umslopogaas and his trusty axe, Inkosi-kaas.  Quartermain also puts in a good showing, especially as the old sage entangled in palace intrigues charged with amorous feelings and their attendant, homicidal jealousies. <br /> <br />The first third of the book reads quickly, and is packed with action, while the second third gets bogged down in descriptive detail of the lost tribe- its people, customs and the land it occupies.  The final third works the reader up to a rousing finish, and we see Mighty Umslopogaas bearing deadly Inkosi-kaas with skill and valor.  England nor America could never hope to produce and officer and a gentleman as fine a soldier (and a man) as The Mighty Umslopogaas, who singlehandedly saves the Queen of the Lost Tribe andher kingdom to boot. <br /> <br />In this final outing, Quartermain's age and dering-do finally catch up with him, but he has just enough mettle left in him to save his old friend Captain Good from the greedy paws of the Grim Reaper.  And yet, though he lived loudly, Quatermain manages to exit the Stage of Life quietly with his friends Good and Curtis at his side, and by story's end, Good resurrects his sea legs among the Lost Tribe and Sir Henry manages to snare the Queen's heart and hand in marriage.  All in all, the reader doesn't feel bad about the ending, and comes away thinking that all worked out as it should have. <br /> <br />High adventure never gets better than this.  Haggard wrote at a time when expansionism and imperialism were all the rage, and even then, his book were viewed as sensationalist.  Now we know better, or at least we should, but back then, Haggard still managed to give Africa and her people, via The Mighty Umslopogaas, a small slice of dignity that many during his time were reticent to the point of belligerence to give.  Haggard's Umslopogaas takes his rightful place in literary history alongside many noble, yet magnificient and exotic savages much like his contemporary, Robert B. Parker's Hawk of the Spenser mysteries, does today. <br /> <br />In sum, this book and the others preceding it, make for good escapist fun, and writers today are hard-pressed to top, let alone equal, these classic masterpieces. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-01
US	52421621	RBH5NECS51EIQ	0942961285	595040564	Rethinking Globalization: Teaching for Justice in an Unjust World	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Interesting Vignettes on a Variety of Inter-related Topics	Rethinking Globalization, a social studies reader for teachers, presents a variety of essays and classroom activities on the topic of Globalization (yes, with a capital 'g').  The book makes for easy and accessible reading, and one can, after the first 40 or so pages of the book, choose a topic of interest and go from there.  The book begins by defining globalization, and placing it firmly in the context of history.  It then looks at the various interconnections, from economics and trade to poverty, war and civil strife, and shows how structural elements, both political and economic, have polarized the world into a minority of 'haves' versus a growing majority of 'have nots'. <br /> <br />The authors overlooked not a single pressing social issue or current event.  Even the awful events of 2001 garnered some comment, and these too, the authors linked to the problems and issues of Globalization.  I came away with a deeper understanding of the term, which basically boils down to the wholesale commodification of all of the resources on the planet(aka Earth For Sale, hence the cover picture of the planet with a bar code across it).  However, given that at least one of the contributors teaches in an inner city school, I was quite surprised that issues affecting low-income individuals, the Drug Scourge in particular, somehow did not find their way into the text.  Yet, while the book is truly global in scope, many of these global issues have their direct counterpart in some very local issues, and I commend the authors for introducing US based sweatshops in an attempt to point this out. <br /> <br />Basically, every single cause that has received its fifteen minutes (and only 15 minutes, no more and no less) of fame has found a home under the banner/umbrella of globalization.  Ongoing problems such as modernizing forces encroaching on rural and traditional cultures, union-busting via back-door utilization of low-wage labor, interventionism by foreign superpowers in the political, economic and social affairs of foreign lands, and many others received equal treatment in the text.  Potential readers of this book should take note, however, of the distinct presence of rhetoric along the lines of colonialism, class struggle and solidarity (especially among the lumpen proletariat), which, though limited in insight and applicability, adds an amusing but rather dubious and tenuous dimension to the text.  <br /> <br />The presentation of each topic is pretty much even-handed, in the sense that there is no overt idealization of primitive cultures, for example.  The book, as well as its authors, do indeed have their biases, and they do the reader a good turn by stating their biases upfront.  As such, the text has a level of honesty and openness most uncommon in other books on the topic of Globalization, be they for or against it.  Additionally, those with an interest in a particular topic or issue raised in the text will find the resources section of the book most helpful in obtaining more information.  This section of the book, however, is geared more to the needs of teachers, and provides them with ample materials for potential use in the clasroom. <br /> <br />I personally liked the small vignette titled 'Prayers for a Dignified Life', written by Subcomandante Marcos of EZLN (Chiapas) fame.  In it, he delivers an interesting spin on the Declaration of Independence, and I also detected some faint glimmerings of the Ten Point Program of the long defunct Black Panther Party.  Truly heady stuff! <br /> <br />In sum, for those who want to know what all the hub-bub surrounding globalization is about, this is the book to read. <br /> <br />	2005-02-01
US	52421621	R12XD5KX7KPMBP	0440146291	180611610	Love and Glory	Books	4	46	47	N	N	A Touching Story of Love, Conviction and Redemption	Some friends of mine gave me a copy of Love and Glory as a present.  They knew how much I liked the author (actually, I like the Spenser mystery series, which are penned by the author), and thought that I might like this book as well.  Since I am not a rabid fan of love stories, the book found its way to the very bottom of my 'to read much later list'. <br /> <br />Well, to make a long story short, given that I read a book a day, I eventually got around to Love and Glory, and I now regret not having read it much earlier.  Parker spins a tale well, with characters that, despite all our best efforts, we come to care about, a clipped, succinct writing style, and an absorbing narrative.  In this love story, we meet a young man who goes off to college, falls in love with a flighty, free-spirited, but somewhat confused classmate.  She naturallly breaks his heart, he eventually suffers hardship and a protracted fall from grace, and we watch as he picks himself up at rock bottom, dusts off his backside, and slowly but surely climbs the ladder to personal success one slow but sure step at a time, using nothing but strength of character, force of conviction and the flicker of undying love for the woman who once spurned him. <br /> <br />Of course, you can guess the ending to this wonderful tale, but as they say about life, it is not the destination but the journey that matters most.  The hero's story from idealistic young man to a man in his own right is both touching and highly motivating.  Parker's penchant for dropping life lessons here and there are evident in this story, and at times I got the feeling that I was actually reading a Spenser novel, only in this setting, everyone's favorite Back Bay PI chose to go to college and grad school, eventually becoming a writer, and not a detective.  There were also some interesting similarities between Boone, the hero of this story, and Spenser, such as both serving in the Korean Conflict, both sharing a love of literature, and both possessing a love, bordering on religious devotion, for one woman. <br /> <br />In sum, I liked Love and Glory, and I think most people will like it, too.  Spanning a time period between the early 1950s and the middle 1970s, it also provides the reader with a good glimpse of a turbulent in American history.  For me, the book was an interesting departure from my usual fare (mysteries, assorted non-fiction and god-awful sci-fi), and in future, I may add more of the genre to my eclectic reading list.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-30
US	52421621	RZ0D7F13AI1N3	0345452380	482806275	Ammonite	Books	4	14	17	N	N	An Interesting Mixture of Themes	Ammonite was an interesting blend of various themes, from the Wise Woman traditions to various concepts of hard SF.  The basic premise, a personal awakening set within the backdrop of a women's only garden of eden, worked pretty well. <br /> <br />The text has many layers, and draws from many different sources.  For example, Greek and Norse myth provide the plot, setting, and names and archetypes of the characters.  A thorough critique of colonialism, militarization, globalization and corporate control are skillfully handled within this futuristic setting.  Elements of the utopia theme of SF figure prominently in the story.  New Age and eco-hip beliefs also find their way into the story, particularly in the heroine's ultimate choice of calling in life.  Even the Garden of Eden (a planet where women can be womyn), complete with the Serpent(technology, or the cure to the virus), of biblical fame makes an appearance. These are but a few of the disparate ideas pulled into the story's orbit, and they work well here. <br /> <br />One element of the story, however, was weak.  Spontaneous meiosis without a conjugating event is thoroughly unsupported by current science.  This element of the storyline deviates significantly from the author's attempt to bring hard science to bear in making the story seem more real.  The virus as vector (and possible conjugating element) would not be plausible, as viral genomes are way too small for such tasks.  But this is a minor point, and in passing, much of the 'science' in SF classics we all know and love actually in many instances came to be realized.  Still, female-only self-fertilization is an interesting idea, and may well be possible, if the gene jockeys can get around the self-imprinting problem. <br /> <br />I liked the story on the whole, and was surprised that someone could pull something this complicated off.  The author even made the concept of Grrl Power interesting and viable.  This book is a great entry in the SF genre.	2005-01-30
US	52421621	R85QX2FC94QZN	0415920973	884029416	Compassion Fatigue: How the Media Sell Disease, Famine, War and Death	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exposes the Media's Voyeuristic, Shock And Awe Tendencies	\\"At breakfast and at dinner, we can sharpen our own appetites  with a plentiful dose of the pornography of war, genocide, destitution and disease.\\"  So says one of the first lines in introduction to Compassion Fatigue.  With that statement as simultaneously an opener and a teaser of the things to come, Professor Moeller takes the reader on a guided tour of the presentation and commodification of human tragedy and suffering. <br /> <br />Compassion Fatigue tells you the how and the why behind what makes the nightly news, and also reveals why a great many other things do not make the news.  While mostly a critique of US based media and journalism, it does reveal the gradual trend towards the 'One World' view of things and events that has come to typify reporting of any sort. <br /> <br />Without intending to do so, the book does much to demonstrate that the media, always locked in competition with other forms of 'programming' for our attention, has resorted to marketing information- current events, as a form of entertainment.  In place of in-depth, investigative journalism, we now have soundbites featuring 'talking heads', and the cuter or more obscene the personality (and increasingly both), the better. <br /> <br />Each of the so-called 'Four Horsemen'- war, disease, famine and death, are presented and profiled in turn, with detailed discussion about the mechanics behind their delivery to readers and viewers.  This book differs from most critiques of the media because it tells the narrative with the assistance of journalists themselves, in the words of the journalists.   <br /> <br />Many people in the media know what they are doing is not only questionable, but in some cases, flat out wrong.  However, marketability (how well something will go over with viewers) matters more than anything else.  Marketability makes for high ratings, and high ratings in turn makes for fat profits for the parent company.  Ergo, the trend towards to self-interested and self-centered journalism, and the tendency to feature celebrity involvement with current events.  The latter trend is most pernicious, because it is not necessarily the event, but what they think of it that matters most, as being able to get people's attention is the most important thing, not what's really going on in the world.  This in turn is both related to and feeds into the Body Count Syndrome, whereby each tragedy or documented depravity has to be bigger and obscence than the one before it, once again, to get our attention. <br /> <br />Although the book was a bit wearying at points (mostly because of the nine point font of the text), overall the content was top-notch.  I especially liked the final chapter, where Professor Moeller compared and contrasted the funerals of Princess Diana and Mother Theresa, both of whom died at the same time.  One was tabloid fodder, and the other dedicated her life to bringing a little joy to impoverished and suffering masses of humanity. Yet even in death, one managed to monopolize nearly all media attention for a month, while the other could barely get something less than a one page obituary (even here mostly devoted to how many dignitaries and personalities came to pay their final respects) in TIME magazine.  That one observation says a lot about not only the morals and values of the media, but even more about those of us viewers. <br /> <br />The motto of the media should be changed to reflect the sorry state of our times, and should now be: all the news that's (un)fit to print. <br />      <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-24
US	52421621	R1LA978UOXG2L	1883011086	878465201	Raymond Chandler: Later Novels and Other Writings: The Lady in the Lake / The Little Sister / The Long Goodbye / Playback /Double Indemnity / Selected Essays and Letters (Library of America)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Priceless Solely for The Simple Art of Murder	While Hammett may very well have carried the modern hard-boiled mystery forward into the light, Chandler defined it.  Of the two, I think I prefer Chandler most.  Chandler better than anyone else set the standard for the genre, and laid down the rules to which all the great mystery writers of today rigorously adhere.  Here, in brief, is the mystery writer's credo: <br /> <br />'But down these mean streets must a man go who himself is neither tarnished nor afraid.' <br /> <br />As Chandler remarked in his classic essay, The Simple Art of Murder, Hammett rightly deserves the title of Founder of the modern mystery because he succeeded in giving murder back to the kind of people who commit it.  So what kind of person goes up against the kind of people who committ murder?  Chandler responds with Exhibit A: Philip Marlowe. <br /> <br />Chandler's Marlowe resonates in my favorite mystery romps, the Spenser series, and the archetype also finds its way into more than a few 'Good Cop' dramas. <br /> <br />I enjoy the escapades of Philip Marlowe simply because the wry cynicism, coupled with the tough moral fibre to get to the bottom of any affair and see justice (or at least some sort of closure) served, makes for truly fascinating escapist reading.  Each of the books in this collection, as in the collection preceding it, amply deliver on this score. <br /> <br />If you happen to acquire this masterpiece, never let it go.  These are classic books, and will never become dated.  I personally prefer The Long Goodbye to The Big Sleep, and found the former a longer and more satisfying read.  In every story of both collections, there is to be found a depraved tapestry of gilded greater Los Angeles society, quite literally ripped from the headline news of the day.  Most mystery fans will love the idea of an honest man in a thoroughly dishonest world, on a righteous quest for justice. <br /> <br />Once you get this triumph of American literature in your hands, mix your favorite drink,disappear to a quiet place with a comfortable chair (with good lighting), and enjoy the Great Master at work.  If only more writers could write like this, then I would not need cable TV... <br /> <br />	2005-01-18
US	52421621	R1MYY13YRMPLKH	0802131212	136580793	A Fate Worse Than Debt	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Blows the Lid Off of Certain Economic Fantasies	Ever wonder just how the rich get richer and the poor get poorer?  Well, Susan George goes the distance in explaining both the how and the why of this phenomenon, on a global context.  Her book, A Fate Worse Than Debt, outlines just how a few select countries continue to accrue wealth, while a vast majority sink deeper into the abyss of poverty and insecurity.   <br /> <br />Ms. George sees debt as the great, unsung cause of increased hunger, a lack of food security, and a generally deepening level of misery for the vast majority of the world's population.  She approaches the topic from the standpoints of food security, economic development, and equity.  All three, she has found, have a common cause: crushing debt burdens imposed by rich country donor elites and their rich counterpart recipients in the poor countries.  She sums up the situation best by saying, \\"The elites, either out of stupidity, cupidity, or lack of foresight, racked up debt, and when they could not pay, transferred the burden to the larger nation.\\"  Though she goes to great lengths to distance herself from the 'vast conspiracy theory of history', what she documents throughout the book amounts to a veritable conspiracy of criminal proportions.  In her defense, every single assertion she makes about how the economic (mal)development assistance programs worked back then, as they still do now, were later fully corroborated by an entrenched member of the economic development establishmment in his memorable book, Confessions of an Economic Hitman. <br /> <br />Ms. George explains the problems in very clear, common-sense terms using the then available information.  Since then, the problem has gotten much worse, however, but the debtor nations are making payments on their debt.  The truly shocking thing was to learn the true nature of this debt- almost all of the nations involved went into debt in an attempt to finance prestige projects, ape the West through misguided modernization schemes, or to purchase things they did not really need, meanwhile very basic needs such as for infrastructure, health and education (those things that really would have helped the poor) went unheeded. <br /> <br />While there is little historical depth to the book (again, her attempt to distance herself from the Vast Conspiracy Theory of History), she does present example after example of how official development assistance hurts the people all involved say they are trying to help.  As such, it does much to dispel the prevailing notion that many in the Third World are simply do-nothing deadbeats looking for a handout to squander.  Instead, many hardworking people in these countries have found it harder to make ends meet because they are burdened with the consequences of someone else's stupidity- they literally pay for the idiotic ideas that their leaders put into motion. <br /> <br />In the end, the issues she presents boils down to a question of priorities and self-interest.  The needs and wants of a rich and elite minority (often educated abroad and having sizable assets in other countries) in-country take precedence over the very real day to day needs of the poor majority.  While investments in economic growth uniformly benefit this minority and the foreign investment community, economic development could (and indeed would) benefit everyone, rich and poor alike, by setting the stage for continued, sustained growth.  In the two decades or so that this book has been around, we have seen the consequences of such destructive self-interest.  In Brazil, for example, you have a rich and isolated minority living in fear of poor hordes pressing upon their gated, high security communities (or is this the USA!?!).  Everywhere one looks, we now have a polarized world rife with conflict, but as long as debt gets serviced, no matter how crushing the burden on the average citizen, no intervention (economic or military) is required.  Perhaps it is time that all of us thought about a more enlightenedself-interest, one that would avert total disaster- aka The Economic Apocalypse, as opposed to managing small (but increasingly more frequent) economic disasters here and there. <br /> <br />Anyone looking to understand some of the economic reasons for the failure of official development assistance to the Third World must read this book first.  The book also contains a list of highly informative source materials, though somewhat dated, for further reading.  In sum, this book does much to release some of the hot air surrounding techno-economic fixes to many of the problems in the world.  We really can't rely on technological quick fixes or economic palliatives to bring relief to much of the suffering humanity when self-interest works counter to these measures. <br />    <br /> <br />  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-18
US	52421621	RJ5VOIKV9LO48	0449214923	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Elvis of Self-Help Offal	Why do I say that this book is the Elvis of self-help offal?  Because, quite literally, since its first printing some seventy or so years ago, it has spawned many objectionable pretenders to the throne.  Some are unabashed plagiarizations of this book's contents, while others have profitted handsomely by distilling one or more of its useful concepts.  You probably own more than a few of these books, and they probably reside in a box, tucked in the corner of your attic, closet or garage, where they quietly molder and gather dust.  There have been, currently are, and most certainly will be many books like it, albeit disguised with catchy titles and stuffed with the latest and most trendy psycho-babble of the moment, but none will ever be truly the same as this book.  Those who excel in their chosen professions not only know the secret it purports to 'show' the reader, but truly live it with every fiber of their being.  This even I recognize now after gleaning the secrets of this book.<br /><br />As for the contents of the book, it purports to have the secret formula for personal achievement, as divulged to Napoleon Hill by no less than Andrew Carnegie.  In the grand tradition of all the great writers, Dr. Hill did not tell the reader the secret; rather, he showed it to the reader repeatedly by way of example.  In fact, he divulged it in his foreword (and come to think of it, in the testimonials preceding the contents of the book).  The book is the original source for such hackneyed sayings as, 'Never take NO for an answer', 'If you believe it, you can achieve it', 'Attitude determines altitude', and my personal favorite, 'A quitter never wins and a winner never quits'.<br /><br />Every book rests on certain key assumptions, and every writer has his or her own biases, and these, in the context of Dr. Hill's subject matter, are fairly obvious.  Yet, given that everyone has his or her own shortcomings, the contents of the book can be summed up in one sentence: the key tosuccess, whether you define it materially or spiritually, is internal and not external.  The entire book elaborates at length on this central point.  Indeed, when you stare at the cover of the book, about one-half of the secret that it purports to teach stares you in the face.  For the other half, which talks at length about the application of this secret, you will have to pick up a copy of the book and read for yourself.<br /><br />While I did not agree with everything Dr. Hill professed, I did like the book overall.  Even though I have no interest in riches (though I would not protest too much if they flowed my way as a result of my efforts), I nonetheless found the book quite useful.  Indeed, I will include it as a permanent member of my professional armamentarium, in spite of some its more glaring flaws.  I highly recommend it to those sincerely desiring to change for the better, and grow as an individual.  In sum, this book, combined with The Thinker's Way by John Chaffee, will do much to aid anyone in gaining the most from efforts devoted toward self-improvement and personal development.	2005-01-18
US	52421621	R2VTF6BWLM3NDL	0060516070	773217590	The Effective Executive	Books	5	6	7	N	N	On Being Competent and Possessing Good Judgment	I always learn a lot from Drucker.  Every single book he has written has become a classic in its own right, with basic prescriptions for many problems one often comes across in business and in life.  Although his book Innovation and Entrepreneurship is my all-time favorite, The Effective Executive, at least for me, is a very close second. <br /> <br />Drucker starts by defining who and what the executive is, and places him (and increasingly her) in the most appropriate context.  He is very careful to distinguish the executive from the more typical laborer.  Essentially, Drucker tells us that the executive is someone who is paid for what he or she knows, and not what he or she does.  The executive is supposed to know, for any situation, the following: what is the right thing to do, how to do it, and how to do it effectively.  Once this is identified, the executive has to make certain that those who do the right thing can do it well.  That is essentially the difference between management and labor.   <br /> <br />Some executives do manage and supervise, as these terms are traditionally used, but an executive has to do more than this.  He or she has to identify problems and opportunities, and in the case of problems, solve them, while in the case of opportunities, marshal all available resources to pursue them.  While decision-making is part of the executive's domain, it is what goes into the decision-making that is critical.  The real task of the executive is to think, make judgements, take focused action and ultimately bear the consequences of his or her actions.  In too many institutions, whether they are universities, coporations or government agencies, this action chain often breaks down, typically at the first step.  More often than not, however, actions are de-coupled from (bearing) the consequences.  As a result, Drucker spends a lot of time going over what it means to be an Effective Executive, as opposed to one of the many hangers-on who merely treads water and tries to curry favor through flattery, subterfuge or other devious and unsavory methods. <br /> <br />Drucker, I believe, is very likely the first to make the important distinction between effort and results.  Lots of people work hard, put in long hours on the job, yet have nothing to show for their effort.  Many will advance in rank and pay, but not based on merit, for they will get their promotions and pay raises based on time served.  Results are the end-product of effort- be it large or small, but effort,no matter how great or how dedicated, does not necessarily lead to results, issues of what constitutes 'results' (or even 'effort') aside.  This is why Drucker admonishes one to occupy himself or herself with results, and not efforts.  That said, Drucker emphasizes that every executive looking to be a better executive should spend a little time thinking about where his or her most important resource- time, goes. <br /> <br />Speaking of resources, Drucker also states that the two most important resources in any organization are knowledge and time.  Painful experience forces me to agree with his assertion.  The two once combined can equal favorable and positive results, if combined properly.  However, both of these resources have to be put to work through an organization, and with the assistance of other (hopefully like-minded) people.  The danger here is not that knowledge and time will be mis-applied, but that first, knowledge within an organization will go unutilized and second that some knowledge, such as that internal to the organization, will take precedence over the information and knowledge coming from the outside.  Too many institutions have grown stale simply because they have consciously chosen to emphasize what is going on inside the organization than what is occuring on the outside, and acting upon it.  Once again, painful experience forces me to agree with this brilliant insight. <br /> <br />However, Drucker also points out that information andknowledge exist pretty much outside of the organization, and for this he gets my undying respect.  People are the source of all knowledge, and in the global economy, people are mobile, so all knowledge, to some extent, will also be mobile.  An institution's success or failure then hinges on what comes through and walks out of the door every day.  This valuable insight ties into Drucker's last admonishment- focus on contribution.  Every executive should ask: 'What can I contribute of value?'; however, this question should be considered well within the context of the organization.  Yet again, painful experience forces me to admit that many institutions have specifically organized themselves so as not to have its personnel contribute something of value, no matter what their mission statements profess.  In such situations, it is best for the effective executive or those wishing to become effective executives to part ways with such an institution. <br /> <br />But fear not, while the book is a thinly veiled extended lecture on the importance of competence and good judgment in business relations, these things can be learned.  The path to becomig an effective executive demands some tribute upon the Altar of Bad Experience, but as for the rest, you can acquire it through careful study of history, anecdotal experience and the exercise of a few simple habits to be found in the book.  As Will Rogers once said, \\"Good judgment comes from experience.  And a lot of experience comes from bad judgment.\\" <br />   <br /> <br />	2005-01-13
US	52421621	R2NU96UCK6J3U9	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Where Was This Book When I Took Statistics 101?	This book does much to highlight, underscore and re-affirm the important and pivotal role of critical thinking in the measurement, analysis and interpretation of risk.  Mr. Bernstein has put together a very readable text that simultaneously is part history, part tutorial, and part meditation on diverse and often inter-related topics of probability, descriptive and inferential statistics, economics and finance.  He skillfully shows how a blind reliance on numbers and quantitation, especially as they apply to business, economics and finance can equally inform or mislead, and goes further to demonstrate that the tug of war between gut (our best guesses) and measurement has not been resolved with the introduction of theoretical treatments of individuals and groups, complex mathematical formulae, innovative management products and computers; it has only been taken to a new and higher level of complexity. <br /> <br />Mr. Bernstein's thesis was a simple one: people had to first make an intellectual leap- they had to believe that outcomes could be influenced by their actions and not merely in the 'hands of the Gods' a matter of fickle 'Fate', before they could even begin to think about taming risk, let alone measuring it.  From the author's standpoint, risk management demands the uncommon ability to think with numbers.  It also requires the ability to live with varying degrees of uncertainty.  While people throughout history had the ability to do the latter, they had not, as a group, the ability to do the former until very recently in recorded human history.   <br /> <br />Bernstein takes this as a jumping-off point for his exposition.  He first details the origin of numbers, something so banal to us today.  He then takes the reader to the gaming tables of Europe, and introduces us to the figures who would lay down the tenets of Standard Mathematical Probability.  From there, Bernstein introduces us to various historical contributors to the allied fields of probability andstatistics- from Fermat and Pascal through a host of Bernoullis (the archetypal Renaissance men) to such enigmatic figures as de Moivre and Gauss, pious men like Bayes, and right up to privileged and misguided social reformers like Galton and Quetelet.  Each in turn contributed a crucial piece of the portraits comprising Standard Mathematical Probability and modern day statistics such as the concepts of mathematical expectation, conditional probabilities, sampling and measurement error, the law of large numbers and regression to the mean.  Once these elements were in place, the stage was set for the formal development of risk management as a science and a practice, and at this point, Mr. Bernstein introduces us to the economists, who then as today couldn't agree on anything, could always be counted on to provide 'correct' answers for what has happened, and the wrong answer as to what will happen. <br /> <br />After setting the stage by presenting the tools of modern risk management, Mr. Bernstein then turns his attention in the last third of the book to those who have righfully challenged the assumptions underpinning neo-classical economics, modern finance, and Standard Mathematical Probability.  This is perhaps the most interesting part of the book, because it is here that the author introduces the human factor in risk, and calls into question the use of mathematical techniques, largely developed over the course of studying a variety of regularly occuring and repeating natural phenomena, to the actions and behavior of that mass of capricious and unpredictable creatures, The Human Ape.  His take on this subject has some very interesting implications in the world of finance, given that the Human Ape is, to paraphrase, smarter than the average monkey, and has the capacity to learn from his or her mistakes (which most unfortunately do not), and as a consequence, adapt to changing conditions. <br /> <br />I found the last half of the book to be the most interesting, because here is where the author fully lays out the limitations of the disparate mathematical techniques, especially as they apply to the Great Upright Walking Ape.  Throughout the book, all probabilistic and statistical concepts are explained in plain English, and there are absolutely no equations in the text (a definite plus, as this often gets in the way of critical thinking and true understanding).  Mr. Bernstein took great care to fully explain the key concepts in precise detail, and offers the reader many accessible sources for further enlightenment throughout the text. <br /> <br />Perhaps the most important messages of the book can be briefly summarized in the following way.  We define risk as the chance of loss, uncertainty as something we don't know, and in this day and age, we often behave as if we know all of the risks and there is nothing that can happen that has not happened before.  For us, the past is the best indication of the future course of events. Standard Mathematical Probability was developed under the assumptions of total information, independence of outcomes (past and present moves do not affect future moves), and the ability to reduce everything that matters (and many that don't) to a number.  In essence, it looks at the same thing done in the same way repeatedly, and as such, takes the characteristics of any situation to be stable and immutable.   <br /> <br />Standard Mathematical Probability forms the core foundation of risk management, and while it is a fine tool for the gambling tables, it falls apart when applied to the real world, where for a variety of reasons the assumptions are simply untenable.  In fact, in the real world, they are ridiculous, bordering on insane.  And this is before we even begin to contemplate the human factor.... <br /> <br />In sum, while I do not agree with Mr. Bernstein's assessment of the failure to develop the tools of Standard Mathematical Probability before the time of the Renaissance (which I found puzzling, given the ample evidence of very sophisticated mathematical capability among such diverse ancient societies as the Aztecs, Egyptians, Olmec, Maya and Inca), I wholeheartedly agree with his assessment of these tools as they apply to the human element.  I thank Mr. Bernstein for making clear all of those concepts that too many Professors in Statistics 101 (intentionally) obfuscate, and I highly recommend this book, as well as Benjamin Graham's The Intelligent Investor, to anyone wishing to invest with both safety and success. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />     <br /> <br />	2004-12-23
US	52421621	R14M88IUFAUE18	0451203526	546514456	1: The Mike Hammer Collection: Volume I	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Each Book Begins and Ends Well, But The Middle Is Muddled	Hmm, let's see.  We have a tough-guy PI with a big gun (and fast hands where women are involved) and a super-charged car, a buxom and very leggy secretary/sidekick, dastardly but not so mysterious villains, wanton women galore, an ineffectual law enforcement and a sin-filled city rife with rot and corruption.  Now what more would one need in cheap noir escapism? The answer- depth of character and depth of story.  As a result, the books in this collection have that trait many items in brown wrapping possess- lewd and salacious, but not socially permissible publicly, and thus their giddy and voracious consumption in secret.    <br /> <br />All of the standard props of Spillane yarns are fully in place, and they include a moralizing brute quick to kill, women who find the brute so irresistible that they literally rip off their clothes before him to entice him with their ample wares, and men who idolize Mike Hammer because after all, he's a real man.  The basic set-up of every story is simple and goes something like this: someone Hammer knows and likes is brutally murdered, Hammer then subjects his comely raven-haired secretary to what today would be called sexual harassment bordering on assault (but of course she wants it to happen) as he relentlessly pursues the killer, and law enforcement tacitly looks the other way as Hammer's vigilante tactics deal a death-hand to a murderer who deserves what he (and sometimes she) gets.  In all, the books are a bit formulaic and a bit too pat for more discerning aficionados of noir, but hey, who can argue with a cheap thrill on the cheap? <br /> <br />For their time, these three books did literally 'shock and awe', but frankly wouldn't even merit even an R rating today.  In fact, they would be considered a bit trashy (right up there with an episode of Jerry Springer) by many discriminating noir readers.  Hammer is as rough a lover as he is a fighter, and the women that are pulled into his orbit (even though he is an ugly mug) lovehim all the more for it.  Each book contains lots of frank talk and moralizing about how bad big city society had by that time become, and in keeping with the times, the author uses no four letter words. <br /> <br />Though Hammer has depth, and we generally know what motivates him, few of the other characters we meet have this depth.  Moreover, it seems that in each story Hammer's sidekick Velda's only reason for living is to snare him in holy matrimony, and we really do not get to see her in action (she actually comes off as very needy and clingy and would be considered co-dependent these days).  Velda pines for Mike, even as he makes many romantic conquests with other women who just can't help but fall in love with him.  Furthermore, though we get snippets of what motivates his police pal Pat, we also do not see too much of him in action.  Spillane has created a great leading character, even if he is a bit of a Noble Savage, and a few good supporting characters, but their forms are not fleshed out very well. <br /> <br />Additionally, while the action level is adequate, the dialogue is at times stilted, and the stories, though short, tend to be weighed down with a lot of useless chatter and pointless filler.  While I get that the guy is very moral, he comes off as being too righteous and high and mighty at times. <br /> <br />Finally, astute readers will know who the killer is by the first thirty pages of each book, so there will be no surprises there.  Rather, the surprises come toward the end, especially when we see how Hammer dispatches each of these evil-doers.  Readers will also enjoy the sexually-charged banter and cat-and-mouse struggle (after awhile it becomes difficult to say who is the cat and who is the mouse) between Mike and Velda, and some of the more colorful (but now cute) remarks about various social ills, such as STDs. <br /> <br />In all, this collection is a great bargain, given its contents.  Although I can not say I am a rabid fan of Mr. Spillane and his moderately impressive body of work, I can say that I will give Volume 2 of The Mike Hammer Collection a generous portion of my precious reading time (but I won't dare let anyone know I read such fodder!).	2004-12-19
US	52421621	R1IL3QP8KECE5J	0471357545	361732851	The Go-Go Years: The Drama and Crashing Finale of Wall Street's Bullish 60s	Books	4	7	7	N	N	It Begins And Ends With A Texan	This book begins and ends with a rather peculiar hero from Texas, H. Ross Perot, who during the smashing sixties built up a phenomenal growth company, watched a phenomenal sum of equity wealth evaporate before his eyes in a single day, and later played the role of the white knight saving a rather fickle (and foolish) damsel in distress- Wall Street's Patrician securities industry.  All in all, the book took a very high-brow snapshot of one brief but heady period of financial history orchestrated and overseen by very low-brow types masquerading as new wealth Gatsbys, high performance quants, hot-hand gunslingers, and (anything but) 'Proper' Bostonian businessmen.  It is an odd mix relayed to us in the droll but refined and witty style of the late Mr. Brooks. <br /> <br />They say that history repeats itself, and this book is Exhibit A.  All of the ills of today can be found within its pages chronicling yesterday- corporate hucksters and frauds, technology stock enthusiasts, drugs (hard and soft, legal and illegal) on The Street, hot-today-but-gone-tomorrow fund pros, and a whole host of other ills.  Change the names, dates and places and one would think that one is reading today's news. <br /> <br />My favorite part of the book is the old refrain that all whistleblowers inevitably hear, and occurs on page 45 of the second chapter entitled 'Fair Exchange' (again, now as well as then, anything but).  The regulator asks our erstwhile whistleblowing hero, \\"Now what do you know about what's going on upstairs?\\"  Thoughts of Enron and MCI, Tyco and the FBI spring readily to mind... <br /> <br />While Peter Lynch lures the gullible investor with the notion that the novice has an advantage over the professional, Mr. Brooks, after recalling 355 pages of bawdy and rapacious greed and gambling during the 1960s Go-Go years, admonishes the reader with the following words of caution: <br /> <br />\\"Thus, in the nature of things, the amateur investor remains and probably will remainat a certain disadvantage in relation to the professional.  Perhaps his best protection is knowledge of that fact itself.\\" <br /> <br />Plus ca change, as the French say, or, the more things change the more they stay the same.  There is really nothing new in the 'creative accounting' adopted, the wholesale manipulation of naive investors, stock price manipulation, and mind-boggling messes in both corporate boardrooms and so-called 'securities boutiques'.  The financial dance always begins and ends in the same way, with the same old characters screaming for blood, the same old participants battered, bruised and bloodied, and the same tired old refrains for reform.  And yet the dance begins anew, the past a dim and bittersweet after-taste. <br /> <br />Though somewhat difficult to read because of the author's high brow presentation style, it nonetheless deserves to be read for both enjoyment and enlightenment.  All of the usual suspects and standard props of financial foolishness throughout the ages will be found here, but the characters who peppered this particular 'New Era' in US financial and economic history are beyond a doubt unique.  Who would have thought that reading about yesterday could be so informative about today? <br /> <br />Caveat emptor, people.  Buyer beware. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-19
US	52421621	R1CT81CN7PXYPF	1882577973	206864528	It's Getting Better All the Time: 100 Greatest Trends of the Last 100 years	Books	1	39	100	N	N	Egregious Examples of 'Progress' And 'Improvement'	Potential readers of this book have a right to know that this book was not authored by Julian Lincoln Simon, as the title indicates.  Rather, the book was authorized, or commissioned, by the late Professor Simon shortly before his lamentable death.  Although Professor Simon did agree to collaborate with Mr. Moore on a book, and fully intended to write a book along these lines, and prepared some material for a possible use in a manuscript (and we have no way of knowing if any of this material was indeed used, and in what form), the final text is most likely not what Mr. Simon had in mind.  After receiving permission from the Simon estate to go ahead with the project, Mr. Moore freely chose to engage in a comical sort of economic, environmental and social axe-grinding, as opposed to a balanced, well-reasoned exposition on some of the more remarkable trends in human history.  A comparison of this text to any other book written by Dr. Simon while he was alive would demonstrate a difference as clear as night and day. <br /> <br />Now, let me be clear on what this book really is.  The book's introduction, written by Mrs. Simon, contains the greatest amount of useful and objective information in the book, and it is where the truth about the contents of the book are told.  As for the rest of the book, the motivation for and the assummptions underlying the text are explicitly stated and are as follows: big (and thus bad) government is bad and unnecessary, America's founding fathers are right about everything and are Great Thinkers, (high) taxes should be lowered (even if they are already low by comparison), all government regulation interferes unnecessarily with free enterprise, and freedom and democracy are things that everyone can take for granted.  Therefore, in the service of these assumptions and motivations, the book suffers from a glaringly selective presentation of the 'facts'.    <br /> <br />The text has many problems from the standpoints of content, presentation and point of view, and these problems are too numerous to fully explore here.  Although Mr. Moore talks much about exploring the improvement of humanity's lot, virtually every single example of 'improvement' or 'progress' is from the American context, and from this, Mr. Moore would like us to believe that, via extrapolation, the improvements seen in America have also occurred, at about the same level, everywhere else in the world.  This alone reveals a level of myopia and intellectual naivete that quite frankly is very unhealthy and dangerous.  Mr. Moore would like us to believe that everyone lives like Americans do (or at least yearns to), even when overwhelming evidence shows this clearly not to be the case. <br /> <br />The text also employs some very bad intellectual sleights of hand, making the information in the text fall below that of even the minimum academic ethical standard.  For example, in each of his 100 trends, operational definitions are not clearly and specifically established, and in some rather disturbing cases, only the data which will establish a clear upward or downward trend is presented, but the full range of data somehow do not find its way into the graph.  Undergraduate-level mistakes in statistical analysis, such as presenting data in terms of number of incidences as opposed to rates (per capita) of incidences, comparing one snapshot under one condition in time to another snapshot under completely different conditions, and most important, the failure to adequately disclose underlying causes of phenomena before jumping to conclusions, abound in the text.  Finally, if one merely played with the definitions, or simply played with the calculations for the statistics cited, as Mr. Moore has done, one could make the very same conclusions that Mr. Moore makes. <br /> <br />In particular, one blurb on Page 2 of the book brings home the misguided message and deeply malicious intellectual trickery of the book.  Here, the author notes that according toan article in the Associated Press, which noted that one of the hottest selling grocery items in the year 2000 was gourmet pet food, and that one of the most challenging nutritional problems in America is obesity- not in people but in pets.  The author uses this to demonstrate how affluent we Americans have become, and as a proxy, albeit a comical one, of (American) socio-economic improvement.  Yet it also hammers home two disturbing and depressing points- a greater concern, matched with an extensive outlay, for pet health in America (even as one in three Americans go without adequate health coverage), and the truly depressing fact that pets in America receive better health care as a group than most human inhabitants of the planet- especially those of the third world.  Examples like this do not adequately show 'progress' or 'improvement', and the author uses these and other equally egregious socio-economic snapshots and trends to pooh-pooh the notion that the situation in the world is very bad.  Perversely, they demonstrate how grossly out of touch the author and many Americans have become with the state of most non-American humanity. <br /> <br />I believe the real title of this book should be: It's Getting Better FOR AMERICANS All The Time, as the biased examples of this book clearly demonstrate.  Furthermore, as long as no one asks thorny questions such as: Which Americans? or Is it getting better for Americans on an equal basis? or It Is Getting For Americans, But At Whose Expense?, I expect the author to encounter few if any problems.  For those readers having little or no background in basic statistics and no prior knowledge of the various topics in the book, I recommend that they read Damned Lies and Statistics by Joel Best for both clarification and enlightenment.  Otherwise, given Mr. Moore's clear intention to distort issues, I fear that many gullible but inquisitive readers will be harmfully misled.    <br /> <br />In sum, this book will appeal to thosewho would greatly prefer to have others do their thinking for them, and who need reassurance of their belief that everything is just fine in their little corner of the world.  Given that we live in what one man called a Global Village, and given the inter-connectedness of political, social and economic activity in the modern Global Village, that a book like this of such dubious intellectual merit can be taken literally and seriously by many Americans truly boggles the mind. <br /> <br />God Help America.	2004-12-12
US	52421621	R1XL4VE9XIX3EH	051770739X	407534724	Downsize This!	Books	3	3	5	N	N	This Is Not Effective,Informed and Intelligent Progressivism	Call me crazy, but I have no compunction (moral, economic or philosophical) to vote either for the Democrats or the Republicans.  Many people feel righteous anger towards their elected leaders for short-changing them for everything- from the safety and security of their jobs and communities to their ability to pursue and ultimately attain the so-called 'American Dream' (whatever the hell that may be). <br /> <br />Moore tries to tap into this anger at the powers-that-be with this book.  While at times funny and other times insightful, it is very clear that he is trying to preach to those groups that may with very good reason feel left behind or ignored by the New and Improved American Economic Miracle Machine.  Though he vents much frustration, particularly felt by individuals in urban communities whose economies have literally been hollowed out by both government and corporations, Mr. Moore offers nothing in the way of solutions.  <br /> <br />The book throughout reads much like many populist texts on the 'environment'(whatever that means)- which merely rehash the same tired explanations of the same problems, and ultimately end by offering the same old tired solutions and exhorting the reader to make his or her voice heard (writing letters to his or her congressman) by becoming politically active.  Same old problems, same old solutions, same old outcome- absolutely nothing changes. <br /> <br />Moore tries so hard not to offend minority groups, and not to offend gender groups that one has to really wonder if he truly walks the walk or is just one of those that likes to talk the talk only.  Moreover, shameless ad hominem attacks on rival political parties does not in my mind serve as proof that he and other Progressives are fair, honest and non-discriminatory. <br /> <br />In sum, I stand by my assertion that this book, and his subsequent book Stupid White Men, are not good examples of effective, informed and intelligent Progressivism.  It is one thing to get peopleriled up and call for action; it is quite another to take effective action for real, meaningful and beneficial change. <br /> <br />I for one would like to see Mr. Moore and cohorts talk less and do more.  While their political rivals continue to yuk it up and engage in counter-productive activities (pointless wars, rapacious pillaging of the state coffers, malicious theft of civil liberties, just to name a few), it would be nice to see for once informed and intelligent Progressives engaged in activities that lead to meaningful and beneficial change for everyone, not just some moneyed special interest group.	2004-11-14
US	52421621	R3BKYDYWWVDRKM	158799190X	866674811	Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in Life and in the Markets	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Lovely Bit of Prose, By A PhD No Less	I often wonder how depressing the situation in science, be it 'hard' or 'soft', must be when a scientists such as myself must turn to the world of finance for insight into the business, the practice and the philosophical foundations of science.  I too often find myself learning the most important lessons concerning the (best) practice in science from texts on subjects as diverse as bonehead composition, investment and speculation, and (Good Lord!) history.  Taleb's book, Fooled by Randomness, is one of several texts that have taught me professional and life lessons, all the while mesmerizing me with such lovely bits of prose sprinkled here and there.  It is without a doubt financial and scientific poetry for the mind and the soul. <br /> <br />Although at times some passages require a re-read or two, the book is a small, brief meditation on probability and how it often plays out in (mostly) the financial markets and in life.  I placed 'mostly' in parenthesis because the book also spends a fair amount of time taking a few well-deserved swipes at scientists, be they 'hard' or quantitative types, or so-called 'soft' or holistic types.  Yet, with this book, Taleb had something more devious in mind, and with a sophisticated level of wit and subversion he has written a book largely on a vexing and dangerous subject- the ongoing confusion between luck and skill. <br /> <br />Many scientists have fallen into the trap of being able to compute, but not understand, probabilities, a distressing state of affairs that has unfortunately been actively abetted by most educational systems (especially at the graduate level).  Understanding of probability takes more than just 'a way with numbers'.  It also requires critical thinking.  Our ideas about probability are partly empirical; that is to say, our ideas are based either on past data or data taken from observation and/or experiment, careful or not. <br /> <br />Probability tries to determine likely outcomes and how often they willcome to pass.  In the financial world, it is quite common to use the past in order to divine (predict) the future.  This is often where many financial 'experts' go wrong, as they often confuse the usage of descriptive statistics (numerical summaries of the past) with inferential statistics (basically, using a sample to draw conclusions about a population, or more bluntly, making conclusions about the whole thing by looking at only a part of it).  Moreover, most financial experts and more than a few scientists often forget that their statistics are derived in a particular context, and in many cases that context is often changing, and thus, for all practical purposes, their predictive abilities using their fancy statistics is pretty much zero. <br /> <br />As such, this is the central theme of Taleb's book.  Statistical computation and the derivation and manipulation of equations do not in themselves imply understanding.  As Taleb says, \\"Most disasters come from the fact that individual scientists do not have an innate understanding of standard error or a clue about critical thinking.\\"  I find this to be too true of many of my colleagues, and more than a few big names in science.  This lack of understanding, when combined with an often intentional confusion of endless examples of notable anecdotes (all those people we seem to hear about who have made a killing in the market) and the average outcome (that great mass of humanity that either lost a tidy sum or, if Lady Luck did smile upon them, broke even), the egregious confusion between luck and skill, constantly changing contexts, and the pernicious habit (especially among scientists) to cling loyally to certain fundamentally flawed if not extremely limited ideas and worldviews tenaciously, serves to explain much of the foolishness that passes for 'science' in financial circles, or worse- 'conventional wisdom'- in the physical, biological and sociological sciences. <br /> <br />Those looking for a deeper understanding of probability and specifically, those wanting to comprehend how 'scientists' can and often do go horribly wrong in their thinking, definitely must read this book.  Just because an event has never occurred before doesn't mean it can not occur (as the fellows running Long Term Capital Management should have known), and all possible events can not be realistically accounted for at any given time.  Also, anyone looking to invest in the financial markets must read this book before they make any moves. <br /> <br />I am definitely keeping this book as a reference, and more to the point as a reminder that it is indeed possible for PhD holders to write with clarity, style, grace and wit- characteristics one seldom encounters in the writings of many so-called 'learned' individuals.	2004-11-13
US	52421621	R2X6ZUJJZ0FZI	0060155477	520372009	The Intelligent Investor: A Book of Practical Counsel	Books	5	51	53	N	N	An Extended Meditation on Caution Before the Marketplace	Warren Buffett introduced this edition of The Intelligent Investor by remarking that when he first read the book as an undergrad he thought then that it was the best investment book ever written, and many years later, after Benjamin Graham had died, Mr. Buffett still thought that The Intelligent Investor was the best investment book ever written, even today.  After reading this extended meditation on caution before the stock market, hot tips, and pseudo-quantitative information, I have to concur with Mr. Buffett's assessment. <br /> <br />Although much has been said about this text, after reading it, I now feel that the great many that trumpet its merits simply do not understand its lessons or even its value.  Many credit this book, and Graham and Dodd's earlier Security Analysis, for spawning the value investing movement.  While true, this book represents something much more.  It does not, as most people insist, put forth a quantitative approach to investing.  That, unfortunately, is a gross distillation of some of the ideas contained in the book.  Rather, it presents a way of thinking about investing, and emphasizes the approach to investing operations, especially with regard to safety, expectations and temperament. <br /> <br />Now some have criticized the book as being quite dated and irrelevant to today's fast moving and turbulent market, but these criticisms must be placed in proper context.  This book was written in 1971 and was several revisions removed from the first edition, which appeared in 1949.  Sadly, Mr. Graham passed away in 1976, and as such, this book, in its final revision, represents a kind of magnum opus written by a market observer who had seen more than his share of financial foolishness, from the stock markets of the Roaring Twenties to the drama and suspense of the Go-Go Sixties, with a few world wars, social upheavals, oil shocks and financial calamities added just to liven things up a bit.  Furthermore, many have said that the examples are dated and no longer applicable, and to this I reply: change the dates and the company names and then ask yourself how the text reads. <br /> <br />Incidentally, every single tenet of modern-day financial planning is presented here, first, and many so-called 'financial innovations' (like the index fund) began as ideas rigorously considered in the text.  Graham's ideas laid the foundation for indexing, now a popular way to invest, and he also gave what I believe to be the best treatment of the thorny problem of asset allocation. <br /> <br />However, with this text, Graham told the reader something that no one since has even dared to do today.  He told the reader what he or she could reasonably expect to accomplish when taking certain courses of action with respect to investing.  Moreover, he devoted a lot of space and thoughtful consideration, backed by both years of observation and experience, to what could go (horribly) wrong when investing.  Every other book since has devoted lots of space to notable instances of things going right, playing these up as an incentive to divorce you from your funds. <br /> <br />There is a level of honesty and clarity throughout The Intelligent Investor that many looking to get rich quick will find both boring and intimidating.  Paradoxically, the text won't make any sense to most readers until they've lost their shirts picking stocks.  Only then will they be ready to read this book and understand what it has to say.  Although Graham never tells you how to make a million, he offers good advice on how to keep your money.  Nor does he tell you which stocks are the hot stocks, or even how to trade your way to wealth.  What he does tell you, however, is to beware those who would substitute numerical extrapolations for hard evidence, and never allow boundless optimism to replace jaded caution.  This book makes every attempt to show both sides of the coin, and you always get the whole picture, not just the better half. <br /> <br />In sum, anyone looking to invest with safety foremost in mind, and willing to think about the moves they make and the reasons for making them should read this book.  For those looking to speculate, I can only say: in the long run, expect to lose money.	2004-11-06
US	52421621	RB923C3Q7VIZH	0425174018	398480832	Hush Money (Spenser)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hawk's In It, So You Know It Will Be Good	While TV, in particular Star Trek, has Spock, the mystery genre has Hawk, perhaps the greatest literary creation of all time.  In this outing of Boston's top PI, Spenser finds himself being asked to come to the aid of those closest to him.  Hawk has a friend whose son is a professor at a big-time university, and it seems that the young man has been jobbed out of tenure.  Meanwhile, Susan has a friend who is being stalked by an ex-something-or-another.  So everyone's favorite poetry quoting tough guy finds himself on two cases with the hole in the donut as renumeration, and it isn't long before events get quite bizarre. <br /> <br />This is a different kind of Spenser romp.  The body count is low, but the action is still quite high.  I especially liked the fight in the campus office.  We learn more about Hawk's difficult and disturbing past, and plus we get to see him in action pretty much throughout the whole story.  We also get to see Spenser rampaging his way through a tenure committee, and we also are treated yet again to further glimpses of his devotion to Susan.  Throughout, Parker calls up the old-school hard-boiled PI yarn, and the story adheres faithfully to the genre template laid out by the dean of hard-boiled noir, Raymond Chandler. <br /> <br />Many meaty themes and issues are tackled here with laser-like precision.  Parker manages to juxtapose race, sexuality (mainly homosexuality) and politics in a volatile mix which keeps you turning the pages.  In addition, several life lessons are dropped here and there, and the psychological motivations of the characters are always excellent.  I actually found myself liking Susan's presence this time around.  Though I have nothing against the character, she kind of gets in the way of the central premise of tough guys going after and beating up crooks.  Then again, she does add another classy dimension and some refined intellectual texture to each story, and to Spenser. <br /> <br />This outing worked really well for me, and I have read it a dozen times at least so far.  In fact, it may be the best of the lot.  If I were going to write hard-boiled noir with sarcastic wit, this book along with Raymond Chandler's The Long Goodbye would be my templates. <br />	2004-11-06
US	52421621	R1P0CNVWKTGYXJ	038548254X	721618988	A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Half Assorted (Numerical) Trivia, Half Useful Content	Paulos's second effort, A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper, is a motley of topics culled from his avid(and perhaps rabid)devotion to reading a variety of newspapers.  While some of the vignettes struck me as off-beat and at times annoying, others did impart some very useful information.  This leads me to believe that different readers will assign a different value to some things in the text.  One man's trash is another man's treasure, so they say. <br /> <br />The book is actually quite a demonstrable improvement over some of his previous efforts, most notably his book Innumeracy in particular.  Compared to Innumeracy, this book contains less smug academic snobbishness, less intellectual elitism and much less of an obvious attempt to show how much smarter Professor Paulos is to the average, everyday simpletons he must unjustly suffer.  Instead, there is a concerted effort throughout the book to show and tell.  In terms of accessibility, both in writing style and content, I feel compelled to give it high marks. <br /> <br />In particular, this book contains a short bibliography as well as an extensive index.  The actual book does not have formal chapters per se, but it does have sections, five in all, devoted to all the topics one normally finds represented in the local newspaper.  This in turn allows one to pick and choose topics of interest, as opposed to embarking from page one and setting one's jaw firmly for difficult and staid reading.  Actually, the book is more of a series of vignettes on a particular theme, short essays, usually not more than five pages, which highlight the hidden but crucial role of mathematics in the stories that we read in the newspapers.  Paulos also includes many diagrams and charts as an aid in presenting each topic and helping the reader to understand some of the more arcane(and often bizarre)concepts involved. <br /> <br />I especially liked his treatment of Bayes' rule, or conditional probabilities.  It often pops up in medical statistics, and is almost always never appropriately understood.  Moreover, section four of the text, which deals with newsworthy statistics from science, medicine and the environment, will probably be the most informative section of practical interest to most readers. <br /> <br />However, be forewarned that even in this book, Paulos has succumbed to the urge to recycle some of his material, both from his previous book, Innumeracy, and going forward to other books.  So if you've read this book, you pretty much have the gist of his subsequent books.  Still, the content is mostly fresh, and much of it is interesting, at least to me.  Overall, I found the book to be a good learning experience, and one that I would really lend to others seeking enlightenment on statistics in the news.   <br /> <br />In sum, this little book is not nearly as painful a read as Innumeracy, and is definitely more entertaining, educational and informative.  The good professor has allowed his liberal roots (he was once, perish the thought, an English major in college, but defected to math, and as such he is an embarassment and an affront to all self-respecting humanitarians everywhere) to come briefly out of the closet, so to speak, and it shows in the crisp, clear writing consistently appearing in the text.  This book is without a doubt the best of all his musings on mathematics and society.	2004-10-30
US	52421621	R1AVN8ZSFDNDV5	0062734350	637929361	The Guerrilla Guide to Mastering Student Loan Debt:  Everything You Should Know About Negotiating the Right Loan for You, Paying it Off, Protecting Your Financial Future	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Know Your Options, and Know Your Rights	There is a common theme among college students these days, and those who have attended and quit as well as those (un)lucky multitudes who have graduated.  Sometime during the senior year of high school, application forms to colleges are sent in, and admissions and rejection notices are sent a few months later.  Along with the admissions forms comes another little form detailing the amount of aid that is extended by the college to the prospective freshperson.  This is where all the fun begins, and it quickly snowballs into a pernicious form of indentured servitude. <br /> <br />Ms. Stockwell's book details in painful precision just what happens when a pimply-faced kid signs on the dotted line.  First she begins by relating her own experience, and then she delves into the experiences of others.  Along the way, she shows how many of us got into the student loan mess, how the financial aid system has evolved (or is it mutated?!) into the monstrous behemoth that it is today (actually at the time she wrote the book), some coping strategies (for it really can't be called anything else) for the inevitable missed payments and default, and finally some suggestions on how the system can(but will not ever) be fixed. <br /> <br />We live in an age of educational opportunity.  Anyone with some combination of motivation and money can attend college.  Indeed, attendance at college has become necessary in some professions just to keep pace.  At any rate, it is a tremendous achievement that folks from just about all walks of life now have the chance to attend college.   <br /> <br />However, this does not mean that the powers-that-be have made attendance easy or even free.  There is a rather sinister catch attached to the proposition, and it always requires people of limited means to devote years of their lives and of their professional livelihood to servicing some form of debt burden.  I have to agree with the author, who said that the best thing to do is to say NO! to all forms ofdebt- from student loans to credit cards to auto loans, as they all tend to lock you into cycles from which frankly there may be no escape. <br /> <br />This leads into another part of this sinister situation of Faustian proportions.  Not long after the freshperson has signed on the dotted line, and just a few short weeks after parking his or her carcass in a smelly, roach-infested dorm room, the credit card people come calling.  There literally seems to be a deluge of credit card applications arriving one after another in the mailbox.  (However, these days, I have been told by more than a few distressed parents that the card companies don't even wait till the brats have donned their caps and gowns for high school graduation.)   <br /> <br />Finally, sometime before college graduation, typically during the beginning of your senior year, some auto company like General Motors comes around and offers to 'help out' the soon-to-be graduated.  It seems that they know you are looking for a job, and wouldn't it make a good impression on prospective employers if you rolled in a nice, shiny new car that shows that you are a professional and that you mean business?  Fixing you up would be no problem at all- just sign here on the dotted line, and you'd better hurry, as there are only a limited number of this year's model left. Oh and uh, did I forget to mention that there's a really low 2.9% APR and uh, no payments for the first year? <br /> <br />In my mind, there is absolutely no doubt that there is a great deal of collusion between universities, credit card and auto companies in the ongoing mess of indebtedness seen among recent grads and post-grads.  Here's a friendly tip: most aid packages have some combination of grants, work study and loans.  You can negotiate the combination of the aid you receive.  I strongly suggest that you negotiate to get as much work study as possible, and leave the loans, especially the Stafford Loans, as an option.  It's what I did, and it meantthe difference between finishing with a lot of debt (or not finishing and with a lot of debt as has happened to many acquaintances) and finishing with little or no debt.  Too many friends of mine are broke, out of work, living in their parents' basement and have turned dodging dunning notices from student loan companies and collection agencies into a practiced science. <br /> <br />Anyone that is contemplating going to college should read this book.  Although I must concede that the book is a a little dated, as there have been some significant changes in the student loan picture in the last six or seven years or so, it does precisely show the progression of events that do occur when one gets overwhelmed with student loans.   <br /> <br />Yet, much of the debt mess we see among many students is indeed voluntary.  No one is forcing kids to max out credit cards and purchase one (or more) cars before they graduate, but then no one is championing the cause of caution either with any form of credit.  Many kids are not simply graduating in debt, they are now matriculating into debt in droves.  Please note that all of this comes before contemplating the thorny proposition of a home mortgage! <br /> <br />In sum, in this age of job insecurity and galloping price increases, people need to know the risks when fooling around with any form of credit.  I take my hat off to Ms. Stockwell, who had the courage to call attention to this clever ploy to re-institute feudalism among the masses. <br /> <br />All hail King George!	2004-10-29
US	52421621	RN1K2N78AWLL9	0140286780	201332264	Your Money or Your Life: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial Independence	Books	5	35	37	N	N	The Cost of Working, The Cost of Spending	First, the bad news.  Getting the most out of this book, which has been on the market for at least a decade, will take a lot of hard work, typically over a period of years.  Those who have bought the book and read it have been known to recoil from it in horror, only to return to it again five to seven years later, and apply its wisdom in earnest over a period of at least three years (like this reviewer).  It does not tell the reader how to get rich quick, or even how best to invest one's funds or make money (though it does offer admittedly dated advice on that score, but more on that later).  Nor does it offer the reader a quick fix or temporary escape from what has come to be for many a depressing, consumerist, materialistic and self-centered reality.  The text is at times a bit too eco-hip, retro-New Age in its presentation, and it does assume that everybody hates their jobs. <br /> <br />Now the good news.  Your Money or Your Life is one of those rare books that not only enlightens, but also challenges the reader to think about some very personal, very serious topics.  There is a cost to working, and this book explains this cost, gives you the tools and challenges you to calculate that cost for yourself.  There is also a cost to spending, and again, the book explains this cost, gives you the tools and challenges you to calculate the cost of spending.  Moreover, it looks at one particular reason why we take on the costs of working and the costs of spending- our consumerist, materialistic society.  It is not the only reason, and there are certainly many others, but it is one of the bigger reasons we take on these costs, which have health and emotional dimensions as well as the obvious financial aspect.  In passing, wary readers can relax- the book does not advocate going back to the land, shucking all of your clothes, and frolicking naked through the forest while chowing down on nuts, grubs and berries(and perhaps the occasional squirrel!). <br /> <br />Of course,there is the usual budgeting and cutting expenses and all else that you would expect to find in a personal finance book with a New Age, eco-aware bent.  However, there is something more here that all other personal finance and investment books, besides perhaps Benjamin Graham's The Intelligent Investor, do not possess.  This book forces you to question why you make the purchases you make, and how you look at money, which Dominguez sees as being equivalent with your time on earth.  This book forces you to look at the direction of your life from the standpoint of your time and your money and offers a glimpse of what can and often does happen to those who allow money to control them, and not the other way around.  It asks you to think about what work and having a job means to you (and the implied meaning from our culture) and suggests that both could mean something more (a revolutionary concept indeed!) if only we could change the way we look at money. <br /> <br />This feeds into another important point.  In the book, Dominguez recommended investment in 30 year US Treasuries.  Ben Graham, in both his classic investment books Security Analysis and The Intelligent Investor, defined an investment as being any activity which offers the possibility of income with safety of principal- all other things are speculative.  This is the real reason why the 30 year US Treasury was recommended, and it is in perfect keeping with the central themes of this book.  I will be the first to admit that yields on treasuries have sucked (and continue to suck) and of course, the 30 year bond is no longer with us as many reviewers have pointed out.  However, there are alternatives, such as treasury bills, notes and the 10 year bond.  If you are worried about inflation, you can also buy into I-bonds offered by the US treasury (however these accumulate interest, but don't pay out unless they are cashed in full).  Treasuries are about the safest thing around, are considered risk-free, and do provide income (and may provide some capital appreciation).  Any other investment moves away from this raises the possibility of risk- particularly the risk of losing some or all of one's principal.   <br /> <br />Finally, if you follow the ideas outlined in the book, you can work for the pleasure of working, and your income can then supplement your savings and be enjoyed as part of the reward for your effort.  It is unfortunate that the authors just assumed that everyone was unhappy with the nature of work in this Our Post-Industrial Age, but in their defense, working for a living does leave much to be desired for many of us(how many? I'd say about 99.99999% of people holding down jobs in many a soul-less organization).  In particular, anyone that has read Marsha Sinetar's book, Do What You Love, The Money Will Follow and still worries about the money issue definitely must read this book. <br /> <br />Work does not have to feel like undergoing a daily root canal without anesthetic.  In order to take control of your finances, you have to know why you spend and the costs of working and spending.  Doing so will not only help you take back your financial life, but also acquire a fulfilling work and social life.  Those down on modern American consumerism will derive the most sustenance from this book, but others looking to find a certain (but very difficult) path to financial independence will also find much of value in this potentially life-changing book. <br /> <br />	2004-10-28
US	52421621	R8KJ9S6BH6N8T	0440501601	540547382	Do What You Love, The Money Will Follow: Discovering Your Right Livelihood	Books	5	101	108	N	N	Little Book, Big Impact	Why don't we do what we really love.  Why do most of us choose 'the bird in the hand' over the 'many in the bush'.   Sometimes, it has little or nothing to do with money. Maybe it has to do with something internal to ourselves- our fear of failure, or the unknown or rejection. In short, we need to question ourselves as to why we do what we do. <br /> <br />The simple and short answer for most people is money.  Whatever it is that we currently do either pays the bills, pays the most, or is what we felt at some point in time was the most, if not the best, we could get.  It has nothing to do with our likes, our desires or our talents.  Many people fall into a situation one way or another, or are lured into something by hook or by crook.  Ask yourself if something like this even remotely applies to you: <br /> <br />You spend your entire life judging your own worth based on the opinions of those you look up to, hold in high esteem/regard, and yet they have absolutely no respect for you, your ideas, your perspective, or even you as a human being.  You spend a great deal of time doing things for the benefit of others, yet you yourself do not reap any of the benefits or rewards. <br /> <br />You do what others tell you to do, and get only what they think you deserve, and not what you want, or more importantly, need.  They could care less about your wants, or your needs, and all that matters to them is that they get what they want from you. <br /> <br />You stay in toxic, hostile, life-draining situations out of fear, because you do not know what to do next, or because this is what you know, this is what is secure, and take the paycheck (always with a large serving of abuse), only to end up at the mercy of those who, quite literally, could not give two s---s about you. <br /> <br />If it does, then Do What You Love is required reading for you. <br /> <br />Marsha Sinetar's book, Do What You Love, The Money Will Follow seeks to answer the inter-related questions why we do what we do and why we do not do what we love by going deeper than the superficial reasons almost always given as answers to these questions.  Too many people have missed the point of this book, which is unfortunate.  Many readers and more than a few reviewers are too caught up on the money side of the proposition.  Others see it as a choice between love with poverty and hate with plenty.  Ms. Sinetar states right in the beginning that the money may not materialize immediately, and maybe not at all.  For those of us who were not born with a strong character, it takes real courage to act on what we value.  Those that are truly successful achieve not only because they love what they do and are good at what they do, they consistently achieve great things because they have the courage to act on their convictions.   <br /> <br />Which in the end is what this book is really all about- having the courage to act on one's convictions.  The true purpose of the book is to force those of us who know what we love to do to look inward, and ask some very tough questions of ourselves.  Why are we doing this, and why aren't we doing what we love?  Only we can answer these questions for ourselves, and no book is going to have the answers for us, for each one of us is unique in experience.  This book helps the reader to uncover those hidden barriers, which may be psychological or spiritual or both, that prevent us from acting on our convictions and doing what we love. <br /> <br />The book assumes from the outset that you the reader know what your right livelihood is.  This can be an important drawback for many readers that are still searching  for their right livelihood.  Essentially, the book delves into what prevents many of us from doing what we love.  More often than not, the thing keeping us from doing the work we love is internal to ourselves, though in more than a few cases, very real physical and external barriers prevent us from pursuing our right livelihood.  The book really stresses getting to know yourself before getting busy, or as was often said in 1970s, getting down.  As an aside, it really helps if you are preferably young, single, used to a low overhead, not obligated to support one or more dependents, and finally and most important, not encumbered in some kind of co-dependent relationship.  And the rest of you can still get something out of the book, though it will be much more difficult (but not impossible) to implement its lessons. <br /> <br />In short, this book forces us to think.  It asks us to ponder some difficult issues- where we have been, where we are now, where we would like to be, and where we will end up if we continue our past and present behavior, and how best to determine what it will take to get us where we would like to be. <br /> <br />Those who read this book and are still concerned about the money issue should read 'Your Money Or Your Life' by Julie Dacyzyn and the late Joe Dominguez in conjunction with this book.  In any case, please do not take this book to an extreme.  Before you make the plunge, do a little planning.  The more planning you do, before you take the plunge, the better.   <br /> <br />A more appropriate title for this book is: Do What You Love and the Rewards Will Come.  Money is but one of the rewards. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-27
US	52421621	RGUNBVHXTJ1G1	0809058405	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences	Books	3	26	34	N	N	Misses the Mark by a Fair Margin	In reading this book I got the sense that the author wanted to show us just how smart he is.  At times I felt that the text overflowed with intellectual elitism ad nauseum, and while it contained lots of examples, it offered very little in the way of (numerical) enlightenment. <br /> <br />Two notes of caution are in order when reading this book.  First, Innumeracy is perhaps the first of several books on the subject of mathematics and numerical befuddlement among the general population written by Mr. Paulos, and he tends to recycle much of his material from book to book.  So, if you have read this little book, you have pretty much read most of his other books.  Second, most of the examples in Innumeracy do not qualify as truly original content, and some readers may have run into most of them in other math texts in high school and college. <br /> <br />While it is true that numbers and statistics require interpretation, the author should also bear in mind that both have a context, and when viewed outside of their proper context, any number of questionable and downright false interpretations can result.  It is really no difficult matter to compute, manipulate or convert numbers, but gaining insight from these treatments is the real challenge.  This requires critical thinking <br /> <br />That said, in the first chapter, the author plays a bit with measurements, and shows that we can for example calculate the length of our arms in miles if it suits us.  However, I must ask if it is appropriate to calculate my arm length in miles when inches work just fine.  Just because we can do something does not necessarily imply that we should do it, or that it is even appropriate, and I do not think that the author learned that particular lesson (which incidentally is a lesson many scientists never seem to learn). <br /> <br />The second chapter delves into chance, coincidence and probability in everyday life.  He muses on how coincidence is often mistaken for fate (or worse, divine intervention), and how we try to derive profound meaning from events due to pure chance.  The chapter is a fair, witty, but somewhat dry take on a typically mundane topic. <br /> <br />The third chapter on pseudoscience is probably the best part of the book.  Here, he skewers all manner of foolishness, from astrology and numerology to quack cures and fringe science with good humor.  Moreover, his peculiar mathematically oriented humor would find its most appropriate home here. <br /> <br />By the fourth chapter, the real problems of the text begin to show themselves in earnest. First, Mr. Paulos doesn't bother to give references for certain `facts'.  Second, he tends to make claims and then offer no support for them.  Third, and this is probably the most damaging of all, he references the work of Tversky and Kahneman (the founders of Prospect Theory and later Nobelists for their contribution to economic science), but does not seem to be aware of the fact that most of their studies suffered from a lack of what statisticians used to call external validity.  That is to say, the conclusions made from the study, while being for the most part reliable and truthful for the participants (internal validity), are not necessarily true for the greater population at large which you may want to make conclusions about.  <br /> <br />Although the fifth chapter, titled `Statistics, Trade-offs and Society' starts off with the right idea in mind, it finally falls flat when he reaches statistical significance and Type I and II errors.  People who read about the latter for the first time may come away either confused, which is bad, or thinking that they know something when they really do not, which is even worse.   As this chapter is most likely the most relevant to the vast majority of lay readers, given that it deals with both statistics in the news and everyday life and some of the mass public's favorite bogeymen- cancer, heart disease and what not, a lack of references for further enlightenment demonstrates yet another glaring weakness in this text.  <br /> <br />Finally, in the last chapter, we are treated to a fairly decent serving of thoughtful and intelligent prose of such great clarity and candor that I for one was amazed that a nutty math professor could produce.  How unfortunate it was that such fleeting moments of clarity and beauty were so infrequent in this text, and having read three other books by Paulos, I can say with force that he has failed to build upon such an outstanding snippet of quality writing. <br />  <br />In sum, you may be able to improve your SAT or GRE score with this book, but not much else. <br /> <br />	2004-10-24
US	52421621	R1EV1TFYUFFUW1	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Nerds in Vegas	Mr. Mezrich hits his stride in the book with this one passage: <br /> <br />\\"Kevin looked around the room at the cabal of young blackjack players.  When it was just Martinez and Fisher, it seemed seedy but manageable.  Two rebellious geniuses siphoning money from the casino.  But this was something else- organized, calculated, put together by a charismatic adult with bad teeth and a brilliant pedigree.\\" <br /> <br />I liked the writing, as it had a good, escapist and sarcastic tone.  However, taking this story, as it is told, as fact is too much of stretch for me.  Rather, Mezrich embellishes every chance he gets, and in hopes of getting the book optioned for a movie, has written something that reads little more than a first-treatment for a script to be produced by the likes of Dreamworks or New Line Cinema. <br /> <br />While I see it as more fiction than fact, Bringing Down the House does possess a few redeeming merits.  The kids, bored with the usual academic games which they have thoroughly mastered and fully excel at, decide to turn their attention to the oldest and lowest form of the Vegas Heist- card counting.  The kids, all of them brilliant, all of them pampered, cultured and most importantly, cocooned, seek to break out of their rut by sticking it to The Man.  The trouble is, The Man in this case has a history of dealing a death hand to people who try to cheat him. <br /> <br />Which, in my mind, makes this story much, much less than credible.  Mezrich overtly tries to imply throughout the book that Las Vegas has parted with its more colorful and violent gangster roots, and all activity in Sin City is above-board and legitimate.  If you believe that, then you also believe in such lovely fantasies as the Tooth Fairy and Santa Claus.  Rather than going legit, the Good Fellahs who run Vegas have found a way to legitimize their thoroughly illegitimate activities.  Only now, much like the Asian protagonist with the Anglicized name, the hoods running the big gambling houses also have Anglicized their names. <br /> <br />In the end, this book definitely qualifies as every (male) nerd's wet dream.  It shows geeks on the inside- hobnobbing with celebs, beautiful (and preferably big bosomed) girls at their beck and call, swank digs, and free-flowing booze on demand, and as such represents more of an unattainable fantasy than the more pedestrian reality. <br /> <br />Why do I say this?  Because the author always shows them winning.  Granted, in one scene they lose a small amount, and in another, they get roughed up a bit, but in the end, they win big.  This is not what happens in the real world. <br /> <br />In sum, enjoy this book as really good faction, but please, whatever you do, don't act on it, as you might the reality to be much more painful (and permanent) than that which Mr. Mezrich depicts.	2004-09-04
US	52421621	RH35GRXIOBQG4	1882606345	163912467	The Herbal Companion: The Essential Guide to Using Herbs for Your Health and Well-Being	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Much Better Than Most Books on the Market	This is both a handy and beautiful little book.  All the key terms and concepts are fully explained, and instructions for growing all the common and popular herbs are given.  For those lacking the proper soil, tips on soil improvement are given. <br /> <br />By far, most of the text is concerned with the medicinal uses of herbs.  100 or so herbs are presented, and for each the medicinal properties and their preparation from fresh isolates are fully explained.  I like the book because it reminds the reader that although herbs are 'natural' remedies, they can be just as toxic (and perhaps moreso) than synthetic drugs if the dosage is not appropriate.  For this reasons the author fully explains the concept behind dosage, both for over the counter preparations and for those made from fresh herbs.  He also devotes considerable space to specifying when certain herbal remedies should be used, and by whom and for exactly what purpose  Considerable attention is also paid to the exact concentrations of over-the-counter preparations, as it has been found that many of them tend to have none of the active ingredient of the herb in question.  Thus it pays to keep an eye on the source of the preparation as well as how the preparation was manufactured.  I also like the author's repeated suggestion to seek consultations with competent professional medical help before using any herbal remedy. <br /> <br />I especially liked the section on culinary uses of herbs.  More than a few can be used to accentuate the flavor of many dishes.  Although fresh is vastly preferable to dried, seasonality often precludes their availability, so the author provides detailed instructions on how to dry and store herbs for year-round use. <br /> <br />The book contains lots of pretty pictures and more than a few ideas on how to start a small kitchen herb or backyard garden.  Additionally, a glossary of key medical terms used throughout the book is provided at the end of the text.  An index is also provided which provides the herb based on both the condition and the treatment. <br /> <br />Herbs really are versatile, and you can use them in culinary, medicinal, and cosmetic purposes (you can even use a few as organic insecticides and cleaning agents).  This book is definitely a keeper, and one that should be lent to inquiring minds who want to know a bit more about herbs and their uses.	2004-07-30
US	52421621	R21BLSJUVN5XX1	0471426164	825397997	The Millionaire Code: 16 Paths to Wealth Building	Books	3	38	43	N	N	This is New-Age, Feel Good Investing, People	You gotta wonder about the kind of person who would write a book with 'Millionaire' in the title, especially a book written written on the subject by someone claiming to have a PhD.  Then again, you gotta wonder about the kind of person who would read a book with the word 'Millionaire' in the title, but enough self-incrimination.<br />The Millionaire Code starts off with the right idea in mind.  The author posits that the key to wealth-building begins with understanding one's unique personality, and he uses the (in)famous Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator test as a basis for pinpointing some general aspects of one's personality.  Mr. Farrell then uses a variation of the Myers-Briggs test to identify 16 different personality types, analyze some general characteristics of each, and then recommend financial courses of action for each.  <br />The book is liberally sprinkled with lots of Jungian-influenced pop-psychology, notable business quotes by the likes of none other than Warren Buffett and Donald Trump, among others, and is filled to the brim with excerpts from some of the more popular (and more obscure) self-help books.  Because of this, I am not really sure how much of the book is the author's own original contribution, and at times I had to wonder about the integrity of the mix.<br />The book itself is structured in four parts.  The first two parts lay out the foundation for the author's assertion that personality is the key to investing, and calls upon the works of Carl Jung, Isabel Myers-Briggs, and David Keirsey for support.  It is here that the author boldly states that one's DNA determines one's financial destiny, and this is one claim that I find to be specious (and also unprovable) and which also shows the New Age, pop-LA cultural influence that is also liberally distributed throughout the text.  In Part Two he provides a test for the reader to determine his or her personality type.<br />From there, the book becomes less insightful and original, andmore repetitive shaky.  Part Three consists of many generalizations about four temperaments to which supposedly every person can be categorized.  Part Four presents the sixteen personality types based on these temperaments, and does even more generalizing about the characteristics common to each personality.  For each personality, he offers some general comments on the types of profession people having this personality would gravitate to (and apparently most personalities gravitate toward the same professions), and offers some basic advice on personal financial planning for each.  It is in this aspect that the book is weakest, as the advice on personal financial planning boils down to either: let a professional financial planner handle your financial affairs (for those whose personalities label them as performers, teacher-healers or artisans), go it alone (for those whose personalities label them as managers, administrators or leaders), or simply to not worry about it, forget about it and focus on other things (for those whose personalities label them as thinkers).<br />I highly doubt that one would meet with much financial success if one were to follow Mr. Farrell's dubious courses of action.  Still, the book is useful, especially for those of us looking to feel better about ourselves and our stance towards personal finance.  Each chapter begins and ends with a notable quote, and the author does provide a detailed list for further reading (which Farrell calls the Millionaire's Basic Training Library).  Probably the most important chapters in the book are the first, second and epilogue.<br />The book as a whole is partly anecdotal, with some biographical tidbits about the author placed here and there, and is partly spiritual.  This latter part probably reflects the impact that Marsha Sinetar's excellent book, Do What You Love, The Money Will Follow, had on the author.  As such, I believe the book deserves to be read, partly for the great quotes from the diverse likes of Joseph Campbell, Carl Jung, Gary Zukav, and Buckminster Fuller, and mostly for entertainment.<br />That said, I impress upon all readers to enjoy the book, and not take it too seriously, as more than a few of its assertions are rather tenuous.  Still, being a fan of Mr. Farrell's frank commentary in his articles for CBS Marketwatch, I must commend him for having the courage to share a part of himself with us and for putting the interesting subject of personality and investing on the spotlight.  In passing, much of the book could be used as a source of great fodder for some outstanding fiction.<br />Finally, this book does not take the reader off the hook for his or her financial decisions.  Though it may offer some insight into how we approach (or should approach) our finances, it provides no excuse for not thinking and reasoning about what we are doing when we say that we are 'investing'.	2004-07-06
US	52421621	R34FQNH3EABZD7	0965919358	684600846	The Agile Manager's Guide to Understanding Financial Statements (The Agile Manager Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Quick and Dirty Introduction to Accounting Methods	This is one really great book in an impressive series of publications.  Everything you need to know to have a passing familiarity with accounting statements is presented in easy read and understand fashion.  After reading this book, you can use and understand some of the more basic jargon of business, investment and finance.<br />As is the tradition with every great business book, the text ends with Chapter 7 (you know, of bankruptcy fame!).  Each chapter presents a different aspect of financial statements, beginning with the income statement, the balance sheet, and the statement of cash flows, and integrates the three to demonstrate how they can be used for financial analysis, inventory tracking and allocating for depreciation.  Each chapter starts by explaining the topic fully, and offers several examples of its use in actual business practice.  Although the book is a slim volume, it packs a lot of information, being brief, to the point and insightful all at the same time.  Additionally, its small size also means that it will not take up too much space on one's shelf of must-have and must-keep books.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone having the need to understand financial statements at a glance.  Interested readers should also check out some of the other titles in the Agile Manager Series which may be helpful.	2004-07-06
US	52421621	R1O3MHE7LOA0YL	0671891634	888454147	Beating the Street	Books	1	20	34	N	N	Yet Another Mis-Leading Exhortation to Buy Stocks	This book, written in 1993, simultaneously comes at the end of Mr. Lynch's career in money management and the beginning of a long sprint in the broader stock market, largely fueled by tech/internet stocks.  In any period, one can expect 1 of 100 money managers to far outperform both his or her peers and the broader market by chance.  Mr. Lynch was that one money manager.<br />Mr. Lynch starts the book by turning investing into a game.  Although his method was subtle (using an example of grammar school kids picking stocks), the implications are profound.  Investing does share some resemblance to many games we play in life, and one of the Great Money Masters, the fictitious 'Adam Smith' readily admits this in his classic book on investment, The Money Game.<br />However, Mr. Lynch takes things one step beyond the game, and as the book's title hints, he turns all investment activities into a competition.  In so doing, he pits the small investor against the institutional Players, and as a result, sets up the naive reader to walk a well-trodden path littered with sorrow and the bones of many foolish investors.<br />Granted, 'Adam Smith' once said, &quot;The Players aren't smarter than you.  They just have more information&quot;, and there also is a certain level of truth to Lynch's assertion that the Little Guy can outperform the Big Boys.  However, Lynch fails to disclose one important and critical difference.<br />I believe it was Hemmingway who said, in response to Fitzgerald's observation that the rich were not like the ordinary schmuck, that &quot;Yes, I know.  They have more money.&quot;  Something frightfully similar can be said of the key difference between the  Little Guy and The Players, but with one critical insight: The Players do not merely have more money, they have a lot more of Other People's Money.  That in essence is the fundamental difference between The Players and the Little Guy, who must wager his (or her) own hard-won funds in order to play the Grand Game- the stock market.<br />Needless to say (but will be said anyway), the consequences of one's actions weigh heavily on one's shoulders when one's own money is at stake, but really aren't felt when Other People's Money is on the line.  The Players play with Other People's Money, but you, dear investor, play with your own hard-won earnings.  That said, the intelligent investor must ask herself, 'Do I really want to play with my money?'.<br />Beating the Street rests heavily on this undisclosed truism and a host of faulty assumptions.  The book really is a sales pitch to buy stocks and to participate as much as possible in stock mutual funds.  To that end, Mr. Lynch places before the reader a number of questionable arguments.  Here are just two:<br />First, perhaps the most flawed argument of the book is that the small investor, upon retirement, will spend more than she earns in investment income.  This is stated as a bona-fide fact when in reality, it is a generous assumption.  From this assumption, Mr. Lynch then argues that one should invest in stocks and use some portion of the capital appreciation in addition to the dividend income for the purpose of meeting one's spending needs.  He then fortifies his argument by citing inflation and emphasizing its ability to erode fixed income.<br />The facts are 1) how much investment income you will need is determined by how much you plan to spend, 2) many people choose to work either part-time or full-time after retirement (either out of necessity or desire), and thus have some supplemental income, 3) though the general historical trend for stock prices has been 'up', there is nothing that says that stocks have to go up, and finally 4) inflation can adversely affect stock prices (and have actually done so in the past).  Lynch invokes the inflation argument when trashing bonds, and abandons it when touting stocks, even though inflation acts on both.  Nor does his idealized comparison of stocks vs. bonds on pages 52-56 take into account taxes and transaction costs incidentally.<br />Second, on page 69, Mr. Lynch boldly says that, &quot;If you plan to to stick with a fund for several years, the 2-5 percent you paid to get in will prove insignificant&quot;.  This last statement may actually be worse than his first (of many) flawed arguments, for the following reason: the money lost to the load fails to compound at whatever investment rate of return, and over long periods of time, the difference between what you committed and what gets actually invested grows- and this is before we even consider the effect of annual expenses.<br />These and other flawed but superficial arguments for stock investing make for very difficult reading.  Apart from the gross argumentative errors, the book presents many of Mr. Lynch's reminiscences of a stock market long gone.  However, there are some useful hints in the book, most likely put there by Mr. Rothchild, but they are far outnumbered and over-shadowed by Mr. Lynch's deceptive pitch to buy stocks.	2004-07-04
US	52421621	R3M003BDZ8HE0J	0684811634	335386392	Learn to Earn: A Beginner's Guide to the Basics of Investing and Business	Books	1	34	52	N	N	Promotes Dangerous and Inappropriate Activity	Contrary to what the subtitle of this book says, it does not provide an introduction to investing or business.  The book is in fact a blasphemous exhortation to 'dabble'- essentially to speculate, in the stock market.<br />The book, which was written in 1995, right around the middle of the greatest speculative bubble in United States history to date, fed into a common and pernicious malady among small investors- everyone it seems was making 'easy money' in stocks, and naturally many wondered how they too could get some of this 'easy money'.  Lynch sought to answer that question within the confines of this misguided, thoroughly misleading book.<br />Well, of course you know the most recent ancient history.  By the end of the 1990s and sometime around 2001, heaps of folks were lucky to have kept about half of what they put into the market, and many never even recovered (nor can they ever hope to recover) their losses to this day.  More than a few readers of this book were led astray by the reckless stock cheerleading found throughout this book.<br />Learn to Earn... was a bad book because it gives the uninformed reader and financial novice just enough information (and an abundance of encouragement) to get himself or herself into a whole lot of trouble in the stock market.  It lays out all the benefits of investing, defends with vigor the New Improved American Capitalism, and highlights all the fun and wonderful things that can happen when one one buys stocks and becomes an owner of a Great American Enterprise, without devoting any significant space to the pitfalls, costs and dangers of stock operations.  Yet, I sensed in reading this book that the text was written two minds.  While Mr. Lynch prattled incessantly about the wonderful world of stocks, with paragraph after paragraph of ebullient optimism, every so often Mr. Rothchild slips in a bit of sobering realism with a sentence or two here and there.  In particular, really good morsels of information such as: starting a dedicated savings program before embarking on investing, managing and even better, avoiding, credit debt for investment success, and in any bull market, in the end the little guy gets killed and the Big Boys get bailed out by their rich and politically powerful cronies (as we saw in the last pass of the bull), could only have come from the level-headed and jaded mind of Mr. Rothchild (who by the way authored the cleverly titled gem, A Fool and His Money).<br />As can be expected with any investment book penned by Mr. Lynch, a number of statements are either half-truths or are just plain wrong.  First, Mr. Lynch adheres to his flawed definition of an investor (which he uses in every book)- anyone that buys stocks and only stocks.  From this flows his conviction, boldly stated on page 122, &quot;If you are long-term investor, ignore all the bond funds and hybrid funds (those that invest in a mixture of stocks and bonds) and go for the pure stock funds.&quot;  Throughout the book, he takes a similar stance on individual stock versus bond purchases.<br />Now, if you had not followed Mr. Lynch's brilliant and worldly wise 'investment counsel', you would have made pretty decent money in both high quality corporate bonds and US Treasuries (or even US Savings Bonds) over the last eight years, especially when compared against your peers who fully invested in stocks.  Also, inflation, which Mr. Lynch (and many other scurrilous financial 'experts') uses to scare readers into buying stocks, was moderate during the eight year period, and we even had a spell of deflation at one point, thereby actually boosting bond returns.  When all was said and done, it turned out that holding a combination of high quality bonds and high quality stocks out-performed total stock positions over the last few years.<br />Yet another of Mr. Lynch's erroneous convictions is that investors (buyers of stock) are the vanguards of capitalism.  This is a half-truth.  In fact, speculators are the vanguard of capitalism, as they provide venture capital and implicitly assume risk.  Investors on the other hand, that is, those enterprising souls looking for income with (reasonable) security of capital, only come in after the enterprise has proven itself in the marketplace.<br />Thus, in essence, readers of this book receive good tutelage on how they too can become speculators, much like the 'stock operators' of the Roaring 1920s.  Finally, the fact that the target audienc efor this book is young adults truly shocks me, as quite frankly, Mr. Lynch and others in the financial community are knowingly and purposefully engendering a nation of mindless, stock-buying drones hell-bent on gambling away their hard-won earnings, and their personal financial futures to boot.	2004-06-23
US	52421621	R31QCALCETCEXZ	1580170943	17570998	Creating an Herbal Bodycare Business (Making a Living Naturally Series)	Books	3	100	106	N	N	Common Sense with a New Age, Eco-Aware Twist	This book begins, and ends, on a hopeful note.  Its message is a positive one.  There is considerable truth in what Ms. Maine says.  Many people believe that big is good, but big is often bloated, and not long after, bankrupt.  For some people, small can be both beautiful and happy.<br />From the start, I do not believe Ms. Maine intended to write a business book based on the standard boiler plate model for such books.  She has endeavored to put something of herself, and her outlook on life into the text, and it shows.  Granted, on first pass, the New Age references and more than a few statements are a bit off-putting, especially if you, like me, are skeptical by nature, but if the book is read very closely, you will find that all the basic ingredients of a Start Your Own Business Book are there.<br />For example, she makes these and other questionable claims throughout the book such as: society and the planet are going to hell in a hand-basket.  What is the solution, you ask?  Start an herbal bodycare business!  Or, my personal favorite: the natural food and bodycare market is experiencing an annual growth rate of 15 percent.  With that kind of growth rate, given the anemic 1 to 3 percent growth rates in mature general retail categories like food and cosmetics, it will not be long before those godless multinationals pick up the scent.  In fact, it turns out they have picked up the scent, and are closing in these 'alternative' categories.<br />However, this is not to say that there is no value or credibility in the text- far from it.  The real value of this text resides in the stories of those folks, like Ms. Maine, who set up their own successful herbal bodycare business, and Ms. Maine's insistence that you think and plan about your herbal bodycare business.  This last bit is most important, as it seems everyone and her mother is involved in this area nowadays (in fact, that is LITERALLY the case) so it pays to think of how you can be different and unique, yet still offer value.<br />Moreover, Ms. Maine did it the right way, that is, the smart way: she got the business right BEFORE she went into business.  That means getting a clear idea of the business (what you offer versus what customers really want and will pay for), putting some flesh to the concept, and laying down a well-reasoned plan.  It also means examining various scenarios WITHOUT numbers and prepping yourself for mis-haps, as nothing will EVER go exactly as planned.  Ms. Maine, as well as the people she profiles, all started small, worked in and around the herbal bodycare business for a few years before going out on their own, and all of them got their businesses off the ground with five thousand dollars or less, thus demonstrating that it can be done on the literal 'shoestring budget'.  As Liz Claiborne once said, 'Start with a low overhead and be willing to everything yourself.'<br />My somewhat jaded advice to anyone thinking about going into this or any other business is this: Before you go into business, it is all about thinking, reasoning and planning.  Once you go into business, it is all about execution.  When you go into business with a flawed concept, even the most mundane annoyances can morph into major and insurmountable problems, and will ultimately kill your business.  Get the concept right, and execute flawlessly.  That ways lies blockbuster success.  Money may be an initial barrier, but you creative types should be able to cobble together what you need from the odd bits and pieces here and there and wow the customer with your presentation and artistic flair.  Remember this one lesson from the internet company boom: a lot of money behind a flawed concept equals a fantastic and bankrupt failure.  Start simple, start small, and work within a limited budget.  That will force you to unleash your creativity.  More often than not, the more money we have, the less carefully we think, and the dumber the ideas that come to the fore.<BR> <br />The target audience for this book is not highly accomplished over-achievers with a bent for numbers and order.  Rather, this is a book for those free-spirited, creative, chaotic, artsy types who often go by the moniker of 'Right-Brain Person'.  There is a definite bias in the text towards the burned-out female company employee working for a god-less, soul-less corporation, and as such, the book is open to the charge of pandering to an escapist fantasy- one that more than a few of us, male or female, in the same bind share.<br />I can also say with certainty that the book is more of an exercise in building the reader's self-confidence about starting such a business, and less of a guide to the inner workings of an herbal bodycare business.  That, however, is most likely the intended objective- giving those who may not have the confidence to start such a venture a few ideas and a little prodding.  Ms. Maine is planting a seed, I think, in a certain type of person, preferably young, single and female but a little unsure of herself.  Although I did not get much out of the book (thus three stars), this person I believe will derive the most out of the book.	2004-06-20
US	52421621	R2MQFHUPIS9M16	0195143264	871251126	The Borderlands of Science: Where Sense Meets Nonsense	Books	1	16	22	N	N	Shermer Ruins the Book by Talking Too Much	I expected more of Mr. Shermer in this outing, given his excellent work in Why People Believe Weird Things.  But then, in that book, Shermer took on and successfully skewered the easy targets, such as UFO nuts, believers in astrology and other New Age fantasies, revisionist Holocaust deniers and whatnot.  However, his latest effort basically amounts to little more than a barely intelligible rant than thoughtful scholarship.  Shermer begins with a bold objective- trying to lay down demarcation lines between generally accepted science (as is generally accepted by scientists themselves), iffy propositions which he calls borderlands science, and a large group of topics that he labels non-science and pseudo science.  I must say without hesitation that he fails miserably in his objective, partly due to his poor choice of content, but mostly because of his even poorer writing style.<br />Although the book starts out well, the writing steadily devolves, and by the fifth chapter, the reader must set his or her shoulders and hunker down for some very painful reading.  Like most PhD holders, Shermer has acquired an impressive amount of scholarly trivia over the course of his education, yet somehow did not the master the mechanics of good writing.  This actually is not hard to believe, as too many people finishing PhD programs in engineering, science and to the dishonor of all liberal arts traditions, English and history programs can not string together a few decent words of prose.  Honestly, many of these programs think that they can make up for a lack of erudite soul with an overdose of abstract quantitation and esoteric facts.<br />And boy oh boy does this approach show in Mr. Shermer's stilted and constipated text.  Moreover, as someone who regards himself as a champion of the hypothesis test and the scientific method, he really should know when to appropriately use such methods, and when not to use them.  In reading his text, I got the feeling that in his graduate traininghe only attended the lectures in his Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences having to do with hypothesis testing, and studiously skipped all the other lectures, particularly those having to do with measurement, validity, operational definition and level of trust in results.<br />I say this because in his chapter on Psuedoscience and Race, he utterly fails to lay down an operational definition, and merely assumes that everyone shares the same common definition of race and knows what he is referring to.  He also fails to consider the history of race and the common knowledge that race is a social construct, not a biological phenomenon.  Though he provides a context (U.S. race relations), he does not provide an operational definition.  He also seems unaware of considerable population genetic and molecular genetic evidence which would make it impossible for most in America to claim, at least from a genetic standpoint, to be truly 'white' or truly 'black'.  Thus, from this one would have to assume, especially when reading Mr. Shermer's screed, that he defines race based on physical appearance pretty much like everybody else.  However, scientists would take a different point of view, much as many a bigotted proponent of eugenics have on many occasions.<br />A second bone of contention that I have with Mr. Shermer's overly scientific and inappropriately quantitative approach to everything is his use in Part II Borderlands People, of quantitative methods to evaluate purely subjective things.  Some variables we measure are concrete and have meaning that is fixed, such as weight, temperature and volume, athough we can use metric or English units to evaluate them.  However, as I recall from one statistics text (the actual text is Richard M. Jaeger's Statistics A Spectator Sport), things like intelligence or neuroticism are totally subjective because their meaning and their measurement can change depending on who is evaluating and measuring them.  For such things, there can be no common agreement as to definition or even measurement.<br />Which I believe Shermer should have learned, thus invalidating the invocation of Sulloway's work in his exposition.  A good educational regimen in statistics (which I believe should begin with Moore's Statistics: Concepts and Controversies) would emphasize the importance of looking behind the numbers, using the appropriate measurement methods, and taking into account information other than that in the test when drawing conclusions.  None of this was done within this text.<br />Still, I did learn a few things, being quite surprised to learn that there was actually a black champion cyclist, and Mr. Shermer did make a number of correct points.  I also give him credit for (grudgingly) admitting, in his last chapter, that scientists are people too, and are motivated by the same concerns and issues like everyone else.  Yet, this does not make up for the overall bad writing and worse scholarship.  I expect, no, I insist on better from a self-respecting skeptic.	2004-06-19
US	52421621	R1QZ0WMUVMUJCC	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Survivalist Hi-jinks with a Libertarian Viewpoint	Although I am not a rabid fan of Mr. Heinlein, considered by many to be the grandmaster of science fiction, I do believe that Tunnel in the Sky is one of his better efforts.<br />The book, which apparently was originally slated for the juvenile market, tells the story of Rod Walker, a bright young man on the verge of graduating from a futuristic high school.  In the book's future, the Earth is a vastly overcrowded planet, and teleportation has supplanted the internal combustion engine and its (hell)spawn as a form of mass transportation, especially over great distances.  In the book, teleportation also presents a solution to Earth's bloated population: all the excess people were 'teleported' to new worlds surrounding distant stars, and as such they became de facto colonists.<br />It turns out that the young Mr. Walker aspires to be an explorer of these new worlds, or at least involved in some way with their governance and/or exploration.  As one of these 'Space-Age' pioneers, he could participate in establishing a beach-head for humanity in some far-flung area of the universe, scout the terrain to get the lay of the land, and give the all-clear for human habitation and colonization.  Under this system, he could even a group of colonists to a new world.<br />However, in order to do this, Rod must first pass a survivalist's exam.  Before embarking on his challenge, to which his parents vehemently object, he gets more than a little helpful advice and a few useful life skills from his older sister, a futuristic sort of Amazonian warrior, and a schoolteacher named the 'Deacon' (an apt title for he preaches quite a lot) who thinks fondly of Rod, calling him 'a hopeless romantic born into an age of practical men'.<br />I think Heinlein wrote this yarn as an extended lesson on good citizenship for minors.  I especially liked the insights the 'Deacon' had on the human animal, and the advice that Rod's sister gave him with regard to the choice of a knife over a nuclear-powered Ray Gun in the bush.  Awesome weapon power often breeds over-confidence, and can become a substitute for using one's brain, and powerful weaponry is absolutely useless against a thinking and determined adversary (certain dunderheads running strategic operations vital to our nation's well-being should take note of that particular lesson!).<br />In the end, the exploration bug gets into Rod's blood, and his fate is sealed.  Unlike more than a few Heinlein novels, which tend to be preachy and over-bearing, this little gem passed on some very useful insights and life lessons.  It would have been nice if Heinlein had written an encore, so that we could catch up with Rod in the future, to see what kind of man he had become as a result of his fateful choice.	2004-06-19
US	52421621	R20YMDEYYMJCG3	0894717413	874742976	Beginning Hydroponics Revised Ed	Books	5	9	15	N	N	An Excellent Intro to a Technology with Proven Potential	Hydroponics... presents an open and honest introduction to the subject of growing plants without soil, covering its long history (especially before it was called 'hydroponics' and before Western Europeans happened upon it), the basic principles underlying hydroponics and the more common methods of the field from the simple to the complex.  It also includes a chapter on troubleshooting, provides copious resources in the form of a book list for further reading and suppliers to hydroponic growers (from backyard gardeners to commercial growers), and is an all-around accessible text for both beginning non-gardeners and to gardeners of all ability ranges.  It also lays out the need for and benefits derived from hydroponics without embellishment, and presents just a small amount of the technology's practical applications and tremendous (and proven) potential.<br />However, based on this text alone, the reader has no real idea just how big the field of soil-less gardening has become.  For example, a sizable amount of commercial tomato production in the United States is done hydroponically, and virtually all of the fresh lettuce in Japan is produced this way.  Additionally, the technology has proven itself to be commercially viable for the production of a variety of specialty crops.  After reading this book, I could easily think of five or six spin-offs for potential research.<br />Probably the best endorsement for the power and capability of this applied technology is the fact that more research is done in hydroponics by commercial growers and big multinationals than is done by (and this is in the United States context) both universities and the USDA.  As an aside, although not originally intended as an application, more than a few enterprising individuals have co-opted its utilization, and advanced its development in order to cultivate, produce and distribute cannabis!<br />This in turn may or may not explain the reticence of the United States government, through the USDA,to fund research into improved hydroponic methods.  However, a more reasonable possibility may be that the technology is first a proven concept and second is very highly developed.  Still, there is considerable room for creative thinking, improvement, improvisation and innovation, as many an enterprising law-breaker has demonstrated.<br />On the other hand, foreign governments in arid regions of the world, such as Israel, the greater Middle East and the North African region, have invested heavily in hydroponics research as a means to simultaneously produce food for domestic requirements and to conserve scarce water resources.  Israel in particular is very aggressive in its attempts to use hydroponics as a basis for export-led agricultural production.<br />Considering how long this book has been on the market (some 27 years), and how bad the situation in the world is with regard to hunger and food insecurity, and environmental degradation, I have to wonder aloud why environmental types like Lester Brown, Helen Caldicott and environmental groups such as the Worldwatch Institute, Sierra Club and Greenpeace have not bothered to champion this technology.  Given all of the benefits of the technology, and the number of greedy corporate fingers using it to rake in beaucoup bucks, you have to wonder exactly where the priorities of many of the so-called 'eco-advocacy' groups lay, as they should be grinning from ear to ear over this water conserving (and in many cases water recycling), decreased energy, pesticide and fertilizer utilizing technology.	2004-06-19
US	52421621	R16BKB8JAZ55H9	0618446702	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	5	1	4	N	N	An Informative Potpouri of Topics	Having read the author's previous book, and holding the same reservations that anyone would have about follow-ups (that it won't be nearly as good as the first outing), I picked up this book and set it aside for a quiet time.  When I finally got around to reading Reefer Madness, I found I could not put it down.  Time literally stopped, and some passages merited second and third readings.  On his second try, Schlosser delivered big-time, and while more of an academic essay and an ad populum appeal to values than hard-hitting investigative journalism, it still manages to uphold the tradition of excellence in muckraking journalism.<br />The book consists of three extended essays on such diverse but inter-linked topics as pornography, marijuana and migrant, specifically illegal agricultural, labor.  The subjects are inter-linked because first they are part of a vibrant, free-wheeling and dynamic underground economy in America, and second there have been some rather unusual linkages between the two.  One colorful example of such linkages is the fact that many enterprising drug producers have on occasion used illegal migrant labor to tend to marijuana crops in out of the way places.  Another very colorful (or disturbing, depending on your point of view) example is the prolific use of marijuana and other illegal drugs as inducements to get participants to perform certain acts in the pornography industry or as a means of obtaining such drugs (which for some reason, the author fails to mention, even though numerous anecdotal affirmations of this are available).<br />Nonetheless, each activity represents Big Business in America.  One of the three, pornography, has made the transition from the fringe to mainstream business, and because of this, does not really count as a true underground activity, at least in my mind.  The problem of illegal migrant labor has been knowingly overlooked as a result of a gentlemen's agreement between corporations (which would not be nearly as profitable without it) and the government (which would prefer to use as little of its resources as possible policing this problem).  On the other hand, the marijuana trade has been and is patently illegal, and the author suspects that this state of affairs will change, moving towards that of pornography, or that of illegal migrant labor.  The situation for each of these industries, beginning with their history, the extent of activity currently in each sphere, and the impact each has had, particularly on those who participate in each sphere, is covered in a fair amount of detail.<br />The book exposes how We The People really get what we want, and reveals an undisclosed truth as to how our economic and social order really maintains itself.  For example, food has become cheaper over time in no small part because of our government's stance on migrant labor.  Of course, there are the occasional crackdowns and sensational raids, but that merely goes through the motions and panders to the Press and flag-waving conservatives.  As such, more than a few adherents of the Back to the Land Movement and Ecological Farming ideologies should take note.  <br />It also reveals the gross double standard we apply to those who are governed and those who do the governing.  American Express, I believe, once advertised its credit with the phrase 'Membership has its Priviledges'.  Something similar can be said about our ruling elite, who overturn drug (and other) convictions on their relatives and cronies, but throw the book at the average wage earning schmuck.<br />Granted, the second chapter, In the Strawberry Fields, covers not only illegal farm labor but also the California agricultural industry.  However, the industry as a whole is totally dependent on either illegal migrant labor or laborers who receive neither a living wage nor health benefits.  The third chapter, An Empire of the Obscene, intertwines the growth of pornography with the exploits of perhaps the most famous elder statesman of smut, Reuben Sturman.  Mr. Sturman was the most successful entrepreneur of porn, whose marketing skills and innovative insights literally formed the modern day adult industry.  He also proved himself to be a very interesting character study, being an unusual blend of savvy salesman, entrepreneur, flag-waving patriot and conservative family-man.  Mr. Sturman also took on the formidable federal government by becoming a most unlikely champion of first amendent rights, and won while simultaneously dodging his taxes and thumbing his nose at the IRS.  This colorful character alone would make for very interesting reading in a separate book.   <br />As a whole, the book takes a Progressive stance towards each of these activities, focusing on the effects each has on the people directly involved in the particular activity.  While there exists some grousing about the free market and capitalism, particularly in the preface, The Underground, and the epilogue, Out of the Underground, the content, I believe, will provide positive reinforcement for many that are for social justice (and Pro-Pot and Pro-Porn) and will spark some heated debates.  Reefer Madness definitely makes for good, fascinating reading, and I bet that if one were to lend his or her copy to a friend, he or she would never see the book again.	2004-06-17
US	52421621	R1PBUZVA5DUH1D	0786864370	283279775	How to Become CEO: The Rules for Rising to the Top of Any Organization	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Good Gift for Someone Just Starting Out	This little book presents seventy-five lessons, or rules, for career success.  The vast majority of the rules consists of short musings on people skills.  Like most books giving advice on business and career success, the concepts are easily understood, but as always, are difficult to implement.  Nonetheless, this guide to becoming the CEO offers a few precious nuggets of wisdom that anyone could use whether or not they have designs on becoming the Big Cheese or sitting in the top spot of any organization.<br />Several of the rules have relevance far beyond the boardroom.  For example, Lesson 27- Don't Hide an Elephant- which deals with the impulse to ignore a festering and looming problem, sounds a lot like what the United States Congress (and more than a few presidential administrations) does on a routine basis.  Other rules, such as Lesson 7- Never Write a Nasty Memo- can have painful personal relevance.  I have committed the sin of violating this rule, with disastrous consequences.  Please, whatever you do, don't break this rule.<br />From a business standpoint, I believe that lessons two, three and four, which deal with customers, are the most relevant.  These three rules should remind you that if you have no customers, then you have no business being in business.<br />From a personal career advancement standpoint, the best lessons are Rules 40, 43, and 45, which remind us to listen, do our homework well if we want to be paid well, and most important, to communicate clearly and effectively by speaking and writing in plain English.<br />Managers and executives of all stripes should memorize Lessons 55 and 63 by heart, and live them every day at work.  It really does pay to be on the constant lookout for good ideas, but one should never forget that once a good idea is discovered, realizing its potential is critical to success.<br />On a personal level, I believe everyone can get a lot of mileage out of Lessons 62 and 64.  Lesson 62- Become A Member of the Shouldn't Have Club- contains a lot of truth.  Though you may lament doing some things, they are often necessary to do in order to achieve a higher purpose.  I can attest to the truth of the author's words from personal experience, `Each time you admonish yourself with &quot;Gee, I shouldn't have done that', there will be ten other times when the results will prove that you should have.' <br />However, Lesson 64- Record Your Mistakes with Care and Pride- is probably the most difficult lesson for all.  Many advise us not to live in the past and not to obsess over failures and mistakes.  However, we can learn more from our mis-steps than from our successes, and we can use failure to grow and become better people.  Granted, this hard to imagine when one is failing or has failed, but in retrospect, it can be a powerful learning tool if used.<br />As an aside, Lesson 51- Stay Out of Office Politics- is an insightful and brilliant analysis of too many workplaces.  Setting rife with politicking signal for all to see that no matter how beneficial the work or activity may be, they do not count for anything in that particular environment.  To escape this pernicious hell, simply prove your worth and demonstrate your ability by working, and soon enough, someone will tap you for a spot in a setting where your work, effort and results do count for something. <br />I personally liked Lesson 34- Go to the Library Once a Month- as it warms my heart.  The public library is a wonderful institution, and contrary to what the generals, spooks, and politicians say, is the most vital asset to our national security, and as such deserves our continued and unhesitating support.<br />This book makes an excellent gift for someone just beginning a career.  I have a niece who is just starting out, and I think I will pass along a copy to her.  It just may prove to be one investment that pays dividends now and later.	2004-06-16
US	52421621	R2FBVXPZNLICLH	0814478034	27852879	Managing Your Mouth: An Owner's Manual for Your Most Important Business Asset	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	On Speaking- The High Risk Proposition	Speaking is very likely the most important interpersonal skill behind integrity, or being true to one's words in deed and action.  Mr. Genua's book, Managing Your Mouth, presents diverse examples of the same idea: how thoughtless use of the spoken word can put a person between the proverbial rock and a hard place.<br />Few of us understand, especially the young and un-initiated, that speaking is a high-risk proposition.  One may wonder why that is so, and Dr. Robert Bolton, in his well researched book, People Skills, provides a simple answer: when we speak, we have no way of knowing in advance how the other side will react to what we say.  That is why Dr. Bolton strongly recommends learning to listen, and many institutions (but not nearly enough) strongly emphasize clear and direct communication, preferably in the simplest terms possible and with an economy of words.<br />Mr. Genua advances thing a few more steps, and asserts that when we speak to others, not only do we not know how they will react, but we also do not know for certain how our words will be interpreted, and in a business setting with proprietary knowledge at risk, exactly what information we are consciously or unconsciously transmitting when we speak.  Not only do our words communicate, but our posture, facial expressions and other body language can send unconscious signals, which to the trained observer can turn into important and useful information.<br />In seven quick and easy chapters, the author explains the importance of paying close attention to one's verbal and non-verbal communication, how to avoid certain destructive forms of verbal communication, and finally how to use verbal and non-verbal cues to maximum effect (as opposed to having them used against you to maximum effect), especially in business settings.<br />After using the preface and first chapter to lay out the reasons for paying close attention to what one says, the author gets to business in the second chapter by engaging the reader with an assessment of his or her current verbal management skills followed by a brief, detailed no-nonsense explanation of each assessment point.  The third chapter assists the reader in identifying potential problems about himself or herself so that problematic speaking forms can be avoided, and also shows via vivid examples what can (and does) happen to those who utilize problematic speaking forms.  Chapter four covers a variety of instances where unguarded verbal communication can lead to personal ruin, and devotes a considerable amount of space to successful navigating the job interview.  The chapter concludes with a discourse on surviving and thriving in company meetings.<br />Chapter five elaborates on gossip, outlining in detail how bad it is and basically telling the reader to avoid it in all of its forms, such as the grapevine and the water cooler, like the plague.  Chapter six explains the importance of not divulging secret or proprietary information, and reminds the reader to be on guard at all times and to use silence as a weapon.  The last chapter (of bankruptcy fame) details the ins and outs of secrecy, and the effective use of deception.<br />My only criticism of this text is its failure to tell the reader to think carefully before he or she speaks.  Most of us have to really train ourselves to do this, and work hard at resisting the urge to respond, either to demonstrate our intelligence or to counter a verbal attack (I have found that in many cases one demonstrates his or her intelligence by not speaking or responding to attacks).  Most problems result because people fail to consider how their words will be received, and what exactly it is they wish to say.  Merely reading about the pitfalls of speaking is one thing, but putting the author's advice to practice is quite another.  All readers of this book should keep in mind that when we engage in verbal, we often pass through potentially stormy and treacherous waters.	2004-06-15
US	52421621	R13S294FUENFLV	0449911489	470744467	Swim with the Sharks Without Being Eaten Alive: Outsell, Outmanage, Outmotivate, and Outnegotiate Your Competition	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Passes on Some Simple But Important Lessons	I came across this book a few years ago during a difficult time in my life.  I was in the process of failing miserably at yet another professional endeavor, and in the throes of a major personal upheaval.  It was shortly after these calamities that I seriously began to read this book.  Internalizing just a few of the simple but important lessons in this book has made all the difference for me, and has allowed me to pursue life very much on my own terms.<br />From this book, I learned that in order to satisfy a demand, you first have to create the demand, the very first lesson of the text, and one that I applied to maximum benefit repeatedly shortly after internalizing it.  I also learned that while money is nice, good information is priceless; otherwise, you will not have the money for long.  Too many people never learn that lesson.  Finally, the most important lesson for me came in the first few pages and had to do with salesmanship.  As MacKay says, anyone can get the order if they are willing to say anything and do anything to get it.  The real question is whether or not they can get the reorder, as that is the mark of the true salesman.  I work with people at the moment that should have learned that lesson, but did not, and let me tell you, it is excruciatingly frustrating to interact with such individuals.  People who have not learned this crucial and important lesson simply can not be trusted, and lack integrity.  They develop reputations that, in a word, are most un-flattering, and can bring out the worst in people.  An appropriate analogy for such people are scurrilous and reproachable politicians- all talk and promises, but very much non-action and non-delivery.  Most important, once entrenched in a position with a fancy title and  of some limited power and authority, they can and do frustrate any and all attempts at progress and forward locomotion.   You would do well to cease contact with these people at the first and most convenient opportunity.<br />Asan aside, I liked his musings on the old cliche 'Sell Yourself'- truly a meaningless and overworked phrase if there ever was one.  As MacKay remarks, we as individuals often make for lousy products.  I also concur with others who found Mr. MacKay's admonishment, Don't Get Mad, and DON'T Get Even, to be wise beyond words.  I can affirm that stewing over personal and professional slights and plotting revenge wastes precious time and energy which could be directed towards more constructive and fruitful pursuits.  However, I must admit that I have yet to internalize this truest of truisms, as some tresspasses are difficult to forgive.  Still, as for most of the other lessons the reader probably already knows them or is familiar with them, but having them placed before you by an unrelated and credible third party always makes for good, sound, positive reinforcement.  While some may dismiss most of the lessons in the book as common sense, I have to commend Mr. MacKay on his key insights on the human condition and human relationships.<br />Which, in the end is what business, and for that matter, everything else, including my profession, science, is all about.  I especially recommend this book to those from non-business or professional backgrounds (especially scientists, as many of us are, perish the thought!, unfortunately severely handicapped in the people skills department, this reviewer included) who nonetheless must interact with people.  Obtaining this book solely for the lessons on good, effective salesmanship alone would justify its purchase.  I have also found that reading this book, in combination with a handy and powerful little volume, Soft Selling in a Hard World: Plain Talk on the Art of Persuasion, by Jerry Vass, can turn even the most reluctant, shy non-people-person into an effective salesperson.  One of these days I am going to read Mr. MacKay's follow-up, Sharkproof!, as there are quite a few of those carnivorous, maneating fish in The Business of Science.	2004-06-13
US	52421621	R3043D8WE21DTA	1560061200	234132402	World Hunger (Overview Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Basic Overview, But Not Much More	I have to keep reminding myself that the target audience for this book is children.  As such, not many of the topics are covered in much depth, and most of the book is given to the presentation of text heavy with numbers and photos on every other page.<br />As for the book's content, it does a fair job of presenting most of the key issues associated with hunger.  However, I am afraid that children, after reading this book, will come away not with a cursory understanding of the world hunger problem, but with a few trendy, yet stereotypical buzzwords such as poverty, war, women, children, biotecnology and such.  Nonetheless, it does present some topics well, such as the different forms of hunger (war and/or environmentally induced famine, various forms of malnourishment, and outright starvation) and the link between hunger and poverty.<br />However, one glaring omission from the text is the historical context for hunger.  Students who read this text may come away thinking that those affected by hunger were always hungry or that they themselves are wholly responsible for their plight.  The book also overlooks some truly complex and disturbing issues associated with hunger, such as the link between it and global trade.  <br />As for the book's style, it is pitched at a level to foster ready understanding of the terms and concepts.  A glossary is provided to define key scientific and agricultural terms associated with hunger.  Apart from a burdensome reliance on statistics (for which the author fails to cite references), and an over-reliance on sound-bite-like quotes from a handful of people with important-sounding titles, the book does provide some sources, mostly big institutions such as the UN FAO, for further information.<br />However, there are numerous errata in the book.  One glaring instance can be found on page 56, where the author states that, \\"Today, one sixth of the total world population- one hundred and thirty five million people- is threatened by desertification.\\"  I believe that the author meant to say 1.35 billion people, which would agree well with the world population figure present very early in the text.  Besided being wrong, it demonstrates the dangers of using statistics in every other sentence.<br />This in turn demonstrates two of the key weaknesses of the text.  No particular topic is covered in any real detail, and only generalities at best are given.  Second, and most important, the book fails to put a human face to the problem of hunger, prefering to hide behind a mass of jumbled statistics, and thus squanders a real opportunity to make a lasting impression on young readers.<br />Thus, while the book does introduce the topic, it fails to inform the reader on the topic in a significant way.  As such, I doubt that most of the intended audience for this text, having very limited attention spans, will make it past the first few chapters to the end of the book.	2004-06-12
US	52421621	R26CLPAO2AEV1M	1567510604	29980185	Toxic Sludge is Good For You: Lies, Damn Lies and the Public Relations Industry	Books	5	27	27	N	N	These Guys Are Good, and Fighting the Good Fight!	Where oh where do I begin?  Toxic Sludge... takes a jaded look at the public relations industry, and exposes more than a few objectionable practices perpetrated on behalf of (mostly) corporate America's pursuit of the Almighty Buck.<br />I say 'mostly' because, however distressing it may be to informed and intelligent citizenship, even the United States Government and more than a few foreign regimes solicit the services of these most nefarious snake oil salesmen.  Let's face it, you really do not consume the services of PR firms in order to foster good relations with your customers, you go to them when you have done something bad, and you want it covered up, or at least 'spinned' in the 'right' direction.  You solicit the help of PR flacks and keep them on juicy retainers in order to look good, and not to be good.  When the doo-doo hits the fan, whose a corporate ne'er do well gonna call?  The PR company, that's who.<br />Toxic Sludge... contains twelve chapters of absorbing reading.  From countermeasures directed at censoring information thoroughly in the public domain, keeping books off the bookshelves and dissenting voices from being heard, to infiltrating shoe-string activist organizations, fomenting criminal insurgency and subverting (and ultimately perverting) any and all attempts to relay the facts, the authors provide example after example of very well-financed government and corporate interests actively frustrating (and quite often foiling) intelligent and inormed democratic participation in the political and economic process.  As Mark Dowie, the author of the introduction says, in an environment rife with PR, facts can not survive, nor can the truth prevail.<br />Some of the strategies and tactics PR firms used with giddy abandon on often unsuspecting targets truly shocked me, for many tools and tricks from the PR Playbook share an eerie resemblance to CIA methods and operations.  In fact, more than a few PR players and heavy hitters get their inspirationfrom millitary strategists such as von Clauswitz, and cross-fertilization between PR firms and the upper levels of government and corporate America impart a uniquely acidic aggressivity and practiced slickness to their campaigns against their opponents.  Some of their more colorful operations reminded me of the FBI's  use, via its infamous COINTELPRO initiative, of agent provocateurs against student groups, anti-Vietnam war protestors and civil rights activists during the late sixties and early-mid-seventies.  This unholy alliance between government, corporations and PR firms, combined with their incestuous linkages to the ad industry, make for one formidable and thorougly intimidating opponent.  <br />The book contains a veritable smorgasbord of eminently quotable quotes and delightful (and very distressing) anecdotes.  In this vein, my personal favorite is the story of how PT Barnum, of circus fame, got his start.  He put on display an old, black slavewoman, and billed her as 'George Washington's childhood nursemaid', and get this- he claimed that she was one hundred and sixty years old.  Barnum made certain that he got the woman in the news as often as he could, and it did not matter what the papers said, as long as his name was spelled right.  Of course, Barnum made a killing, the woman died, an autopsy was performed for the benefit of more than a few skeptics, and gee whiz, it turned out that she could not have been more than eighty.<br />Barnum, of course, handled the situation like the PR pro he was.  When the truth was finally revealed, he went public, and said he was shocked, truly shocked, at the way the woman had deceived him!<br />And that anecdote, in essence, describes the modus operandi of the PR professional.  PR pros turn the truth inside out.  While they greatly prefer subtlety, they will stoop to other, more brutish tactics in service of their cause.  PR groups can obtain favorable coverage of their worldview, much like Barnum did, and can readilyobtain the willing cooperation of government agencies, as well as current and former high ranking government officials and politicians to do their questionable bidding.<br />The PR firm has proven itself to be at times a sinister, vicious octopus with many tentacles in some of the most unlikely places.  As such, it behooves any concerned citizen to read this book and take notice of this beast as he or she participates in the marketplace of ideas.	2004-06-09
US	52421621	R1GESTN3RLWXX6	0393325350	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street: Completely Revised and Updated Edition	Books	2	32	87	N	N	A Vanguard/Fidelity Fund Promotional in Disguise	You know you are reading a bad investment book when the author chooses to start his text with the following quote: gAn investor with 10,000 dollars at the start of 1969 who invested in the Standard and Poorfs 500 Stock Index Fund would have had a portfolio worth 327,000 dollars by 2002, assuming that all dividends were reinvested.h<br />Professor Malkiel, like so many other writers on the topic of investing, resorts to the use of ridiculous statements to support an argument for whatever investment is being peddled to a largely unsuspecting public.<br />Now, take a minute and examine Professor Malkielfs ridiculous statement.  First, in 1969, the ability to invest in an S&P Stock Index Fund did not exist for the average small investor!  Mr. John Bogle, Professor Malkielfs bosom buddy (and fellow Princetonian), did not offer the index fund concept to the average individual investor until 1973 abouts.  Second, given that the advice in this book is slanted towards an audience that is primarily female and in their twenties or early thirties, offering an example of an investment strategy that quite honestly the reader would have had to take advantage of well before the time she was born seems a bit pointless.  Third, upon closer inspection of this statement, how would choosing any other year besides 1969, say any other year after 1969, affect the comparison?  The more astute among us know that changing the base (either the starting point or the ending point), changes the result.  Finally, yes indeed, hindsight is 20/20 as always, and I have to ask, does the Good Professor really think history will repeat itself in exactly the same way?<br />That said, the bookfs message is not new or original, and simply states that by buying and holding an index fund (or a basket of such funds), investors would not only outperform most of the actively managed mutual funds, they would also avoid expensive transaction costs which eat away at returns.  Besides being fundamentallyobvious, this approach was first alluded to by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd in their books Security Analysis and the Intelligent Investor.  Although the method Professor Malkiel advocates would appear to consign the investor to mediocre returns, what it actually does is turn the small investor into an ill-informed buyer.<br />Professor Malkielfs eadvicef boils down to the following: buy everything that is available, spread your money thin and far and wide, follow the crowd (as opposed to anticipating the crowd), never sell, and keep buying, no matter whatc  In essence, after 382 pages of somewhat droll, uninspired, and often painful prose, I learned that I should buy a little of everything, cross my fingers, and hope to God that something that I bought goes up.<br />The motivation for this book rests on many faulty assumptions.  Professor Malkiel incorrectly assumes that, like most small investors, the informed and intelligent reader will not, after digesting his treatise (or is it screed?), go out and do his or her homework and investigate the claims made in this book.  He also assumes that most readers, particularly women, are mystified to the point of stupefaction by the investment scene.  Basically, Professor Malkiel believes that every small investor is a stupid know-nothing easily awed by the slick Wall Street Players, and can not possibly hope to out-think and out-perform The Crowd or The Street, and thus should gleefully hand over his retirement funds to the more knowledgeable fund managers at the likes of Vanguard and Fidelity, who we all know have every small investorfs best interest at heart.<br />I also discovered numerous factual errata throughout the text, such as Professor Malkiel describing the infamous John Law of The Mississippi Scheme fiasco as an Englishman (he was in fact actually a Scotsman).  In addition, I found the sexual allusions he liberally sprinkles throughout the text to be very off-putting and thoroughly inappropriate forboth the topic and the target audience.<br />And yet, in spite of the many demerits of the text, it has two good points.  The first is its adequate treatment of treatment of risk and reward, and second, it does address, albeit in a cursory fashion, all the varied classes of investment, from hard assets like gold, real estate and collectibles, to paper assets such as cash equivalents, stocks and bonds, giving some of the merits and demerits of each.    <br />In sum, this book is a watered down version of John Boglefs Common Sense on Mutual Funds, and I personally regard the Index Fund Strategy as being analogous to the Shotgun Approach to Investing.  As such, those individuals seeking to adopt the index approach or that have adopted the index approach to investing should read this book to keep the faith.	2004-05-09
US	52421621	R3LU7CU7DAB1T9	0689840373	287055720	Turnabout	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What Good Sci-Fi Should Aspire to Be	I am quite surprised that a young adult title could be so thought-provoking.  It has all the elements of good science fiction- real people faced with a very timely and pressing problem, but set in a time and place where we the readers can view the protagonists as they attempt to find some sort of closure.<br />The book simultaneously deals with the social problems associated with aging and the perils of the new, improved DNA-based biotechnology.  It also presents the old plot device, immortality and the fountain of youth, with skill and originality.  Also, I felt the juxtaposition of teen protagonists into such a complicated situation was an excellent touch.<br />Although I liked both the characters and the premise, I especially liked the ending of the story.  A book of this sort would make for a great made-for-TV movie that could be shown on some lazy mid-week afternoon.<br />In sum, this was a fine effort, based on very real present-day science.  I just wish the tale had been a bit longer.	2004-05-08
US	52421621	R8BKS7SZYLZYP	0471177504	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way: Investment Strategies of the World's Greatest Investor	Books	5	90	104	N	N	Once Again, Take It With A Grain of Salt	I am not Warren Edward Buffett.  Unlike Mr. Buffett, who has the delightful headache of trying to figure out where to put his steadily growing billions, I am a non-investor, sitting on the sidelines, wondering what all the fuss is about.  Like most readers of this book, I have been told incessantly to invest for retirement, and not knowing exactly how I should do so, I figured it might be a good idea to glean a few secrets from a proven successful investor.  Hence, I read The Warren Buffett Way from cover to cover, hoping to learn a few things.<br />And what did I learn?  I learned that I am not Warren Edward Buffett.  Unlike Mr. Buffett, whose circle of associates includes all of the Beautiful People of Corporate America, I am surrounded by ordinary people, more than a few of whom are looking for a way to get rich quick.  Whereas Mr. Buffett is patient and thoughtful with his investments, most of the people I encounter are thoughtless and reckless with their gambles.  These two things, which I increasingly began to ponder as I read this book, distinguish me from the Oracle of Omaha, and quite possibly from most readers of this book.<br />The book consists of nine chapters, and is mostly historical in nature.  It details many of Buffett's past exploits in the stock market, mostly the good moves but also some bad ones, and offers some of the principles guiding Mr. Buffett's stock investing strategy, grouped into three classes called Management, Financial and Market Tenets.  The first four chapters of the book delve into the early history of Berkshire Hathaway, the key influences on Mr. Buffett which helped to shape his investment philosophy, Mr. Buffett's perspective on the financial markets, and the principles by which he goes about purchasing a business.  The last five chapters of the book give example after example of some of Mr. Buffett's past stock moves, and tries to show his Tenets in action.<br />The style of the book is mostly active until the fifth chapter,whereupon it becomes plodding.  The book is extremely repetitive at points, and as other reviewers have pointed out, key concepts are not fully explained up front, suggesting that the possible target audience for this book are those having a strong background in the general principles of economics and business.<br />In all honesty, I have previously encountered most of the content of this book in coursework or self-study.  I previously read Mr. Hagstrom's The Warren Buffett Portfolio, and found the two books to be similar in some respects.  That said, I still found this book to be very interesting and useful, primarily because it exposed me to an investment approach which utilizes these concepts in ways I had not previously considered.  I also found it highly interesting on an anecdotal level, given that Mr. Buffett's investment career spans The Go-Go Years, The Nifty Fifty Stocks and the 80s and 90s Tech Stock Boom, and yet he never once participated in these tech-stock manias but handily outperformed tech stock investors nonetheless.<br />Like I said, I am not Warren Edward Buffett and I can not expect or even hope to do what he does, but that does not mean that I can not think like him.  Even Mr. Buffett cautions the small investor in this regard, as there are things that he can do that none of little guys can do.  Yet, he also has said that there are things the little guy can do that he can not do.  That said, the book deserves to be read by any one lacking the ability to reason through the process of investing.  However, readers at all levels should not stop with this book.  Others have pointed out that one could get even more information straight from the horse's mouth- the Berkshire Hathaway website.  <br />On the other hand, as this information details past moves for which the conditions surrounding them are most unlikely to come around again, I believe that the more astute reader looking to learn more should consult The Money Game by Adam Smith for a briefhistorical look at financial foolishness (albeit the late sixties but the resemblance to Right Now is striking), The Theory of Investment Value by John Burr Williams for Buffett's original basis for valuation, and The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham for a more detailed explanation of the concepts of margin of safety, intrinsic value, and the benefits associated with ignoring the market noise.  These three books will help one learn how to reason through the investment problem, as this is the most important step, aside from finding smart people (as Mr. Smith admonishes forcefully in The Money Game and Buffett has consistently done) and thinking more but acting less (as Buffett has said- do a few things right and screw everything else).	2004-03-28
US	52421621	R2VI8V7QTGI3QC	1580171613	985419288	Making Your Small Farm Profitable: Apply 25 Guiding Principles/Develop New Crops & New Markets/Maximize Net Profits Per Acre	Books	5	331	358	N	N	A Wise Investment for the Inquisitive, Curious Beginner	First, let me begin by saying what this book is not.  This book gives zero advice to practicing small or large farmers on how to turn a profit. This book is not a how-to guide for those starting out.  Nor is it a step-by-step method on how to get rich by working the land.  If that were the case, then every small farmer in America would have read the book and gotten wealthy, instead of banks and other creditors foreclosing on family farms and putting them on the auctioning block.<br />Now, let me elaborate on what this book really is.  This book is a very polite warning by two very seasoned, jaded individuals who are aware of the escapist notions and romantic fantasies many people have about farming.  They have been around long enough to have become intimately familiar with the Back to the Land Movement, a Return to Simplicity, and Environmental Sustainability/Sustainable Agriculture- aka The New Improved Agriculture.   It took me a while to realize this (three readings in fact!) and understand the dangers associated with one pernicious stereotype about farming.<br />Many of us on the sidelines believe that anyone can farm, and all it takes is a willingness to work hard (the trite saying about hard-working ditch diggers getting rich comes readily to mind).  When we think of the farmer, we often have one (malicious) stereotype in mind- that of the dumb country boy with a 'gee aw shucks' outlook on farming and life.  Basically, we really do not think it takes brains in order to farm successfully.  I mean, after all, you take some seeds, toss in a little fertilizer of your choice, water them and come back in a few months to collect your crop and get your pesos (almost literally)- just how hard could that be?<br />Well, speaking as someone who is thoroughly new to farming, never once has farmed, and is inquisitive about the practice of agriculture, after considerable investigation I can tell you the prospective reader that no matter how hard they work, dumb people will not be able to stay on the farm for long.  We on the sidelines do not think farming is difficult because we do not think about the Practice of Farming and the Business of Farming.  If your experience of farming up to this point is shopping at your local natural foods co-op, perusing the stalls at the local weekly farmer's market, or wandering the aisles at some trendy, eco-hip retailer like Whole Foods or Wilds Oats (who have skillfully co-opted environmentalism as a path to insane riches), and you are considering going into farming as a vocation, then I do not think you will hear the polite warning contained in this book.  If you are someone stuck in a dead-end or high-paying but otherwise unfulfilling career (like this reviewer), and you are seeking an out, a means of escape (what we politely but laughingly call a 'transition'), then you just might catch the polite warning consistently stated throughout this book.<br />Farming attracts many people not because of its business or financial aspects but because of the lifestyle many people associate with farming.  If you are an MD, then you are in the business of healthcare.  Your business and your lifestyle are completely different.  In fact, whether your business is highly successful or modestly successful, your lifestyle could be lavish, it could be modest, or it could be parsimonious- it's up to you and your personal preferences.  If you don't like your current situation, from where you work, to who you work for (read HMOs) to your clientele base, you can make a change without changing your lifestyle- too much that is.<br />Now here is the polite warning: if you are drawn to farming because of the lifestyle, and you turn this lifestyle into a business, then it behooves you to make damn certain that your business can pay for itself, because after all, your business is your lifestyle and your lifestyle is your business.  The lifestyle will not work out if the business end does not pay.  In fact, the business end mayplace quite severe limitations on the lifestyle you can reasonably expect to achieve, which in many cases will be well below what you are currently accustomed to.  Unlike a 9 to 5 gig with some godless multinational, you can not simply just pack up and leave (this assumes implicitly that the heartless .......... have not fired you in the latest round of restructurings), and if the business end does not work out, you lose not only your lifestyle, but also your home.<br />For me, the true heart of the book and the real message of the text were contained in the Foreword by Budd Kerr Jr and Part I- Getting Started.  In terms of content, the book contains little on the techniques of farming, and has eleven chapters divided into four parts- Getting Started, Farming, Planning and Marketing, and Management, with a handy appendix chock full of useful resources on the Business and Practice of Farming.  The text is specifically pitched at a level that almost anyone can understand, and there is a noticeable bias towards the environmentally minded reader.  <br />That said, the true purpose of this book is to get you, the prospective reader who may be thinking of getting into farming, to start thinking about the Practice of Farming and the Business of Farming, all romanticism and eco-hip verbiage aside.  This book is of no use to someone who is already farming, and in need of help.  The best time to read this book is before you get into farming whole hog as they say down on the farm.  <br />Even though it took me three passes to finally get the message, I am glad that I did read it before taking any action.<br />Read this book several times BEFORE you venture into farming, not during or after.	2004-03-21
US	52421621	R2PZTDQIXYNSGW	1929953046	990864798	The Omega Prodigy	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Good Premise, Bad Execution	As a zealous fan of the 'aliens are among us' literary theme, I am always on the lookout for tales not of this earth- no matter how good, or bad, the writing.  Unfortunately, in the case of The Omega Prodigy, the writing is bad- very, very bad.  Although I liked the premise, that being a perky, mild-mannered ten-year old girl with nary an evil bone in her body being stalked by a shadowy government agency bent on exploiting her awakening but very deadly telekinetic powers for its own sinister purposes, the author utterly fails to deliver a sustainable story.  Too many hackneyed plot developments, too much useless, space consuming dialogue (along with too much forced use of profanity), a few too many plot twists and too little in the way of editing and proofreading ultimately turned a workable entry about alien involvement in human affairs into little more than bad fan-fic written for mass consumption on the internet.<br />Without giving away too much, it turns out that every cliche of science fiction and paranormal phenomena is thrown into this book.  On top of this, there is plenty of alien abduction, alien experimentation on unwilling human subjects, and of course, government involvement in a conspiracy of intergalactic proportions.  This is all fine and good, but it often gets lost in pointless dialogue, useless scenes, and it takes about three-quarters of the book to get the story finally moving and the action going at a galloping pace.  Like too many first-time or novice authors, desperately seeking to make their first novel a good story, he tries to do too much, and thus overdoes key elements.  Obsessed with writing a really good story, they end up writing a bad one.  As such, this book is yet another example of too much emphasis on the product, and too little emphasis on the process.<br />Although I liked the premise, loved the main character, and really did find some of the story elements to be both original and surprising, the author consistently failed to put it all together to make a good, moving story.  A book like this could have either gone two routes.  The first route could have been a trilogy that finally reveals the true nature and purpose of the alien intervention, with a high-stakes end-of-the-world final showdown between her and an alien badass (a la the tired Matrix films).  The second route could have easily been a series format, where the young girl matches wits against an ever-changing motley of aliens, and along the way learns something about herself and her unusual gifts and comes to some sort of (uneasy) terms with them.<br />In sum, I have to say that I liked some elements of the book, and I did have high hopes for the story going into it.  Yet, I was ultimately let down, which typically is the case in this particular genre.  However, I hope that the author continues to improve his craft, and perhaps in the future, a better story along the same lines will emerge.	2004-03-07
US	52421621	R3KP1JY5CTWY93	0060955570	398028963	Little Green Men: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Excellent Spoof of a Genre, Politics and Current Events	As a devoted fan of the 'Aliens Are Among Us' literary theme, I always make a special effort to read any example of the genre, no matter how good or bad the writing.   Buckley's latest work, however, truly surprised me with its quality writing, side-splitting humor and dead-on-target sarcastic commentary about aliens and alien abductions, a much maligned subject that quite frankly deserves to be much maligned.<br />Little Green takes the reader into the life of one John Oliver Bannion (whose initials have some disturbing Biblical connotations), a staunch Guardian of the Establisment and deeply entrenched member of the Beltway Elite.  Bannion is something of a political gadfly, and delights in skewering uppity politicians with smug intellectualism on his highly rated political news hour.  As such, although he is the last person any one would point to as being an 'alien abductee', we can rest assured that once Bannion uses his nationwide popularity and broadcast TV to tell his unbelievable story, every single one of the numerous enemies he's made will be giddy with glee. <br />Well, you can guess quite accurately the rest.  Of course, his life is turned upside down, his marriage falls apart, his Beltway 'friends' fall by the wayside, and our hero eventually runs happily into the smothering embrace of the lunatic fringe.  But then, something strange happens.  It would seem that an alien abductee of such high political and social standing gives a new luster to the charges made by kooks of all stripes about UFOS and government involvement.  And as luck would have it, this former political icon and total blowhard is transformed, and ultimately becomes the Messiah of a Movement, a counter-cultural icon whose mission is to get the government to tell THE TRUTH about aliens.<br />In short, all your standard props about aliens, alien abductions, and UFOs are here, and they are all spoofed in top form.  I especially liked the part involving the intervention set up by his friends, and Bannion's wry comment that the good thing about an intervention is that you learn from it which of your friends you really don't like.  On the whole, the book is very well plotted, chock full of solidly motivated characters, and overflowing with hilarious scenes.<br />This is definitely one of those books that you will enjoy reading while sitting in your favorite chair, in your favorite place, sipping away at your favorite drink.  Savor this literary treat, and sneak away to a quite place, where you can let the chuckles linger for a while.	2004-02-14
US	52421621	R3DUHAVKO0HOPW	0452281806	347963130	Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Chancellor Delivers Some Deceptively Simple Truths	In the preface, Chancellor begins this interesting and absorbing narrative on financial foolishness throughout the ages by saying that it is human nature to barter, trade and divine (predict) the future, and that these three activities comprise the fundamental essence of speculation.  Granted, speculation also has other requirements, such as the willingness to gamble, suspend logic and rational thinking, leverage oneself up to onefs eyeballs in the hope of inflating potential (capital) gains, and most critically, the compunction to engage in questionable and/or fraudulent behavior for the purpose of taking from the many and giving to the few.<br />Simply stated, Chancellorfs position is this: there is really nothing new in this speculative behavior.  There is a considerable historical precedent for it.  Indeed, there is a regular pattern to these speculative events, which are cyclical in nature and come around every ten or twenty years or so.  There is always a bubble associated with something- be it a commodity or an industry or a technology, somewhere in the world.  The pattern of the behavior is almost always the same.  Furthermore, it is never the case that it is different this time around; only the object of the mania differs.<br />Chancellor delivers one deceptively simple, yet critical lesson: history does indeed repeat itself, with shocking regularity and predictability.  In support of this premise and his main thesis, he presents a select few cases, each brilliantly researched, from the Roman Age to the present day.  He also presents the opposing view to his own and successfully skewers it with clever insight and a preponderance of historical anecdotes.<br />Chancellor ends the book with a chapter devoted to wrestling with this single question: Should the speculator be locked up, or given carte blanche?  In his mind, the key roles of a speculator are to first and foremost allocate capital via redistribution of existing wealth, and second, to assume pre-existing risks.  Beyond this, the speculator potentially plays a very destructive role, and it is a mistake to think that speculators create wealth.<br />Although the activity of speculation has demonstrated its ability to influence and engender far-reaching consequences, those who engage in it and those who observe and monitor it can not agree on a commonly accepted definition.  Financial speculation is conventionally defined as an attempt to profit from changes in market price.  However, the dictionary defines speculation as any reflection, reasoning, theorizing or thinking that lacks a firm factual basis.  The layperson continuously confuses the speculative activity with investment, and the financial industry has been said (and not without considerable reason) to abet and facilitate this long-standing confusion among consumers.<br />After reading this book, not only do I know what to look for when it comes to bubbles, I also can almost tell which technological innovations will become the next infatuation for the speculators of the future.  I have noticed, however, that with each and every cycle of speculation, more and more people participate, with the number of participants being greatest in the latest pass of the speculative mania, which, by the way, went truly global at the close of the 20th century.  Innovations in technology, such as the internet, only make it easier for people to participate.  Over the course of reading this book, it  was not (and still is not) quite clear to me whether or not most people who participate in modern financial markets, from the consumers of the various financial products to the financial eprofessionalsf who wield them, actually know what they are doing.  Frankly, as I really can not distinguish between stock buying, financial speculation and gambling, after reading this book I have come to regard them all as the same activity.<br />For those looking for history, there are better books.  I strongly suggest that interested readers stick to period-specific texts, rather than long, sweeping tomes on the topic of financial speculation that really can not fully explain any one event, period or topic in great detail.  For those looking for the underlying market psychology, there are better books.  Unfortunately, few if any books on the market do an adequate job of analyzing and explaining this interesting and thoroughly engrossing topic.  Finally, for those who have an interest in the topic, and would like to whet their appetites, this is an adequate book which manages to be dead-pan, informative, and at times humorous and witty.  In fact, it is the perfect text on the subject of financial speculation and its historical context for the curious but time- pressed financial novice.<br />In the end, when it comes to participatin in our modern financial markets, one would do very well to heed this trite little bit of Latin: caveat emptor- Buyer Beware.	2004-02-08
US	52421621	R1CSKU4A4H7OQB	0060930659	89000394	Free the Children: A Young Man Fights Against Child Labor and Proves that Children Can Change the World	Books	5	5	6	N	N	More of a Reflection of Us than of the Wretched of the Earth	How we live in many cases determines how others all around the world live.  Those fortunate to be living in the industrialized, rich nations of the world directly benefit from the suffering and injustice inflicted upon the heads of many unfortunate people in the Third World.<br />Craig Kielburger learned early on that the problems in the Third World are inter-connected.  Child labor is often a symptom of the larger problem of poverty.  Poverty in turn is directly linked to domestic governments that are not activist, not committed to providing basic infrastructure, and are thoroughly anti-democratic.  However, it is not wholly a problem of politically corrupt or economically and morally bankrupt government.  It is in too many cases a problem of rich country institutions, government and corporate, financial and social, tacitly abetting and passively condoning objectionable behavior.  We can not conveniently lay the blame on the people of the Third World; nor can we easily point the finger at Third World governments.  We too share plenty of the blame.<br />When academics argue about solutions, it is always with what they have read or heard; not what they have directly experienced.  Craig Kielburger has achieved something with this book that all the other books written by academics and filled with depressing numbers and statistics have consistently failed to do.  He has put a face to the problems of child labor and poverty in the third world, and has gone even further to provide a voice to its weakest and most defenseless victims, the children.  Craig Kielburger, much like Paul Harrison, author of Inside the Third World, has done much to restore the humanity that has fallen by the wayside in ehumanitarianf causes.<br />This book has taught me many important lessons.  Among them are to share your experiences, and provide moral support.  It is not enough to just simply fork over cash in order to assuage your guilt.  In the book, one of the Thai activists for labor rights said that change will not come overnight, because it is not simply a question of economics; it is a change in attitude as well.  Money alone will not solve this and other problems confronting us all.  The thing that will truly make the difference is whether or not we as Americans have the courage to confront the problems facing everyone and change the way we behave.  Just as how we live determines how others live, our behavior in the world determines how others act, and interact, with one another.	2003-11-09
US	52421621	R1JTHDKMA3K4BL	0471479128	206558021	Asian Eclipse: Exposing the Dark Side of Business in Asia, Revised Edition	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Resonates Well With My Own Exerience in Asia	Unlike most readers of this text, I am very familiar with nearly all of the information presented here, as many of these stories have occurred in the same time frame as my professional and personal experience living and working in the Pacific Rim.  As such, the content of this book is not new to me, or for that matter, anyone in Asian business circles, as all of the stories have appeared in one or more of the regional newspapers at some point in time.  However, in the author's defense, those observing the region from the outside would have to read well over 100 sources, many of them in foreign languages, on a daily basis to get the information that is presented in this juicy, scandalous book.<br />Asian Eclipse presents the reader case after case detailing the more objectionable aspects of business in Asia.  After reading many of the cases (presented by chapters devoted to each country in the Asian region), it becomes extremely difficult to distinguish any real differences, and I personally could not say if the individuals in question were Chinese, Japanese, Indian, Indonesian- the behavior in the end was virtually the same.  Only the company name and the locality where the less-than-above-board behavior took place differed.<br />The book actually pays for itself in the first three chapters, for here is where the reader will learn the commonalities across the region.  It is also the place in the book where Backman chooses to delineate, albeit very briefly, the underlying reasons for the under-handed and unsavory business practices that unfortunately typify, but as we are increasingly seeing with the spectacular financial skullduggery of US and European corporations, are not wholly limited to the Asian corporate landscape.<br />The author tells the would-be investor in Asia what it means to be a stakeholder in publicly listed and privately held companies in the region.  Backman deftly delineates all of the obstacles one will face when doing business or directing investments toward Asia.  Should you decide to invest in Asia be forewarned: Comprehensive due dilligence is paramount.  Too many Western businesspeople who venture unaware into the region have found themselves holding the bag for the embarrassing things their so-called Asian partners have done before, during and after the partnership. <br />One very important point from the book is this: In Asia, those who enforce the rules are also the same people who make the rules...and break them with impunity (Modern Feudalism writ large).  Thus, any attempt to enforce the laws written on the legal books protecting minority corporate stakeholders (and foreigners are definitely relegated to minority positions) or to uphold terms and conditions as stated in written contracts, would only result in one and only one outcome- nothing.  In other words, any rights and protections that you take for granted in the Western hemisphere simply do not exist in Asia.<br />In sum, the book serves as a stern warning about commonplace business practices in Asia.  It also serves as a good bit of contemporary regional financial history.  Finally, I do not believe that any of the players learned  the appropriate lessons from the various Financial Meltdowns, large and small and/or country-specific or regional.  As is often the unfortunate case, the movers and shakers in this region of the world learned all the wrong lessons.  Rather than opening up, reforming, and tackling their problems in a sincere and concerted fashion, they have chosen to insulate themselves, beseech their governments to bail them out, and spend precious time and resources shifting the blame- almost always to foreigners.	2003-10-04
US	52421621	R1P2V10CBCMK7X	0520219783	87667485	Damned Lies and Statistics: Untangling Numbers from the Media, Politicians, and Activists	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Untangling the few facts from the various fictions	This book delves into a few of the difficulties an individual would face if he or she tried to get an accurate count of and ultimately make conclusions about a phenomenon.  Best gives the reader plenty of examples from the social sciences which demonstrate some of the problems encountered when trying to describe, measure, and ultimately make conclusions about various issues.  <br />Best adequately picks up the subject matter just before Darrell Huff's timeless text, How to Lie with Statistics, begins.  Like Huff, Best argues that people have incentives to put numbers in front of us (Huff refers to this as axe-grinding), and it behooves us to know who is putting the statistic in front of us, why they chose to put this statistic before us, and most importantly, just how they derived this statistic.  <br />Because proponents (and opponents) of an issue, whom Best describes as 'Advocates', can control the way a statistic is generated and presented, we must closely scrutinize the numbers before us so that we can 'untangle the few facts from the various fictions'.   Toward this end, the book gives the reader some very helpful questions he or she can ask when attempting to interpret a descriptive (summary) statistic. <br />The practical utility of Best's text is not solely limited to issues in the social sciences.  One could easily apply Best's argument to, for example, the ongoing environmental debate.  As such, this book is a vital component in developing critical thinking skills that can be applied in all areas both personal and professional.<br />Finally, although this text focuses exclusively on descriptive statistics, limiting itself to contentious and controversial topics in the social sciences, readers should take note that Mr. Best is not presenting a truly original and comprehensive treatment of the subject matter.  For example, David S. Moore, author of the text Statistics, Concepts and Controversies, provides a concise, yet rigorous, entertaining and accessibletreatment of the same subject matter- including a wider range of examples culled from the fields of education, social and medical sciences, all in the first fifty pages of his text.	2003-06-29
US	52421621	R1M54IFHMJF6GP	031226321X	970148168	Fail-Safe Investing: Lifelong Financial Security in 30 Minutes	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Powerful Little Nuggets of Wisdom	Honestly, while it takes longer than the thirty minutes advertised on the jacket and first few pages of the book to read through all seventeen rules, the extra time spent is well worth it.  Mr. Browne offers the reader simple rules to learn and help one preserve and grow money wisely.  As such, it tells you the easiest ways to lose money, and how to avoid them. Although I do not agree with his recommended approach to investing, I do agree entirely with the essence of his seventeen rules which superbly present common finance and investment misconceptions and skillfully refute them.  <br />Speaking of his seventeen rules, the first five can be condensed into one simple rule: Forecasting = Fortune Telling.  From Browne, we learn that no one can predict the future, yet many of us entrust our hard-earned money without any hesitation to modern day Gypsies- financial planners, emoneyf (mutual fund) managers and stockbrokers, who constantly tell us that they can predict the future using sophisticated eeconometricf forecasting tools.  Browne reminds us that our wealth begins with what we earn, not with what we invest, and before we can invest, we have to earn.  Although we can always borrow our way to bankruptcy with ease, we can borrow our way to prosperity only in our dreams.  In the end, basing our earnings won through blood and sweat on the elaborate crystal-ball gazing of financial witch-doctors is the surest path to losses and total ruin.<br />Browne also delivers plain talk on risk, investment and speculation, and tells the reader that no one can ever hope to eliminate risk entirely.  The best anyone can do is to develop realistic strategies for dealing with risk.  As such, it becomes painfully clear that there is no such thing as a risk-free investment.  This even includes for example so-called erisk-freef US Government Securities backed merely by the full faith and credit of the United States Government (I personally wonft think any less of the readerwho laughs at that last sentence).  Who knows what the future holds, and just because the worst-case scenario- a default or bankruptcy, has never happened does not necessarily mean that it can not happen tomorrow.  In keeping with this, his thirteenth rule exhorts us to keep some assets outside of our native country, and is a brilliant touch.  I had to laugh when I read the various calamities- natural and unnatural, which could befall our investments in our native country.  However, one should keep in mind that such calamities can occur in ANY country.  Also, holding some assets outside the US may not provide the secrecy or safety Browne says it will impart, simply because of the inter-connectedness of the global economy and the incredibly long reach of the US government.<br />At no point does the book let the reader off of the hook.  We ultimately bear the responsibility for our investment decisions, and Mr. Browne is absolutely right when he says to never assume that what you have earned today can be easily earned tomorrow.  Throughout the book, Mr. Browne wants to remind the reader of three things.  First, it is hard to earn a dollar, yet even in the face of this generally accepted truism, there are those who want you to believe that you can get rich quick simply by making bets based on their uninformed, though highly elaborate, predictions about unpredictable events.  Second, you know more than the so-called eexpertsf want you to think you know.  The experts want you to disregard your common sense and put your trust in their opinion.  Third, in the world of investing, what goes up eventually comes down, and even more important, what goes down does not necessarily have to go back up.  As Browne pointedly remarks over and over again, in the world of investing, nothing is supposed to happen, and anything can happen.  As such, the last five of his seventeen rules can be summarized as: Sophisticated = Stupid and Simple = Smart.<br />Finally, for those of us, including myself, who feel as if they have missed out on the Greatest Bull Market of All Time, fear not, for there will be other opportunities.  After all, the last Greatest Bull Market of All Time occurred just before the Great Crash of 1929.  As Browne tells the reader at the end of the book, you are not a failure if you missed the boat.  To this I must add: You are not a failure if you missed the boat- especially if the boat was the Titanic!  I think there are a lot of bruised and broken investors from the New Era Internet Boom (and subsequent Bust) that will wholeheartedly agree with me, as the last six years have been their figurative Titanic.  These individuals especially need to read, and re-read this book as they invest going forward.<br />Bringing Las Vegas to a living room near you!	2003-03-11
US	52421621	R23G2Z2MAQG0EF	0070400687	943484479	How To Be A Growth Investor	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Fair Weather Investment Approach	This book is specifically written for those individuals willing to invest the time and resources to develop their own portfolio of stocks.  As such, it is not for people looking to better evaluate mutual fund performance, though some information on how to do so is presented.  Nor is it a book for gamblers or others looking to dabble in the market for quick profits.  The book assumes from the very beginning that the reader desires to make his or her own investment choices as to which stocks to own for the long haul (that is five or more years).<br />The main goal of this book is to show the reader one way of making stock picks that will be held for the long haul.  The approach outlined in the text is essentially top-down and two pronged.  The first element of the approach is to find industries with strong growth prospects and then choose companies within each industry that have above average prospects for growth.  As for the second element, the book takes a forward-looking or future-oriented approach to growth stock selection, and relies almost exclusively on analyst consensus of earnings growth as the basis for stocks to own.  In effect, the authors believe all other decision-making criteria are secondary to projected future earnings growth. Herein lies the biggest fault of the text, as by now everyone knows that projected earnings growth is a subjective criterion, and more importantly, analyst consensus is more often than not a lot of hot air.<br />However, the book does have a number of good things going for it.  The first and most important merit of the book is its bold admission that one must critically research the company before buying its stock, and that there is no getting around this if one wants to make money in stocks, no matter what investment method one chooses to use.  The book`s second merit is its insistence that the only way to make good money is to do so over time, to avoid quick gains and numerous trading costs, and compound one`s total return over time.<br />Yet, I offer to the potential reader one important caveat.  Based on the historical data presented in chapters two and three of the book, when comparing growth and value styles to the S&amp;P 500 index, there appears to be only slight differences in performance, with value orientation outperforming the S&amp;P 500 index, and the index outperforming the growth orientation.  Moreover, in the same time period, although a few large growth funds managed to significantly outperform the S&amp;P 500 in the short run, on an after tax and fund expense adjustment basis, not a single fund could match the S&amp;P over extended periods of time (that is more than ten years).  As a result, based on the data the authors provided (which by the way, they wanted to use originally to show that the individual could construct a portfolio that could easily outperform the fund pros), the surprising and obviously unintentional conclusion is that one would have been better off owning the S&amp;P 500 index than owning a growth and/or value fund (read the book and see for yourself).  This conclusion is especially startling when one factors in taxes and managed fund expenses.  Incidentally, this is a position further supported by Mr. John Bogle in his thought-provoking book, Common Sense on Mutual Funds.<br />That said, the book introduces to the reader a fair-weather method for evaluating stocks.  I use the perjorative `fair-weather` because this method only works best in rising economies, and falters in sinking ones.  However, the book also gives the reader, in general terms, a clearly defined buy and sell discipline.  Overall, I think the book deserves to be read by the novice and intermediate investor who may not be entirely clear (as I was) on what the terms growth and value really mean in the investment universe.	2002-11-27
US	52421621	R3BFYI13JID4HN	0698205847	324637878	Energy Isnt Easy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Required Reading for the Concerned Citizen/Environmentalist	Unlike most writers in the renewable energy field who promote idealized and unrealistic solutions for our energy problems to a largely uninformed public, Mr. Smith provides the reader with a cogent and realistic evaluation of our energy alternatives.  He clearly and simply explains many of the technical and economic concepts associated with energy and its utilization, and provides the reader with a brief and concise historical perspective on the development and evolution of energy systems.  From the book, we learn that almost all energy systems both past and present take advantage of either energy of motion or heat energy to provide some form of useful work to society.  Because we can not direct, store and completely capture heat energy and must use heat immediately at the point where it is generated or captured, scientists view it as a low-grade energy source.  Unlike heat energy, electrical energy is considered among scientists to be a high grade energy source because it can be directed, stored and used far from where it has been captured or generated.  Lastly, one can derive electrical energy from either the conversion of heat energy or energy of motion, but as Smith tells the reader, conversions between the two energy forms can never be perfect, and likewise while one can generate one form of energy from another, one can never create energy from nothing.<br />From the text, we also learn that energy is not free in the economic sense.  You must always pay something to gather and convert energy.  There are three key costs associated with energy- economic, environmental and energetic costs.  When evaluating energy systems, one must ask two (2) pertinent questions.  The first question asks what one can do with the system, while the second question asks what one must do in order to get useful work out of the system.  Thus, the evaluation of energy systems not only hinges upon how much energy is obtained from the process/system, it more importantly rests upon the amount of effort and resource expenditure that is required to obtain the energy.  As such, proper evaluations of energy systems must look at not only the economic cost, but also the convenience of such systems for doing useful work. Every attempt must be made by the scientist, the politician, the environmentalist, and the concerned citizen to gauge and assess the practical limitations imposed by processes to produce energy.<br />For many reasons, efficiency- defined as the ratio between useful work output and energy input, is not a good indicator of an energy system's practical utility.  Efficiency measures can only tell you how much of the available energy is lost, or how much of it is actually useful.  Furthermore, efficiency numbers can be easily manipulated up or down to suit the whims of proponents or detractors, and thus it is very important to know the basis for their calculation.  All energy systems, especially those for electricity generation, require considerable amounts of supporting infrastructure.  Furthermore, from an environmental standpoint, many of the best places to produce renewable energy are also the most ecologically fragile and environmentally sensitive locations on the planet.  Readers of this text inexorably learn that every single energy system known to man has an environmental impact, and these systems only differ in their degree of environmental impact.<br />However, Smith conveniently skirts the social and political problems associated with various energy systems such as nuclear and fossil fuels, and fails to adequately present some of the thornier problems associated with nuclear energy, such as the proliferation of waste and bomb-grade material, as well as the unfavorable economics of the power source.  He also neglects to delve into the issues of energy supply and demand in a meaningful way.  Although he readily concedes that our global supply of fossil fuels will eventually run out, and that steps to conserve energy are helpful in the short and long-term, he astutely avoids answering the question of when the eventual depletion of fossil energy will occur.<br />In one small volume, the author accurately dispels the `free' energy myth so often touted by proponents of renewable and pseudo-scientific alternative energy schemes.  Using very understandable language, he skillfully discusses the practical limitations of various energy systems, and tells the reader why we have not switched wholeheartedly to renewable energy systems for our needs.  We can not fancifully wish our way out of our energy problems, nor can we freely choose to ignore the practical limitations of the various energy systems.  As a result, from all of this, the reader learns that energy is not easy indeed.	2002-09-25
US	52421621	R1K8TUTDXQP4V0	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Truly Depressing If It Applies to You	I recently read somewhere on the internet that, according to a late 1990s study conducted by the Federal Government focusing on the top twenty percent of all wage earners, almost all of them have more invested in their cars than in either their homes or their investments.  Please bear in mind that cars depreciate in value, while homes appreciate.  Given these two sobering facts, more people of affluent backgrounds in America actually face declining net worth, and based on the latest research, including Stanley and Danko's Millionaire Next Door, the situation is steadily growing worse every year- especially now with accelerating bankruptcy rates and short-term consumer debt at an all-time high.  This state of affairs is most unsettling when one ponders the implications associated with many college-age people who are graduating with outrageous debt burdens accumulated from school tuition, expensive car purchases and profligate credit card use.<br />The Millionaire Next Door eerily shows how those who live in expensive homes and drive fancy cars often do not have real wealth, while those who are wealthy often do not live in expensive homes and drive fancy cars.  Many people who are not wealthy have what can only be called a stereotypical view of the wealthy.  They believe that millionaires wear expensive clothes and watches, drive expensive cars, live in mansions, and actively acquire other status artifacts.  Although they may qualify as `affluent' based on their lifestyle and income, many highly educated, high-income, and hard-working people are not millionaires, let alone financially well-off.  Many of them are in fact surviving from paycheck to paycheck.  Almost all of these people ask themselves the following question- how come I am not wealthy?<br />While it may be rare to run into a person who derives a million dollar plus income, it is more common than many people think to run into people who have a net worth that is one million dollars or more.  Many of us buyinto the get rich quick stories we often hear on television- instant lottery winners, hard scrabble ordinary people turned real estate moguls, and even the techie dot-com employee turned venture capitalist overnight with a successful IPO.  The reality however, is far more mundane and startling.  Many of those whose net worth exceeds one million are not only self-made, they also tend to come from a variety of backgrounds, more than a few of which are commonly thought of as `dull-normal'.  These individuals typically achieve millionaire status over a period of three decades or more, and typically reach millionaire status after the age of fifty.  As a group, these high net worth people amass their wealth slowly and steadily over time, meticulously plan and budget their consumption and their investments, and seek the advice of specialized professionals (accountants, lawyers, and financial planners) when making financial decisions that will affect their wealth.  Although they do engage in the same consumption activities- buying cars, homes, and clothes and such as their more `affluent' counterparts, they do differ significantly in their pattern of consumption- that is, they tend to differ significantly in their manner, type and quantity of consumption.      <br />The authors describe in clear and simple terms how ordinary people can become wealthy.  Wealth does not have to be inherited or won in games of chance, such as gambling, lottery tickets, and the stock market.  Wealth is more often the result of hard work, perseverance, planning and most of all- self-discipline. Surprisingly, luck, inheritance, advanced degrees or even intelligence often has little or nothing to do with it.  Although many of us would like to believe (including myself) that these aforementioned things will make it easier to obtain wealth, a disturbingly large amount of literature actually has found that large amounts of pre-exisiting wealth actually has an adverse effect on wealth building, especially among offspring.<br />The authors clearly define qualitatively for themselves what it means to be wealthy, and a means to quantify wealth- that is how much money does it take to be considered `rich'.  The single biggest demerit of this exposition is that the authors judge wealth purely from a financial standpoint; no other criteria are considered.  Readers of this and other texts on wealth-building strategies should stop to consider this interesting proposition: Given homeownership free and clear, which would you rather be at age 65- fit as a fiddle with 200K in the bank, or in extremely poor health with a cool million in the bank?  For those who would choose the million and poor health, here's a hint to the real solution: ask yourself just how long you will stay a millionaire given the dismal state of affairs and high cost of care (read HMOs) so disturbingly characteristic of the United States medical care system.<br />One should bear in mind that being financially independent does not necessarily mean being a millionaire.  Being financially independent and building wealth both take discipline, sacrifice and hard work.  If you are willing to make the necessary trade-offs of your time, energy, and consumption habits, however, you can begin building wealth and achieving financial independence.  In the end, I believe that true wealth comes from making three ongoing and critical investments in good education, good health and good nutrition.  These three ongoing investments are absolutely necessary for optimum performance and maximum productivity in one's chosen career or avocation, and for ultimate wealth with well-being.	2002-09-19
US	52421621	R19I72LGGLWM2Z	0140259953	511775597	The Winner-Take-All Society: Why the Few at the Top Get So Much More Than the Rest of Us	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Some Amusing, Yet Very Scary and Disturbing Truths	Frank and Cooks book, The Winner Take All Society, forces us to reconsider our position on the inherent good of the free market in light of newly emerging forms of destructive, albeit free, competition and growing income inequality.  Written in the vein of a thinly veiled rebuke of the moral and social decline of the American economy and society, the book appears to focus too much on specific individuals, and merely states a few implications for society as a whole.  In my mind, what the authors posit as the verities for individuals and corporations under a winner take all banner just as readily applies to the nation and ultimately, the world. Taking their arguments one step further, advances in high technology, such as the internet and telecommunications, have increased productivity, transformed labor markets all over the world, and created uniform standards for goods and services that can now be consumed anywhere in the world.  In effect, technology has made the world a similar, smaller place.  Thus, what is true economically in America now is most likely true elsewhere, though cultural differences still remain.  <br />While winner take all markets can, with the aid of technology, make the goods and services of the few available to everyone in the world, they also have many negative consequences.  Winner take all markets magnify the consequences of first mover advantages, making it difficult, if not impossible, for those late to the competition, be they corporations or countries, to establish themselves.  Winner take all markets continue to increase the disparity between wealthy, industrialized countries of the North and the impoverished, besieged economies of the South.  Winner take all markets continuously lure our most talented individuals into socially unproductive and often individually and socially destructive tasks.  Many of the worlds economies already invest too little for the future, be they nations struggling to develop (such as those on the African continent), or fully industrialized nations (such as the United States), and the growth of winner take all markets has encouraged wasteful patterns of investment and consumption.  Finally, winner take all markets have the proven ability to undermine what is in the best interests of our culture and society, and given the terrifying ability of winner-take-all markets to rigidly engender and enforce conformity, standardization, and one-upmanship, this growing phenomenon can only be counter-productive and disruptive to the efforts of indigenous peoples to maintain and preserve their fragile and threatened cultures.  <br />Quite literally, in winner-take-all competitions, the rules really are there are no rules.  As such, these competitions lead people to do very crazy things.  When large payoffs are at stake and there is a very real certainty of the loser(s) getting absolutely nothing for their effort, contestants have powerful incentives to spend money to enhance their chances of winning, and have little or no moral compunction to exercise restraint and sensibility in their behavior.  This is especially the case where unfettered, free competition is the rule and covenants and/or regulations to ensure orderly, equitable markets are not the norm.<br />Thus, there seems to be an inverse, negative relationship between investment in these all or nothing competitions and their (social) value to the larger group.  As the pace of investment, size of the investment and the risk associated with the investment in the winner take all competition increases, the social and economic value of the competition steadily decreases.  While these investments look justifiable from the individuals or nations standpoint, especially if there is a considerable chance that the individual stands to win, and win big, the concomitant dueling that these investments fuel almost always appears excessive from the standpoint of the society.  As such, these all-or nothing competitions have led toa plethora of economic versions of military arms races between individuals, corporations and nations.<br />Although one could surmise much of the content from experience and simple common sense, I generally found the book to be a straightforward and thought-provoking read.  Yet, many of the examples demonstrating the extent to which such competitions have infiltrated all aspects of our economic life, as well as the often ridiculous, comical and increasingly desperate attempts by individuals to thrive in these all-or-nothing environments, profoundly scared and disturbed me.  The authors could have done away with the last chapter, a rehashing of the same old remedies to the problem, and written a much better ending which could have summarized the main points of the book and discussed their implications, going forward, for all participants in the new global economy.<br />In conclusion, these all-or-nothing competitions have steadily become the only game in town.  Yet, I seriously doubt that these dangerous economic games are really worth playing.	2002-09-16
US	52421621	R5PTN9VM20RP1	0140178112	289270079	When Smart People Fail: Rebuilding Yourself for Success	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Required Reading for the Embattled Entrepreneur	Failure among the ambitious, upwardly mobile, educated and intelligent of our modern, industrialized society often comes across as being more devastating, more defining, and more frightening than it actually is.  What in actuality defines us is not the number of our failures, but how we deal with our failure, how we look upon it, and most importantly, how we either use our failure or allow our failures to define us.  <br />Hyatt and Gottlieb have written an excellent text on professional/career failure.  The authors start the book by imparting intrepid examples both personal and private, of the emotional processes associated with failure.  They accurately describe (often in painful and excruciating detail) the feelings of fear, isolation, shame and remorse associated with losing a job, status, money or some combination of the three.  One can not only relate to the loss of purpose, the punctured egos, and the declining sense of self of those who have failed professionally, but also can actually feel as if it is happening to him or her- for it at some point has happened to him or her.  They emphatically stress that career failure is something that eventually touches every professional, in some cases sooner, and in others, later.  In this way, they show that failure has no prejudices, and everyone is a card-carrying member of this club, whether they realize it or not.    As such, in dealing with failure, it is extremely important for the individual to realize that he or she is not alone in the experience, even if our greater society compels us to put up a strong front and pretend that nothing is really wrong.  In order to healthily deal with failure, the authors emphasize the importance of understanding the meaning of failure in both the personal and the societal context, and elaborate upon how the feelings associated with failure unfold in the individual.  Many people define themselves based on their occupation, their professional affiliation, or their status in life,and it comes as no surprise that these are the people hardest hit by career failure.  Those of us who have cultivated other sides of our personality, such as those of us who live for our weekend hobbies, or those of us that are family or community oriented, tend to handle career failure much better, and can even take it in stride.  Although many readers and those who have experienced failure or are currently experiencing failure may not believe it, failure actually gives people options, which the authors not only demonstrate, but also help the reader identify and ultimately take advantage of in later chapters.  <br />In the first part of the book, one chapter each is devoted to defining the characteristics of failure at the level of the individual and the society, dealing with the feelings, which occur in stages, associated with failure, how our career failures can affect those closest to us, and how men and women respond to career failure.  The second part of the book focuses on taking failure in stride, and offers a comprehensive strategy for personal reinvention after suffering a career failure.  Arguably the most important part of the book, this section devotes one comprehensive chapter to each of the following topics: discovering why one has failed, gleaning from the failure some positive knowledge by re-interpreting the events leading up to the failure, recognizing and casting off old and inappropriate labels and finding new ones, expanding one's career choices, and making the transition from the old professional to the new, centered and focused individual.  The authors also include in this section of the book a bonus chapter that showcases two successfully reinvented individuals, and elaborates upon the nature of their failure, how they dealt with failure, and the process of their reinvention.  Each chapter in the second part of the book provides the reader with powerful tactics to build a new, improved person from career failure, and allows one to rise triumphantly out of the ashes of failure, much like the proverbial phoenix.  The third and final part of the book, entitled `Towards Real Success', helps the reader to win the internal battle associated with failure.  While the second part of the book helps to outwardly reinvent the individual for career success, the final section of the book helps the individual to cultivate a new perspective, a new outlook- on career failure.  This part of the book encourages the reader to look upon failure as a learning experience, and as such, helps one to regard failure as a temporary setback that one can learn from.  <br />The authors have written a truly empowering book, one that entrepreneurs and professionals must read and keep alongside all the other books on career and entrepreneurial success, as there inevitably will be one or more notable, spectacular and in some cases unfortunately public failures on the path to a successful career journey.  In the end, I can only say that there is no shame in taking a risk, giving one's all, and failing, and I wholeheartedly believe that true shame results from failing to try, failing to risk, fearing change, and failing to grow.  These, I truly believe, are the things that comprise the regrets in one's life.	2002-09-16
US	52421621	R24JZFNG4M4URA	1890132551	265754809	Genetic Engineering, Food, and Our Environment	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Egregious Examples of Bio-Science Run Amok	Mr. Anderson succeeds admirably in eliciting shock and outrage in the reader with his clear, succinct, and fluid prose on the visible and invisible dangers of agricultural biotechnology.  Modern day manipulation of the food chain and the ecosystems that provide humanity with its food (and other valuable services) has the potential to irreversibly affect both human beings and the environment.  While the scientific and industrial cognoscenti exchange increasingly friendly repartee genetically modified foods, and governments turn a blind eye to `scientific progress', Mr. Anderson is right when he says that the human is being unwillingly and unwittingly subjected to an experiment whose long-term effects are difficult to assess.<br />Written shortly before scientists began to seriously question the effects of even minute quantities of hormone disrupting and cancer-causing, mutagenic chemicals and the potential effects of errant DNA in the greater environment, and shortly after genetically modified crops had been shown to sterilize insects and willy-nilly cross-pollinate with plants of the same species located either nearby or a great distance away, this handy little book introduces a considerable amount of information on genetic engineering and its dubious successes to readers who are not well versed in the sciences.  In seven highly fluid and readable chapters, the book addresses a plethora of ethical, economic and technological issues associated with genetic engineering and agricultural biotechnology.  The first chapter lucidly explains many of the key concepts underpinning genetic engineering as it applies to agriculture, and introduces most of the very real specters to health and the environment that the technology not only has caused, but also can and ultimately may cause in the future.  The author devotes one chapter each to the thorny issues of genetic engineering and its effects on the environment, the way that agricultural biotechnology portents to and actuallyis transforming farming globally for the worse, and the attempts of individuals, universities and corporations, with all the zeal characteristic of a gold rush mentality, to patent every snippet of DNA they can get their hands on.   Readers may find the book's fifth chapter to be truly shocking, as it describes in vivid detail the apparent disinterest of governments in industrialized nations to safeguard the best interests of its citizens- especially in the area of public health, from the bitter fruit of agricultural biotechnology.  Chapter six presents a detailed case study of one particular biological abomination- the superfluous use of increasing amounts of biotech hormones to increase milk production, even in the face of persistent gluts year after year.  The seventh and final details efforts by many groups to resist the onslaught of the adoption of such biotechnologies, and offers insight into the ways the poor in Third World countries are used as dupes and guinea pigs for these less than optimal technologies.  The author also includes a detailed list of resources that concerned readers can tap into in their efforts to learn more or to protect themselves from most, but not all, of the spurious products of agricultural biotechnology.<br />In reading this book, one gets the feeling that the author wants us to share in his concern about the lingering effects of these overly hyped technologies of dubious merit.  While the author clearly did his best to choose many of genetic engineering's most egregious examples, readers of this text should bear in mind that these examples merely represent the tip of the iceberg.  As a scientist and engineer, it is hard for me come up with a suitable justification for many of the fruits of ag biotech, given that farmers in the industrialized countries are plagued with the onerous problem of oversupply.  Furthermore, with slight modifications to current agricultural practices, and a shifting of inputs and plant resources, every single person on the planet could easily be fed, so the excuse of biotechnology feeding the world's hungry does not quite wash either.  Basically, I find the motives of big biotech companies to be less than altruistic: if the biotech corporation controls the seeds and the larger food supply, then they control the people dependent upon them.<br />In this day and age of financial skullduggery and scientific chicanery, astute citizens must actively behoove themselves to exercise caution and awareness at all times.  As Huff told us in his classic little book, How to Lie with Statistics, if the honest person wants to prevent oneself from being burglarized, then it pays to learn the ways of the criminally minded.  As such, this book's disclosure of the aggressive foisting of these dubious scientific advances on an unsuspecting public by an unscrupulous gaggle of corporate, academic and government interests clearly demonstrates a most disturbing and peculiar case of criminal intent of the highest degree.	2002-07-17
US	52421621	R1Z4CUV8VY3Q73	1559638346	291971700	Perverse Subsidies: How Misused Tax Dollars Harm The Environment And The Economy	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Workable Introduction to a Gargantuan, Sisyphean Topic	In their book, Perverse Subsidies, Kent and Myers adequately demonstrate how global tax revenues can at times adversely affect the economy and the environment.  The book is an expanded version of a 1998 report on the topic of perverse subsidies, focusing in particular on the OECD nations.  Given the magnitude of these pervasive, deleterious subsidies, the authors were genuinely perplexed to find that the subject received scant attention from specialists in economics, public policy and the environment.  As such, the book's subject matter would serve as an excellent springboard for hundreds if not thousands of graduate level research projects in the fields of economics, public policy, urban planning and development.<br />On the organizational front, the authors divided the book into three uneven parts, with the second of the book comprising the majority of the text.  Part one of the book consists of two chapters that for the most part are readable and understandable.  The first chapter covers basic concepts associated with subsidies in general such as:  what subsidies are, the various types of subsidies given, the advantages and disadvantages of subsidies, social equity concerns, scale and externality issues associated with subsidies, and finally an extended discussion of how the authors derived their rough estimate for the size and extent of subsidies globally.  The authors astutely note the difficulty of tracking down information regarding subsidies in general, and openly admit that their estimate for global subsidies may not accurately reflect the true value, given the hidden nature of subsidies and the active roles of governments to contain detailed information about payments and transfers.  The second chapter tells the reader what constitutes a perverse subsidy (which the authors define as having deleterious and distorting effects on both the economy and the environment), delves heavily into economic and environmental values and costs associated with perverse subsidies, and tersely explains the role of (negative) externalities, focusing almost exclusive on the role perverse subsidies play in exacerbating global warming.<br />Part two contains individual chapters devoted to the agricultural, energy, transportation, water, fisheries and forestry sectors of the global economy and each chapter outlines the type and magnitude of the subsidies given to each sector, and offers specific policy recommendations for policy intervention, change, and/or overhaul.  In each chapter, some countries are emphasized more than others, and this I believe reflects the availability of reliable data more than the political and economic importance, however great or small, of the countries emphasized.  Part two also contains a final chapter that discusses the combined effects of perverse subsidies across all sectors presented, as well as their political, economic, and social implications.  The last part of the book consists of one chapter, and<br />For the curious layperson, chapters one, two and nine of the book contain the most useful information, albeit of a general nature.  Specialists with an interest in the various sectors emphasized in the book may find one or more of the chapters in Part Two of the book to be of some utility.  In addition, researchers in the field may find the book's extensive notes section at the end of the text immensely helpful.<br />I found the book to be somewhat lacking in three key areas.  First, the authors devoted much of their attention to explaining the flaws and holes in their research methodology, data and conclusions.  Judicious readers will expect a considerable degree of uncertain in the numbers, data and results, given the magnitude of the challenge before the authors.  Because of the breadth of the topic, rigorous statistical analysis may have been difficult to perform, and any attempts to perform such analyses, given the lack of hard data on the topic, may not have been of sufficient utility.  However, I felt that too much space was devoted to justifying their numbers in every chapter, and such detailed justification could have been sufficiently presented in the first chapter.  Second, graphs and charts would have done much to make the text more readable, and key points presented within the text-rich format would have been better understood in graphical or tabular form.  Pie charts, bar graphs and other descriptive, graphical methods would have the reading much more brisk and enjoyable.  Third, some key concepts, such as the subsidy, were explained in great detail with skill and precision, but other concepts and issues, such as externalities, costs, values and political dimensions of subsidies, were not very well delineated.  Yet, in spite of these moderate criticisms, the authors have managed to write a good introduction to the Hydra-headed, shadowy and amorphous topic of subsidies in the global economy.<br />Frankly speaking, expositions on dry economic subjects such as subsidies tend to be more effective at eliciting yawns and putting people to sleep than sleeping pills. Nonetheless, not only did the authors convincingly argue that the problem of perverse subsidies is a gargantuan one indeed, they also made their case using an active writing style that engaged the reader, as opposed to making him or her yawn.  One can not expect one small volume to do adequate justice to a topic of such magnitude, and for these reasons, the authors should be applauded for bringing some aspects of this gargantuan topic to the public.However, I felt that too much space was devoted to justifying their numbers in every chapter, and such detailed justification could have been sufficiently presented in the first chapter.  Second, graphs and charts would have done much to make the text more readable, and key points presented within the text-rich format would have been better understood in graphical or tabular form.  Pie charts, bar graphs and other descriptive, graphical methods would have the reading much more brisk and enjoyable.  Third, some key concepts, such as the subsidy, were explained in great detail with skill and precision, but other concepts and issues, such as externalities, costs, values and political dimensions of subsidies, were not very well delineated.  Yet, in spite of these moderate criticisms, the authors have managed to write a good introduction to the Hydra-headed, shadowy and amorphous topic of subsidies in the global economy.<br />Frankly speaking, expositions on dry economic subjects such as subsidies tend to be more effective at eliciting yawns and putting people to sleep than sleeping pills. Nonetheless, not only did the authors convincingly argue that the problem of perverse subsidies is a gargantuan one indeed, they also made their case using an active writing style that engaged the reader, as opposed to making him or her yawn.  One can not expect one small volume to do adequate justice to a topic of such magnitude, and for these reasons, the authors should be applauded for bringing some aspects of this gargantuan topic to the public.	2002-07-16
US	52421621	R3KB75VV3X7G7Z	0070391475	681615872	When Smart People Work for Dumb Bosses: How to Survive in a Crazy and Dysfunctional Workplace	Books	4	30	34	N	N	For Those Down on (Corporate) Empowerment	In my often turbulent and traumatic travels in the American and international workplace, I have often asked myself, `Just what is it about my superiors that makes them do the stupid things that they do?'  This book goes to great length to answer that in plain and simple English. The book is less of a how-to guide to survival in a dysfunctional workplace than a detailed chronicle of truly stupid behavior among middle and upper management in corporate America.  The book documents a limited number of instances of dumb behavior, which they define as inexplicably profound error (or what the man on the street would call stupid), and focuses on the new, improved corporate greed that firmly took hold in the nineties.  The book is a layman's read on one rarely studied aspect of human behavior.  Most other academic and popular books on behavior almost always focus on intelligence and/or truly aberrant, deviant behavior.  This book, however, focuses on the stupidity of quasi-normal people (after all, how can anyone who works for corporate/institutional America confidently call themselves sane?), and as such should really be titled, `Why Otherwise Normal Individuals Do Stupid Things'.<br />The authors offer the workingman and woman a valuable heads up, letting them know that stupidity is rampant in the new, global workplace, and that there is no truly safe haven from the idiotic behavior of the powers that be.  The book presents the reader with a succession of harrowing workplace studies, and interprets each by offering a detailed analysis (meaning) and a few terse, common sense lessons to be learned from each experience.  I had hoped that the book would offer more in the way of coping strategies for those of us trapped in the daily grind.  However, this book did bring to my attention two important things: letting people know that they can't easily use you by standing up for yourself, and being careful to plan your (expedient) exit once you realize that personally harmful workplace stupidity is present and thoroughly entrenched.<br />The book gives equal treatment to dumb individuals, organizations, and those that must suffer them.  The book also indirectly teaches the reader how to recognize the underlying dysfunction in crazy workplaces.  Environments rife with mistrust, egomania and insensitivity characterize all dumb organizations.  Such organizations allow management to make gross errors in judgment and expend vast resources to shield upper management from the terrible consequences of lower management's mistakes (Bear in mind that this is sometimes done as a prelude to axing a problem individual, department, or division- and is thus diversionary).  The dumb organization not only condones, but also encourages counter-productive behavior, openly impedes and squelches alternative courses of action (no matter how convenient or prudent), and the flawed opinions of one individual substitutes for the rational, informed consensus of the group.  Dumb individuals, groups, and organizations fail to grow professionally, intellectually and personally over time- they in fact devolve as time progresses.  Dumb people and organizations feel that they already know everything there is to know- going forward, they simply fail to learn, period.<br />While the book bills itself as an anti-dote to the feel-good, New Age, self-help business craze which has swept the corporate arena by storm, in reality, it cleverly rebukes the team-building and empowerment mania that has overcome many workplaces, ultimately revealing it to be a sham.  And they are right.  Team building requires selflessness and empowerment requires an open, inclusive environment.  How can either succeed when selfishness and greed are rewarded (and shamelessly revered), and the organization is closed and exclusive, and outwardly fears creative, initiative-taking employees, all the while vigorously cultivating an environment that strenuously compels allegiance to the whims of the reigning autocrat.  <br />In conclusion, I would like to offer a few words of friendly advice.  When asked to cover up for the stupidity of a superior, don't.  When asked to clean up the mess upper management has made, don't.  When asked by upper management to do the job that your immediate boss should have done or failed to do (while keeping him or her on the job), walk away at the earliest, most convenient opportunity.  As long as you perpetuate the stupidity, openly participate in it and condone it, it will always remain and it will taint you.  Finally, when your boss who is paid big bucks to think asks you, either directly or implicitly, to do his or her thinking for him or her, think for yourself.  Don't let him or her use your brains and get paid for it.  If they can't think, then they should not be there in the first place, and more importantly, NEITHER SHOULD YOU.	2002-06-27
US	52421621	R2OUXCT9YUFJI5	0945213263	699118748	The Curriculum Vitae Handbook: How to Present and Promote Your Academic Career	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Quick, Direct, and to the Point	In all my years in both academic and professional circles, it still surprises me that many people, from graduate students and professors to high-powered CEOs and executive directors of non-profit organizations, do not know how to prepare and present their sterling qualifications on paper.  As such, this explains the vital importance of Anthony and Roe's Curriculum Vitae Handbook.  By now, one might imagine that the content of this outstanding book to be de riguer among academics and professionals, and that at best, the book can only guide the reader in the preparation of a CV that does not stand out in a bad way.  Nonetheless, given the considerable compositional and quantitative faux paus I have witnessed many individuals make in the preparation and presentation of their CVs, I sincerely believe that this text is a critical component of any aspiring and seasoned professional's arsenal.<BR>  <BR>After defining exactly what a CV is, the book offers a few terse paragraphs on a variety of topics that include, but are not limited to, things such as promoting and using the CV, CV format, length, and content, and the nuts of bolts of preparing the CV.  The text really emphasizes revision in the CV writing process, and warns the reader against putting down on paper anything and everything one has done in the final CV document that is destined for distribution.  The book tells the reader that apart from the three most critical elements of a CV and a standard resume (name, address and educational attainment), good judgment, common sense, and the position one seeks dictate what should be included in the final document.  The authors note that what should and should not go into the final draft, as well as how the final draft of the CV appears from the presentation standpoint, will naturally change over time.<br />They also admonish against the use of standard, cookie-cutter formats when presenting the content of a CV, as this may place onerous constraints on someone whose achievements may not be adequately accommodated by the prevailing CV style in one's field.  The authors emphasize the general, though very important rule of content first, style second.  The book really pays for itself, however, with its extensive sample CVs, and manages to present one CV for just about every conceivable academic discipline.  Along with each sample CV comes a few useful pointers, or strategic features, to help the reader optimally tailor the CV content for his or her particular discipline.  Once the CV has been prepared, the authors show the reader how to go about turning the CV into a standard resume.  A final section on the drafting of suitable cover letters rounds out the text, and the authors include two appendices covering contact information for professional societies and a brief resource list.<br />Aside from the overtly terse nature of the text and its simplistic economy of prose (which I find to be a good thing), the book has three minor disadvantages.  Written before the entrenchment of the electronic resume, the book does not cover in any considerable detail how to prepare a scan-ready document.  The authors should try to update their otherwise excellent text by including a list of keywords for the electronic version of the resume, and include a few sample resumes towards the end of the book.  Second, some topics presented at the start of the book, such as the suggested CV Categories in the CV Content section of the text, could have used some expansion via explanation of the various headings and a few good examples of what to include underneath those headings.  Finally, the use of standard chapters in future editions of the text would be a minor but nonetheless helpful organizational improvement.      <br />I suggest that readers use Acy L. Jackson's Prepare Your Curriculum Vitae to assist in organizing and developing the content of the CV, and then pull out this book to format and put the finishing touches on the CV's style for subsequent distribution.  Also, Jackson's Prepare Your Curriculum Vitae contains thoughtful, more developed chapters on electronic resume preparation and the drafting of noticeable and successful cover letters.  Overall, I highly recommend this book to those individuals in need of a few pointers on presentation and style in CV and resume preparation.	2002-04-21
US	52421621	RA4N6AG1UR95K	1560795808	566801265	Ultimate Grad School Survival Guide	Books	5	68	77	N	N	Very Useful for Those Contemplating and Pursuing Grad Study	The Spanish have a colorful saying, `Antes de te cases, mira lo que haces', which literally means- before getting married, look at what you are doing.  Figuratively speaking, this expression is a Latin version of our own cautionary admonition- look before you leap.<br />Ms. Mitchell's The Ultimate Graduate School Survival Guide offers thoughtful advice to those motivated students interested in critically evaluating the decision to pursue and attain an advanced degree.  The book is excellent and extremely valuable because it forces the prospective grad student to focus on the most important things before, during and after taking the grad school plunge.  The book elaborates on the right way and the wrong way to approach prospective schools, choose which school to attend, play the graduate school game, and navigate the treacherous, shark-infested waters of academe.  It also offers useful, practical advice on grant and proposal writing, publications, and time management.  Additionally, the author has included a bibliography full of useful books to help grad students achieve their degree goals.<br />Many students do not realize that by deciding to attend graduate school, they often lose control over their own fate, as your advisers dictate both your course of study and the possible career choices in academe and the professional workplace- long after you have left the ivory tower.  Although I balk at the book's wholehearted endorsement of conformity to the prevailing regime and using sycophancy at every opportunity in the face of tyrannical faculty, this book provides the real deal, the inside story on the realities of graduate training.  The book covers everything important, and tries to provide helpful hints and suggestions geared to successful navigation of the capricious politics in the ivory tower.  Additionally, the author manages to cover even the more objectionable topics, such as romantic liaisons between students and faculty, the theft of student ideas and research by faculty, the fickle favoritism for some students over others by faculty, and the thorny politics of inclusion.<br />However, there are a couple of noticeable caveats in the book.  First, the author neglected to add that a student, in deciding which school to attend, should consider the cost of living in and around the school environment, and the difficulty of attaining minimum lifestyle requirements.  Even when a student receives generous financial aid, it may not be enough to cover the cost of living.  If the aid given is not in line with the cost of living in the particular environment, the student will be forced to depend on loans for some or most of his or her living expenses.  Moreover, many campus environments face housing shortages, and as can be expected, rents are bid upward when housing is scarce.  Not only is the cost of living exorbitant in many environments, housing for students tends to be scarce and costly.  If working professionals living in these areas are paying five hundred to one thousand dollars for the privilege of sleeping in someone's attic (or in more than a few cases, a closet), one can imagine the difficulty students would face.<br />Moreover, in recent years, given the generally dismal economic outlook, many students increasingly look upon graduate school as a safe harbor from both social and economic turmoil.  One should bear in mind that one may give up much more than one gains in attending graduate school, as the cost of graduate study, whether paid for by loans or by fellowships, and the income foregone by not working, quickly mount.  Also, these costs worsen the longer it takes to complete the degree.  Therefore, given the hidden, though very real costs of a graduate education, I suggest one consider working part or full-time (for pay), preferably in a field related to one's studies while pursuing the graduate degree, or having one's place of work foot the bill for graduate study.  Otherwise, one just might be better off substituting practical, on the job experience for advanced education, as many graduate programs are not geared to providing students with marketable skills.  <br />Second, one should make certain that whatever body of knowledge one acquires, this knowledge should be transferable to other endeavors, or at least something that one can build upon.  Too many students have pursued graduate degrees, in the process learning obscure concepts, methodologies and techniques, only to learn after completing their studies that their knowledge is either impractical or obsolete (or in many cases both)- a situation which not only makes them ill-prepared for the realities of the workforce, but also forces them to play catch-up and spend valuable time and money picking up other skills.  Being in such a situation is never pretty- especially when one has a family to support.  Therefore, it behooves the prospective student to consider the expected payoff from an investment in advanced education very critically.<br />This book, along with RL Peters' Getting What You Came For and PJ Feibelman's A PhD Is Not Enough, should be required reading for all graduate students.	2002-04-15
US	52421621	R1FXVSCFOY51WR	1886910537	512131970	Carver: A Life in Poems	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Entrepreneurial Alchemys Best and Greatest Advocate	As a person coming from a hard-core science and engineering background, I never thought that poetry had any `value'.  I never once saw in poetry insight into the nature and state of affairs of human beings.  So I was very surprised when I read Ms. Nelson's Carver, A Life in Poems.  Ms. Nelson presents us with poetry so rich in texture, so layered in meaning that these few lines of prose convey much, much more information than hundreds of pages of dry text.  The book skillfully combines anecdotal historical footnotes with powerful poetic prose to tell the story of the most influential man in American agricultural history.  <br />Carver the man overcame severe hardship and the prejudices of others to achieve great things.  Living in a time when opportunities were few and far between for American Blacks, and slavery was a vivid recollection, Carver blazed a trail that few have been able to even approach, let alone top, since then.  Even though he dealt with his share of racism, not every person not of African-American ancestry was unkind to him.  Given the least of all of his peers, black or white, Carver went on to achieve the most in life.  In spite of the hardships, the racism, and even the slights and insults of his own people, he left behind a legacy of good work, compassion, and technical accomplishment that stands the test of time.  As such, Carver takes a solid place among the great minds of antiquity- from Imhotep, Egypt's greatest builder, to Confucius, China's greatest thinker and statesman.  <br />Although Carver's array of inventions is impressive, his ingenuity and knack for turning what others see as worthless into something valuable, as in the poems `Chemistry 101' and `The Wild Garden' and `God's Little Workshop', is truly astounding.  Carver had tremendous impact in a host of scientific disciplines- agronomy, botany, chemistry, and plant pathology to name a few.  For me, Carver's life demonstrates the importance of a creative and spiritual base.  Carver could not have developed the hundreds of practical uses for the `goober', or peanut-the plant that African slaves brought to the United States, and that White farmers fed to their animals before eating themselves- if he did not have a highly developed creative side.  Moreover, his unyielding faith in the Creator, and his reliance on his faith in times of great peril and suffering, enabled him to endure what I and most other people would consider to be the unendurable.  Carver's creativity and great spiritual faith gave him the inspiration to make practical use of those things that others considered worthless.  In many ways, Carver was the unassailable prototype of the entrepreneurial alchemist- he created something of value out of literally nothing.  Professor Carver's many achievements clearly demonstrate the importance of the study of economic botany.<br />I would like to add that four of his most important contributions to agricultural science- resting the land, crop rotations, application of riparian sediments and the use of legumes to replenish the vital nutrients of intensively cultivated and depleted soils, closely parallel the ecological practices of the great agrarian societies of Asia and Central and South America.  The Native Americans, and their Asian compatriots, were well aware of the benefits of these practices, and had developed strong, stable and successful agricultural methods which in turn allowed for the flowering of some of history's greatest civilizations- the Inca, the Maya and the Aztec cultures.  In fact, as F H King pointed out in his groundbreaking work, Farmers of Forty Centuries, at the beginning of the 20th century, the farmers of Asia had been using these techniques continuously to maintain and perpetuate the cultivation of the same plots of land, feeding increasing numbers of their people, for over four thousand years.  In effect, these ancient farmers had developed sustainable farming practices and projected them four millennia into the present.  In this way, I see Professor Carver as not only the Father of the Peanut industry, he is, and rightly so, The Father of Sustainable Agriculture in America.        <br />It is both refreshing and heart-warming to me to know that an African-American man of science can also be a Renaissance Man in the fullest sense of the word.  Gifted in the arts and gifted in the sciences, Carver blended art and practicality in a way I can only hope to partially attain.  From this book, I humbly receive a new and invaluable hero, a new and awesome role model- Professor Carver, Jack of All Trades, Renaissance Man Extraordinaire- a true man of the people, a true Titan of Science.	2002-04-11
US	52421621	R3U1G4DFPW34D	0844266310	9916690	Here's How: Prepare Your Curriculum Vitae (Here's How (Ntc Learningworks))	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An Outstanding Guide to CV Preparation	In this time of traumatizing economic upheaval, every advantage in the competition for jobs, no matter how slight, matters.  As such, how one presents oneself is often more important than what one presents to the public.  Jackson's book, Prepare Your Curriculum Vitae, gives the intelligent job seeker an advantage in the job search in two ways.  First, it prepares the reader emotionally for the task of charting one's life and career via detailed documentation of events and achievements.  Second, it clearly and skillfully guides the reader through the mechanics of putting one's best foot forward on paper.  As such, the book combines an emphasis on content with important dimensions of style to give the job seeker a crucial and badly needed advantage in the competition for jobs.  <br />The first chapter, `Getting Started: The Emotional Dimension', offers excellent, quality exercises to put the reader in the proper frame of mind to write an outstanding and noticeable CV.  A strong and successful CV is the product of considerable time and effort devoted to personal reflection.  As such, the chapter helps to build a positive and realistic attitude toward CV preparation, and makes the writing process much easier to perform.  After making an honest attempt to do the exercises in the first chapter, I was truly amazed at my own perspective, and what I as a person had accomplished.  Before completing the exercises, I had held my accomplishments in very low regard, and I had the general impression that I did not know anything and had not done anything of true significance or value.  As such, I see the first chapter as a psychologically beneficial means to boost both self-confidence and self-esteem.<br />Given the format and structure of the text, the second chapter on electronic resumes should have logically followed the chapters on drafting and preparing CVs and the chapter of sample CVs.  The real work associated with CV preparation and writing begins with the third chapter, `Listing Competencies and Skills'.  Here, in a five-step process, the text encourages the reader to identify his or her competencies and skills.  For each competency and skill, the reader learns how to make both broad assessments and exacting statements about his or her level, or degree, of proficiency.  The reader finally reviews his or her competencies, and then chooses which to state on the CV based on individual career objectives, position sought and the degree of importance of each competency.  The fourth chapter immerses the reader in the preparation of working drafts.  After presenting the contents of a typical CV to the reader, each portion of the CV, from the objectives and education to the interests and references, are subjected to a three-step process of draft, revision and final version.  Once each part of the CV is completed, the entire CV is stylistically assembled in a way most pleasing to the potential viewers of the document.  The fifth chapter gives the reader the usual advice regarding the polishing of the final draft of the CV.  Chapters six and seven go through the mechanics of writing effective cover letters and other correspondence associated with job seeking, and provides numerous, detailed samples of each type of correspondence, as well as the successful distribution of your CV.  Chapter eight offers numerous examples of CV organization and style across all disciplines at the undergraduate, graduate and professional levels.  Four appendices round out the book, and offer information on abbreviations, a list of action verbs used in resume preparation, contact information for selected professional organizations and societies, and a select list of books on style in writing.     <br />The book repeatedly emphasizes that care should be taken to describe accomplishments in clear, concise terms, and that the content of the CV should be slanted toward the particular objective in mind.  The text also stresses that because the CV serves simultaneously as a calling card and as marketing, sales and promotional material for the individual, it pays to be a strong advocate of oneself and one's accomplishments.  <br />Apart from some minor organizational problems, the book is an excellent source of information and inspiration for those who have no previous experience writing CVs.  More experienced and advanced individuals can still use this book as a basis for CV preparation, albeit at a faster pace than those new to the endeavor.  No graduate student or professional should be without this important and invaluable text.	2002-04-07
US	52421621	R1UY1KE30WD3NX	1559721197	538417479	How to Work for a Japanese Boss	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Humorous & Informative, But Covertly Prejudicial Nonetheless	The book itself is funny and insightful, and filled to the brim with notable faux pas committed by foreigners, particularly Americans, when working with or for the Japanese.  While there is a certain amount of over-emphasis on the old stand-bys often associated with doing business with the Japanese, such as punctuality, bowing, and the appropriate way to dole out meishi, there are a few kernels of useful knowledge that are at once interesting, practical and effective.  Each chapter is structured to give the reader some interesting facts upfront, the bad news on Japanese business and cultural practices, and finally an example, either real or imagined, of just how beneficial some Japanese managerial and cultural practices can be.  A thoughtful and intelligently laid out glossary of key Japanese terms, along with a very useful bibliography for further reading, is included at the end of the book. <br />Some of the concepts from the book, such as apprenticeship and observational research, not only comprise very important aspects of Japanese culture, but also resonate with my own observations and experiences living and working with the Japanese.  Finally, apart from the more interesting and colorful cultural and historical tidbits, the most important concept that I took from the book was the Japanese emphasis on non-verbal communication, and ambiguous, indirect speech.  For many non-Japanese not of Asian heritage, this de-emphasizing of non-verbal communication can be quite daunting to comprehend and ultimately master.  <br />After reading this book, I came to understand the importance of playing to Japanese strengths and matching my interests with Japanese needs and strengths.  Working for a Japanese boss means emphasizing teamwork and group loyalty over individual accomplishment, and adroitly implementing your qualifications and expertise wherever appropriate as opposed to banking off of your experience, rank and seniority in the company.  In short, the requirements forsuccess when working for a Japanese boss are the same as those needed to work well with an American boss.  Increasingly, your performance and results matter more, on both sides of the Pacific, than your willingness to work hard, which by now is a given in both Japan and the US.  Those looking to work well with the Japanese must learn to pay very close attention to not only themselves, but also their surroundings in a way that is different from what they are accustomed to at home.      <br />Written at the height of mass hysteria and public paranoia towards Japanese corporate influence, the book portrays an influential Japanese presence in America with exasperated resignation and tries to offer its readers keys to landing good paying jobs with the Japanese.  That said, the reader should bear in mind that attitudes and behaviors have changed drastically on both sides of the Pacific in the twelve years since this book was published.  Moreover, chapters such as `Sex and the Japanese Salaryman' are clearly thrown in to make the book more commercial, and other chapters, such as \\"Why Women Are Over the Hill and Out of the Door by Thirty', clearly are playing to the author's and the public's pre-conceived and antiquated notions of Japanese business.  Chapters such as these, while marginally informative, attest to the dated nature of the text and essentially serve to simultaneously entertain the reader and stoke the flames of an already biased public.  As such, this book occupies the opposite extreme of those books lauding everything Japanese, such as Ezra Vogel's Japan as Number One, and ultimately does little to present the inquisitive reader with a clear, balanced representation of the Japanese people.  The book would have been much stronger if some Japanese perspectives, particularly those of Japanese bosses, were included alongside those of American workers.  If one really wanted to know how to work for a Japanese boss, then it stands to reason that one would rely heavily on the information and experiences of Japanese bosses who have managed non-Japanese personnel and firms outside of Japan.  Instead, this book gives the reader copious anecdotal experiences from American employees of Japanese companies.  <br />Nonetheless, the United States still is at the center of global trade, finance, and economy, and the specter of imminent and inevitable Japanese corporate rule is nothing more than a dim flight of fancy.  Overall this book is better than most that I have read on the subject.  In conclusion, given the unfolding events of the last decade, Ms. Bacarr would do well to write a similar text for the now economically insecure and lay-off threatened Japanese employee entitled `How to Work for an American Boss'.	2002-04-07
US	52421621	R19XCWAODYSIRS	0802135919	488797620	World Hunger: Twelve Myths (22)	Books	5	17	24	N	N	Confirms What I Have Always Suspected	The authors of this book have made some compelling and thought provoking arguments- arguments that go beyond the topics they touch upon, namely, hunger, democracy, security, politics and economy.  The implications of this book are far-reaching, as the larger issues it addresses call into question the very nature of modern development, and ultimately, the long-term viability of the human race.<br />It really is hard to believe that there is hunger in a world of plenty.  Even when food production is increased, hunger is not abated- it only increases further.  Although many famine-stricken countries have been written off as hopeless, a critical look at the histories of these countries will show that hunger and famine are recent phenomena.  These phenomena result when time honored agricultural traditions of sustainable stewardship and subsistence cultivation are abandoned for export-led development trajectories heavily reliant on cash crops grown with imported goods, methods, and technologies.  This state of affairs is a situation largely encouraged and increasingly demanded by the wealthy nations.  <br />The wealthiest fifth of the world's population eats very well, of that I am certain.  The wealthiest fifth can eat what it wants, when it wants, and how much it wants.  It can do this by extracting and exporting the natural resources of the third world, in the form of luxury foods such as coffee, tea, pineapples and cashews.  These natural resources would otherwise go into the production of subsistence crops, crops biologically suited for the specific climatic, topographic, ecological and cultural conditions found in the third world.  As a result, the world's wealthy eats at the expense of the world's poor, all the while irreversibly depleting the productive capacity of the ecosystems at home and in poor nations. <br />Contrary to popular belief, natural disasters are not becoming more common.  Although they may be becoming more severe, closer inspection tells us thatdespite advances in technology, people are becoming more vulnerable to disasters.  In the same way, people are becoming more vulnerable to hunger, and despite considerable advances in agricultural production, technology, and even transport, hunger is more common today than it was fifty or even one hundred years ago.  In fact, the specter of hunger is rearing its ugly head in places that we would never expect it- right in our own back yard.  Famine and hunger can not be blamed on drought or war.  It can not be blamed on a lack of food, or a lack of technology to produce food better or in larger quantities.  Famine is ultimately caused by the failure of human institutions to secure critical resources for people.  The authors correctly point out that a steady concentration of wealth and power in the hands of a decreasing number of people are to blame for our present situation of overwhelming poverty, hunger, and suffering owing to increasing intractable economic insecurity.  However, they failed to underscore the critical point that such a state of affairs can only be perpetuated when a significant minority of the people- the middle class supporting the elites, fully endorse the actions of the elites.  As Frantz O. Fanon demonstrated in his book, The Wretched of the Earth, in which he outlines in detail what he calls the psychology of the oppressed, only when the middle class feels threatened does the situation change.<br />As a scientist and engineer, it is now clear to me that science and technology can not solve any of mankind's fundamental problems.  Whether it is the discovery of antibiotics or the development of the automobile, technology tends to create more problems than it solves, as with antibiotics comes the problem of resistance, just as greenhouse emissions and drunk driving go hand in hand with the automobile.  Thus, the claims of agribusiness centering on biotechnology as the solution to world hunger now sound extremely hollow to me, just as improved birth control and family planning now look like interesting intellectual and social fantasies.  Science and technology can not solve the problem of individual greed, and they can not solve the problems of anti-democratic behavior.  Let me be perfectly clear- more technology is not the answer.  Nonetheless, given our current political and economic ideologies, and the scientific and technological paradigms that support them, our individual freedom and ultimately our very survival as a species is at stake...<br />In the end, it all boils down to a choice between short-term economic gain and long-term factor (resource) productivity.  As Aldous Huxley stated in the epilogue of his classic, Brave New World, \\"You pays your money and you takes your choice.\\"	2002-03-30
US	52421621	R1DZZP2U8Q9KOX	0300076363	315059543	Wild Solutions: How Biodiversity is Money in the Bank	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Outstanding Argument for Conservation	Wild Solutions is a beautifully written little book containing a well-reasoned, passionate argument for the conservation of all the creatures in the natural world, not just the ones that look cute on T-shirts or postcards.  The over riding theme of this book is not that we should save nature because we can make a quick buck off of it; rather, we should save nature because the natural world is one big laboratory, available to humanity free of charge, that not only supports us with a variety of ecosystem services but also continuously shows us new and better ways of living.  The message is that species must be conserved because it is impossible to determine which will be vitally important in the future.  Humanity tends to judge the worth of a species based on its value to us now without knowing fully or even considering the role the species may play in nature.  We really do not know what species will be important in the future.  Moreover, we do not know yet to what extent how important the known species are in ecosystem processes.  Too often we learn of the organism's role and importance in ecosystems only after it is gone.  One important point of the book is that we do not realize or even appreciate the extent to which we are dependent on the natural world.  <br />As the case of Biosphere Two clearly showed the world, placing a value on the importance of a species without knowing its role in ecosystems and food chains, merely based on arrogant and selfish notions of whether or not we derive some value from it is foolhardy.  Biosphere Two also showed us that humanity can not do without Nature, but Nature, given its multi-billion year history, can and has done without us.  The authors liken the world's creatures to a natural internet that is responsible for the air that we breathe, the water that we drink, and the rich fertile soil that we depend upon for the food that we eat.  All of these gifts from Nature, unfortunately, are being tainted, damaged and destroyed by the greedy and selfish actions of humanity.  Although many of the example organisms may not be new to some readers, the way in which these organisms interact, and the way in which Humanity has taken advantage of these interactions to enrich our lives gives all a deeper understanding of the importance of these and other organisms.<br />While some may criticize the call to save the natural world for economic gain, no one can argue with the authors' assertion that the natural world has served and will continue to serve as a basis for the development of new industries.  Nor can it be argued that the natural world will become more important as a springboard for the solution to some of mankind's most pressing problems.  While I firmly believe that the preservation of species and habitats solely for present or future economic exploitation is both arrogant and shortsighted, it tends to remain the only way to convince the world powers and corporate sultans to tread lightly around environments and habitats.  Such a state of affairs is at once both deplorable and depressing, but I am optimistic that sane minds will rise above the current economically inspired rapacious environmental pillage and eventually prevail.<br />I fully acknowledge that our callous interference in natural evolutionary processes is a foolish gamble, and this book serves as indisputable proof.  Many lifetimes of benefits are waiting to be discovered among Nature's bountiful gifts, and this book inspires me to find a few of them.	2002-01-11
US	52421621	RT2TDKJKUQK83	0871563487	343962928	Bioshelters, Ocean Arks, City Farming	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Powerful Tools for Self and Community (Re)-Development	The odyssey of the Todds began during a tumultuous period in recent human history marked by intense political and economic strife and destructive military conflict.  Over a number of years through careful experimentation, the Todds developed ten key principles of ecological design in an attempt to guide, or as they say, steward, the planet towards a sustainable future.  Ecological design is quite interdisciplinary in scope, and seeks to integrate biological principles into agriculture.  By blending agriculture, renewable energy and architectural concepts, the Todds seek to create sustainable mini-ecosystems, as opposed to communities, which incorporate humans while at the same time mimicking the larger biosphere.  As such, the Todds have made the first viable and quantifiable attempt to employ scientific principles that will ultimately allow `humankind' to become `one with the environment'.  These scientists recognized early on that humanity depended on nature for its survival, and that any attack on nature is ultimately an attack on all of humanity.<br />With this in mind, the Todds lament humanity's wholesale movement away from the cosmological towards mechanistic approaches to existence.  Using their ecological principles, they have successfully redesigned homes, ships, and communities to achieve a more balanced, sustainable, and ultimately environmentally friendly and caring lifestyle for many people the world over.  As such, this book expands upon the principles and concepts put forth in their previous book, Tomorrow Is Our Permanent Address, and gives the reader conceptual and fully actualized examples of self-sustaining structures and communities firmly grounded in ecological principles.  Throughout the book, concepts such as permaculture and passive solar design are integrated into existing structures, forming the basis for growing, self-sustaining communities.<br />I see many philosophical similarities between this book and Masanobu Fukuoka's enlightening books The One Straw Revolution and The Road Back to Nature.  Although the Todds and Fukuoka started from different points in time, space and experience, both have achieved the same goal albeit with different methods.  On the one hand, Fukuoka criticizes the modern human predicament from the standpoint of Eastern philosophy and religion, and uses natural farming as a means to bring man closer to, if not completely back to, nature.  On the other hand, the Todds approach the problem of sustainable human economic and social development from a scientific standpoint and bring the precepts of ecological design to bear in an attempt to realign humanity with the natural world.  For both, the concept of equilibrium,  referred to as `balance' in the case of Fukuoka and `homeostasis' for the Todds, is critical in both their respective philosophies and approaches.  Moreover, both also realize, like many other astute interlopers on the mortal plane, that it is folly to attempt to improve upon nature; rather, human beings should strive to work with nature and allow nature to form the basis for all life.  Finally, the Todds explicitly emphasize what Fukuoka deftly implied in his philosophy and approach to living- that all organisms, including humans, are simultaneously independent and interdependent entities.<br />In conclusion, as urban planners and engineeers increasingly look to nature as a basis for product and community design, this book will form the cornerstone for these endeavors.books The One Straw Revolution and The Road Back to Nature.  Although the Todds and Fukuoka started from different points in time, space and experience, both have achieved the same goal albeit with different methods.  On the one hand, Fukuoka criticizes the modern human predicament from the standpoint of Eastern philosophy and religion, and uses natural farming as a means to bring man closer to, if not completely back to, nature.  On the other hand, the Todds approach the problem of sustainable human economic and social development from a scientific standpoint and bring the precepts of ecological design to bear in an attempt to realign humanity with the natural world.  For both, the concept of equilibrium,  referred to as `balance' in the case of Fukuoka and `homeostasis' for the Todds, is critical in both their respective philosophies and approaches.  Moreover, both also realize, like many other astute interlopers on the mortal plane, that it is folly to attempt to improve upon nature; rather, human beings should strive to work with nature and allow nature to form the basis for all life.  Finally, the Todds explicitly emphasize what Fukuoka deftly implied in his philosophy and approach to living- that all organisms, including humans, are simultaneously independent and interdependent entities.  <br />In conclusion, as urban planners and engineeers increasingly look to nature as a basis for product and community design, this book will form the cornerstone for these endeavors.	2001-12-12
US	52421621	RNTEP5TR29PGU	0961079800	212037206	The Mushroom Cultivator: A Practical Guide to Growing Mushrooms at Home	Books	4	539	558	N	Y	More Appropriate for the Farm than the Home	Contrary to what many cultivation cognoscenti repeatedly say, this book is not the `bible' of mushroom cultivation.  Although the amount of information in this book is impressive, it is limited to a handful of species, and gives exact growth parameters for a few select mushrooms, principally those belonging to Agaricus, Pleurotus, Psilocybe/Panaeolus, and Stropharia.  It should also be noted that while some species, such as Pleurotus and Agaricus are relatively easy to cultivate, others such as Stropharia and Psilocybe/Panaeolus may be difficult to cultivate even under the most favorable conditions.  As many of the topics in the book are more appropriate for the small mushroom farm, the book is anything but practical for home-based cultivation.  As a result, using this book as a basis for hobby cultivation will more than likely take the fun out of cultivation entirely. <br />That said, the book explains the science behind mushroom cultivation very well, but places considerable emphasis on composting and Agaricus/Psilocybe production.  The emphasis on Agaricus is understandable, as it is a commercially cultivated mushroom with mass appeal, but Psilocybe species are covered in a bit too much detail for my taste.  More lab techniques are presented in this book than in Stamet's Growing Gourmet Mushrooms, and the authors provide detailed info on starting cultures from scratch, spawn maintenance and propagation, as well as setting up your own lab.  One very strong selling point of the book is the authors' elaboration on the importance of good environmental control and how to achieve it, although again, the information on this topic would be more appropriate for a farm than a home.  The authors also include two very detailed chapters giving information on invertebrate (insect) and microbial pests/contaminants and provide an excellent chapter on trouble-shooting during cultivation, focusing in particular on microbial pests/contaminants.  The book includes a fairly good run-down on cultivation using non-composted substrates, but it could be expanded to include more substrates, more cultivation strategies, and more mushroom species that grow well on non-composted substrates.  However, Stamets and Chilton primarily refer to varieties of alder, which is readily available in riparian and montaine habitats in the Pacific Northwest, and while they do provide the reader with material properties on other suitable hardwood substrates such as oak, beech, and birch in an appendix, a future edition should endeavor to show the reader the same techniques using those substrates.  The authors end the book with a chapter that briefly explains the fundamentals of genetics and reproduction of edible mushrooms.  The book's appendices contain invaluable information such as the construction of air and environmental systems, the composition of various potential substrates, data collection records and conversion tables, all of which do much to enhance its appeal to mushroom farmers.  Finally, the book also includes a comprehensive and understandable glossary of key terms, a detailed bibliography, and a comprehensive index.  <br />Essentially, the book's emphasis is on those mushroom species that can be grown with ease on compost with a few commercial species, such as shiitake, enoki, and oyster thrown in to round out the mix.  You really have to look elsewhere for more detailed information on the medicinal properties of mushrooms and mushroom growing resources.  Additionally, I found the absence of good, reliable economic data on mushroom cultivation, especially from the small farm or business standpoint to be lacking in both of Stamet's texts.  While this text in particular was very comprehensive when it came mushroom science, I found myself looking to Stamet's Growing Gourmet Mushrooms for historical, cultural, taxonomic and medicinal information on edibles.  Additionally, Growing Gourmet Mushrooms emphasized the edibles more, while this book played up thehallucinogenic mushrooms.  Finally, better quality pictures, especially those in color and high resolution, would add significant value to this book.  <br />In sum, while the average hobby cultivator just embarking on mushroom growing may find the information a bit too complicated, those looking to turn their hobby into a small farm venture will find it to be invaluable.  To fully employ the techniques and methods presented in this book, the aspiring cultivator would have to invest a considerable amount of time and money.  As such, I believe that this book is an excellent complement to a small farm operation.  Those individuals looking to embark on hobby mushroom growing should first read Hajo Hadeler's Medicinal Mushrooms You Can Grow, and Paul Stamet's Growing Gourmet and Medicinal Mushrooms.  Once the hobbyist is thoroughly familiar with the topic and the ins and outs of micro-scale (home-based) cultivation, I would strongly recommend that he or she pick up this book.  As such, I see this as being more for folks who are serious about running a small farm or mushroom business, as most hobby growers would not even take the trouble to set up their own lab, or even maintain starter cultures beyond grain spawn.  Thus, I recommend that this book be bought only after more basic information on mushrooms and their cultivation has been fully acquired.	2001-12-03
US	52421621	R33Q42U9OAYNN0	1566493498	516329151	Tapped Out: The Coming World Crisis in Water and What We Can Do About It	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Powerful Call to Action	Wnen it comes to water and environmental issues, the United States looks much more like a third world banana republic than a first-world, top-of-the-heap military and economic superpower.  Years ago, former US senator Paul Simon alerted our government to a problem that could be mankind's undoing: the uneven distribution and wasteful consumption of water for agriculture, industry, and urban consumers across the nation and the greater world.  His book, Tapped Out not only explains the problems associated with world supply, it also engages the average the person to contribute to the solution.  <br />Water is the only resource for which there is no substitute.  The world's water resources are plagued with a great variety of problems, and they typically fall into one of five broad groups- availability, quantity, quality, distribution, and competing agendas.  Rich countries are increasingly finding themselves pitted against poor countries for limited water resources.  In many instances, large and wasteful consumers are taking needed, precious quantities from others to slake their insatiable demand.  Furthermore, more societies are reaching farther and farther to acquire this precious and critical resource.<br />Tapped Out has a number of favorable attributes.  The book introduces the reader to the problem in an easy to understand manner.  All technical terms are clearly defined as they are presented, and the book succeeds immensely in achieving its stated goal- eliciting the reader's interest in water issues.  Moreover, Mr. Simon goes beyond lamenting the situation, and offers practical solutions to the problem.  Finally, Mr. Simon shows the reader how the average person can be part of the solution to the problem.  The reader is not left feeling overwhelmed and powerless in the face of the sheer magnitude of the problem.  As such, the book is a good call to action overall.<br />However, there are a few moderate demerits, primarily structural, to the text.  First, Mr. Simon cites too many examples in the first half of the text.  These examples, while informative, come one after another and at times made the reading rather plodding.  Instead, each major point should have been isolated, described in general terms, and then  two to three examples which elaborate on each point should have been cited.  That way, the reader gets a true sense of the problem while at the same time learning and more importantly retaining the pertinent facts.  Second, the book relies too much on text, making the book very monotonous at times.  Pictures would have added considerable value to the text.  In addition a global map that explicitly displayed the distribution of the world's water resources, as well as the areas where water shortages are a problem, would also have been helpful.  Moreover, the inclusion of graphs depicting trends in population, water supply and water consumption would also have been useful.   Finally, future editions of the text should include a more balanced discussion of the technical challenges associated with water purification, desalination, and energy requirements and costs.  <br />While I agree in principle with many of the points that Mr. Simon raises in his book, I have very strong reservations about Mr. Simon's solution to the water supply problem.  Unfortunately, American bays, coastlines, rivers and lakes have earned the dubious distinction of becoming our nation's `Great Toilet'.  Mr. Simon has very high hopes that one day in the near future, we will desalinate the dirty water from this make-shift natural toilet for the purposes of human consumption and agricultural production.<br />Given the current state of the art, it may not be possible to use reclaimed water or seawater on any appreciable scale to avert water shortages.  Traditionally, wastewater treatment is used to bring microbial and organic loads down to a `safe' level so that the wastewater can be discharged to natural water systems.  These natural systems then dothe rest, primarily via dilution, entrapment, and degradation processes.  Considering the deplorable state of the nation's waterways and coastlines, a desalination plant on the coast would have to be immediately adjacent to and downstream of a wastewater treatment plant.   Moreover, each step in the process would create waste- effluents that would either have to be disposed of or put in some way to use.  Finally, the process would also require a dedicated energy source.  Desalination schemes currently require large amounts of energy for their operation, and as they are envisioned, will require huge energy input.  As such, I am afraid that these schemes will ultimately play into the already strong hand of the energy companies.  Solar energy, while a possibility, depends on area, and a given area, usually quite large, is required to satisfy a very limited water demand.  Should demand increase, one would have very little maneuvering room when looking to scale up a solar-driven process.  Therefore, solar-driven processes may be extremely limited, leaving only fossil fuels and nuclear power to provide the necessary energy.  As a result, the cost of desalinated water if deployed on a large scale would inevitably track the cost of energy very closely.  Thus, I suspect that energy companies are salivating at the prospect of such large-scale desalination schemes becoming reality.<br />In conclusion, this book, along with J R McNeil's Something New Under the Sun, has forced me to seriously consider the social, ecological, and environmental consequences associated with the adoption and deployment of any techno-economic process.  After reading this book, I am now one more person who is strongly motivated to work towards a practical solution to a problem that affects all of us in the global community.	2001-11-27
US	52421621	R3PCJQKK4USJX1	0921136021	657079365	Medicinal Mushrooms You Can Grow For Health, Pleasure and	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	A Magnificent Intro to Mushrooms and Their Cultivation	Hadeler's Medicinal Mushrooms You Can Grow is a small and elegant introduction to the fascinating world of mushroom cultivation.  The text is a passionately written argument for the incorporation of mushrooms, both edible and medicinal, into one's daily diet for optimal health, nutrition and well-being.  As Hadeler describes the book as a `practical guide to small scale farming of selected fungi and an introduction to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)', he succeeds immensely on both counts.<br />Specifically, the book takes the reader on a guided tour of the fungal kingdom, and elaborates profusely on the mushroom, giving copious information on its habitat, role in nature, nutritional value and its usefulness as a medicinal, particularly from the standpoint of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).  As such, this slim volume contains copious amounts of detailed information not easily found in other volumes on the subject of mushrooms.  Hadeler's highly unorthodox yet refreshingly enjoyable writing style incorporates Latin phrases, German and Chinese words, historical anecdotes, and interesting facts to impart useful information. The book further stands apart from other texts on mushrooms with its skillful penmanship and its dedication to clear, concise definitions of key terms and concepts, making it read less like a how-to guide and more like a compelling story.  Hadeler's gifted writing ability, combined with his obvious and overflowing love of the subject enable him to explain highly advanced concepts in a very simple and straightforward manner.  Thus, cultivators of all stripes, from budding amateurs to seasoned old-hands, as well as the general layperson will find much of value in this book.  In passing, I especially enjoyed his very well written section on poisonous mushrooms and the undeserved myco-phobia that they have created among Occidental cultures.<br />Hadeler uses short vignettes, essays that combine interesting anecdotes from TCM and German cultural and medical folklore along with pertinent facts and information, to introduce the reader to a dozen exotic edible and/or medicinal mushrooms. Throughout the book, the history, philosophy and practical application of TCM is clearly apparent to the reader, and Hadeler goes to great lengths to explain the differences between TCM and Western medicine in order to demonstrate convincingly what TCM has to offer the open-minded Westerner.  The first half of the book, based on historical anecdotes and scientific data, places the mushroom squarely in the context of the fungal kingdom and develops a strong argument for its incorporation in the healing arts, while the latter half of the text is devoted to short expositions on the cultivation of a variety of mushrooms, from the common Oyster mushroom to the exotic Wine Cap mushroom.  In keeping with his strong advocacy of the use of mushrooms in daily life, towards the end of the text Hadeler gives the reader considerable information on the storage, preparation and cooking of mushrooms for use in nutrition and health maintainance and/or improvement.  In addition, he provides a valuable bibliography containing a cross-section of papers that expound upon the nutritional and medicinal aspects of mushrooms as well as their cultivation.<br />Unlike many authors who emphasize the more recent Japanese influence on mushroom science and cultivation, Hadeler provides detailed information on the Chinese contribution, both past and present, to medicinal mushroom research, mushroom science and cultivation.  Moreover, Hadeler brings a level of honesty, passion, and no-nonsense practicality to mushrooms and their cultivation rarely seen among other writers in the field.  While simultaneously providing useful methods of cultivation and utilization of mushrooms, he freely acknowledges the potential problems one may encounter when employing the book's cultivation techniques and the limitations of mushrooms in nutrition and health.   It is most sincerely hoped that subsequent printings will make use of a diagrammatic approach to mushroom cultivation and provide a detailed glossary of key terms used in the book and most often encountered in the mushroom, TCM and alternative medicine circles.  Also, a chart listing the names of the various mushrooms discussed in the text in English, Latin, Chinese, Japanese, German and Russian would be an especially welcome addition and allow the worldly cultivator to converse with others in the global mushroom community with ease.  Finally, a truthful discussion addressing pest control issues and waste disposal in mushroom cultivation should also be included.<br />Although this is not the first book that I would recommend to those looking to do mushroom cultivation as a hobby or a business venture, it is a book that I would unhesitatingly recommend to those who are inquisitive about fungi and mushrooms and their cultivation.  As such, this book serves more as a good starter text for those looking to build up their knowledge on various aspects of mushrooms and less as a practical how-to guide to mushroom cultivation.  It therefore ranks highly among the books every inquisitive layperson and mushroom cultivator should read.  Furthermore, those inquiring minds wishing to learn more interesting facts about mushrooms and fungi are especially encouraged to read In the Company of Mushrooms, A Biologist's Tale by Elio Schaechtler and Magical Mushrooms, Mischievious Molds by George Hudler.<br />In conclusion, this handy little volume is not only an enjoyable and satisfying read, it also is a wonderful treat for the mind and a liberating tool for the soul.	2001-11-12
US	52421621	R18XIVAJXL852B	1887905014	918553836	Mycology in Sustainable Development: Expanding Concepts, Vanishing Borders	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An Optional Addition to the Mycological Library	Given that virtually all of the papers in this book juxtapose mycorrhizal fungi with Pacific Rim forests, the title of this book should really be `Mycorrhizae in Sustainable Agro-Forestry'.  The majority of the chapters focus on the mycorrhizae and forestry, and the book as a whole attempts to make a strong case for greater research, development, and support for applied mycorrhizal research.  Chapela and Palm introduce the papers by intelligently and eloquently stating the need for and practical use of sustainable development while at the same time providing background on the individual papers.  <br />That said, the first three chapters provide a detailed history of wildcrafting of Matsutake mushrooms in British Columbia, the US Pacific Northwest, and Mexico, and elaborate upon the attempts of government and conservationists to regulate the harvest of this non-timber forest product so as to promote resource conservation and sustainable use of the regional forests.  Several chapters further elaborate various aspects related to mycorrhizal fungi- from their plant associations and recent attempts to inventory plant-fungal associations to the utilization of mycorrhizae in land reclamation and biocontrol of weedy trees and grasses.<br />The last two chapters are quite possibly the most interesting part of the book and briefly present two attempts toward developing new markets for fungal products.  In these chapters, we learn of successful attempts by Central American farmers to organincally cultivate mushrooms, principally Pleurotus species, using various types of agricultural waste.  We also learn of attempts in many lesser developed nations to exploit their fungal bioresources and the efforts underway to make certain that developing nations and indigenous peoples reap their fair share of the proceeds from bioprospecting.  The final  chapter also argues that bioprospecting is a viable means of conservation and sustainable development.<br />While the book is interesting,the text could be taken more seriously had the editors only acknowledged the fundamental challenges of sustainable myco-resource utilization, fungal inventory monitoring, and development of fungal-based biological control agents.  In their defense, more than a few of the contributors do point out the inherent challenges associated with management of sustainable development and fungal inventory research.  Nonetheless the reader gets very few successes and a lot of dubious triumphs from the field of mycorrhizal ecology.  In addition, the researchers conveniently neglect to state two very important points about the Matsutake myco-industry.  Since Japan is the major market for Matsutake, this fledgling myco-industry would face ruin if this market collapsed.  Furthermore, the opening of new Matsutake reservoirs in Russia, Central and South America continuously expands the supply-side while the demand-side has remained relatively constant.  This in turn has had the obvious effect of lowering supply-side prices worldwide.  As a result, although wildcrafting of Matsutakes and other botanicals is an important source of income in impoverished forest communities, it can not be looked upon as a key driver of sustainable development in these rural regions.<br />Although Chapela and Palm's Mycology in Sustainable Development starts off brilliantly, it quickly devolves into yet another thinly veiled plea for more funding for the contributors' pet research projects.  The book's premise that the fungal kingdom has much to offer the worthwhile cause of sustainable development is quickly overpowered by paper after paper highlighting some dubious applications involving mycorrhizal fungi.  Given the `global' title of the book, I was rather dismayed at the limited number of regions and countries represented and the overwhelming emphasis on the mycorrhizae.  Granted, the mycorrhizae are a neglected area of research and do have much to offer the worthy cause of sustainable development.  However, it would have been nice to see other classes of fungi and examples of sustainable development using the fungi in other regions of the world, particularly Africa and Asia, given an equivalent amount of exposure.  Moreover, I was extremely dismayed at the paucity of information on edible mushrooms other than  expensive exotics like Matsutake, given their often critical role in the health and nutrition of many of the world's communities and their extraordinary potential for global environmental improvement. <br />In conclusion, although this book contains some interesting information, it ultimately remains an optional addition to the library of the applied mycologist.	2001-11-06
US	52421621	RWRV7GSH2P9MK	9810228775	880495565	Mushroom Biology: Concise Basics And Current Developments	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An Excellent Textbook	Miles and Chang have done a great service to all students and  aspiring mushroom cultivators with the publication of Mushroom Biology.  This small, information dense book covers all aspects of mushroom cultivation, from the biology of mushroom development to the science underlying cultivation.  As such, it is the perfect textbook for an upper level undergraduate course specifically focused on edible mushrooms.  <br />The book approaches the mushroom largely from a theoretical and conceptual standpoint and is divided into four parts.  The first part introduces the edible mushroom by elaborating its role and importance to man and the environment.  The second part delves deeply into the biology and genetics of the edible mushroom.  Here, the reader learns much about the classification of fungi, the biology of the fungi, the nutritional and environmental requirements of the fungi as organisms, and most importantly, the genetics and breeding of the edible fungi.  The third part of the book covers mushroom production and is divided into three chapters which delve concisely into the phases of mushroom cultivation and aspects of biotechnology related to mushroom production leading up to the present time.  The fourth part of the book briefly details current developments in mushroom cultivation focusing specifically on Asia.  The fifth and final part of the book provides the reader with a long and useful list of references as well as cultivation parameters for many of the known, edible mushrooms.<br />Although this book is not nearly as detailed as Miles and Chang's previous publication, Edible Mushrooms and Their Cultivation (CRC Press 1989- no longer in print), it can serve as an excellent starting point for students and aspiring cultivators.  The book's major strength is its introduction and definition of terminology common to mycology and mushroom cultivation.  While there is not a lot of information on cultivation techniques per se, the scientific basis for the techniques is brilliantly and concisely explained.  For those individuals who desire detailed information on the cultivation of mushrooms, books such as The Mushroom Cultivator and Growing Gourmet and Medicinal Mushrooms, both by mushroom guru and eco-activist extraordinaire Paul Stamets will provide more than enough information.<br />Readers of this book will find that it will enable them to speak intelligently about mushrooms from both a theoretical and an applied standpoint.  For those individuals wishing to develop a detailed knowledge of the fundamental concepts involved in mushroom cultivation, this book can not be beat.	2001-11-03
US	52421621	R3D6TGBAY6ICKO	0970521014	589690825	1: Growing Mushrooms for Profit	Books	3	25	25	N	Y	Practical and Simple- But A Bit Pricey	Warren and Suzanne Kilby's book Growing Mushrooms for Profit is a brief yet nonetheless welcome addition to the library of aspiring mushroom cultivators.  Their small, 112 page text covers the basics of business and economics associated with mushroom cultivation.  However, the focus of the text is largely on shiitake mushroom cultivation, and as such, should be more appropriately titled 'Growing Shiitake Mushrooms for Profit'.  As such, the text shows you how to set up a small shiitake farm, and includes some handy tips about how not to get taken by unscrupulous customers.  Throughout the text, the Kilbys emphasize many of the fundamental aspects of running a mushroom business, from devisig a business plan to determining the production schedule to drawing up customer invoices and credit applications.  Thus, the Kilbys tell the reader nothing about mushroom cultivation techniques per se, but give a fair amount of practical information on the business and economic aspects of shiitake farming to those who may be considering setting up a small cultivation operation.<br />However, the book does have a considerable number of flaws.  The text needs considerable spell-checking as there were typos and incorrect words on almost every page.  The book's binding makes it look more like a manual, course reader or a student report that was formatted in MS word and bulk printed at a copy shop than an actual book.  More importantly, the book confuses income with revenue- it gives a sample calculation of shiitake farm revenue based on hypothetical wholesale prices which the authors in turn offer to the reader as 'income'.  Furthermore, though a fantastic number for revenue/income is given in the text, the Kilbys offer no information on costs- whether for starting up the mushroom farm or for production- leaving the reader unable to perform a good analysis of the mushroom farm as a business from the standpoint of profitability.  In addition, although the large type bold font (14 pointTimes New Roman) makes the book easy to read, the astute and critical reader can easily see that it is actually a cover for a lack of detailed information.  Moreover, the book seems to be slanted towards the small farmer, ignoring the hobbyist.  The authors make assumptions that exclusively favor someone with spare land and unused facilities/structures. Thus, they severely limit not only the book's audience but also its practical utility. Finally and most importantly, the book does not help the reader in making a detailed market assessment, as this not only determines whether or not one should enter the mushroom business in one's particular area/region, but also determines the potential level of profitability.<br />Yet, despite its more glaring flaws, the book offers much to those who seek to get into the (shiitake) mushroom cultivation business.  The book earns its first star (and this reviewer's respect) by emphasizing the need for and importance of a business plan.  Additionally, the authors earn their second and third stars by imparting information in an honest and upfront manner free of unnecessary complexity and intelligent sounding technobabble.  Interested readers of all levels of knowledge and ability will find not only a fair amount of practical and useful information but also a heavy dose of motivation and inspiration in this book. In conclusion, for those individuals who know little or nothing about mushroom cultivation, have spare land and facilities, and are considering getting into the business, this book is a pricey but nonetheless good investment.	2001-10-27
US	52421621	R1CAVLDNH2IDW9	0892814993	745177862	Shiitake: The Healing Mushroom	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Shiitake- The Wonder Drug	Shiitake The Healing Mushroom represents a very good first attempt to bring detailed information about the nutritional and medicinal merits of this exotic Asian mushroom to the general public.  According to Mr. Jones, besides tasting sinfully good steamed or sauted in butter and garlic, shiitake has many 'bioactive' compounds that either stimulate, boost, supplement or somehow enhance the disease fighting capability of our immune system.  <br />The book, while relatively small (only about 80 pages of text), is very information-dense and overflows with some thirty pages of scientific, pharmaceutical and medical references.  As such, Jones has managed to produce a compact and highly informative text. The book itself is divided into seven chapters with one section each for references and a handy index for future consultation.  The first two chapters are devoted to the nutritional value of shiitake and its historical medicinal uses.  Four individual chapters detail shiitake's anti-cholesterol, anti-cancer, cancer preventing, and anti-viral capabilities.  A final chapter elaborates the mushroom's purported ability to alleviate chronic fatigue syndrome.<br />The first chapter gives information on the nutritional value, cultivation, and history of shiitake.  In this chapter the reader learns that shiitake has a long and colorful history in Asia as a culinary and medicinal fungus.  The reader also learns that shiitake is high in nutritional value, and that one can cultivate shiitake with ease on a variety of wood and agricultural residues. The second chapter gives the reader a brief review of the medicinal uses of shiitake, both past and present.  This chapter elaborates on the surprisingly important role of shiitake in ancient folk medicine.  In times both ancient and modern, shiitake has been and continues to be used to treat a variety of maladies ranging from high blood pressure and diabetes to hepatitis.  The reader is given a brief introduction to the roles that shiitake has played in traditional Chinese medicine and its history as an aphrodisiac and therapeutic agent in ancient Japan.  In particular, folk medicinal uses of shiitake focused primarily on cures for the common cold, diabetes and liver ailments.  The chapter concludes with a few brief remarks about the safety and preparation of shiitake.  <br />The remaining five chapters tout shiitake's ability to provide relief from a variety of modern day ailments.  In short, Jones does not fail to mention shiitake's ability to bring relief to a variety of diseases that afflict those individuals living in wealthy, industrialized nations.  On the one hand, it seems that Jones is attempting to use shiitake as a means of offsetting the effects of bad and unhealthy lifestyle choices.  On the other hand, throughout the text, Jones seems to be offering up shiitake as a fungal reservoir of a variety of wonder drugs that can cure everything from high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes to viral diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis, and herpes.<br />A lot of the research on mushrooms is conducted in areas of the world where English is not the dominant, or primary language.  Thus, much of this research may be inaccessible to those inquiring minds that do not have abilities in languages other than English.  As such, one good comment in favor of the author's book is his open admission that much of the research he cites is written in languages other than English, something that many other writers on this subject fail to cite or even admit.<br />However, there are three major drawbacks to the text.  The first is Mr. Jones's many references to animal experiments.  Animal experiments, while serving as a good indicator, are in no way conclusive, no matter how great the results were.  Many of the experiments he mentions liberally throughout the text were performed on mice, and a few were performed on rabbits.  Very few of the experiments were performed on humans.  In addition, those experiments performed on humans left much to be desired because the number of trials and participants in each study mentioned sporadically in the text, as well as the way the experiments were conducted were not wholly sufficient to rule out the influence of pure chance.  Only trials on humans, conducted in a randomized double-blind manner with a large number of participants, can give a good indication of efficacy.  Unfortunately, there have not been any good, randomized, double-blind statistical studies that have explored the question of efficacy.  Yet, Mr. Jones must be credited amply for pointing out that until more trials on humans are performed, we can only speculate on the efficacy of shiitake. Another major demerit of the text is its liberal use of scientific sounding terminology- words such as 'immunostimulating', 'immunoboosting', and 'immunomodulating'-that are not properly defined, and are often used liberally without the slightest regard to the knowledge level of the reader.  Finally, as a third demerit to an otherwise strong and informative book, a number of anecdotal accounts were used to support the author's claims of efficacy. However, these accounts only served to cast an element of doubt as the reports of cures using shiitake were not only unverifiable but also very difficult to rule out the influence of other agents, including chance, in the affectation of a cure. <br />The author could have written a much stronger which, among other things, could include a glossary of terms at the end of the book and a conclusion which summarizes the main points of the text and indicates further directions for research and investigation.  Nonetheless, Mr. Jones should be rightfully acknowledged for his attempt to present to the general public an important though controversial body of research which potentially could be used for the benefit of all- both sick and healthy.	2001-10-21
US	52421621	R29RIN1PU5KDUF	0440507200	104326339	The Modern Book of Stretching: Strength and Flexibility at Any Age	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Powerful Book- Definitely One to Get and Keep	I came upon this priceless little volume during one of my many forays in the local bookstore.  In my ongoing quest to build a total exercise regime, I have found this book to be invaluable.  The crisp, clear writing combined with sharp black and white pictures of average yet attractive individuals make this book very accessible to all readers.  One is not inundated with bronzed, oiled hardbodies beaming at the reader while performing canned exercises which ultimately leads to feelings of inferiority and self-loathing for we the muscularly challenged as is the case with other texts on fitness and health.<br />This book gives the reader more than just pictures of people stretching.  It also gives ample servings of insight and philosophy into health and fitness.  This book goes beyond the simple how-to of stretching and shows the reader why stretching is important.  Each portion of the book builds on those that precede it, giving the reader warm-up exercises, tips on developing individualized breathing patterns, back building exercises, and energy building exercises.<br />Using this book has allowed me to get past the grogginess and fog that accompanies waking up in the morning.  After spending twenty minutes performing the exercises outlined in the book and focusing on my breathing, I can now go into the day fully energized.  Before reading this book and applying its valuable lessons, I often went through the day feeling drained of energy and 'waking up' was literally a four hour process, as opposed to the twenty minutes it now takes with stretching and breathing.  After spending close to four months applying the lessons in this book, I tackle almost every day with energy and renewed vigor and sense of purpose.  Perhaps the best endorsement I can give to this book is that unlike most working people, after reading this book, I no longer dread waking up in the morning- getting up is no longer the psychological burden and physical chore that it once was.<br />This book helps and succeeds on many levels.  I now incorporate its lessons into my total workout regime comprising of diet, exercise, reflection, and stretching.  I highly recommend this book to anyone looking to lose weight, truly wake up in the morning, and feel good about themselves.	2001-10-01
US	52421621	R2PFV9Q24NIVI5	1567201652	202348440	The End of Agriculture in the American Portfolio	Books	3	21	21	N	N	Long on Conventional Wisdom, Short on Practical Utility	Blank has succeeded in delivering a witty take on the neo-classical economic argument in favor of international trade. Simply put, this argument says that there are gains to trade, and that nations, much like individuals, will focus on what they are good at or most productive at doing.  As a result, all of the resources available to them will be funneled into those things that the individual/nation is good at so as to optimally maximize profit.  However, in his exposition, Blank fails to take his arguments one step further- he only takes his arguments as far as the conventional neo-classical economic theory will allow him to go.<br />For example, Blank argues that America will leave agriculture simply because it is more profitable, and much less of a headache, to do other things that would make for a better, if not wiser, use of our resources.  This would imply that ultimately the decision to leave agriculture, albeit made with considerable hand-wringing, hesitation, and consternation, is in the end a voluntary one.  In Blank's clear-cut, black-and-white neo-classical economic universe, eventually multinational corporations win, farmers lose, private lenders beat a hasty retreat, retailers walk away smiling, consumers remain happily ignorant of all things agricultural, and the government is left footing the bill (and looking pretty stupid to boot).  As such, he does a pretty good job of introducing most of the players in US agriculture- the farmer (large and small), the agribusinesses, the lenders, retailers, government entities- and paints a compelling though conventional picture as to why America will abandon agriculture for more profitable and less problematic economic endeavors.  <br />However, there are several problems with his argument.  Politics aside, it is unlikely that America will abandon agriculture entirely; pockets of resistance continue to form, and some profit-maximizing and optimally resource allocating types of modern, conventional agriculture will remain.  Throwing the politics of agriculture in the mix, we must remind ourselves that literally billions of dollars chase American agriculture, and all participants, from multinational corporations to farmers and the government have a vested interest in keeping the money flowing.  Furthermore, while Blank argues that jobs and income lost due to a shift out of agriculture will be offset by the introduction of high skill, high wage endeavors such as the internet and telecommunications(one can date this book and glean its utility by that last comment), the truth is that in many instances, once the Ag jobs and income leave, nothing comes along to fill the void created by the flight of agriculture from the region.  Finally, Blank commits the unforgiveable faux-paus of underestimating the increasingly aware and concerned consumer, a powerful and influential force/foe whom he stereotypically paints as being a motley of passive, uninterested couch potatoes whose only desire is for fast, cheap, and convenient agricultural products.<br />In the end, Blank should be commended for his effort to introduce this economic problem child to the general public; however, astute readers must note that there is more to this story than Blank would care to present.  In conclusion, although we can not safely say that American agriculture in general will go the way of the dinosaur in the forseeable future (if ever), we can say that it will remain a problematic economic endeavor and a highly charged headache for all parties involved.	2001-09-29
US	52421621	R1VSDPBKGPBX7C	0553247395	689949465	The One-Straw Revolution: An Introduction to Natural Farming: The Visionary Modern Classic: A Way of Farming, and a Way of Life, to Heal the Land and the Human Spirit	Books	5	87	91	N	N	A Good Philosophy for Family and Community Based Farming	I happened upon a copy of this monumental text while looking for books on soils and agriculture at my local library.  As a graduate student in agricultural engineering, Masanobu Fukuoka's book really forced me to think long and hard about the philosophy behind conventional farming.  As such, Fukuoka's book is more about philosophy than farming, or better put, the philosophy of natural farming.  His short vignettes on various aspects of conventional and natural farming are very enlightening, especially in the face of the emerging Genetic Revolution and the New Biotechnology.  Rather than trying to improve upon nature, Fukuoka gives the reader approaches which allow him or her to co-exist with nature.  As such, his approach demands one to lead a more subdued, simple, and austere lifestyle.  In the book, he tells the reader how he came to embrace his variety of natural farming, which he has termed a do-nothing approach to agriculture, and the worldview that he has developed from his lifelong pursuit of natural farming.<br />I myself value this text because he correctly points out that your food is your medicine and that those of us who persist in unhealthy diets will as a result become unhealthy.  To him, food and farming are opposite sides of the same coin.  Some may regard him as being anti-science, but I myself regard him as being critical of relying solely on science and intellect.  Granted, while science and intellect serve as good starting points, they also need to be balanced with philosophy/spirituality and the environment.  Although this smacks of so-called 'New Age' thinking, many in academia and industry are slowly coming to realize that our single-minded quest for higher yields, minimal cost, maximum return, and larger scale is grossly at odds with a clean environment and sustainable development.<br />Thus, his approach is not a blueprint for farming for profit so much as it is a guide to farming for well-being- both physical and mental.  In sum, as Mr. Fukuoka asks his reader, &quot;Could there be anything better than living simply and taking it easy?&quot;	2001-06-17
US	52421621	R88YVGUU594JL	0963797190	675025576	MycoMedicinals: An Informational Treatise on Mushrooms	Books	3	59	62	N	N	Good Starting Point for Researchers, Confusing for Laypeople	Paul Stamets, the world-reknown mycologist, entrepreneur, and eco-activist, can arguably be called the premiere authority on edible mushrooms, both gourmet and medicinal.  The attention to detail that he has brought to all of his books on mushroom cultivation are highly visible in this informative pamphlet on medicinal mushrooms.  The nine medicinal mushrooms presented in the booklet represent the better known, researched and characterized varieties and are but a sampling of the vast array of the known and potential mycomedicinal pharmacopoiea.<br />This forty-six page booklet gives excellent background on several of the better known edible, gourmet mushrooms which also have therapeutic potential, such as shiitake, maitake, and other exotic mushrooms.  After a brief introduction which makes a strong case for the incorporation of medicinal mushrooms in the diet, the booklet places the nine mushrooms featured in the book into four distinct categories- Polypores (4), Gilled Mushrooms (3), Teethed Fungi (1), and insect parasitizing mushrooms (1).  Each category contains a brief introduction which summarizes in general terms the history, folklore, physical and medicinal properties and therapeutic uses of the members of the category.  From there, the booklet then goes on to describe in copious detail each member of the category by including information on its medicinal properties, principal (bio-)active constituents, the form in which it is used, and additional comments on the mushroom that give more detail on things such as history, varieties, cultivation methods, and Stamets' anecdotal experience with the mushroom.<br />Although quite small, the booklet is heavily referenced, and in fact, more than half of the text is devoted to references primarily focusing on clinical trials of the various mushrooms.  Stamets, to his credit, also gives the reader a list of general articles devoted to the topic of medicinal mushrooms, as well as a good list of books and journals devoted to the subject of medicinal mushrooms.  Surprisingly, he also provides for such a small exposition, a very workable index.  <br />Yet, the copious referencing throughout the text is at once both the booklet's strength and weakness.  On the one hand, the references serve as a good jumping-off point for researchers looking to get involved in the field.  On the other hand, the copious referencing interferes with the flow of the text, and at times, so much technical jargon is used (and not properly defined, I might add), that it almost feels like one is reading a research paper that is being submitted to a journal devoted to some sort of rocket science.  While laypeople may zero in on some key points, I believe most of what he says about the therapeutic properties may be lost to them.  Although Stamets has put together an information-dense pamphlet on glossy paper, future volumes should reconsider some of the pictures, which are adequate, and in some cases eyecatching, but are too small or are not very clear.  In addition, his 'Short Glossary of Terms' is truly short, and has only eight definitions.<br />While Stamets has succeeded in introducing the topic of medicinal mushrooms to the public (while, I might add, at the same time not making the tremendous faux paus of saying that 'mushrooms are plants', as many lesser writers on the subject have done), he may have unintentionally mislead many uninformed laypeople into believing that the medicinal mushrooms represent some form of 'one-stop pharmaceutical shopping'.  I can easily see and understand a situation where some poor soul who is probably taking two or three medications to control his or her arthritis and perhaps many more for a variety of other afflictions, may get the impression that by consuming one or more of these mushrooms, they could obtain immediate relief from their ills. Furthermore, giving Stamets the benefit of the doubt, a cursory review of the references will reveal that many of them are the findings of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean researchers (with a few Germans and Russians thrown in to boot);  no doubt that many of the references are not written in English.  As good practice, future editions should note the source language of the materials he quotes, and whether or not it is a translation or an original language document.  In addition, while Stamets is very forthcoming about the results of the various clinical trials for different mushrooms, he has not given us any information on how the trials were conducted.  Future editions of this booklet should also endeavor to give the reader this crucial piece(s) of information.<br />Finally, given the immense amount of data, timeliness and importance of this booklet, its current size is simply too small to give the subject its due.  This reviewer hopes that Stamets will consider, and ultimately pen, a full-blown book on the subject.  In the meantime, non-technical readers that desire more information on the subject of medicinal mushrooms should consult Kenneth Jones's highly informative and well-researched book titled, 'Shiitake: The Healing Mushroom'.	2001-05-24
US	52421621	R3PZMO0IIXHICL	1885670540	405687193	Medicinal Mushrooms (Woodland Health Ser)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Asking for too much, giving too little	Literally speaking, this small pamphlet really is 'a comedy of errors'.  To be frank, the book is twenty-four pages of editorial and grammatical errors, incorrect statements, and poorly thought out words.  Other than a few general statements about shiitake, maitake, reishi, and kombucha, this pamphlet gives the reader nothing in the way of justification for its lofty asking price of four dollars.  Like so many other New Age texts that have come before it, this pamphlet refers to mushrooms as being plants.  Plants are capable of photosynthesis, fungi are not.  Mushrooms are the reproductive structures, or the fruiting bodies, of certain types of fungi.  However, this book goes even further, and states that mushrooms are herbs, and are the same as medicinal plants.  In addition to the aforementioned unforgiveable sins, the pamphlet boldly asserts, but never qualifies its statement that 'They (medicinal mushrooms) heal, but unlike synthetic drugs, do not have toxic side effects'. <br />Yet, the book's organization starts out well enough.  Each vignette on a particular mushroom gives some terse information on the mushroom's location and distribution, common names and folklore, cultivation history, bioactive compounds, and finally its therapeutic applications.  I myself could not help noticing that the pamphlet consistently showed how the mushrooms could be used to treat the Big Four Diseases of the Day: AIDS, Cancer, High Blood Pressure, and Infectious Diseases.  Aside from pandering to ill-conceived New Age sentiments and misleading the gravely ill, this pamphlet does little of practical utility.<br />Readers looking for more in-depth, reliable information on medicinal mushrooms and more value for their money would do well to consult Kenneth Jones's excellent book, Shiitake: The Healing Mushroom.	2001-05-24
US	52421621	R1VLABZG3C6VOS	0380718073	202175500	The Gods of Eden	Books	5	131	143	N	N	&quot;Aliens Made Me Do It!&quot;	Bramley contends in his book, The Gods of Eden, that aliens, via their elite and ultra-secret Brotherhood organizations, are the source of all human conflict.  If one really thinks about this, it sounds suspiciously like that old refrain children use when they have done something bad- &quot;the devil made me do it!&quot;.  <br />Nonetheless, this book includes everything from New Age interpretations of the Bible, the political intrigues of various monarchies and dynasties all over the world, to a wide variety of conspiracy theories on everything from the Black Death of the Middle Ages, the motives behind the First and Second World Wars, and the link between the CIA and the JFK assassination. Literally, no stone, or shall we say, no major event in world history, is left un-turned.  <br />Still, those who are curious enough to read this book completely will know exactly where various plot elements from hit Sci-Fi shows such as the X-files and Dark Skies, as well as many books based on the 'Aliens Are Among Us' theme, came from.  For example, fans of John Doherty's Area 51 novel series can see how his story line literally comes from Bramley's work word for word- especially Doherty's plot element regarding alien involvement in the Black Death which pops up in a couple of his novels.  Furthermore, Bramley's work is closely akin to the scholarly works of Zecharia Sitchin, the sensationalist accounts of Erich von Daniken and Jim Marrs, and the New Age interpretations of Graham Hancock and Rand Flem-Ath.  <br />However, the book does have its good points.  First, it does a very good job of outlining the link between economics and war.  Second, it presents the reader with a very thorough and detailed explanation of the world monetary system, how it works, and raises the interesting question of who really controls nations- the elected leaders or the money-men.  Finally, not only do the contents of the book serve as good fodder for an alien novel or a conspiracy yarn, the bookitself can be read and enjoyed as a grand historical conspiracy with colorful alien ( I am thinking of Count St. Germain) and human characters- both good and evil.<br />Yet, there is one very disturbing element to this book.  By saying that all human suffering is caused by aliens, either directly, or via their various Brotherhood organizations such as the Freemasons, the Knights Templar, or the Islamic Assassins, it seems to me that Bramley is absolving the human race of all wrong-doing.  True or not, aliens or extraterrestrials, be they 'Custodians', 'Alien earth owners', or 'Caretakers', may very well be instigating conflict within the human race, but it is humanity that pulls the trigger or drops the bombs, nonetheless.  By way of analogy, if one of the zealous members of the Third Reich had told the judges at the Nuremberg trials that it was Hitler and the SS that ran everything, and that he or she was just an errand boy simply 'following orders', would that absolve him or her for their crimes against humanity?  Machievellian involvement of extraterrestrials in human affairs aside, this reviewer firmly believes that ultimately, we humans are responsible to ourselves, and others, for our own actions.	2001-03-08
US	52421621	R11A3GCLQRLTGR	0471247669	526154570	The Warren Buffett Portfolio: Mastering the Power of the Focus Investment Strategy	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Take It With A Grain of Salt	Don't get me wrong- I learned a lot of valuable lessons about investing from this book.  However, I believe most people don't understand the true secret of Mr. Buffet's success, and that is his ability to buy influential stakes in large concerns that he understands thoroughly.  Buffet is not the typical small investor who is trying to nickel and dime his way to riches.  Far from this, he is a man who has a lot of cash behind him, and can wield that cash to obtain seats on the boards of promising companies.  Once there, using a bit of common business sense and uncommon financial influence, he can effect positive change in a company (there may also be a few derivatives being bandied about to boot).  None of us small investors can ever do that.<br />Like I said, I learned a lot from the book.  Instead of telling me which stock to buy, the book offered me basic principles to guide me in my investment activity.  The book also helped me to better understand my own financial behavior and accurately diagnose my investment temperament.  It also gave me some very important pieces for a strong blueprint for successful investing.  Three of the most important lessons that I took from this book are first, buy only those companies that you understand intuitively, second, be patient with your investments, and third, the most important lesson, never hesitate to buy into quality and transparency.  The book also pointed me in the direction of other references that I believe are worth reading, such as John Burr Williams' Theory of Investment Value, Benjamin Graham's Security Analysis, B. Graham's Intelligent Investor, and Philip Fisher's Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits.  One gem from the book I found especially startling (and very insightful) is Buffett's overwhelming approval and outright endorsement of index investing to those of us who want to be in the market, but either can't stomach the volatility or are too lazy (or dense) to do our own investment research. <br />I also foundthat reading this book in combination with John Bogle's Common Sense Investing in Mutual Funds made for good, strong positive reinforcement.  <br />If you can't beat the market, join (index) it!	2001-03-01
US	52421621	R2AENUVU0MON8C	0894645943	968895362	The Sun, Our Future Energy Source	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A dated, yet Eloquent and Highly Informative Book	David McDaniels has most likely written the most accessible book on solar energy for those interested in renewable energy and science in general.  This book could easily serve as an introductory text for advanced high school students, or as a required text for a lower and/or upper division class on renewable energy.  <br />Like many books on solar and renewable energy, it begins by explaining the need for alternative energy sources.  However, it goes way beyond trite statements about dependence on foreign oil and 'solar/renewable energy is good, fossil fuels are bad' to present to the reader the key concepts, issues, and challenges surrounding solar energy.  McDaniels contextualizes solar energy not only with fossil fuels and other renewable energy sources, but also within the global social, political and economic framework.  McDaniels also does an excellent job of explaining complex ideas in very a simple, straightforward manner, and his use of copious examples, analogy and allegory serve to reinforce his points.  He also does a first-rate job of explaining what energy is, and devotes a separate chapter to the examination of all non-solar energy resources, highlighting the advantages and disadvantages of each.  McDaniels also gives a very detailed history of solar energy, and follows the development of solar technology from the passive architecture of ancient Rome and Greece, onward to the development of solar engines, cookers, and boilers over the last three hundred years, to the more recent developments of solar homes, photovoltaics, and solar space heating.  <br />For the more technically inclined, he devotes one chapter each to the sun, solar radiation, passive solar applications and the methods of capturing solar energy.  He also adds brief but highly readable chapters on active solar space and water heating, solar thermal power, and photovoltaic conversion.  Although the book's main focus is the conversion of solar energy to heat energy, the reader learns inconcise language the basic concepts and principles behing solar energy conversion technologies.  However, do not allow the sparse equations and Greek letters scattered throughout each chapter to scare you off- McDaniels graciously gives the less mathematically inclined among us brief, easily understandable explanations of all the math involved.<br />The book also has a few (but unfortunately not enough) example problems in some chapters, study problems and references for further reading at the end of each chapter and plenty of diagrams, charts and pictures of a variety of solar power machines.  However, all of the pictures and diagrams are in black and white, and a revised edition may be necessary to discuss advances in photovoltaics.  Furthermore, since most of the research in the solar energy area took place in the mid seventies and mid-eighties, more recent examples of research work and ongoing demonstration projects, as well as more contemporary references  should also be included in the revised edition.<br />In addition, this book is most likely the least imposing and intimidating textbook on solar energy and its applications circulating on the market today.  It is also a very readable, even-handed, and informative text.  Finally, the ultimate strength of this book is its accessibility to many types of people, from high school and college students to practicing engineers and scientists, as well as inquisitive lay people.  If you have access to McDaniels' text, then you truly have a literary and scientific gem in the palm of your hand.	2001-03-01
US	52421621	R27Y0QKDWUHYKE	0670869376	369949860	Medicine Quest: In Search of Nature's Healing Secrets	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Bio-prospecting... or Bio-piracy?	Dr. Plotkin's exciting new book recounts the search for new medicines in previously undocumented plant, animal, and microbial species in places both familiar, fascinating and foreign.  With a near infinite amount of skill, passion, and knowledge, Dr. Plotkin gives the reader a glimpse of the new frontier of medicine and pharmacy that is at once both fascinating and horrifying.<br />Medicine Quest begins by graphically demonstrating the devastation and horror that diseases such as diabetes and cancer wreak upon unfortunate souls.  It then leads into the possibility of new hope for cures for this and other Western ailments.  Several chapters in the book detail at length the promise potential, and reality of 'bio-prospecting'- or the exploration of diverse environments for novel molecules with beneficial biological and medicinal activity.<br />Dr. Plotkin takes the reader on a fascinating journey encompassing many unusual aspects of the natural pharmacopoeia.  He shows the reader how Western medicine has been and continues to be more dependent on natural products than medical professionals and drug companies would normally like us to believe.  Throughout the book, Dr. Plotkin relates many advances in this new frontier with a mix of jaded idealism and practical honesty that is both refreshing and alarming.<br />His yarn is refreshing because at no point is the reader subjected to a sales pitch or wild claims about the efficacy of natural products.  Nowhere in the text is there a comparison of which medicine is better- natural vs. synthetic, Western vs. Eastern, modern vs. shamanistic.  This is so because he takes as given that many of our advances in chemical therapeutics take nature as their cue and foundation.  He shows us how many researchers and drug companies are using naturally occuring molecules as a basis for developing new and more powerful drugs to combat a variety aches, pains, and diseases.<br />Dr. Plotkin's book is also alarming because it underscores thereal crisis in modern medicine today.  In vignets such as 'A Poison for Your Pain', he shows how Western medicine has been reduced to using extremely toxic poisons to cure chronic pain.  Dr. Plotkin also points out how greed, fear, and desperation are driving the merging of the knowledge of the shaman with the powerful tools of bio-technology.  Dr. Plotkin makes no bones about saving the rainforest and other natural habitats solely for the possibility  of profitable bio-prospecting (which many view as a polite way of saying the plunder of diverse genetic resources).  Reading Medicine Quest begs the question from the concerned environmentalist and intelligent lay-person: once the biological treasures of the rain forest have been thorougly mined, and the knowledge of the medicine man completely tapped, what real committment will there be to saving and preserving endangered and undiscovered species and habitats?  The very real danger here is that using the tools of modern bio-technology, companies only need small amounts of specimens, be it animals, plants, microbes or a molecular extract from any of the three, to make large quantities of chemicals of medicinal and commercial interest.  Once this is achieved, what need will there be to protect the species and habitats from which these molecules came?<br />In a very real sense, with this and other books like it, we have gone from outright ridicule of the shaman and his or her medical practice to an all-out, selfish parasitism of such knowledge.  The shaman, until recently, was often dismissed by Europe and the West as a quack.  Now the medicine man is being rapidly and conveniently reinvented as a knowledgeable mystic and healer in a sort of New Age version of the Noble Savage.  As such, Medicine Quest gives the reader not only a glimpse of forthcoming breakthroughs from Mother Nature's bountiful pharmacopoiea, but also a shocking glimpse in the crisis, desperation, and moral and cultural depravity of Western medicine.	2001-01-23
US	52421621	RHC5V0IK8UH0E	0674002202	175866747	A Fly for the Prosecution: How Insect Evidence Helps Solve Crimes	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Don't Read It While Eating!	I initially picked up the book after an interview Dr. Goff gave on NPR's Fresh Air piqued my interest.  The book is at once a macabre and fascinating read.  Dr. Goff succeeds in being detached while relating some very sordid, horrifying accounts in a very easy to read fashion.  My only mistake was reading this book while eating at a Japanese restaurant.  Rest assured, like me, after reading this book, you will never look at flies, or food, the same way again (even now, I often wonder where flies I see about have previously been before).<br />Part true crime, part science fact, this book sheds light on an interesting, growing, and increasingly important area of criminology.  Similar in fashion to the techniques depicted in the book, The Silence of the Lambs, this book gives an in-depth treatment of the way insects have been used not only to determine the time of death, but also solve crimes.<br />I found the history of the field of forensic entomology, which easily goes back some one hundred years, to be quite fascinating.  Dr. Goff also relates to the reader some of the ways fly larvae can potentially be used for the benefit of the living, such as the medicinal uses of wound cleaning and anti-coagulant properties of larvae.<br />Moreover, I was also touched by the compassion Dr. Goff has for the victims, both living and dead, of violent crime.  To do the kind of work he does requires a certain amount of cold detachment (otherwise many could not do it), yet Dr. Goff never forgets that the victims were once human beings.  As such, though he has understandably been the subject of more than a few TV dramas, he himself does not try to sensationalize his work.  In addition to relating the horrific and sordid, he also gives the reader  a hefty dose of the mundane, tedious, and frustrating, as he relates the red tape involved in doing his experiments and the often annoying complications of being involved in all facets of a murder investigation.<br />This is a fascinating read.  Dr. Goff has so captivated me that I am thinking of enrolling in the forensic entomology class offered at UC Davis in the spring, if my stomach can stand it!	2000-12-26
US	52421621	R10QVNRUI622WW	0930180127	153233844	Growing Wild Mushrooms: A Complete Guide to Cultivating Edible and Hallucinogenic Mushrooms	Books	2	54	57	N	Y	Not Quite Worth The Price	Apparently, this book was written to cater to those interested in hallucinogenic fungi.  I initially bought this book in the hopes that it would teach me how to set up a cultivation operation focused primarily on edible, gourmet mushrooms.  What I got instead was a poorly organized book rife with errors.  The text has almost nothing to say about growing edible mushrooms.  Rather, it is basically little more than a souped-up underground manual for the cultivation of hallucinogenic or so-called 'magic' mushrooms.<br />To demonstrate how erroneous this book is, the author begins the book by saying that fungi are plants!  As any good student of biology knows, fungi lack chlorophyll, thus can not be considered plants, and occupy their own, separate kingdom.  These and other gross errors throughout the text make it unfit as a starting point for those interested in mushroom cultivation.<br />The book is poorly organized, and places way too much emphasis on the psilocybe mushrooms, with passing reference to the cultivation of Pleurotus (oyster) mushrooms.  In addition to some gratuitous color photos of a variety of Psilocybe mushrooms, and a few poorly placed black and white photos, this unremarkable book comes without an index, references, or supplementary materials.  Furthermore, for the money you spend, you will not get much more than eighty six pages devoted to terse methods for locating, identifying, and cultivating the Psilocybe mushrooms (and this even is at a very low level).  <br />The title of this book should actually be: 'Growing Hallucinogenic Mushrooms'.  For those interested in Psilocybe mushrooms, this book may serve as an adequate reference.  For individuals interested in the edible and gourmet mushrooms, a good starting point is Paul Stamets' utilitarian book 'The Mushroom Cultivator' and his comprehensive, though sometimes off-beat 'Growing Gourmet and Medicinal Mushrooms'.	2000-12-26
US	52421621	R1RLYBCGNJYVJ0	0898798787	409370277	1999 Guide to Literary Agents: 500 Agents Who Sell What You Write	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Indispensable for authors with a finished manuscript in hand	I got the 1999 copy of this incredible guide from a friend who is currently writing her own non-fiction book.  It is an incredible resource for both the aspiring and the accomplished writer.  Of course, the listings of agents will change from year to year, but what is most useful about this guide is its articles on agents and the publishing industry.  The authors have also done a very good job of including a list of helpful resources and organizations for writers of all stripes.  <br />However, this book is most useful to those have a finished manuscript in hand, and want to get it in print.  Aspiring writers like myself do learn from this volume how not to get taken by unscrupulous literary agents.  We also learn what role(s) the agent plays, and we also learn what gets the agent's attention.<br />&quot;Forewarned is fore-armed&quot;, said a wise man a long time ago.  This guide and its later volumes can teach intrepid writers a lot.  For the aspiring author, two other books along these lines that are worthwhile reads are Michael Larsen's How to Write a Book Proposal and Guide to Literary Agents.	2000-11-21
US	52421621	R31HZKGPKLJWXQ	0471308226	886082522	Forest Ecology	Books	3	31	43	N	N	Not a good book for students of forest ecology	This book is the required text for a class on trees and forests that I am currently taking at UC Davis.  It is an imposing text and reads much like a journal of ecology.  It is far from a good study aid for undergrads and grad students in forest ecology.  However, given its copious literature citations, it could easily serve as a reference text for an advanced undergraduate course or graduate seminar.<br />The book comes full of graphs, charts and pictures, but much of it is superfluous.  Key terms and concepts are not fully explained for initiates, a glossary of terms is non-existent for quick reference, and brief, detailed summaries of each chapter are not provided at the end of each chapter for time-pressed students.  The book also contains numerous photographs of forest stands, maps, diagrams, and charts; however, because none of these are in color, they lose much of their visual impact, detail and valuable utility.  Furthermore, there are no study questions at the end of each chapter for exam preparation.  As such, initiates to forestry or landscape ecology looking for a good introduction to the field are pretty much out of luck.<br />Although the book has gone through four editions, it is still quite far from being a good textbook.  In addition to the above mentioned comments, the writing style needs to be tighter.  However, negatives aside, teachers and educators looking for examples of many of the concepts in forest ecology for use in class discussions will find this an invaluable text.	2000-11-16
US	52421621	RNHMVYVLQTQ8H	0946688494	834214849	Running a Biogas Program: A Handbook	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Good Balance Between the Technical, Economic and Cultural	David Fulford has written an outstanding text on the advantages and challenges of running a biogas programme in a third world country.  Mr. Fulford's text outlines the myriad applications that biogas plants can perform, and demonstrates the practical utility of this renewable energy resource.  Many people, from bureaucrats to engineers, as well as the concerned and proactive layperson, can learn a great deal from this volume.  <br />The text contains twelve chapters and five appendices, and includes a handy glossary for the novice and a very well researched bibliography.  Although the book was first published in 1988, it manages to give the reader a sense of what it takes to organize and administer a biogas program in a third world country.  Many of the issues raised in the book are still relevant today.  The first three chapters set the stage for biogas programs in lesser developed and developing countries by outlining the reasons for launching a biogas program and detailing the operation and management of biogas programs.  In particular, the second chapter uses examples of national biogas programs in Asia, particularly India, Nepal, Tibet and China, and demonstrates the management lessons to be learned from each country's experience.<br />Chapters four through eight outline the theory and practice of biogas digester operation and management.  Starting with how and why biogas is produced, the reader is introduced to various anaerobic (biogas) digester designs and ultimately ways in which the biogas can be harnessed and utilized.  Every aspect of biogas production, from the procurement of materials for the construction of primary and secondary equipment to troubleshooting problems in operation, is rigorously and tersely explained.<br />For the cost conscious bureaucrat or NGO worker, chapter nine presents the economics of a biogas plant.  Here the reader learns of the possible applications of biogas, which types of biogas applications are the most economical, and ways of structuring the financing of biogas projects so that they are affordable for rural users.  Mr. Fulford demonstrates with detailed calculations and copious anecdotal experience that biogas for use in irrigation and milling in a rural setting is the most practical and economical.<br />Chapter ten is largely devoted to the topic of community biogas programs.  Because biogas plants are far too expensive for any one rural inhabitant, Fulford argues that the best way to implement a biogas program is to have a community of individuals come together and finance, build and operate the biogas plant.  To his credit, Fulford goes on to show the advantages and challenges (many of them cultural and economic) to such an approach with actual case studies.  Chapter eleven stresses the need for an active, continuous research and development program at the regional and national level which can provide ongoing technical support and transfer technical breakthroughs and lower cost technologies to rural users.  Finally, chapter twelve delves into the thorny issue of the politics surrounding biogas, and cites the ambivalent committment of national governments and international development organizations to the provision of both cheap power and economic independence to third world rural inhabitants.<br />The appendices offer detailed information on the scientific theory underlying biogas digestion and the economic assumptions used to determine if a biogas plant is worthwhile for a given situation.  The appendices also provide instructions on the construction of several types of biogas plants and secondary equipment, and some handy information on establishing a workable regional and national research and development program in biogas for lesser developed countries.<br />On the plus side, the book comes full of charts, diagrams, graphs and tables containing a plethora of useful information.  Moreover, the book's major strength is its ability to demonstrate for the reader what works and what doesn't, all with a great sensitivity to cultural nuances.  However, one weakness of the book is its lack of examples  or case studies of biogas applications in African and Latin American nations, two regions of the world which could really benefit from such technology.  <br />While the book may not offer much insight into running a biogas program in a first world nation, it does offer many good technical, economic, and cultural rules of thumb that can be applied in any setting.  Readers who have an interest in renewable resources and renewable energy can learn much from this book.	2000-11-14
US	52421621	R3COF6QKW2K3R1	091758225X	872446909	The Carbohydrate Economy: Making Chemicals and Industrial Materials from Plant Matter	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Promise and Potential- But No Clear Path to Profit	The authors of The Carbohydrate Economy present us with an interesting premise.  Their basic argument, the use of lignocellulosic materials for the production of a variety of commodity and specialty chemicals that we frequently use, is very attractive from both an environmental and an economic standpoint.  Bio-based chemicals have the potential to be far easier on the environment, and the use of municipal, industrial and agricultural organic waste for chemicals production could potentially provide new revenue streams for agriculture and industry.  Yet, their premise falls short, as much of it is sadly promise and 'potential'.<br />Unfortunately, as much as we would like to replace petrochemicals with bio-based products, the fact remains that cellulose is highly recalcitrant to conversion.  This is in turn makes it difficult and costly to make value added products in sufficient quantities to turn a profit.  <br />In their defense, Morris and Ahmed have demonstrated how America and the industrialized world have evolved from bio-centric chemicals production into coal based chemicals production and finally to the modern petrochemicals production methods.  Morris and Ahmed also give a couple of examples in their groundbreaking text of bio-based chemicals that have made inroads into the heavily dominated petrochemicals markets.  While it may be possible to replace some of the petrochemicals we use frequently today with bio-based chemicals, the grim reality is that unless industrialized nations adopt a radically different lifestyle, the legacy of the petrochemicals age will haunt us well into the future.<br />Although much has been done to make the 'Carbohydrate Economy' a reality, we are unfortunately a long way from the goal of establishing a strong economy based upon renewable and sustainable agricultural methods.  However, all hope is not lost- current research into bio-based chemicals production is gaining ground, albeit very slowly, and we may yet see in the not-too-distant future low cost, environmentaly friendly alternatives for some of the petrochemical products that we use today.<br />With this seminal work, Morris and Ahmed have given us a glimpse of the possible.  All that remains now is the path to profitability.	2000-11-14
US	52421621	R26HKQPV133EM1	0813114799	871762286	Energy From Alcohol: The Brazilian Experience	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A good introduction to an ambitious program	Energy From Alcohol chronicles the early attempt of the Brazilian government to wean themselves from dependence on imported oil via a bold strategy of domestically producing alcohol from agricultural crops, primarily sugarcane.  Although this was an ambitious and ultimately futile attempt for a developing nation to undertake, the Brazilian experience, then and now, did impart useful lessons for other nations, both developing and industrialized, which seek to optimally use the domestic resources available to them.<br />The book begins with an introduction that puts forth the reasons behind Brazil's bioethanol push.  Brazil, a large, equatorial nation, has long had a substantial agricultural base, and has sought to use biomass as a means to achieve a high degree of economic independence and a modicum of energy security.  The authors of the book wanted to impart the lessons learned in the early stages of the Brazilian bioethanol program, in the hopes that other developing nations would follow their lead.<br />The greater book is organized into ten highly readable chapters covering everything from the various ways in which ethanol can be made to the history, organization, objectives and terse economics of the Brazilian ethanol economy.  It turns out that Brazil has a very long history in ethanol production, and only in the last twenty-five years or so has the country seriously pursued the production of ethanol for large-scale fuel consumption.  <br />From the book, we learn that Brazil is in many ways a technological pioneer and innovator (something infrequently associated with a developing country), from its long history of using ethanol as a transportation fuel to its continuous improvements in the processes associated with ethanol production.  The first two chapters of the book explain the how and the why of ethanol in Brazil, and deftly lay out the reasons and the natural resources that could be utilized in large scale ethanol production in Brazil.  The third chapter explains the bureaucratic organization and the political forces behind the Brazilian bioethanol program.  Political and govermental forces would later become two of the chief obstacles to the subsequent expansion of bioethanol in Brazil.  Chapters four through six impart a general introduction to the ethanol production process and discuss the perceived benefits, largely environmental, of fuel ethanol.  Chapter seven dredges up the old dichotomy of crops for food or fuel, and discusses the environmental impacts that large scale bioethanol production can have.  Chapter eight tries to make a case for the lesser developed countries to utilize a part of their agricultural production for bioethanol synthesis.<br />Chapter nine takes a look at the future of bioethanol in Brazil, and imparts a rather ominous outlook. The book, written in the early eighties during the Brazilian bioethanol industry's infancy, cites a host of barriers to fuel ethanol, such as public indifference, producer concentration within the existing industry, a tortoise-like bureaucracy, among others.  The tenth and final chapter presented an update on the situation as of 1982, a recessionary period in Brazil and the world.  Even then, their ambitious program was running into problems, notably stalled growth, feedstock supply disruptions, capacity constraints and the like, but the authors remained optimistic nonetheless.<br />If anything, given the way this unprecedented experiment has turned out, this book definitely serves as a blueprint, as well as a cautionary tale for those who advocate the use of agricultural crops for the production of fuels and chemicals.  In addition, the text has considerable value as an introductory reference on bioethanol production.  However, it may be difficult for those in the temperate nations to find useful lessons from the Brazilian experience, given that the country has many climatic and natural resource advantages, such as abundant sunlight and rainfall, good soils,excellent climate, and abundant natural resources.  Finally, given Brazil's large land mass and small population, its failure to make a bioethanol program using an ideal sugar source function from a technical standpoint really gives a sense of foreboding to other attempts underway globally using lignocellulose for large scale ethanol production.<br />Overall, this book is an overview of a variety of topics surrounding bioethanol, from policy to technology to economics and environment.  Those readers who are more interested in up to date information about bioethanol technology may want to read CE Wyman's, Handbook on Bioethanol: Production and Utilization.	2000-11-02
US	52421621	R32TKJ359UGYIA	091417102X	740292372	Chlorella: The Emerald Food	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Good, though dated, background information on Chlorella	This text is a fast and enjoyable read that can be done in two hours or less.  The book presents a brief summary of previous research on Chlorella, citing its possible benefits, in a very useful and non-technical manner.  However, it reads more like two very terse, informative pamphlets strung together than a regular full blown text.  <br />The text is a single volume divided into two books- Book I and Book II.  Book I deals with the proposed health benefits of Chlorella, while Book II covers research into this particular algae done over a period covering the late sixties to the early eighties.  Book I gives a good history and definition of Chlorella, and elaborates at length about its nutritional composition (amino acid, fatty acid, and vitamin &amp; mineral content)and unique attributes; however, it does not make any useful comparisons between Chlorella and other beneficial foodstuffs.  Book I also explains how best to use Chlorella, and provides several recipes to help the reader get started in cooking with Chlorella.  In addition, two of the companies mentioned in the first book, the Sun Chlorella Company, (the Japanese pioneer in Chlorella cultivation and marketing) and Earthrise Farms, (located in Southern California) continue do a brisk business in this green algae both nationally and internationally.<br />Book II provides a good summary of Chlorella research up to about 1980 or so as well as a layman's introduction to the field of algae cultivation research. As such, given its 1984 publication date, the book is dated but still relevant.  Book II also introduces most of the possible applications of Chlorella, from its use as a food supplement and health food to its potential use in wastewater treatment and purification and space travel.  One particular topic in the second book, Chlorella and the elimination of world hunger, harks back to research performed in the sixties and seventies on what came to be known as Single Cell Protein (SCP).  British, Australianand Kiwi fans of Qourn, Marmite and Vegemite, products consisting mainly of cultured yeast/fungi, are actually eating a form of SCP.  Book II puts forth some interesting ideas which have unfortunately not been followed up since the mid-eighties, for one reason or another.  Finally, both sections of the book include a fairly broad and detailed bibliography so that the more curious or critical reader can follow up on Chlorella on his or her own.<br />The book does have a couple of minor drawbacks.  Besides the dated nature of the material, Book I in particular needs a more stringent round of editing.  Nonetheless the text still manages to be readable and informative.  Second, though Book I does give a good summary of the positives of Chlorella use, Book II does not do the same.  The reader has to make a mental list of the positives and negatives associated with Chlorella cultivation (and microalgae cultivation in general) on his or her own.<br />Overall, this is a great introductory text for the curious or the informed layperson as well as those students having an interest in the algae and possessing some background in the biosciences.  I personally hope that the authors follow up with an updated version which includes a summary of more recent research.	2000-10-28
US	52421621	R1575S83N6OHGL	0887306187	19500849	Innovation and Entrepreneurship	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Lays down the foundation for serious entrepreneurship	With the publication of this book, which goes all the way back to the  mid-eighties, Drucker has set the standard for serious entrepreneurship.   Drucker tells the reader that innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in  hand, and that both innovation and entrepreneurship can be practiced by  large and small companies.<br />Using a plethora of available case studies,  Drucker shows how many companies large and small, known and unknown, have  successfully implemented entrepreneurial practices.  Drucker tells the  reader how to go about implementing an entrepreneurial culture, and more  importantly, what not to do when trying to develop such an outlook and  culture in the organization.  <br />Drucker identifies seven sources of  innovation, and explains very clearly how to go about sowing the seeds of  and nurturing an innovation.  He then lays down the principles of  entrepreneurship, and gives the reader some entrepreneurial strategies.   Throughout the text, he gives both the pluses and the minuses of his  ideas.<br />This book, first published in 1985, was way ahead of the curve.   It literally predicted the profound effects of the IT revolution, coined  the concept of lifelong learning, and identified the pivotal role of sound  managerial practices in entrepreneurship and the new venture.  Those of us  who are active participants in the 'New Economy' should sit up and take  notice of this book.<br />These days, it is very fashionable to call oneself  an 'entrepreneur', but only Drucker has a clear concept of what an  entrepreneur really is.  Any person who wants to practice serious  entrepreneurship, whether they work for a big company or are involved in a  new venture, must read this book.	2000-08-30
US	52421621	R34MVB47VK13OH	0374524777	843669949	Getting What You Came For: The Smart Student's Guide to Earning an M.A. or a Ph.D.	Books	5	40	45	N	Y	Look very carefully before you leap!	One needs three things to succeed in any graduate program, and they are an interesting topic for research, the necessary facilities and resources to pursue the topic, and finally the money to pursue the topic of interest.   Although I agree with Peters when he says that one should attend grad  school only if one needs an advanced degree for career advancement, he  neglected to mention that having an interesting, doable topic for your  research can make the difference between a heavenly or hellish grad school  experience.<br />In twenty-four highly detailed, readable, and often (darkly)  humorous chapters, Peters shows the reader an excellent way to play the  academic game as a traditional graduate student.  Bear in mind, however,  that there are other options to obtaining the graduate degree.  When  considering the decision to obtain a graduate degree, one can choose from a  variety of colleges and universities.  Furthermore, one can obtain an  advanced degree in any number of ways, thanks to advances in technology and  a changing social and corporate climate.  In today's red-hot economy, many  companies offer continuing education for free, and will even foot the bill  for an advanced degree to retain workers.  Rather than quitting a good job  to attend grad school and put up with a lot of stress and abuse for the  prospect of making peanuts (if you're lucky enough to get funded) and an  uncertain career future, one could, depending on the field of study, work  while going to school.  That way, you get the education without sacrificing  the salary, experience, promotions, networking opportunies and career  contacts.  By paying for your degree yourself or  having your employer pay  for it for you, you more often than not get a better education, and you  most certainly avoid all of the abuse and exploitation which unfortunately  pervades many grad schools (Peters is absolutely right here).   <br />This  four hundred page book is designed to help the traditional graduate student  get through the academic meat-grinder with a minimum of physical, mental,  and emotional turmoil.  The first three chapters of the book give you a  good idea of what you are really up against, and the picture really is not  pretty.  The fourth chapter helps one to decide whether or not to take a  break before going to graduate school, and if you do, what sort of job to  take to increase your chances of getting into grad school.  <br />Chapters  five through eight offer a lot of extremely useful information on the grad  school admissions process and good ways to get accepted by the school of  your choice.  Chapter nine gives a brilliant, very detailed, though a bit  dated discussion of the most important concern among grad students-  financial support for grad study.<br />Chapters ten and eleven give a brief  background and history on the master's and doctorate degrees.  Chapters 12  through 19 go through organization, time management for grad students, and  selecting, completing, writing and defending a thesis topic.  Chapter 20  deals with oral presentations, and being the bread and butter of academic  life, should have come before the chapters dealing with the thesis.   <br />Chapters 21 and 22 talk about coping skills specifically for graduate  students, and emphasize the importance of having a life- something many  grad students simply do not have.  <br />Chapter 23 gives very general advice  to students who do not happen to be white and male- most of this  information can be skipped, as it is not very helpful.  The 24th and final  chapter outlines some practical steps to landing a job on your own, and  covers such things as resume preparation, the informational interview, and  optimizing the use of  various resources to find a position worth  having.<br />Peters also appends a couple of chapters on buying a good  computer and useful education related web addresses, both of which may be  of some use but are pretty much dated given the speed at whichthings  change in the computer and internet space.  Finally, he includes a useful  bibliography which contains a plethora of good references for further  reading.<br />If anything, this book serves as a sobering eye-opener for those  who are either thinking about making the plunge, or have made the plunge.   Keep in mind that some schools are changing for the better by offering grad  students other experiences and career options (though not fast enough)  outside of research and academe, and some are getting worse.  A briefer,  blunter treatment of much of the material in this book can be found in P J  Feibelman's book, 'A PhD Is Not Enough'.	2000-05-23
US	52421621	RKVXT28XVPWF6	0312970129	332833677	If Loving You is Wrong	Books	4	27	30	N	N	The truth really is stranger than fiction	Mark Twain once said, &quot;Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; Truth isn't.&quot;  Olsen's book lends strong support to this timeless statement.<br />This book lays out in sad and shocking detail how a grown woman with four kids badly  in need of support  sexually entices, entangles, and manipulates an  unremarkable boy who is not much older than her oldest son.  Much has been  made of this high shock-value, fit-for-the-tabloids case, but when all is  said and done, we are left with a miserable, pathetic wretch of a woman who  manages to ruin not only her own life, but also those closest to her.<br />At  first glance, this book is a fluff read and a classic example of tabloid  journalism.  However, those of us who can put our outrage, disgust and  contempt aside will find that the book presents us with a very interesting  criminal psychological profile.  It is most likely the best representation  of how a disturbed mind can distort reality to his or her unconscious,  selfish and depraved desires- and how public opinion can further add to  such delusions.  Olsen's thinly veiled attempt to portray  Ms. Letourneau  as 'a victim of circumstance' falls flat once the various sordid details of  the book are clearly laid out.<br />The book gives good background information  on Mary, Vili, her youthful, juvenille victim/lover, and other major and  minor players.  Olsen presents a cohesive story in the beginning,  but the  yarn slowly devolves into anecdotal hearsay towards the middle.  Early on  in the book, we learn of Mary's wrongfully and inappropriately ascribed  involvement in the drowning death of her younger brother when she was a  child, her ultra-conservative, philandering, Republican father, and her  hasty, forced marriage due to an unplanned pregnancy to her hardworking but  philandering husband.  One the one hand, all of these things are thrown out  as excuses for her pathological behavior; however, thenet result of this  and other background information on Mary only served to demonstrate that  she spent a little more than three decades preparing to become the  reproachable and pathetic person she is today.  Much of what we learn in  the book comes from friends, associates, and co-workers of Mary- almost all  of them are uncommonly and overwhelmingly sympathetic to her plight.<br />What  was truly scary about this tale was that folks close to and acquainted with  her knew that something was amiss, yet did not come forward.  Starting from  the middle of the book, folks go from not knowing or suspecting anything to  ultimately knowing all along- and offering various sordid recollections.   Those involved with Mary who were truly appalled and outraged by her  behavior, however central or tangential they were, were a conspicuous  minority.<br />Although the incorrigible anti-heroine of this book is  described as a 'magnetic personality' by all close to her, she is in fact a  master manipulator who managed to dupe friends, loved ones, co-workers and  supporters.  Her story is not a tragic error in judgement, but a carefully  planned, delusional mistake.  She comes across not as the tragic figure  many see her as, but as a thoroughly selfish, materialistic, moneyed  Jezebel.  She and her supporters poetically describe her illicit liaison as  a 'great love', 'soul mates' united, or worse, 'Romeo and Juliet' (at least  those two died- these people linger around to torment us with their shame).   This case goes far beyond being an American tragedy and becomes without a  doubt an American shame.       <br />With this book, trailer trash has truly  descended to a new low.  If you are looking for shock value and sexual  innuendo, this case and Olsen's skillful writing clearly deliver.	2000-05-01
US	52421621	R31BGMZWTGYA9U	0886776139	330075070	Specters of the Dawn (Daw collectors no. 959 ) (Moreau, Bk. 3)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A great leading lady- though not on the same level as Nohar	Let's see. We've got a foul-mouthed, Spanish speaking,anthropomorphic rabbit, a hypocritical politician, a burn-out, psychocop, a Japanese techno-hacker, and let's not forget those aliens- allset in a near future where genetically engineered animals are the norm.  Swann delivers some truly unique and entertaining stuff!<br />The story is set in a futuristic but recognizable San Francisco and follows the exploits of Angelica, an anthropomorphic rabbit of South American extraction.  Her kind were bred for lightning fast speed and used as light infantry in one of the wars used as background in the book.  It turns out that Angelica is the running buddy of everyone's favorite butt-kicking tiger- Nohar Rajasthan.  Angelica's working as a waitress in a dive run by an even crappier human, and one day runs afoul of some customers.  A sly, debonair fox with a big gun comes to the rescue, and one thing leads to another, and Angelica is suddenly imagining what the kids will look like.  Then suddenly, the fox is killed under gruesome and mysterious circumstances, and Angelica is determined to find out who killed him, and why.<br />The book is a combination of mystery and action, with some thrills and aliens thrown in to boot.  Contrary to all logic, Swann makes it work, and throws in some compelling characters and humor too.  The plot twists and the action will keep you turning the pages, and the ending will catch you totally off guard.<br />This book, though not nearly as good as Forests of the Night or Fearful Symmetries (no one compares to Nohar and his trusty Vind), has some interesting moments.  It will entertain fans of action, mystery and sci-fi simultaneously.  If you can however, read Forests of the Night first to get some background on Angelica, then read this book.<br />Find a quiet place, a nice chair, a good drink, and sit back and enjoy this one slowly- Angelica will grow on you and eventually, you'll cheer her on.  END	2000-04-20
US	52421621	R3AQUQ4BITLN8H	0201626632	857828977	A PhD Is Not Enough: A Guide To Survival In Science	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Getting there SHOULD be half the fun	I have just begun a PhD program in engineering, and find the sobering wisdom contained in this book to be invaluable.  The book is actually aimed at freshly minted PhDs, and serves to guide them as they plot an often  precarious career in science and/or engineering.  Despite this, the book  contains a lot of advice that graduate students at the beginning or the  middle of their program will find  extremely useful.  Feibelman is able to  say in little over one hundred pages what most academic advisors almost  always do not (and often purposely will not) get around to saying.<br />The  first chapter of the book starts out with some scary examples of how  freshly minted PhD holders quickly go wrong.  The second chapter of the  book gives some very practical advice on how to choose the right advisor  for you- an often repeated mistake many graduate students make (including  myself).  The advice in the second chapter serves grad students and post  docs equally well, and could almost be interchangeable.  <br />The third and  fourth chapters are about the bread and butter of a scientist's life- being  able to give successful talks and writing compelling, useful publications.   Feibelman tells us here that it is OK to regurgitate known material, to  write your research publication as if you were telling a story, and most  importantly, to make small, meaningful contributions.<br />Chapters five and  six of the book discuss choosing the right career path after getting the  sheepskin and how to shine in your job interviews, respectively.   Competition is stiff in academia for positions, as we all know, and the  situation is only marginally better in government and corporate labs, but  Feibelman gives the new PhD some sound advice.  He weighs in on the pluses  and minuses of a career path in academe, industry and government, and  implores job seekers to be focused, build off of their skills, and know  what is expected of prospective hires.  <br />Finally, chapters seven and  eight are about grantsmanship and establishing a research program.       Feibelman astutely argues that you should draft your proposals to funding  agencies well before you begin your first career position.  Most people  coming out of graduate school will have very little time to even think  about what kind of research to do and even less time to plan it out and  write the necessary proposals because of the demands and the constraints  placed upon them by their jobs- making the aforementioned tip extremely  useful.  Feibelman also emphasizes in these chapters the importance of  focusing in on small, well-defined projects and completing them.<br />The  major weakness of this book is that Feibelman does not tell the reader to  choose the type of projects that are interesting to him or her.  A career  in science and engineering, which may start  in graduate school, should be  interesting and fun.  The book also fails to address the changing face of  science- namely issues of globalization, the corporate influence on  university research, and the increasing diversity to be found in grad  student and post doc populations (women, minorities, and foreign  nationals).  <br />No one book can tell you the keys to personal satisfaction  or career success, but this handy little volume does give those just  starting out, like me, some excellent tips.  In general, a student can not  go too far wrong when he or she has good mentoring, stable funding, and  most importantly, sound advising.<br />Beginning and continuing graduate  students may find helpful hints in the book Getting What You Came For by  Robert L. Peters.	2000-03-06
US	52421621	R8GW0AT6W2BC8	0201626632	857828977	A PhD Is Not Enough: A Guide To Survival In Science	Books	5	96	98	N	N	Getting there SHOULD be half the fun	I have just begun a PhD program in engineering, and find the sobering wisdom contained in this book to be invaluable.  The book is actually aimed at freshly minted PhDs, and serves to guide them as they plot an often  precarious career in science and/or engineering.  Despite this, the book  contains a lot of advice that graduate students at the beginning or the  middle of their program will find  extremely useful.  Feibelman is able to  say in little over one hundred pages what most academic advisors almost  always do not (and often purposely will not) get around to saying.<br />The  first chapter of the book starts out with some scary examples of how  freshly minted PhD holders quickly go wrong.  The second chapter of the  book gives some very practical advice on how to choose the right advisor  for you- an often repeated mistake many graduate students make (including  myself).  The advice in the second chapter serves grad students and post  docs equally well, and could almost be interchangeable.  <br />The third and  fourth chapters are about the bread and butter of a scientist's life- being  able to give successful talks and writing compelling, useful publications.   Feibelman tells us here that it is OK to regurgitate known material, to  write your research publication as if you were telling a story, and most  importantly, to make small, meaningful contributions.<br />Chapters five and  six of the book discuss choosing the right career path after getting the  sheepskin and how to shine in your job interviews, respectively.   Competition is stiff in academia for positions, as we all know, and the  situation is only marginally better in government and corporate labs, but  Feibelman gives the new PhD some sound advice.  He weighs in on the pluses  and minuses of a career path in academe, industry and government, and  implores job seekers to be focused, build off of their skills, and know  what is expected of prospective hires.  <br />Finally, chapters seven and  eight are about grantsmanship and establishing a research program.       Feibelman astutely argues that you should draft your proposals to funding  agencies well before you begin your first career position.  Most people  coming out of graduate school will have very little time to even think  about what kind of research to do and even less time to plan it out and  write the necessary proposals because of the demands and the constraints  placed upon them by their jobs- making the aforementioned tip extremely  useful.  Feibelman also emphasizes in these chapters the importance of  focusing in on small, well-defined projects and completing them.<br />The  major weakness of this book is that Feibelman does not tell the reader to  choose the type of projects that are interesting to him or her.  A career  in science and engineering, which may start  in graduate school, should be  interesting and fun.  The book also fails to address the changing face of  science- namely issues of globalization, the corporate influence on  university research, and the increasing diversity to be found in grad  student and post doc populations (women, minorities, and foreign  nationals).  <br />No one book can tell you the keys to personal satisfaction  or career success, but this handy little volume does give those just  starting out, like me, some excellent tips.  In general, a student can not  go too far wrong when he or she has good mentoring, stable funding, and  most importantly, sound advising.<br />Beginning and continuing graduate  students may find helpful hints in the book Getting What You Came For by  Robert L. Peters.	2000-03-06
US	52421621	R17IQ26ZYWPT1Q	0553571605	136681870	The Widowmaker	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A mildly entertaining, yet fast read	Perhaps I expected too much of the Widowmaker, with its sexy blue-skinned babe and Elfin, mildly effeminate and dashing captain at the helm on the cover. Although I did get interstellar adventure, interplanetary shoot-outs, dramatic,  but awkwardly choreographed fight scenes, and yes, titilating sexual innuendo,  the book ultimately left me a little flat.<br />Although I really did like the set-up  for the ending, the actual sequence of events at the end was kind of abrupt.  I do  like the irony of the main character's downfall using a scantily clad stray tail,  and I did like the scathing cynicism thrown at organized religion, relationships  and politics.<br />Maybe I will check out the second book, and maybe I will not.  One thing is certain, though; the premise is quite intriguing, and perhaps the  story gets tighter in the second book.	1999-10-07
US	52421621	R2P60NJ89LCK43	0130453528	177752947	12 HOUR MBA PROGRAM	Books	5	120	122	N	Y	The Ideal Quick and Dirty MBA Program	If one had to learn common sense in a hurry, then there is no better book for the task than Milo Sobel's The 12 Hour MBA Program.  Dr. Sobel distills in a few hours what MBA grads pay thousands to learn over a two year  period.  Sobel's no-nonsense writing style and easy to understand prose  make this book a thoroughly satisfying read.<br />The style and organization  of the book are excellent.  Dr. Sobel does a very good job of introducing  and summarizing the main points, but does not delve too deeply into any  particular topic.  Though most of the content can be put to immediate use,  some topics, such as queing theory, may not be of much value, while others,  such as new venture information,would be most helpful.<br />In terms of  content, the book presents a lot of useful information.  The first two  chapters give a good treatment of marketing, product management, and  accounting.  The book really pays for itself by the third chapter on human  resources and operations management.  The reader gets fresh insight into  the corporate world, puts the various forms of learning into proper  perspective, and presents the essence of operations management, all with an  eye towards common sense.  The fourth chapter presents an excellent  introduction to statistics for business.  However, the fifth chapter,  economics, contains a few errors, and those who have had a rigorous  economics course will be quick to catch them.  Chapters six, seven and  eight each focus on technology, ethics, and strategy, respectively.   Finally, Dr. Sobel devotes chapter nine to education and career pathing,  and includes an epilogue which encourages the reader to pursue what he  calls the 'everyman's MBA'.<br />The book has two major strengths.  The first  is its no-nonsense approach to a topic that is made out to be too difficult  for mere mortals to comprehend.  The second is its practical perspective on  business, the firm, and most importantly, the individual.  By far the most  useful chapters in the book are those devoted to human resources and career  pathing.  Moreover, after presenting the main MBA topics, without any  hesitation Dr. Sobel asks the reader to consider well if an investment in  time and resources to obtain the MBA is really worth it for oneself.  Dr.  Sobel does provide a good discussion on the pros and cons of getting an  MBA, and strongly encourages the reader to live up to the words of Joseph  Campbell and 'follow your bliss'.<br />Yet, the book does have a few minor  weaknesses.  The first and foremost weakness is that the reader does not  learn the MBA jargon in-depth so that one can hold one's own against the  top ten MBA school spin doctors.  Second, most of the resources Dr. Sobel  points the reader to for further reading are textbooks which may only be  available in many cases at a university library.  Third, in the age of the  internet, he does not provide the web addresses for the organizations that  he lists as contacts- a definite no-no.  Finally, because Dr. Sobel  presents only the bare basics of each topic, advanced readers may find this  book a bit underdone.<br />Dr. Sobel successfully manages to bring up many  interesting topics that one would definitely want to look into further.   Overall, Dr. Sobel has created a fine text, and as such, is definitely  worth putting prominently on one's bookshelf.	1999-07-13
US	52421621	R4SOGPLJE2URI	0028614070	577873874	10 Minute Guide to Accounting for Non-Accountants (10 Minute Guides)	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	A Quick and Dirty Introduction to Accounting	In brief, Dr. Label's 10 Minute Guide... is a godsend for those of us who are 'MBA challenged'.  Written in simple, easy to understand language, the book opens up the world of accounting to those who have no formal training  in business.  The Ten Minute Guide... serves as a useful guide and  reference for those who want to keep their own books, or to better  understand the finances of another business.  <br />Dr. Label skillfully  introduces the four key areas of accounting- GAAP rules, the balance sheet,  the income statement, and the cash flow statement.  For each area, he  painstakingly defines the components that go into each area and the  relationships between the individual components in an area as well as the  relationships between different areas.  He broadens his explanation of each  area by introducing simple to follow examples of their use throughout the  text.  Although most of the book's emphasis is on the accounting required  by sole proprietorships or partnerships, Dr. Label does extend the concepts  to the stock corporation, and devotes two chapters to the analysis of a  corporation's financial statements.<br />In addition, Dr. Label takes the  reader through audits and auditors, the basics of keeping a general  journal, the use of various financial statements for short and long term  analysis, and the use of budgeting in business.  Finally, one chapter  covers some basic information on the internet and accounting (a subject  that is a book unto itself), and Dr. Label thoughtfully provides a  comprehensive and understandable glossary of key terms for quick  reference.<br />Although the book is small, it is packed with a lot of useful  information which is presented in a clear and succinct manner.  It serves  as an excellent springboard into the world of accounting, and provides a  firm basis for understanding financial data and making good judgements  based on such data.  After reading this book, one can safely and  confidently converse with an accountant and walk away with one's wallet  full of cash still in one's pocket.  Imagine that!	1999-07-01
US	52421621	R1I594RV7AFEQQ	0898797713	807601198	How to Write a Book Proposal	Books	5	65	67	N	Y	An Indisputably Useful and Excellent Volume	You know that you are reading a good book when you are laughing out loud as you read it and you can't put it down.  You know that the book is truly good when you find yourself planning your activities around reading it and  sneaking in pages when you are supposed to be working.  And finally, you  know you have found a true gem when, after finishing the book, you smile  knowingly to yourself, full of ideas, and say to yourself, 'I can do this'.   One would never think that non-fiction could have that effect.<br />Michael  Larsen's How to Write a Book Proposal is that kind of book.  Mr. Larsen  goes beyond mere information to give the aspiring new writer inspiration.   Beginners and seasoned professionals will find very useful material in the  book.  Written in an active, easy-going, can-do style, Larsen's positive  outlook and infinite love of the book really comes through.  The reader  will learn in quick, readily understandable succession, what goes into a  book proposal, how to capture and sustain an agent's and editor's interest  interest from the first word, and how to market and promote one's book for  maximum profit.  Useful advice on book proposal writing (advice that works)  is presented throughout the book, as well as samples of various book  proposals to show you exactly how to write the book proposal that sells.   <br />This is, without a doubt, a must-have reference for any writer.	1999-07-01
US	52421621	R272S2KZN6KY0A	0123903602	311051755	Big Bets Gone Bad: Derivatives and Bankruptcy in Orange County. The Largest Municipal Failure in U.S. History	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Profiteering without Prudence or Oversight	Jorion should be commended for his insightful, first-class treatment of this history making event.  Big Bets... is a fast, fluid read that is devoid of technical terms and is written in an active, conversational and  explanatory voice that the typical layman can readily understand.  In this  book, which reads more like gripping fiction, we are treated to an  excellent character sketch of the key culprit in the Orange county  financial fiasco, Robert L. Citron, his rise to power, the environment he  worked in, the exotic financial tools he carelessly wielded, an  unforgettable cast of financial hucksters and ill-advised power wielding  greedy misfits, and the ultimate downfall of the Orange county financial  safety net and its after-effects.<br />From this book, we learn that Robert L.  Citron was head of a large portfolio, had no oversight, and an inflated  ego.  His superiors and fellow investment participants (such as the county  school district) knew full well what he was doing, but allowed him to  continue unsupervised because of his past stellar performance- much of  which was due to pure luck and favorable market conditions.  We also learn  that Citron, much like Nicholas Leeson, the orchestrator of the fall of  Barings, was a financial neophyte.  While on the one hand believing that he  was fully invested in bonds, Citron had taken a heavily leveraged position  in very exotic derivative securities, proving to Jorion's point that he  really did not have a clue as to what he was doing.  <br />We also learn that  Citron (nor the people above him and his investment participants), who had  no real background in finance, did not know the difference between market  price and face value, nor did he know the difference between an option on  an asset and the outright ownership of an asset.  Based on one very bad bet  on the movement of interest rates, Citron fully invested Orange County's  finances in derivative securities that he did not understand at all, and  compounded the problem by leveraging his position (basically using a little  money to borrow a lot of money) to the extreme.<br />After reading this book,  those of us who believe that our investments, from the retirement funds  managed for us by fund advisors and our places of work to our bank accounts  and our kids' education funds, are safe should have our heads examined.   People such as Citron were not financial gurus, that is certain, but as the  more recent derivative led failures at hedge fund Long Term Capital  Management (which included the two Nobel laureates who literally wrote the  book on derivative pricing on its stellar team of rocket scientists) and  Bank of America demonstrate, no one is truly safe.	1999-05-31
US	52421621	R1YSOAYYQQCLI0	9810223331	739199249	Barings Bankruptcy and Financial Derivatives	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	When Egos and Arrogance Run Rampant	Zhang's Barings Bankruptcy presents a workable, though at times dry treatment of the Barings debacle and financial derivatives.  Despite what the web page blurb says, this book only speculates at what caused the  Barings bankruptcy.  Zhang hints at certain things, but does not give us  any real facts beyond what made the headlines throughout the world.<br />At  first glance, the book is organized fairly well.  Starting with the fall of  the bank in early 1995, the first three chapters of the book give some  interesting background on the Barings family and merchant bank. We also learn that at one point, the Barings family was considered to be one of the six great powers of Europe.  In part two of the book, readers who are unfamiliar with exotic financial instruments received a thorough and comprehensive introduction to options, futures, and other exotic derivatives.    Throughout the explanations Zhang employs vivid analogies and clever examples to get his point across.  In part three of the book, Zhang makes a weak though well substantiated attempt to implicate  the Japanese economy as the real culprit and devotes nearly a whole chapter  to explaining the state of the Japanese economy at the time of the  bankruptcy.  Zhang gives us a brief history lesson of the Japanese  political economy and Japanese financial markets, and a snapshot of  Japanese economic and financial activity in and around the first two months  of 1995.<br />   Zhang agrees with such financial scholars as Jorion, author of Big  Bets Gone Bad, that the people who wield these exotic derivative products  are often more dangerous than the products themselves. Here, just as in the  case of Robert L. Citron's key role in the Orange county bankruptcy and the  rocket scientists at the helm of Long Term Capital Management's financial  collapse, this line of reasoning may very well be true.	1999-05-31
US	52421621	RGXGAHTI2H4QX	047113046X	774499853	Literary Agents: What They Do, How They Do It, and How to Find and Work with the Right One for You (WILEY BOOKS FOR WRITERS SERIES)	Books	5	23	27	N	Y	An Indispensable Guide for the Novice and the Professional	I actually met Mr. Larsen once three years ago at a writers' forum held in the summer at the downtown public library in Sacramento, California.  At that time, he gave a presentation which came right out of this book work  word for word.  Other than his penchant for loud clothing, I found him to  be infectious both in person and in written form.  Still, he definitely  managed to keep my attention from beginning to end both in person, and in  his book that I have just finished reading.<br />Mr. Larsen is without a doubt  an excellent writer, and an eternal optimist.  That he loves what he does  comes through crystal clear in his book.  His knowledge of the literary  world is definitely broad and comprehensive, and in reading this book, one  gets the impression that he really knows what he is talking about. This  book actually delivers everything advertised on its jacket, and more. I  especially liked the wit and humor related to the publishing industry that  he liberally sprinkled throughout the book.  Other than what I have just  said, this book is the inspiration that finally got me to get serious about  being a writer.	1999-05-26
US	52421621	R3KD29B2A8HO0T	0874778980	950143915	Making money with your computer at Home	Books	4	126	132	N	Y	Truly a First-Rate Effort	In remarking about her entrepreneurial success, Liz Claiborne once said, 'Start with a low overhead and be willing to do everything yourself'.  While I am very impressed with the comprehensive knowledge that the Edwards  team possesses and conveys on the subject of home business, and the  thoughtful, intelligent organization of their book, I believe that their  thinking falls short in a couple of areas.  <br />The key word for this book  is: outsourcing.  They believe, and are very likely correct, that  outsourcing is the future.  Everything that you or a company would have  done yourself a decade ago you are now outsourcing to others to do for you  today.  They also appear to ignore the fundamental organizational and  economic implications of the world wide web.  The barriers to entry on the  internet are almost non-existent for practical purposes.  Anything that you  can do, someone ten thousand miles away in Rangoon can do, too- most likely  for less.  Outsourcing is touted as giving you more control, allowing you  to work less while giving you more.  However, many who engage in  outsourcing are actually working harder than they were when they held  full-time jobs.  Proximity, or the close location of business to client,  does have its merits, but these are more often weakened rather than  strengthened by computers and the internet.  Outsourcing and proximity can  work for the home business, but they more often work against it.<br />Yet,  this does not mean that the Edwards team did not write an excellent book.   In many ways, this is probably the best book out there for those who are  not one hundred percent technology literate or computer savvy.  Whereever  possible the Edwards team encourages the reader to support and work with  other home business people.  Bluntly speaking, the real selling point of  this book is not its computer aspects, but its ability to prepare the  prospective entrepreneur to carefully consider the market for his or her  product and workwith computers and high technology to do business.<br />The  book is organized into seven thoughtful chapters brimming with information.   As advertised on the cover, the focus of the book is computer centered  home based businesses, and the first chapter is a simple sketch and summary  of one hundred such businesses.  Each summary includes a list of resources  (books, web-sites, and organizations) as well as a basic run-down of the  type of business, its profit potential, the time committment, and start-up  costs.  However, some of the resources cited in the book tend to carry a  high price tag, and are either out of print, out of date, unavailable,  irrelevant to the business described, or not very useful.  Many of the  book's business ideas reflect the increasing subdivision and specialization  occuring in many industries.  Also, some of the business ideas are either  quite related (billing and invoicing, payroll, and bookkeeping- all  subdivisions of accounting) or highly ambiguous (HTML programmer and web  designer, desk top publishing, publishing, and form design service).<br />The  book is good simply because it tells you everything you need to do to be  taken seriously as a business.  One chapter each is devoted to outfitting  your office, getting good phone service, and selecting the best computer  for your home office.  One of their main points is that the telephone is a  very important piece of equipment for the home business, and they strongly  suggest that the entrepreneur have as many lines as possible.  One minor  flaw with the book is that the computer information, though fairly up to  date for a 1997 publishing date, is repeated ad nauseum, and could have  been better presented perhaps as a separate chapter, chart or table listing  the software and hardware needs for the different businesses.<br />Although  some readers may be more advanced than others, overall, there is a lot of  good, straightforward, and practical advice to be found in this book.  The  book is not only thorough, comprehensive and exhaustive, but also addresses  all of the major (and minor) questions of the fledgling entrepreneur  (though not in the order I would have liked).  Aside from the exaggerated  projections of potential profit for the various ventures, this book is  definitely worth reading twice at least. The Edwards should be commended  for producing such a straightforward, hype-free, and first-rate volume.	1999-05-22
US	52421621	RDLOYB5MV48X5	0070329303	853063093	Electronic Selling: Twenty-Three Steps to E-Selling Profits	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Internet Sales and Security in a Nutshell	There is an old adage which says 'never judge a book by its cover'.  Well, I don't know how a book with such an attractive cover could fall so short.  Granted, the writing style is fluid, fast, and highly readable, and the  organization is good; yet the content of Jamison and Gold's treatise on  ecommerce seems to be missing something.  Jamison and Gold do get to the  point quickly in their text, but one has to wonder if there is something  more to the internet and ecommerce than just sales and security as they  boldly assert.<br />Organized into eight light and readable chapters, the book  takes the reader on an in-depth tour of sales and security on the internet  while at the same time introducing other vital areas such as website  creation, maintainance, and promotion.  The first five chapters, each  roughly twenty pages long, are devoted to a skim tour of website  development, marketing and promotion.  By the end of the first chapter, the  reader is thoroughly indoctrinated in all of the obligatory hype and  marketing spin the internet is infamous for, and is encouraged by all means  to jump on the modern incarnation of the American Goldrush.  The second  chapter outlines the internet selling process in twenty three steps, while  chapters three, four and five are devoted to the various processes,  strategies, and tools necessary to implement these twenty three steps.   Chapters six and seven deal with the real meat of the book, sales and  security issues respectively.  Chapter eight profiles what Jamison and Gold  believe to be ecommerce success stories; bear in mind that more than a few  of these companies have yet to show a profit even after several years of  operation.  Four appendices containing useful information, such as a  glossary of key terms, companies that are eager to get other companies on  the eselling bandwagon, online transaction processing companies, and  contact information for Jamison-Gold, round out the book.<br />On the plus  side, the bookdid contain a very good overview of security related issues  on the net, some of them even new to me, in a very understandable and  non-technical fashion.  The book was definitely written with an eye for the  non-technical executive who is not very tech savvy, yet has money to  spend.<br />On the minus side, on top of the usual marketing spin to be found  in any internet book, the authors also include several shameless  promotional plugs (some of it quite informative, but most of it annoying)  for a variety of software companies.  In more than a few cases, the authors  merely grafted the marketing hype, advertising and promotional literature  of the software companies featured in the book liberally throughout the  text.<br />Finally, though the book is dated, and the terrain has changed  drastically in the last two years, it does serve as a good introduction to  and reference on sales and security issues related to ecommerce for those  executives who are not in tune with the potential usefulness of the web in  business.  Bear in mind that the potential uses of the web and the internet  are not solely limited to increasing sales, revenues, and ultimately  profits, but also encompass increased productivity, efficiency, and faster  communication and turn-around time in business- four significant and vital  areas the authors failed to cover completely.  A better book in the same  category with well-rounded information is Phaedra Hise's Growing Your  Business Online.	1999-05-21
US	52421621	R3FFPDSPNRYOBO	0749421282	37442249	Doing Business on the Internet	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	A bit too basic though workable introduction to the net	If you took one of your more current internet business books, stripped it of its marketing spin, media hype, and pie-in-the-sky projections, then this book would be the result.  Collin's book is noteworthy in that it is  bereft of the usual 'anyone can make a million dollars on the internet'  verbiage.  However, once he presents the bare basics, there is really not  much else useful in the book.  He makes up for this by restating the same  information in different ways, making this a text best suited for the  computer and technology timid.<br />The book's writing style is clear,  straightforward, and level-headed.  The book is organized into twelve  chapters, and contains a glossary (though not very complete) of key terms,  as well as an appendix of useful real-world and cyberspace resources for  the web initiate.  On my first reading, I thought the book had an excessive  number of typos, but then I suddenly realized that this book was written in  British English, so it seemed a bit quirky at times.  Though the book  seemed a bit dry at times (the British English effect), it reads a lot like  having a one on one tutorial with a knowledgeable expert.  In his effort to  show the reader how simple HTML is to learn and use, he presents a simple  web page and its HTML source code, bit by bit, in order to encourage the  reader.  Collin's main point throughout the book is that the internet is  easy to get on and can be quite useful, especially for business purposes.    Simon Collin skillfully demystifies what on the surface seems to be a  complex undertaking.  He presents the steps to creating a net business in a  simple to follow fashion, and gives the reader several basic strategies to  choose from when considering their own online presence.<br />Many may find  this book to be a bit too basic, and the web savvy may find it a bit too  repetitive and plodding (in addition to knowing everything in the book cold  already), but those new to the net who are level-headed and cautious will  find that the book has a good, hype-free perspective.  Most may find that  they need to look no further than their own fully equipped PCs to start a  net-business after reading Collin's book.  <br />In short, this is a good book  for absolute beginners which dedicated webheads and casual websurfers can  pass on.  It can serve as a good overview of the net for the novice, and  can even give the finance savvy technophobe some ideas on good stock plays.   Bear in mind that some information, such as modem and telephony standards  (at the time he wrote the book, Collin cited 14.4 and 28.8 Kbps as fast),  are now totally obsolete, as most computers sold now are shipped with  56Kbps modems.  <br />Overall, this book serves as a small, effective, and  workable tutorial for those new to the internet.  If I were looking to  explain what the internet is, how it works, and what you would need to get  on it, I would do it just like Simon Collin, but using standard American  English!	1999-05-18
US	52421621	RTKI5WT5904C6	0471197068	641771002	Risky Business: Protect Your Business From Being Stalked, Conned, or Blackmailed on the Web (Upside)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Caveat Emptor- Caution before Coin	Once again, Janal would have received five stars for his introductory work on internet security were it not for the numerous typos and editorial errors throughout the book.  To cite a glaring example, on page 315 of the  book, one of Janal's four crisis communication measures is repeated  twice.<br />Though the book's content is repetitive in many places, much of  the information to be found here can be quite eye-opening for those who are  either new to the internet or use it infrequently.  While it is true that a  lot of the information presented in this book can be found on the net, most  people probably would not have the time, patience, or money to find it on  their own.  Janal should be commended for putting together this information  and presenting it as a warning for those thinking of venturing on the net.   Janal really does give the thinking novice cause for pause.<br />The  organization of this volume is lacking in a couple of key areas and could  have been better organized.  Contact information for those quoted was  repeated ad nauseum, and could have either been presented once at the end  of a chapter or as an appendix at the end of the book.  Since the book's  target audience is obviously those who are new to the internet and those  who rarely use it, Janal could have appended useful information, such as  links to useful organizations.  Granted, this information was included  throughout the book, but really interrupted the flow of his easygoing,  understandable dialogue and got in the way of important points in the text.  Some of the chapters could have been subdivided into smaller, meatier  chunks of information.  On the other hand, other pieces of information,  such as domain name trivia, could have been dumped altogether.<br />Yet, from  a practical standpoint, the internet, as presented by Janal, can be a legal  nightmare.  One must consider intellectual property issues, copyright  infringement, libel laws, trademark abuse, and domain name protection, in  addition to various invasions of privacy and civil liberty long before  venturing onto the internet.  <br />To his credit, Janal freely admits that  his book is no substitute for good legal help, and the wise web  entrepreneur will retain good legal services long before going on the net  and facing a problem.  Most progressive companies that are serious about  competing in the digital era have already taken the steps necessary to  protect themselves, and intelligent web surfers are using the internet with  a good deal of caution.<br />In the end, as many of the dangers Janal points  out are often unavoidable and come out of the blue, there really is no  substitute for a good legal offense, general and up-to-date awareness of  the internet medium, and quite frankly, plain old common sense.	1999-04-17
US	52421621	R8BKHU6OESC1X	0471288381	476325600	The Geek's Guide to Internet Business Success: The Definitive Business Blueprint	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Very comprehensive, very thorough	With the Geek's Guide, Schmidt proves to the world that he has the'write' stuff.  Schmidt has a knack for focusing on the most important aspects of any topic.  <br />In terms of content, this book is jam packed with highly  tailored and specific information crucial to sustaining a successful and  profitable web development business.  Although the book's focus is on web  development business start-ups, anyone who is looking to strike out on  their own in any field would find this book useful.  Furthermore, potential  clients of web development firms may find much of the information in the  book useful when dealing with internet businesses and negotiating the  creation of their own site.<br />The writing style of the book is very clear  and concise and Schmidt leaves no room for misunderstanding in his prose.   There is absolutely no internet hype or marketing spin in this book, nor  are you treated to a dry, textbook or computer manual treatment of how to  run a business.  Personally, I found Schmidt's geek humor (there is one  remark at the end of each chapter) to be well, in a word, geeky.<br />From an  organizational standpoint, Schmidt gets you in the right frame of mind to  run your own business by the end of the first chapter.  Whereas most  home-business books would devote all of their chapters to Freudian  self-analysis (ridiculous intropspective and self-assessment questions),  finding a good location for a business, and choosing the best form of  business, Schmidt takes you through all of that in one balanced chapter.   You will also get some very good ideas on how to build a good, winning,  effective, and professional team.  <br />His second chapter tells you in  brutal realism just how your customers will look at you, and how you should  carry yourself around them (still another chapter tells you exactly how to  deal with your client's misconceptions and false expectations of the  internet to your advantage).  Four more chapters are devoted to making thatall important, life-sustaining sale- from finding customers, planning and  making the sales pitch, closing the sale and ultimately to writing up a  contract.  He wraps up the book with a chapter on growing the business and  attaches a modest business plan in an appendix.<br />Schmidt earns my respect  because he tells you upfront to obtain good legal and accounting help long  before you launch your venture.  Yet, the real value in this book is the  way Schmidt lays out setting your rates and making certain that you get  paid in two understandable chapters.  If you are looking to get on the web  with your own business in a big way, forget all of those other books and  start reading this one today!	1999-04-17
US	52421621	R1UL0UKRBMEVXQ	0886778344	858019994	Fearful Symmetries: The Return of Nohar Rajasthan (Moreau, Bk. 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Swann's got the write stuff!	Let's see. We've got genetic engineering, action, millitary tech and strategy, gripping characters, and a strong plot line.  Swann writes some powerful stuff.  The plot line (for which you will have to buy the book and read for yourself) would not only be believable if it were set in the  present, but also would work with human characters as well. Though it seems  that Swann believes that  genetically engineered animal human hybrids are a  given for the near future, I tend to disagree (then again, seeing as  scientists have succeeded in cloning sheep, and developing mice with human  antibodies and pigs with human blood, he might be right).   Nonetheless, I  like the book.  I like Nohar's character even more.  I am eagerly waiting  for the next book.	1999-04-13
US	52421621	R1EI00A7JLMOIN	0805047387	237277030	Growing Your Business Online: Small-Business Strategies for Working the World Wide Web	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Probably the best book out there for small-mid cap firms	Hise's book is probably the best text out there for those intelligent laypeople who aspire to profit and succeed on the net.  The book shows you exactly how some small and mid-capitalization firms are actually putting  the internet to good use.  Bear in mind, however, that 'good' does not  necessarily mean profitable.   There is no marketing spin in this book, and  everything a growing small to mid-cap business would need to know to make a  successful and profitable debut on the web is presented in a clear, easy to  read fashion. The book is appropriately organized into ten chapters, and  includes six highly useful appendices covering extended resources (print,  internet, software, and related organizations) on topics such as getting  online, website maintainance and development, site promotion, site tracking  and ecommerce transactions, as well as other small business resources and  contact information for companies profiled in the text. This book takes you  through a guided tour  of the web, what it is, how it evolved, how it  works, and what you can do with it (for business and pleasure). Four very  useful chapters are solely devoted to getting a website up and running, and  include information on choosing a good ISP, building a good site,  outsourcing for talent, and various site models one can use to guide one's  own web project. Three more chapters are devoted to site promotion, online  transactions, and the real purpose of marketing: tracking visitors and  maintaining customer loyalty.  A final chapter is solely devoted to  internet related prognostications from (the then) leading cyber gurus  (1996), many of which have now come to pass.  Those who read this book  should pay very close attention to the case studies in each chapter, as a  lot of good information is hidden there. One glaring minus for the book is  that it has few, if any examples of retail on the web.  However, in Hise's  defense, you do get a lot of good, practical tips on how to do retail well  on the web.  Another noticeable minus is the lack of information on legal  issues surrounding the web.  For example, Hise does not delve into the  thorny question of who owns what when you outsource web site development,  nor does she get into the hairy issue of protecting yourself in cyberspace.    Many companies have been made more efficient by the net, and that is a  plus.  However, given the sheer cost and time necessary to put up a good  site, the book's real audience is the manager in the mid-cap company.   Because of the costs involved in developing and maintaining a good website,  this book is most appropriate for those working with the deep pockets of a  small to mid-cap company.  Micro-cap and home-based business owners can  also pick up some very useful hints here as well, but may be limited by the  relatively high cost of implementing them. Overall, I think that this is  the best book out there for a simple, understandable explanation of online  business.  The book tells you how to use the net not only for profit but  also for greater efficiency and operating productivity as well.  This  little book, packed with a ton of good information and first-class  resources, really packs a wallop.  Hise has succeeded tremendously in  writing a book that any intelligent, aspiring businessperson can benefit  from.	1999-04-01
US	52421621	R24GP0RIY31AZA	0812097165	104918979	The Complete Entrepreneur: The Only Book You'll Ever Need to Manage Risk and Build Your Business Wealth	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Peterson gives you the real deal on entrepreneurship	Homer Simpson, the obese, slow-witted, and reproachable patriarch of Fox TV's notorious cartoon sitcom, The Simpsons, once said the following when looking at a colleagues farcical misfortune: 'It's funny because it is  happening to somebody else.' That one comment aptly summarizes Mark A.  Peterson's guide for, or shall I say warning to aspiring entrepreneurs.   Taken one way, the complete entrepreneur is a riot, a side-splitting,  witty, and very cynical account of the often wild and crazy world of the  entrepreneur.  Taken another way, the book is a sobering look at the  challenges, pitfalls, and (often) titanic struggle the entrepreneur must  immerse oneself in to build wealth in his or her enterprise. Make no  mistake, this book is deadly serious about its chosen topic, building  wealth in a fledgling enterprise.  Peterson asserts boldly that the  entrepreneur is in business to build wealth, and that wealth building can  only be achieved via patience, successful time management, and most  importantly, taking prudent risks.   You will not find the usual how to  start a home business verbiage here, nor will you be inundated with a lot  of marketing hype and promotional spin.  What you will find in this book is  a lot of skillfully crafted, highly readable lessons about those little,  but often fatal things that run an infant enterprise aground.  These things  are, by the way, the very things that all the high brow business books  avoid. In the book, you will learn, among other things, about the various  kinds of risks the entrepreneur faces in being in and doing business and  how to ameliorate (lessen) them.  You will also learn about how banks and  lease providers really think and view your operation (whether well-run or  mismanaged), and most crucially, you will learn a more realistic way of  viewing your customers and employees. Unlike the other entrepreneurial  books which present you with a formulaic outline for a successful business,  this book adds a hefty,sobering dose of reality to the pot, and gives the  reader the much needed jaded, experienced outlook of a seasoned  entrepreneurial pro without the years of pain, frustration, lost wealth,  and failure. All the other business books out there make it sound so  simple, so easy to start, build and maintain a profitable, successful  business, and I just keep saying to myself as I read them, it just can't be  this easy.  As someone looking for the real deal on start-ups, Peterson's  wry sarcasm is infectious.  I laughed out loud more than a few times while  reading this book.  Every business rule he states is followed by an often  comical example of how it was broken.  Though I often shook my head and  swore that I would never do this or that, I am personally aware of  individuals and corporations, from aspiring entrepreneurs to seasoned  professionals, who have gone out and done many of the not-so-smart things  he lectures against.   Peterson dispenses with the  follow-the-ten-easy-steps, paint-by-the-numbers approach and points out to  the reader those things that almost always end up killing a promising  enterprise.  Peterson's book really is funny because it is happening to  somebody else.  Buy it and read it thoroughly (those who are serious about  wealth building should keep it by the bedside) so that the funny things-  entrepreneurial misfortune, doesn't happen to you!	1999-03-25
US	52421621	R2JGSRV6CANOTW	0136033334	856615528	Start Your Own Newsletter Publishing Business (EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW)	Books	2	9	10	N	Y	Best used as a general business book, if used at all	At the end of the last chapter of the book, the authors say that 'this book just scratches the surface of the knowledge that you will want- and need- to acquire in the course of starting your newsletter business and  making it grow.'  That statement accurately sums up the contents of this  book.  <br />The book does a good job of skimming some of the major points  involved in running any home business, but does not delve deeply into the  mechanics behind newsletter publishing.  It contains a lot of good, common  sense advice on general business practices, but precious little on the  design, production, and marketing of newsletters.  The book contains ample  space and sample worksheets for organizing your own thoughts with regard to  writing a good newsletter, sample worksheets for start-up costs,  accounting, and listing areas forfurther research on one's own.  It also  contains a fairly good list of resources the reader can turn to for further  information on specific aspects business.<br />However, none of this makes up  for the utter lack of good information on the creation, design,  organization, and production of a quality newsletter to be found  in this  book.  Only one useful line was devoted to choosing suitable desk top  publishing software, computer hardware information was too general to the  point of being useless, and absolutely no information or examples were  given on newsletter formats, conventions, and types were given.  Other than  some of the business aspects (tax issues for subscription newsletters was  blatantly omitted) behind running a newletter publishing business,  everything was discussed in general terms.  Moreover, any person of average  intelligence already knows much of the information presented.<br />For those  of you out there who are looking to start a business of some sort, think  that newsletters are an easy way to make money, and know absolutely nothing  about business, then by all means buy this book.  Though the book had a  (very) few good pieces of information, there was not enough to justify its  list price. More advanced readers should skip this tome and buy Barbara  Fanson's excellent guide to newsletter publishing.	1999-03-16
US	52421621	R287IGON0H3S8S	0028615395	157599820	Complete Idiot's Guide to Starting a Home-Based Business (The Complete Idiot's Guide)	Books	5	119	123	N	Y	A casual and informative presentation of a serious topic	The three (3) most important areas of any book are its content, writing style, and organization.  Weltman's book is superb on all three counts.  It is a detailed, succinct, point-by-point introduction to a growing and  popular topic in today's fast-paced, changing society.  <br />Each chapter  begins by explaining what you will learn, then explains key concepts at  least twice in the middle, and finally summarizes the least you need to  know about each aspect of the home business.  <br />The book itself is divided  into six useful parts, plus appendices filled with helpful information.   Each part focuses on a particular aspect of running a home business, such  as: your reasons for wanting your own business, the types of businesses you  can run (franchises, ready-made businesses, existing businesses, or your  own pet project), financing the home business, setting up the home office,  running the home office, and finally common personal issues unique to  running the home office and scaling up.<br />Broadly speaking, Weltman devotes  an equal amount of space to each topic.  However, some topics, such as  taxation (any advanced student should keep a copy of that particular info  very close by) receive a lot of attention, while others, such as planning  and budgeting the start-up, are clearly de-emphasized.  The book also  includes a lot of useful information in little boxes on every other page  such as entrepreneurial statistics, key business terminology, added  information (based on experience) to help perform a particular aspect of  your business better, and things to avoid while in business.  <br />In terms  of content, the book is packed with plenty of information to get you  started.  Though the book is very comprehensive, more advanced readers may  find it to be a bit redundant at times.  Key terms, concepts, and  absolutely need to know information are repeated often ( for the quick  learner, ad nauseum) in each chapter.  This use of repetition, however,  does not weaken the book, as repetition is a proven method of learning new  concepts.  <br />The book is heavily laden with useful contact information and  resources.  Weltman presents the essentials, the absolute bare bones  structural framework for the typical home-based business.  The book's major  strength is its presentation of key issues in very general, easy to  understand terms.  You are not inundated with a lot of excess, useless  resources and you are slowly and casually guided through each phase of your  start-up.  Weltman also thoughtfully includes good federal and state  resources one can actually use.  <br />For the initiate, everything is  discussed simply and clearly, as if the author is sitting right in front of  you chatting over a delicious cup of Seattle's Best Coffee (sorry folks,  but Starbuck's just doesn't cut it), but the more clever may find the book  a slow and plodding read (this is a thick book, folks).  Now, the book's  major weaknesses lie in its utter lack of information on selling methods,  management techniques (classic, coordinator, or craftsman), structuring  employment contracts (especially for independent contractors), scheduling,  getting and keeping customers, and operating a global business (my personal  interest) from home.  <br />Weltman skillfully introduces all the things one  should consider when starting a home based business.  It is the approach I  would take with those who want to start a business but have no idea as to  how to start.  Those who are really serious about starting their own home  business should not stop with Weltman's book.  Look to other books to  present you with the meat on such topics as contracts, selling, and  managing employees.  More advanced readers can skip this book and start  with Karen Cheney and Lesley Alderman's How to Start a Successful Home  Business.	1999-03-07
