US	52425936	R3FK7KJB0RVMJX	B000BLFGW0	295103638	Handbook of Postmodern Biblical Interpretation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very helpful intro to postmodernism, with special biblical studies focus	I encountered this book when I was taking a class in divinity school that dealt with Bourdieu and I started to run into all sorts of ideas that I wasn't familiar with.  This book, in general, provides excellent overviews to basic terms and concepts that one might encounter in reading such writers as Derrida, Foucault, etc.  This is certainly something to have on hand if you are planning on dealing with any religious/biblical scholarship that strays from the traditional metanarrative.  The book is organized by topic and I'll list them below.  Some articles are better than others (the Derrida one seems to be particularly bad) but overall it is much better than trying to start from scratch and make heads or tails of postmodern mumbo jumbo if you aren't familiar with the basics, even if the articles are sometimes not perfect.  Articles include:   <br />anti-postmodernism <br />author <br />autobiography <br />bakhtin <br />bataille <br />blanchot <br />certeau <br />culture/cultural criticism <br />deconstruction <br />deleuze and guattari <br />derrida <br />ethics <br />fantasy <br />foucault <br />gender <br />historiography <br />identity <br />ideaology <br />intertextuality <br />irigaray <br />jameson <br />kristeva <br />lacan <br />levinas <br />lyotard <br />midrash <br />politics <br />postcolonialism <br />practice <br />process <br />queer theory <br />race <br />rhetoric <br />scholarship <br />sexuality <br />space <br />theory <br />translation <br />trauma <br />truth <br /> <br />To me, there is a notable absense of an entry on poststructuralism and/or structuralism, but I guess everything can't be covered in one book.  Overall, very helpful to have on hand and even if you are minimally intersted in the \\"biblical/religious\\" part to things, the introductions are generally not specific to religious/biblical studies until near the end of the article.  Overall they can be just good introductions for anyone who needs introductory writing on postmodernism.	2005-10-10
US	52425936	R288MFTNRVQL0H	1566914817	319705210	DEL-Moon Handbooks Nicaragua	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	this is the book you need if you are traveling to nicaragua	I'm giving this book five stars because, despite the few short comings, you really couldn't expect anything better.  Nothing is perfect, right? I've been in Nica. for two months and will be here another month and use the book all the time. This book covers every conceivable place you might want to travel in Nicaragua.  While this 2002 edition is very slightly out of date (for instance, some places listed have closed, there are many more internet cafes now, etc.), I understand that an updated edition will be coming out in Fall 2005.  <br />The authors outline great places to eat (and a good selection of places to eat, including attention to vegetarian concerns), places to sleep ranging from cheap cheap hostels to higher-end hotels. (However, note that this book is not meant for resort-hoppers. If you have lots and lots of money and want to stay at the best places in all of Nica and eat at fancy restaurants and aren't terribly interested in the life of the Nicaraguan people and just want a typical beach vacation, this probably will not be of help to you.  That is not to say that this is for people who completely want to \\"rough it\\" but this is not geared toward the high-end crowd.)  The book covers discos and bars for most cities where such things are present, and caters equally to the hiker/adventurer type and people (like me) who are not into hiking around volcanoes.  Plenty of info on museums, attractions, ruins, and festivals. Includes information about bus stations and getting from city to city, although some are out of date so always double check.   <br />I was also happy that the authors took into account the Nicaraguan people and customs and advocate (although not in a preachy way) ecologically and ethically responsible tourism.  <br />The shortcomings of the book are that sometimes the authors make things sound a little better or more exciting or more beautiful than they actually are.  I noticed another reviewer mentioned this as well, so it isn't just me. Another thing, although I am sure it is the interest of space, is that some places don't have directions or \\"addresses\\" (that is, the Nica equivalent of addresses). This is fine in a smaller town where you can just ask, but in bigger places, like Managua, neither your taxi driver nor a person on the street and maybe not even the tourism office (if it is open) will necessarily know the location of a small bookstore or cafe that the authors list. Personally, I could have stood for less info on the flora and fauna and ecological stuff, which I think maybe is not a huge interest to all readers, and that space could have been used for more details on the cities and locations. And just a small pet peeve, the one paragraph dedicated to liberation theology showed little understanding as to what the movement was and is about.  However, don't take these few criticisms to mean that the book isn't great and well worth your money.  I will buy the new edition just to read it, even though I won't be living in Nicaragua anymore when it comes out.	2005-07-30
US	52425936	R165YI5JME8CRN	0415236045	695062058	Indecent Theology	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Groundbreaking, exciting, cutting edge	This book is not for the faint of heart. Althaus-Reid takes the reader to a theological place that few have been or been willing to go. She argues that all theology is sexual; it is just a matter if the theologian/thinker is willing to \\"out\\" or make clear the sexual nature of her or his theology -- that is to speak clearly about what underlies one's assumptions and theology -- or if, as so many Heteronormative Systematic Theologians have done, if the sexual in the theology will be cloaked in so-called decency.  I found this book to integrate Latin American liberation theology, feminist theology, queer theology, and other theologies of the poor and oppressed in a way that rightfully makes clear that oppressions cannot be compartmentalized, but rather they are all part of one system.  That is, none of us can be free, until we are all free.  We cannot subordinate a queer theology of liberation to the preferential option for the economically poor in the name of strategy, or, as has been done so clearly in so much (heterosexual male) Latin American Liberation theology, we cannot set aside the concerns of poor women while we work on the \\"main\\" problem of \\"general\\" (read: male) poverty.  Althaus-Reid weaves together critique and theological conjecturing in this exciting book, where \\"exciting\\" goes far past the sort of excitement we are accustomed to in theological writing.  This book is readable and creative, and has amazing potential to challenge theological thinking in the church, academy, and \\"on the ground\\". My only slight concern or minor reservation about the book is that it is so sexualized and radical that it could be rendered inaccessable to those who are not yet ready to read a book that discusses f***ing God (Amazon doesn't let you write the actual word!) or a transvestite Jesus. Although this book is not the place to do it, I would wonder how such a potentially liberating and freeing theology could be made accessible to those who are not yet far along enough orat the place where they can make sense of or truly hear a theology that is so sexualized and so counter to what so many have be taught to believe is proper and decent.  Overall, a great book for all Latin American, Queer, liberation, feminist, etc. theologians and students/scholars of religion, as well as folks who have always felt that something more lurks in the stories and images that the Church gives us.  This book helps the reader/thinker/theologian to think about that something more that is lurking, quiet and unsaid, covered up or silenced by the regimes of decency.	2005-07-17
US	52425936	R2RDI4GIZP8Q0	0812966767	556311516	The Starter Marriage and the Future of Matrimony	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	Seems to reflect a lot of what I see and experience	I found this to be a great book.  I don't think the book is perfect, and, as some other reviewers have pointed out, Paul can make some big jumps in her conclusions. So don't read this as a super-controlled scientific assessment (which it isn't supposed to be anyway). I found that the book wasn't anti-marriage or pro-marriage, but rather just touched up on a lot of the realities, myths, struggles, and ideas that Gen X (and a little older and younger) face when it comes marriage -- like how so many go into marriage with the subconscious expectation that it will make life complete or fix things that marriages just can't \\"fix.\\" I was especially thankful on her section about the \\"wedding industry\\" that markets absurdly expensive weddings (the perfect dress, the biggest ring, the best food... the most important day of your life!) to individuals and couples and that often contributes to a loss of perspective about what the actual marriage after the wedding might involve. One of the most helpful things I got from this book was the articulation of a feeling that I and many of my friends have -- that you are not complete until you are married and that being married will \\"make things okay,\\" which until this book I hadn't recognized as so widespread/generational/cultural. Secondly, I appreciated the feeling from the book that divorce can be okay, is sometimes better, but that sometimes a marriage just takes a little more work. I was glad she made it clear that marriage has had too high of expectations hoisted upon it, that it is hard work, can be great, can be hard, and can be rewarding. She is legitimately hard on the \\"pro-marriage\\" camp that promotes marriage as the savoir of civilization and that advocates staying married at all costs. If you want an anti-divorce book, this is not it. But if you want a fair treatment of many of the struggles that the twenty and thirty somethings face in trying to make a life with a partner, in the face of work, high expectations for marriage, our parents' marriages and divorces and a culture that sends amazingly mixed and strong messages about marriage, sex, and \\"success\\" this is a great place to start. Particularly for those thinking of getting married or struggling in the early years of a marriage, this might be particularly helpful to pique your thinking.	2005-07-15
US	52425936	R16UXHI4QZL1T7	0226075923	348094648	Love Between Women: Early Christian Responses to Female Homoeroticism (The Chicago Series on Sexuality, History, and Society)	Books	4	29	32	N	Y	an important book with more strengths than weaknesses	This book, as one can tell from the title, explores \\"early Christian responses to\\" what Brooten calls \\"female homoeroticism.\\" By \\"female homoeroticism\\" Brooten means women who were somehow sexually involved with other women, either in longer-term relationships, or simply in a sexual way independent of any long-term relationship. One of the most important things to say about this book is that it examines texts and brings together a large amount of research and analysis that has never been brought together before and, in that sense, it is ground breaking. Her work on Romans 1:26 is, I believe, some of the best out there. It is an important book for those interested in how female/female sexual interaction might have been understood in the time of early Christianity. This is not a book that most \\"everyday\\" readers might want to read from cover-to-cover.  It is an academic book, and should be of interested to scholars of early Christianity/biblical scholars and those interested the history of sexuality.  That said, \\"everyday\\" folks who might be interested in this could read parts of the book and find it very interesting and enlightening, while skipping over the translations of obscure documents or inscriptions and such.  Although another reviewer noted that this shows that Christianity has been \\"anti-gay\\" from the beginning, I'm afraid that is not really what this book does. An important part of this book argues that what we today understand as \\"gay\\" or \\"lesbian\\" does not closely resemble what females being sexually involved with other females or males being sexually involved with other males looked like thousands of years ago. Brooten does show, however, that females being sexually involved with other females in antiquity was often looked down upon, although the reasons for that are different than the reasons lesbians are often discriminated against today. I would like to have seen Brooten differentiate between \\"love\\" between women and \\"sexual relationships\\" between women -- she seems to operate under the assumption that these automatically or almost always come together.  I also would have preferred that she change the wording in her closing which suggests that \\"the idea of homosexuality\\" existed in antiquity.  While she makes good arguments that particular sexual preferences and inclinations toward certain kinds of people existed in antiquity, to say that \\"homosexuality\\" or \\"the idea of homosexuality\\" existed in antiquity is to be too casual with the use of the 19th/20th/21st century construct of homosexuality.  As for the review that gave this book only one star -- this book was reviewed in, at the least, a somewhat positive light in nearly all the academic journals which reviewed it.  While there are, as with almost all books, some weaknesses, to give it just one star is to absurd.  At the least, this book does some exciting and never-before-done work which is always valuable, even if it isn't perfect.en -- she seems to operate under the assumption that these automatically or almost always come together.  I also would have preferred that she change the wording in her closing which suggests that \\"the idea of homosexuality\\" existed in antiquity.  While she makes good arguments that particular sexual preferences and inclinations toward certain kinds of people existed in antiquity, to say that \\"homosexuality\\" or \\"the idea of homosexuality\\" existed in antiquity is to be too casual with the use of the 19th/20th/21st century construct of homosexuality.  As for the review that gave this book only one star -- this book was reviewed in, at the least, a somewhat positive light in nearly all the academic journals which reviewed it.  While there are, as with almost all books, some weaknesses, to give it just one star is to absurd.  At the least, this book does some exciting and never-before-done work which is always valuable, even if it isn't perfect.	2005-05-03
US	52425936	RC4383ULAK9DK	0763709441	326826085	Peace and Power: Building Communities for the Future	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	a new and challenging way to think about group processes	My undergraduate advisor suggested that I read this book and it has really changed the way I think about group interactions, but also everyday interactions.  It is from an explicitly feminist perspective, so if you favor an ordered, hierarchial approach to group interaction or leadership, this isn't the book for you.  The intended audience for the book are people who are members of or leading a group (across a wide range -- for instance, a college classroom, owners of a quilt shop co-operative, a group that organizes to find homes for stray animals or a support group).  The most ideal audience for the book is a group that is committed to feminist group processes (that way everyone in the group would commit to a particular set of princples, including the principles of feminist group processes in the book).  However, I have never been a part of such a &quot;committed&quot; group and still benefited immensely from the book.  Even if you aren't part of a formal group, one could put some of the ideas in the book into practice or use the ideas as a lens through which to think about group interaction and group process.  The book has a lot of &quot;how-to&quot; in it, as well as the theory that undergirds the &quot;how-to&quot; and examples so that the reader can see what the &quot;how-to&quot; might look like in practice.  A helpful way to think about the authors' conception of power is the difference between power-over power and peace powers.  An examples is that &quot;power-over&quot; something type of power emphasizes &quot;programs, goals, or policies which achieve desired results&quot; (p. 9).  Peace power &quot;emphasizes a fresh perspective and freedom from rigid schedules.  Goals, programs and timetables are used as tools, but are less important than the process itself&quot; (p. 9).  Peace power is, in my own words, the power that comes from working together toward not only the end &quot;goal&quot; but also the process of working to support each other in growing and to affirm the inherent worth of each person and his or her experiences.<BR>The reason I only gave the book four stars is because, personally, I found it almost a too &quot;how-to&quot; and would have liked to see the focus of the book not only on how a group committed to a feminist group process could put such ideas into practice, but more focus on how an &quot;average Jane&quot; could think about such ideas and put them into practice in her daily life.  There is some of this, but I thought even more would be helpful.  The final chapter addresses how one might put some of these practices into use in a more traditional setting, like a classroom, but I believe that these ideas would serve a wider audience (do more good for more people) if they were throughout the book.  Overall, though, a helpful book if you're intersted in a new or different way to work as a group or a team.	2004-02-23
US	52425936	RWAS0464LGSVK	080284698X	652929762	Homosexuality, Science, and the "Plain Sense" of Scripture	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Great Book for those Interested in Varying Perspectives	This book is an excellent resource for those who are interested in what the Bible might have to say about same-sex relationships.  The authors of the essays vary -- some support same-sex relationships, others don't.  Some use historical-critical analysis, others reflect more generally about how we might understand what scripture is saying.  The editor does a great job of introducing the essays and concluding the collection with reflections on where we might go from here and what we can draw from the varying perspectives.  I found Bird's essay \\"The Bible in Christian Ethical Deliberation concerning Homosexuality: Old Testament Contributions,\\" to be particularly helpful in dealing with the issues that the Hebrew Bible can raise about sexuality.  Although I think that the essays have something for everyone, some can be quite academic and presume at least a basic knowledge of biblical studies.  If you are looking for an \\"answer\\" to issues of sexuality that are currently facing Christians and the church, you won't find it here.  You can however find some very helpful ideas about how we might think about the issue.  This book is a model of reasonable and thoughtful dialogue around a divisive issue.	2004-01-12
US	52425936	R3628785RMOG1H	1551521288	992326004	The Garden of Vegan: How It All Vegan Again!	Books	5	48	48	N	N	An Amazing Cookbook for All Cooks -- Not Just Vegans!	I am a new vegan and I was having a hard time with the cookbooks that called for all sorts of ingredients I had never heard of with all sorts of difficult recipes.  I wasn't good at cooking food before I became vegan, and it seemed like all the vegan cookbooks were for advanced cooks.  Not this book.  These are all great recipes with easy ingredients and simple directions.  I especially love the recipes where they note that they can be frozen and reheated later.  I have such a hard time cooking good healthy food while working and going to school, but this book is full of recipes that let you do that especially if you can freeze them and eat them later!  Plus, the authors seem to have great laid back personalities.  Not too &quot;ooh-la-la&quot; -- very down to earth.  These recipes are great for anyone who is looking to eat more healthily.  Downside of the book is that there aren't pictures of the food and sometimes I can't quite tell what it is that the recipe is for (like Jessie's Cuban Sensation-- very nice title, but what is it?).  This is their second cookbook so I would recommend their first one for more basic stuff and then this one to expand your range of foods to make.  They also have great ideas for parties, and a special section for college students trying to be vegan in a dorm.	2003-12-27
US	52425936	R2WN4BZEK3Z5UN	0345434773	401815439	Evensong (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Wonderful Book	I felt like this book was an enjoyable, easy to read but not too simple, and thoughtful.  I was drawn in by the characters, particularly the main character and her husband.  It chronicles part of a female pastor's life with her husband (who is also a pastor) in a small mountain Episcopal church.  As a divinity school student, I would read parts of the way that the main character would talk about God or her work with people who were suffering and hope so much that someday I can be as eloquent and thoughtful about God and the mysteries of life (and afterlife).  I found the relationship between her and her husband to be complex and interesting and the way the story unfolded to be slow enough to leave a little suspense, but it lets the reader know enough that you could read at a comfortable pace not worrying about &quot;what is going to happen next.&quot;  The writing was rich and smooth.  I particularly recommend this book to those who are searching spiritually and to those who work in churches and in some sort of helping profession.	2003-09-29
US	52425936	R9HBTW4N9A5SZ	0520224752	706119719	Mama Lola: A Vodou Priestess in Brooklyn Updated and Expanded Edition (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Enjoyable, informative, well-written	I read this book for a class, but found it very easy and enjoyable to do so.  For many assigned books I have to force myself through them and not so at all with this one.  Certainly, it is not meant to give a comprehensive look at Vodou and it doesn't do that.  What it does do, though, is give someone with little or no knowledge of the religion a full and rich picture of the tradition.  I very much appreciated the author's stance throughout the book that the spirits and the experiences of those in the book (eventually, including her own) were real.  There was no questioning about whether the spirits &quot;really&quot; existed, but just the assumption that this was the reality for practioners of Vodou.    One danger with ethnographic work is that the ethnographer is condescending when talking about those with whom she is working or studying, and this wasn't the case in the book.  She seemed to view Alourdes and her family as equals and as friends.<BR>Overall, I found the book interesting, not difficult to read (as is the case with many &quot;academic&quot; books), enjoyable and informative.  It seems like it would be a suitable book for those interested in religion, vodou in particular, anthropology, ethnographic study, or those interested in Haiti.	2003-09-07
US	52425936	R1SOGNS5KJ76WG	0345418786	731711467	Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	It was very helpful, readable, eye-opening	I am a 23 year old woman and read this book when I was in high school.  I very much identified with much of what Pipher deals with in the book and feel like it is quite on target for many middle-class white girls/teenagers.  Other readers are correct in pointing out that she does not deal enough with the \\"chemical\\" element of depression, nor does she deal enough with the struggles of non-white girls or those who struggle with poverty.  Certainly the book addresses a somewhat narrow audience.  Yes, it could be interpreted as if depression and struggles were primarily environmental.  However, even with a predisposition toward depression, many things can aggravate that, and I believe the book deals well with those things.  <br />Girls can deal with a predisposition toward depression in many ways-- by maintaining self-confidence in the face of super-thin models and the media bombardment that tells girls and women not to be happy with their bodies and looks, by developing strength by understanding their own bodies and sexuality, through familial support and empathy.<br />I very much suggest that parents of girls/young women between the ages of 7-18 read this book.  No it doesn't give the answers to everything, but I believe it does illuminate many of the struggles and challenges that girls face as they move into the teenage years.  It was very helpful for me to read it as a teenager and for my parents to read it.  It helped to articulate a lot of the emptiness, sadness and awkwardness I felt as I grew into young womanhood, but I couldn't exactly explain why.	2003-08-06
US	52425936	R3V1CMBSEIHHRC	0521017114	546983987	In Search of Respect: Selling Crack in El Barrio (Structural Analysis in the Social Sciences)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	An Excellent Ethnography	I found this book to be one of the best I have ever read at exploring the tensions and struggles with living among, working with, and writing about poor, inner-city minorities. The book is relevant to, and I believe would be helpful to, social workers, educators, ethnographers/researchers, policy makers, and more.  The author does an EXCELLENT job at making clear that there are not easy answers.  In ways, of course, the people in the book are victims of poverty, of disenfranchisement, of racism....  But, as other reviewers have pointed out, they are also often violent people who take part in such awful acts as gang rape.  How does that come together?  As people who work in or write about such communities (or make laws that apply to those who live there) how can we understand these contradictions?  What role can we play in that? What responsibility to the privileged of the US have to those who are severely underprivileged?<BR>This book explores both the technical aspects of the underground economy, specifically crack, as well as the moral and ethical questions that surround it.<BR>I did find that the book has shortcomings-- as other reviewers have expressed, I'm not sure how comfortable I was with some of the \\"takes\\" Bourgois has on some of the people and situations in the book.  However, I believe that there is no perfect book out there, especially on such a difficult and complex topic, and that over all the book is very important in exploring and addressing the issues that surround inner-city life and, in particular, the drug trade.	2003-07-28
US	52425936	RPE355TC1LRF	0767900316	843086515	The Corner: A Year in the Life of an Inner-City Neighborhood	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A Powerful Book	This is one of my top ten non-fiction books of all time.  Here is why:  First, it is well-written and intriguing.  There is little to no academic jargon to wade through.  It is a plain spoken book about the realities of inner-city life.  It is not difficult to read in a literary sense, but certainly in an ethical and moral sense.  This brings me to the second reason why I found it to be such an important book: It puts a face on the experiences of poor minorities living in urban areas.  I'm 23 and I've been working in inner-city communities since I was 15.  When I hear people talk disparagingly about minorities, inner-city youth, single moms, &#34;welfare moms,&#34; my heart breaks, and in many ways, I am also angry that people talks so much about a life they know so little about.  I found that this book accurately put a face on the people who are so often referred to as one statistics or another (related to drugs, single moms, incarceration, welfare).  There was no glorification and little over-victimization of the people in the book and their experiences as poor, black, and affected by drugs and the underground economy.  This book should be required reading for all Americans who wish to learn more about and develop informed opinions about poor, inner-city communities and the people who live there.  I find it particularly relevant to those interested in drug laws and sentencing, as well as access to drug treatment.  I think that this would also be a very helpful book for people who work in urban areas or are planning to someday (social work, education, ministry).  The book leaves very big questions to be answered by the reader.  How do I judge the people in this book?  What would I do if I grew up in such a community?  How do I go forth from here?  A very powerful book.  Addition 12 years later: I am now a professor and currently using this book while I teach a class on citizenship and democracy and New York City. To professors that might consider using this for teaching, my students (from Kentucky) responded well to it. It didn't work miracles in terms of understanding, but I think it did a lot of the work for them that it did for me when I read this in my early 20s. It helped to put stories with statistics, and humanize the people that are easy to dismiss. Give them enough time to read it - one week isn't enough and I found it helpful to pair with shorter articles (like Emily Badger's work on how poverty taxes the brain) to help contextualize some of what they were reading about. Anyway, just thought I'd throw that in all these years later.	2003-07-28
US	52425936	R10NZ6VBMUUSON	0596004478	622052089	Google Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips & Tools	Books	3	20	27	N	Y	Not much help to a regular researcher	I do lots of web-based research for my job.  I have to find obscure statistics, reports, papers, articles, and various other difficut-to-find information.  I thought that this book would help me use Google more effectively, but really it didn't.  It is more for computer buffs rather than researchers who use Google for research.  A lot of the suggestions and tips involved using some kind of code which I didn't know what it meant and a lot of them were silly kind of things like how to make your screen appear backwards or upside down.  It covered the basic important things like &quot;word order matters,&quot; and how to use &quot;and&quot; and &quot;or&quot; when searching.  There were a few slightly helpful tips, but not enough to make it worth it to buy the whole book.  I'm sure the book might be great for other purposes, just not for your run-of-the-mill researcher who is pretty computer savy, but not really &quot;into&quot; computers for a hobby.	2003-07-22
US	52425936	R2JT9W7NALU44I	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Disturbing, enjoyable, thought provoking, but not a classic	A Brief Review: I gave this book four stars, rather than three, because it affected me; although I don't think it is an overly amazing book, I really liked it.  There are far too many bad books out there, and for the characters, scenes, and \\"bigger questions\\" to linger in my mind days after finishing the book, it deserves something above average.  I don't think this book will be a classic, there are parts that are unrealistic, and the writing is not over-the-top amazing.  This said, I enjoyed the writing, found the book very readable, became attached to and involved with the characters, and found that the book prodded me to ask questions of myself.  The book is a good read, and will suffice for that if that is what you are looking for, but it also goes beyond a good read into the realm of a well-written book that raises important questions about life and death, friendships, relationships, and love.	2003-05-24
US	52425936	R2KADSDZZQDEJJ	1884471226	261656450	The Bravo! Wedding Organizer: The Professional, Step-by-Step System that Keeps Track of Every Detail of Your Wedding.	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Highly recommend	I looked around a lot for a good wedding planner and I think that this is one of the best out there.  Here is what I like about it:  <BR>1) Spiral binding.  Don't get a planner without it.  You can add clipouts from magazines, contracts, lists, etc.<BR>2) Details.  The worksheets include of every detail that you could possibily imagine. You won't forget all those things you need to ask the florist or caterer or photographer.<BR>3) The worksheets also double as contracts in case your provider doesn't give you one.  You fill in all the details and then the provider can sign at the bottom and there you have an offical contract.<BR>4) Organization.  It is broken down with tabs into a very workable system.  If you are having a more simple wedding and don't need all the worksheets or info you can just ignore them, but if you need them, they are there for you.<BR>This is not a book about weddings at all so don't expect to find creative ideas about centerpieces or anything.  But the great thing about it is that you can get ideas and pictures from other books and magazines and write down or clip out your favorites, punch some holes in the paper and put it in the relevent section of this, bringing together all your favorite ideas.  I highly recommend this and it works very well for me.	2003-01-25
US	52425936	R22XU6O75K3MT0	0553574574	956782258	Beach Music	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Not his best	I loved The Prince of Tides.  In that work of Conroy's, I found the writing to be beautiful and smooth.  The plot was amazing and drew the reader in.  That's why I was so surprised about Beach Music.  While the writing still had its moments, I found the plot to be unrealistic and &quot;out there.&quot;  It kept twisting and turning and getting further from what Conroy does best--  write about the south, his childhood, and things he is familar with.  The frequent dialogues between the brothers in the book seemed like contests to see who could be the most sarcastic, and didn't really add to the story at all (just took up space).  I love some of Conroy's earlier work, but this didn't measure up.  Of course, he still gets three stars because no matter how poor the plot, he can still write beautiful passages that make the book at least salvagable.	2002-12-15
US	52425936	R28ILEXVYUCKZD	0822008556	239647399	Mrs. Dalloway (Cliffs Notes)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cliff Notes for this book are great	It seems like many of the other reviewers are reviewing the actual book, which I'll admit isn't my favorite.  But, as far as the Cliff Notes go, they do what they are supposed to.  They give you a sense of the characters, context, plot, etc.  So maybe the book isn't great, but at least with the Cliff Notes you don't need to read the whole book.  Grade for the cliff notes: A+	2002-12-15
US	52425936	R1UBWBOVL2I14B	080701205X	142083202	Sexism and God Talk: Toward a Feminist Theology	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Deepening Understanding	I think that this book is a very helpful introduction to feminist theology for someone who is already somewhat familiar with historical-critical analysis in religion and somewhat familiar with feminism.  This book brings together the two traditions and presents a great framework from which to begin to explore feminist theology.  This is probably not a good introduction for someone starting completely from scratch.  There are less academic books, such as Introducing Feminist Theology by Anne M. Clifford which are easier to understand and navigate for the true beginner.<BR>My favorite part of the book was the opening narrative written by Ruether (in the tradition of midrash) that imagines scenes from the Bible in a fresh and exciting light.  It was inspiring, gave me goose bumps and helped me remember why I think that Christianity can be such an exciting and liberating spiritual path to follow.<BR>The rest of the book systematically deals with topics that arise in &quot;re-understanding&quot; the Bible and Christianity in a way that honors and listens to women's voices which have, generally, been systematically excluded from the Christian tradition.<BR>I didn't give it five stars because, like some of the other reviewers, I would have liked to see more evidence for some of her positions.	2002-11-28
US	52425936	R1DW8APKU3V60H	1570752389	170796802	Introducing Feminist Theology	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A Great Introduction	I think that this is one of the better introductions to feminist theology.  This is a great starting place for someone who doesn't have a background in feminism and/or historical-critical analysis in religion.  It is sort of a &quot;light-weight&quot; book, compared to Schssler Fiorenza's work or Radford Ruether's (some of the leading feminist theologians), but that is the whole point of an introduction.  This is meant to be an beginner's book, not an in-depth exploration into the more specialized theological issues and questions.  As the other reviewers have noted, this is would be great for an introductory course in feminist theology or for someone who heard of feminist theology and said &quot;Hmmm, I'd like to know more about that.&quot;  It does gloss over some more important points and it does over-generalize about some things, but often introductions must do that or things get too complicated for the beginner who just wants an overview.  It's not a perfect book, but a great start for someone wanting to explore this topic.	2002-11-28
US	52425936	R2WAE2EF3SMAYE	0385498411	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	captivating	I did not plan to read this book. ... I wondered, as you might, how a whole book (that is not a reference book) could be written on women's bodies. Is it possible to make biology something intersting to read? I was amazed. I read the book in one weekend. It is almost like reading a novel where women's bodies are the main character. She doesn't pretend that she has the answers, but rather guides the reader on a journey through possibilities. She explores breasts-- what are they for...? how do the work...? Periods... our uterus... But doesn't \\"dumb it down,\\" and use layperson's terms. We hear the \\"real\\" words for hormones and biological processes. But these things are so well woven into narrative accounts and insightful musings that even the most science-phobic person can get swept away in the magic of Angier's words without getting caught up in science-speak.<br />Why not five stars? Especially early in the book some of her musings wonder too far toward the \\"women could be genetically superior\\" line of thinking. I don't think she really means it, but rather doesn't close the door of wondering. However, I feel like it could scare off some readers and give those who want to keep women \\"in their place\\" good reasons to dismiss the book as a crazy feminist scientist. Don't let it scare you off, though. It seems to be Angier's attempt to balance things out a little-- if we have spent so much time musing about whether men could be superior, why not wonder about women, too?<br />This is a great book for both men and women who want to learn about and wonder about what goes on in women's bodies, and various ways that that can be understood.	2002-08-04
US	52425936	R2QQ9ANIO9D9GH	0811829677	677519718	Anti-Bride Guide: Tying the Knot Outside of the Box	Books	2	85	93	N	Y	Not Anti Bride	This would not be a bad wedding guide if it didn't claim to be different.  It is, generally, about the same as the others I've read.  The most \\"anti\\" theme is the book is that you don't have to do what your family wants you to.  But, there is plenty of discussion of etiquette, what to do, what not to do, etc.  Sure there are a few nice ideas, but all bridal guides tend to have a few nice ideas.  I was looking for a book that could really assist me in having a wedding that is *different.*  I wanted something to help me get past all that brainwashing about what a wedding looks like.  This book, instead, offers slightly alternative-ish ideas about how you might adjust existing traditions and how you don't have to listen to all your family.  Not a bad wedding book, but just doesn't live up to being anything that different from what is already out there.	2002-08-03
US	52425936	R2268B62257BV6	0553268880	380807670	The Prince of Tides: A Novel	Books	5	117	121	N	N	his best work	I reserve my five star rating for books that stand out as the best of the best.  This is on the list of my top ten books, so I don't hesitate to put it as a five star book.  Unlike some of Conroy's other books, this story line flows very easily, the plot seems reasonable, and it is as if you could have been there in South Carolina with the characters.  This is a book for people who love to read-- it seems like Conroy is writing a long and beautiful poem, rather than a novel.  But, don't get me wrong, the writing is not heavy or Faulkner-like that you can't get through it.  It is a beautiful story of Tom Wingo as he deals with his sister's mental illnesses, his marital problems, and his childhood.  As a person from the south, the book seemed very relevant in the way that family dynamics play out and the way childhoods are remembered.  I would recommend the book for anyone who wants a captivating story, eloquent writing, and a taste of southern life.  There is also some very good humor, too, which I appreciated!	2002-07-29
US	52425936	R3QMLNRM9AN7RF	0684846942	777467303	Kate Vaiden	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable	I am a big fan of southern fiction and enjoyed Price's book quite a bit.  I read it in about a week, reading right before I went to bed.  It pulls you in and it is hard to put down, particularly because it isn't broken up into chapters so there aren't easy stopping points.  I had a little bit of a hard time relating to Kate's decisions in the book, but I suppose that is often the mark of a good character-- she is not transparent and your every-day kind of person.  I fully appriciated the ending which explains a lot that you wonder about throughout the book.  I didn't mark it five stars because, although I enjoyed it, it certainly doesn't rank up there with *stand out* books that I would read again.  I also see quite a bit of similarity in his writing, and always appriciate an author that can vary his or her style a bit more.  Overall, however, worth the time.	2002-07-25
US	52425936	R3LV3UNCBEPF9R	0684854066	344808443	Oneness and Separateness: From Infant to Individual	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Helpful, but so mom-focused	As many other reviewers have stated, this is a helpful book.  But I just wanted to note that it is very mom-focused.  The author acts as if the bond with the mother is the only bond, and the father just happens to be hanging around.  Since it was written in 1978, this could have something to do with it, but I would argue that, while the bond with the mother is very important, parents can do quite a lot to assure that the baby is bonding and close to both parents.  Just something to keep in mind.  (This isn't meant to be a review of the whole book, just a side note.)	2002-07-04
US	52425936	R3DRAH65U5IWI1	0316779075	841219442	The Birth Book: Everything You Need to Know to Have a Safe and Satisfying Birth (Sears Parenting Library)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Great Book for Parents-to-Be	My partner and I are thinking about having children in the next few years and starting to educate ourselves on pregnancy, birth, and child-rearing.  I have always wanted to have a natural birth, but of course, have feared complications.  This book was so helpful because it endorsed natural child birth, but informed us about other options and the risks of those options.  The authors provided birth stories from lots of moms (and a dad too, which was nice) about their birth experiences.  Some ended up having births with epidurals, other drugs or even a cesarian.  Instead of saying \\"bad bad bad,\\" the Sears (the authors) talked about how these births were still successful because the mom and dad were able to make educated decisions and realize what they needed to do in order to make the birth what they needed it to be.  I really recommend this book to future moms and dads in order to get a feeling for the various options and to be reassured that birth is not the screaming and yelling you see in the movies.  It is a natural thing and should not be miserable.  It made me feel more comfortable about my future birth experience.  They provide many ways to make birth more comfortable and fulfilling.  Just a note though, I don't think that this is *everything* that you need to know, as the title suggests.  Other books would probably be helpful, too!	2002-07-04
US	52425936	R2JZAXZQEAZBDD	0826412769	943187434	Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	18	28	N	Y	Such An Important Work	As someone who does grassroots community work, I found this book to be amazingly helpful and absolutely invaluable.  The book articulates so much of that which I see every day, but was unable to articulate.  Although much of Freire's work involved working with illiterate adults, the principles outlined here are applicable to anyone and everyone who is or who is concerned with ending oppression.  I think any educator, social worker, organizer...well, really almost anyone who is interested in ending injustice should read this.	2002-04-08
US	52425936	R2IZFA8O7949IC	1893564398	724473676	Audio Fluency German / 6 one hour audiocasstte tapes / complete listening guide and tape script (Cassettes) (German Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	So La La	So la la is the german word for \\"just okay,\\" and that is what these tapes are. For starters, \\"I like\\" is incorrectly translated to \\"Ich mchte\\" all throughout the tapes. In German, \\"I like\\" is \\"Ich mag,\\" and \\"I would like\\" is \\"Ich mchte.\\" My partner, who is German corrected this. Who knows what else incorrect? These tapes have been somewhat helpful for me because I am in a German class, so a lot of what I listen to is review. But if you have never had German before, I can't believe that these would he helpful. It sounds like the guy who made the tapes made them in his garage with a friend who was German. These weren't horrible, but really think there must be some better ones out there. I suggest going to your local library and trying some out before you buy any or maybe even dubbing the ones from your library instead of buying them.	2002-04-08
