US	52425643	R3LHA1BFF25HJS	0231116462	487382691	Hearst Over Hollywood	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Overstuffed with insight and information	Hearst Over Hollywood is a book that could appeal to a large cross-section of readers - historians, movie buffs, those with interests in journalism and media, etc.  Louis Pizzatola has done an incredibly admirable job in compiling sources and data on William Randolph Hearst and presenting him in a new light - something very difficult to do after over 100 years of Hearst representations in the media and popular culture.  That in itself makes it a worthwhile read.   <br /> <br />While I hate to be the one to knock down this book's perfect customer rating to date, I feel that an honest review on my part would require that I also point out some of the book's flaws.  Because it is so densely filled with information, many chapters bog down over sequences that perhaps could have been better conveyed if streamlined.  I can appreciate the fact that it would be hard to determine exactly where to streamline, so I suppose that some readers who possess some knowledge on the subject going in will be able to pick out what interests them. <br /> <br />The book is about as objective as any work on Hearst could be and it is a pleasure to re-think Citizen Kane from the context of knowing more about its erstwhile main character.  If you've never seen it or haven't in a while, I would recommend watching the film, reading the book, and then watching it again. <br /> <br />Pizzitola's thoroughness does serve him very well in exploring how Hearst built his media empire from the publishing industry through the nascent Hollywood studio system and balances nicely the clinical examinations with the gossipy show-business scandal aspects of the man's life. <br /> <br />Very well done.	2004-07-30
US	52425643	R3PA1CKY9797UE	0142003697	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Tremendously focused and comprehensive history	Appreciators of art, particularly the classics, will have a field day with Ross King's Michelangelo &amp; The Pope's Ceiling, not just because it gives a blow-by-blow account of how one man, figuratively if not literally, could achieve a creation of such power, grace, and style that it still remains today one of the most famous works of art in the world.  Add to that a complex history of the papacy and European monarchies and you've got a wonderful narrative, supplemented by accurate technical information on exactly how the whole thing was brought about.<br />If you've seen the film The Agony and the Ecstacy, you've only gotten a fraction of the story behind the Sistine Chapel ceiling and indeed, the perceptions of one man painting while on his back that have lingered are in large part due to tales like it.  However, as King is quick to point out, while Michelangelo's genius was the driving force there were other artists involved who get the short shrift of history.<br />The book also gives generous space to Raphael, the rival and artist working elsewhere in the Vatican at the time and, naturally, to the amazing character of Julius II, a pope who clearly did not conform to tradition.  Elements of both the Sistine ceiling and Raphael's work are given thoughtful attention and analysis.<br />The detailed descriptions of the methods and techniques employed by the artists were interesting, but in some instances went on for too long and took something away from the narrative flow that had been established.  Even so, it was very educational and entertaining.	2004-07-07
US	52425643	RPKDUXS5Q6FQ9	0385506600	385652622	Higher: A Historic Race to the Sky and the Making of a City	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A love letter to New York, the greatest city in the world	Although it's focus is specifically on the construction of three major buildings of the New York skyline, Higher is deep down a very fond remembrance of a time when fortunes were literally falling and yet the city of New York grew exponentially toward becoming the epitome of the modern metropolis.<br />Neal Bascomb meticulously chronicles the events and characters who were responsible for this fertile period, but in doing so he very successfully manages to avoid bogging down in details and figures that might hinder a similarly-themed and more scholarly approach.  This isn't to say that Bascomb didn't do his homework, but that he has been able to make a comprehensive narrative that's riveting (excuse the pun) and fast-paced.  Indeed, the buildings themselves were all constructed with remarkable speed considering the scope of the projects and the technology of the day.<br />It was a great pleasure to not only follow along in what was a true rat race for the tallest building but to also gain significant insight into what is my personal favorite of the skyline, the Chrysler Building - a structure that has lived all but one year of it's life in the shadow of the Empire State.	2004-06-16
US	52425643	R373N8GCGQA4SF	0743249755	556328452	It's All True: A Novel of Hollywood	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A nice diversion but nothing that special	It's All True is a pleasant enough story with some interesting elements to it, a quick read, and an insider look at Hollywood but for all of that, it's not very deep.  While David Freeman creates a nice protagonist in screenwriter Henry Wearie and puts him into situations that generate some appeal, for the most part there's nothing so profound as to overwhelm the reader and put the book onto that next level.<br />There's nothing really wrong with that, however, and Freeman does do a few things that are somewhat out of the ordinary.  The plot involves non-linear shifts in time and manages to tie in common threads well.  It also tries to give an honest glimpse of the life of a writer at the bottom of the Hollywood food chain but again, doesn't do anything that hasn't been seen before.  Lastly, Freeman deserves some credit for consistency in the sense that he explores Henry's personal relationships with some detail and the characters are all inherently believable.<br />Overall the book was a good two or three day read but it's nothing to rave about.	2004-06-06
US	52425643	RG7BZU9V0DY11	0375421165	915891570	Bandbox: A Novel	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A clever page-turner with memorable characters	Bandbox is one of those novels that reinforces my belief that I was born about 50 years too late.  It captures the New York of the Roaring 20's and the helter skelter world of magazine publishing in a way that is both funny and engrossing.  Thomas Mallon may not be writing on a par with Fitzgerald or others original to the period (who can?) but he is definitely at the top of his game and it's no shame to be the Triple-A champ.<br />The plot fits into several genre, the most prominent being a madcap screwball and the other being somewhat of a minor mystery - will the competition succeed in shutting down Bandbox?  Mallon makes deft use of every character, even though there are easily more than a dozen to keep track of, and each fits very, very neatly into the plot.  That's incredibly hard to pull off and if the book wobbles a little bit in some sections, it makes up for it in others.<br />Mallon captures the romance of the city and the era vividly, from the socio-political events to the popular culture to the love affair that writers had and continue to have with New York.  Even though we know via history's events what's coming around the corner for these characters, we care about them enough to want them to avoid the hard times and root for them against the &quot;bad guys&quot;.<br />Jehosaphat &quot;Joe&quot; Harris is the editor of Bandbox and he seems like a combination of Harvey Weinstein and Boss Tweed.  He's fighting to save his magazine from the upstart Cutaway, edited by his onetime protege Jimmy Gordon.  Jimmy, who will stop at nothing to bury Bandbox, appears to have the upper hand.  The suspense as to who will emerge victorious is an excellent attention-grabber as situations and circumstances get more and more out of control.<br />The funny thing about the book is that some of the characters and situations are cliches of the 20's, but we're so used to them they don't feel like cliches.  Mallon manipulates our perceptions and stereotypes to do his job for him, which is a very clever move. It's also interesting that in reading it I couldn't help but think of what kind of film it would make.  Some of the parts are ridiculously easy to cast in the imagination.  Alec Baldwin, for example, is the epitome of Jimmy Gordon.<br />One flaw, and I've noticed this in other novels that are similar to this one, is that there is so much going on in some instances the author foreshadows what's coming a little too blatantly which takes some of the fun away from the big moments when they do occur.  This is a minor criticism - it's like watching a movie when you've seen all the cliches and you know one is coming.  It's probably not going to detract from the overall experience but you remember it for not being on the same level as the rest of the material.<br />The book reads very smoothly - probably a good two days at most - and leaves you wanting more.  Thomas Mallon is going on my list of authors whose other work I am interested in reading.	2004-05-28
US	52425643	R3FNY67WR8E1EV	0670031690	201299474	Great Fortune: The Epic of Rockefeller Center	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Very well done	Daniel Okrent, public editor of the New York Times, has crafted a terrific history and love letter to New York through the microcosm of the tale of Rockefeller Center, one of the seminal landmarks of the city and one of those true stories that seem stranger than fiction.<br />I can only speak for myself but I imagine that it's hard for anyone who has lived in New York in a time when Rockefeller Center has always existed to appreciate the level of diplomacy, architecture, finance, and artwork that went into creating the complex, not to mention the somewhat scandalous occurrences, but Okrent captures it with a snappy prose style that also manages to blend in some fine observations and humorous analogies.  Especially due to the continued presence of the Center, it is gratifying to be able to put into modern context the various descriptions and details and visualize them as they exist today.<br />The history of the Rockefellers, while obviously much broader and filled with much more intriguing information than is relevant here, is nonetheless captured more than adequately, particularly John D. Rockefeller Jr. and his second son Nelson.  More than just the account of a building project, the book also marks the transition between old-time New York society of the Gilded Age and the modern New York of the twentieth century.  The chapter regarding the controversial Diego Rivera mural seeks to set the record straight on a story that has taken on it's own life over the years and the characters who have previously been given short shrift finally get their due.<br />Perhaps it's fitting that the seminal word on the complex should come from the Gershwins - &quot;They all laughed at Rockefeller Center, now they're fighting to get in.&quot;  And we still are.  Great book for fans of history, New York, architecture, or just plain good writing.	2004-05-18
US	52425643	R2CB9I1VCPB3CW	0609609831	466838124	Your Marketing Sucks	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Two stars is being kind	I give the author credit for two things - 1) he came up with a catchy title and enticed me into buying the book and 2) he had me convinced after the first chapter that this was finally going to be one of those books that actually proved useful to me in helping me grow my business.  Boy, was I wrong.<br />I own a small start-up company that I founded after many years in the marketing industry so I have some background on this sort of material and while I am always open to new ideas, I didn't really get any.  Yes, the general platitudes are correct but they are the same that you would get from any college course in marketing.  As we all know, it's one thing to absorb information and knowledge in a classroom or through a book and it's quite another to put it into practice.  I didn't feel like this book helped implement anything.  <br />Moreover, the writing was so incredibly poor I felt like writing a letter to the editor or the publisher or whoever to tell them to go back and have another pass at it.  It was also repetitive to the point where it felt like Mr. Stevens was padding - did he get paid by the word?<br />Lastly, although the book is clearly a direct plug for Mr. Stevens's firm, I gave the benefit of the doubt and thought I would visit his web site and contact them with the potential for hiring them to help me.  In that regard, I have to echo some of the other reviewers who posted that dollars appear to be more of a concern to Mr. Stevens than actual best practices.  It would seem to me that Your Marketing Sucks is more in tune with the small business owner's needs than with the IBMs and Coca-Colas of the world to whom $20,000 (my marketing budget) is bubble-gum money, but Mr. Stevens does not appear interested in working with anyone who can't generate big bucks.  That's his right but it strikes me as disingenuous.<br />In addition, at a local business networking event in Connecticut I met someone who had actually had some contact with Mr. Stevens and his firm and came away very unimpressed.  His take was that they toss around big concepts and ideas, take your money, and ultimately fall back on the same old thing you find in almost any other agency.  I don't know whether that assessment is true or not but reading this book seems to reinforce it.<br />I helped line his pockets by purchasing the book but that's the limit for me.	2004-05-14
US	52425643	R12DW7PZ2O2M5U	0679722661	156744649	An Artist of the Floating World	Books	5	48	49	N	N	The sometimes uncomfortable power of art	What happens when legitimate art turns into propaganda and can propaganda be considered legitimate art?  What happens to the artist who ventures into propaganda when his side loses the political battle?  Can he still create art for art's sake?<BR>These are some of the questions explored in An Artist of the Floating World, Kazuo Ishiguro's excellent novel of postwar Japan and the musings/fate of a renowned artist who, having served the imperial cause during the war, is now very much suffering for it.<br />Ishiguro writes with an excellent blend of economy and descriptive language that wastes no words or passages on tangents or irrelevance.  He creates postwar Japan so vividly it is a true &quot;you-are-there&quot; read.  Very rarely are authors capable of weaving such realism into a non-contemporary setting.  It's also a very fast moving story, in spite of the fact that in terms of action there is very little.  You come to know and understand the characters so completely that it simply adds to the effect of the realism.<br />A classic work by a very talented writer.	2004-05-05
US	52425643	R2T2ZZT3L4OB6K	068483619X	746145792	Sam Spiegel: The Incredible Life and Times of Hollywood's Most Iconoclastic Producer, the Miracle Worker Who Went from Penniless Refugee to Showbiz Legend, and Made Possible The African Queen, On the Waterfront, The Bridge on the River Kwai, and Lawrence of Arabia	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Mediocre at best	I have a deep interest for history, especially Hollywood history, and Sam Spiegel is a name that crops up all over the place and, until now, has really garnered very little attention in the way of biography relative to his peers.  Natasha Fraser-Cassavoni had a personal relationship with Spiegel (he produced a film based on a play by her stepfather Harold Pinter) and is perhaps as qualified as anyone to write the life story of this great producer.<br />The problem is, although his catalog of films can stand alongside that of anyone in the history of the industry, as a person he doesn't really have any particular standout characteristics that make you take any real interest in him beyond his work.  Instead he seems to fit the bill as the stereotype of the Hollywood producer and maybe that alone is enough to make him interesting, but it doesn't come across.  The best chapters focus on the films, not the man.  There's no denying he was very good at what he did, but this book proved a supreme disappointment simply because I came away not knowing anything more than what I could have learned from a basic filmography.  Three stars is a more than generous rating but I give it that because the films are worth the analysis.	2004-05-05
US	52425643	R3E1FWVQ0CUWFI	1401351905	986554251	Dangerous Company	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Surpasses low expectations	I have to qualify this review up front by saying that I am not, by any stretch, a fan of Peter Bart.  I've found his books on the film industry to be sorely lacking in a good editor, fact-checker, and general humility.  I picked up a copy of Dangerous Company because I saw Mr. Bart on the talk show circuit promoting it and it intrigued me, as do most things related to Hollywood and the film industry.<br />For starters, the book focuses on the &quot;dark side&quot; of Tinseltown.  Okay, fair enough.  All is well and good.  It's a collection of stories that have, as their common theme, a Hollywood enclave where various characters who fill various niches in the industry live and come and go.  Like any collection, there are some that are quite good, some that aren't, and some that are somewhere in-between.  The main criticism I would have with the collection over all is that when Mr. Bart has something good going, he often doesn't see it all the way through.  I admire some of the situations he devises and the characters he sets up, but then they sort of just resolve their issues (or not) in a rather pedestrian manner.<br />One other thing, and this is another quality of Mr. Bart's that I have found irritating over the years, is that this is a work of fiction but a lot of trouble seems to have been taken to avoid disclosing that.  Mr. Bart was notorious in his book The Gross for dropping names left and right, yet criticizing people who drop names.  He seems guilty of some hypocrisy here as well.  I saw him give an interview on a conservative-leaning program that was there to discuss the seediness, corruption, and non-mainstream values of Hollywood and the host used Dangerous Company as an illustration of that, never once mentioning that it was fiction.  Mr. Bart made no effort to point that out either, which to me leaves a somewhat dubious mark on the book.  However, looking at it objectively, it's pretty good for those who have an interest in the subject.	2004-04-23
US	52425643	R1HG52DJAFT0RZ	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	2	14	19	N	N	Wickedly frustrating	Like some of the other reviewers I thought this was one heck of a premise and I was very anxious to read the book, especially in light of the musical running on Broadway.  What a disappointment.  Usually books of this nature tend to start slow and end up closing with a fury.  This one is just the opposite.  After a very interesting first half, the second half just goes absolutely nowhere.  It's boring and repetitive.<br />Gregory Maguire seems to be going for something between science-fiction and fantasy and he succeeds a little.  He's painstakingly re-created a land of Oz from the Baum books that rivals that of Tolkien's Middle Earth and is filled with tremendous detail, but all he ends up with a haphazard narrative that doesn't really do anything to engage the reader, let alone expand so profoundly on the nature of evil, as the book tends to promise.  It is intriguing to more or less switch the roles of the Wicked Witch of the West and the Wizard so that she is the &quot;good guy&quot; and he is the &quot;bad guy&quot;, but there are literally dozens of hints, dropped none too subtly I might add, that seem like they are building up to a grand revelation or significant plot point and it ends up being nothing.  Maguire seems caught in that trap where alluding to something often enough means the reader automatically gets it, through osmosis I guess.  I thought this was particularly annoying, especially because he managed to re-capture my interest with one particular plot point involving the Wizard (I won't give it away) and then just let it go.  It was never resolved.<br />The book is filled with passages like that.  Great amounts of time and space are given to things which, from these allocations, must mean they are important but then they practically become afterthoughts or footnotes.  The entire middle section of the book (in my copy from page 200 to about page 300) is more or less a tangent that did absolutely nothing for me.  I persevered because, knowing the original story so well as so many of us do, I was interested to see how Maguire would tie in the action from when Dorothy lands in Oz.  Some of the ways in which Maguire made the connections were interesting, but not enough to satisfy me.<br />Unfortunately, Wicked falls into the category of a great idea gone badly wrong.	2004-04-22
US	52425643	R133JW1OIP5BC0	0804722773	564132599	The Odyssey of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade: Americans in the Spanish Civil War	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Those who forget history...	I sought this book out because over time, as an amateur historian, I have become fascinated by certain subjects and the Spanish Civil War is definitely one of them, not simply because of the clash of ideologies that were in full force, but because looking at it through the complete prism of the twentieth century one can understand why the SCW was a microcosm of what became the Second World War.  It's like Spain was a petrie dish for the major powers to test out new methods of warfare, new technology, and new methods of propaganda.<br />Since the causes of fascism and communism are equally repellant in this country, with perfect justification, it's interesting to read an account where the tendency is to route for neither side.  I guess since the U.S. and U.S.S.R. were allies later on against the Nazis it makes it somewhat of an easier choice, but not when the evidence about the Party in America is revealed.<br />Not really a complete overview, the book focuses much more on individuals and their personal stories which gives the book much more of a human quality to it.  I would have liked a little more of the general history.  It's a good read for a seriously overlooked event in modern times.	2004-04-15
US	52425643	R3CKQXCIDBFG9C	0813122171	354222913	Blood on the Moon: The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Very thoughtful and thought-provoking	Blood on the Moon is a very well done researched account of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, but done so with the intent of disproving the myths and inaccuracies that have sprung up in the many years since it occurred as opposed to a straight blow-by-blow retelling.  This is both interesting and welcome.<br />The parts that are most fascinating, perhaps somewhat morbidly, are the examinations of Booth's character and motivations, simply because although it has been over 140 years since the Civil War started, we are in some ways still fighting that battle.  Lincoln is still persona non grata in parts of this country and there are still societies which claim the innocence of the convicted co-conspirators.<br />Edward Steers Jr. seems to be pointedly out to refute these individuals and he does so very convincingly.  He painstakingly sets the stage for the assassination itself and one fault of the book is that it doesn't really get going until the deed is done, although I'm not sure that could be helped.  One other minor flaw is that Steers tends to repeat information quite often, sometimes within a page of his previous reference.  I understand the need to drive points home, but it was distracting and superfluous.<br />In a direct comparison of Booth and Lincoln, it is not the President who comes across as the more interesting character.  This is not to say that the study of Lincoln is boring, but Booth was so flamboyant (a matinee idol of the stage) and so convinced of the righteousness of his convictions that he just attracts more curiosity.  Steers does try and be very even-handed in his examination of the Confederate cause and it's sympathizers and that helps digest the overall story.  He does go off on a slight tangent concerning America's fascination with characters like Booth.  <br />The suggestion I took away from that analysis is that had Booth not gone ahead with the deed of murdering the President, there would never have been a Charles Guiteau, Leon Czolgosz, or Lee Harvey Oswald.  The act itself was so unthinkable, in spite of evidence Steers presents concerning assassination plots on both sides, that it shocked the country into the original loss of innocence.<br />A very good book for history buffs or anyone who has an interest in the period.	2004-04-12
US	52425643	R1EH7N7D4MTEN8	0520223837	894265830	A Very Dangerous Citizen: Abraham Lincoln Polonsky and the Hollywood Left	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Interesting but meandering	Arguably the Renaissance man of the Leftist movement, Abe Polonsky made his mark in the worlds of education, radio, film and television. A Very Dangerous Citizen documents in detail Polonsky's participation in socialist causes -- as well as his other public activities -- that ultimately led to his head-on collision with the U.S. government during the Red Scare of the late 1940s and 1950s. The list of Americans who have been labeled &quot;a very dangerous citizen&quot; on the floor of the United States Congress is a short one, and Polonsky earned that label due to his membership in the Office of Strategic Services during World War II.<br />Authors Paul Buhle and Dave Wagner have studied the blacklist extensively -- Buhle as the co-author of Tender Comrades: A Backstory of the Hollywood Blacklist and Wagner as the political reporter for the Arizona Republic. Together they have produced a thorough if somewhat clinical study of the American Communist movement through the life of one of its staunchest advocates.<br />The book begins slowly, as the authors devote several chapters to setting the stage for Polonsky's great triumphs in Hollywood by examining his past and the shaping influences in his life. While good biographic work, these scene-setting passages slow down the overall narrative to the point of distraction until the narrative arrives at Polonsky's best-known works, Body and Soul and Force of Evil.<br />These films, produced in 1947 and 1948, respectively, are the primary reason Polonsky is remembered today. Here, the parallels between his work and his politics are clearly defined. Body and Soul, considered the standard bearer for later boxing films such as Raging Bull, establishes the postwar persona of John Garfield (also a later blacklistee) and presents a full-blown condemnation of the system that compromises an individual's morality. Force of Evil, also with John Garfield, is a noir classic that takes the next step in exposing how American society breeds those who would operate beneath the law. In each case, Garfield's character embodies values that Americans of the period would find both reprehensible and admirable. Buhle and Wagner dissect the scripts and the production value of these films in their attempt to get into Polonsky's head, and are extremely competent in their analysis.<br />Once Polonsky is blacklisted, there isn't too much left to tell. His acerbic condemnation of those who perpetrated the blacklist as well as the popularity of his films overseas served to keep him active, but his later films were mere curiosities, known more for their creator than their content. This is not to say that Buhle and Wagner don't have fodder to continue their thesis. Indeed, they follow Polonsky through the '50s and his later return to Hollywood to work with newer stars like Robert Redford. Unfortunately, beyond his two great masterworks, Polonsky was no longer regarded as a pioneering voice in cinema, but rather as a historical curiosity.<br />To those who don't possess at least a moderate interest in the history of American cinema and Hollywood, A Very Dangerous Citizen can read like a doctoral thesis. In the end it is interesting purely for the fact that its chosen subject matter was a man who led a mythic, almost clichéd, struggle for his art and beliefs. Polonsky himself tried to tell his story with the original screenplay for the film Guilty By Suspicion. Surprisingly, or perhaps not so, Buhle and Wagner demonstrate how Guilty By Suspicion in its final form is nothing like Polonsky's vision. Given his radical activities, they make a convincing argument that even a mainstream Hollywood exposition on the blacklist could not measure up with Polonsky's real story, though Buhle and Wagner have done so successfully.	2004-04-09
US	52425643	RMUQSONRVWKCB	0156029057	889712423	The Ticket Out	Books	3	7	9	N	N	All over the place	I'm going to review this book by &quot;borrowing&quot; from some of the other reviews that have been posted because I think that taken all together, they actually do paint a fairly accurate picture of the book.<br />For starters, yes, Helen Knode shows some appreciation for her audience by not dumbing down the plot and requiring at least some kind of peripheral knowledge of Hollywood history to fully appreciate it, but at the same time it tends to take on too much of a &quot;wink wink&quot; subtley that I imagine the casual mystery reader would find annoying and confusing.<br />On that note as well, the plot is complicated.  I won't say it's convoluted because Knode deserves some credit for not taking any short cuts, but there's a lot of information to digest, a lot of it red herrings, and there are so many characters that it's very difficult for even the most involved reader to keep them straight, especially when they may disappear for forty or so pages and reappear, requiring some quick back referencing to remind oneself of who that person is.<br />The ending is also very unsatisfying.  After investing so much in the story and characters, the author does her readers a great disservice.  I won't give it away - some other reviews mention this as well - but it bothered me a lot.  I guess I can understand the desire to throw yet another curve and to not fall into cliche, but I think it was safe to say that there was very little danger of doing so anyway given what had come before.<br />The other main flaw is that the protagonist is somewhat infuriating in her actions and choices.  Again, there's no rule that says this can't be the case, but it certainly doesn't help.  Interestingly, I was often reminded while reading The Ticket Out of another book that had many similarities - first time female novelists writing mysteries centered around a very specific location and time period with main characters that were not up to snuff.  I don't think it means anything except to say that it serves to illustrate how the dissatisfaction of the first book stayed with me to be harkened back to from reading this one.<br />I would recommend getting The Ticket Out from the library if you find the subject matter interesting rather than purchasing it.	2004-03-29
US	52425643	R1AAHKMZ569HVZ	140003339X	471212842	McSweeney's Mammoth Treasury of Thrilling Tales	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The Baby and the Bathwater	As might be expected with any collection such as this, it's uneven.  I appreciate the idea of re-creating the old pulp style stories and the roster of authors are all top-notch, but a lot of the tales are too cute by half.  I love stories that have a flair to them, but sometimes that gets taken to the extreme and damages the narrative.  It would seem to me, as someone who has made a hobby of collecting the old pulp comics and magazines, that you can't have it both ways.  If you want to throw a curveball at your reader, you can't do it in a lackadaisical manner, which some of these authors tend to do.<br />I made a conscious effort to read each story and give each one a chance and there was really only one that I gave up on, mostly because it was too long.  The best, for me, were the contributions by (no real surprises)Glen David Gold, Elmore Leonard, and Neil Gaiman.  I was a little surprised by how much I didn't like the Stephen King story and editor Michael Chabon's contribution was also a bit thin.  Indeed, Chabon's story seemed to exemplify what was wrong with the stories that just didn't seem to work.  He tried too hard to capture the pulp spirit and in doing so ended up with an interesting story but not a very entertaining one.<br />I thought overall the book is worth reading, although I think perhaps it's better to read the stories piecemeal when your appetite for that type of story is piqued.	2004-03-17
US	52425643	R2Y201HK8T9JUT	068486259X	932680550	Down and Dirty Pictures: Miramax, Sundance, and the Rise of Independent Film	Books	4	36	39	N	N	Too much to live up to	Peter Biskind has in recent times become one of my favorite writers on the movies, alongside Roger Ebert, Peter Travers, and David Ansen.  His latest, Down and Dirty Pictures, is good but it has a couple of things working against it from the outset.  First, it will always be in the shadow of Easy Riders Raging Bulls, Biskind's seminal book on 70's Hollywood which was an excellent work from start to finish.  Second, because most of what Biskind chronicles is fairly recent memory, it seems a bit like overload.  Diehard film fans will simply be rehashing old news (for them), whereas the stories in Easy Riders were far enough in the past to be almost new again.<br />The book clearly has elements that are anti-Miramax and, to a lesser extent, anti-Sundance but it shouldn't change your opinion if you are, say, a big Robert Redford fan.  That isn't to say that Redford and the Weinsteins don't deserve some criticism, but the intelligent reader should be able to read between the lines and understand that Biskind's perspective is not the last word on the subject.  The movies are the thing, after all, and both Sundance and Miramax have produced great ones.  What bothers me most is Biskind's grudging praise and all-too-easy condemnations.  A few years ago he wrote a negative piece on Sundance for Premiere Magazine - now it seems he's trying to nail the coffin.<br />I enjoyed this book a lot and I do recommend it, although it is a bit dense and can take some time to get through.	2004-01-19
US	52425643	R3R4XADACRJ0ZT	0786888245	676318573	The Underpants: A Play by Carl Sternheim	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not your typical Steve Martin	I confess to not being familiar with the original German version of the play, but I appreciate the fact that Steve Martin was, and that he was in turn appreciative enough to think that it warranted an adaptation.  Especially in an age where non-musical theater seems to be veering toward sentimentality or else trying too hard to prove itself to be edgy, it's great to read a play where the name of the game is as it always has been and should be - entertainment through engaging characters and interesting plot lines.<br />The play itself is very funny and retains enough of the \\"Old World\\" flavor to make it a unique piece of work when combined with the sensibilities of a sharp-witted writer like Martin.  There were short sequences where the \\"old\\" Steve Martin humor snuck out, but overall he was very careful to present a new side of his taste that is as different from his other plays as his more recent films have been from his stand-up.	2004-01-16
US	52425643	R310NM6WDESHZ2	1568582684	273005353	The Player: Christy Mathewson, Baseball, and the American Century	Books	3	21	23	N	N	Decent but too broad	As a fan of baseball history, I have been looking for a modern, definitive biography of Christy Mathewson ever since I grew to admire him many years ago.  I was hoping that Philip Seib's The Player would be that elusive work, but I was wrong.  Although it covers the major events of Matty's life, Seib works very hard to put him in context as the first major baseball star and the times that he lived in, so what we're left with is less of a biography and more of a social history.<br />This is all well and good, and the premise is an interesting one, except that Seib doesn't take it far enough and when he tries to expound on his theory, he ends up giving more info on other figures of the times like Billy Sunday and Woodrow Wilson than on Mathewson.<br />Almost contradictorally, the main problem is that it all just feels too thin.  At less than 200 pages it's a one and a half day read at best and you come away not knowing anything more about Mathewson than you would reading any history of baseball.  Were I Seib's editor, I would have recommended that he go in the opposite direction and really blow out his research.  Joseph Durso wrote an excellent double biography of John McGraw and Casey Stengel that captured the general history of American society as well as baseball and that is clearly what Seib is aspiring to but falls short.<br />I don't want to knock the book too much since I enjoy general history as much as anyone, but I guess I just expected so much more.  Also, Seib labors in spots to draw his conclusions and ends up being extremely repetitive.  His reverence for Mathewson is well-appreciated, but borders on overindulgence.<br />If you are interested in reading more on Mathewson, I would recommend seeking out the Jonathan Yardley essay \\"The Real Frank Merriwell\\" for a terrific mini-bio and tribute to a great pitcher.	2004-01-15
US	52425643	RUPMUGCBQKAZ2	1575666669	14799812	The Biograph Girl	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A real pleaser	The Biograph Girl is sure to please anyone with an affinity for Hollywood history, mysteries, and the modern subculture that is popular entertainment.  William J. Mann manages to blend a wide variety of divergent elements into a very cohesive and entertaining narrative that meets the true test of any mystery - you can't put it down for want of finding out how it ends.  I deducted a star because the ending, although clever, is somewhat obvious.  It seems like Mann, with his incredibly intricate plot lines, trapped himself into a bit of a corner.  This is not to say that it's bad - quite the contrary.  It's just a bit disappointing.<br />Also to be appreciated is the incredible amount of research that must have gone in to the writing since it is just chock full of details that are one of the true pleasures of the book.  Although lengthy, it doesn't read as such and the &quot;you are there&quot; sense that one gets is highly effective.	2003-12-08
US	52425643	R2RGI7P0SRJDAT	0802733034	841153466	Far from Heaven (Keith Moody Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A sought out gem	I came across this book quite by accident but it was a very happy one.  Greg Matthews manages to create a very realistic atmosphere of 1942 Hollywood and imbue it with characters that are both realistic and sympathetic.  The mystery plot is a bit uneven in parts, but it's nicely wrapped up and quite cleverly done.  As someone who tends to not read fiction all that much, I found myself engaged and interested.  High marks.	2003-12-04
US	52425643	R3ECHU6B5CYI7B	0380812002	142102788	A Graveyard for Lunatics: Another Tale of Two Cities	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very enjoyable	I remember an old tag line for a copy of The Martian Chronicles I had indicating that there was no writer quite like Ray Bradbury and that still holds true today.  While certainly not in the upper echelon of his past classics, A Graveyard for Lunatics is certainly a page turner that keeps hold of your interest from start to finish.  Bradbury uses Hollywood as a vessel for the much larger themes of death, fame, and religion and wraps it in a murder mystery.  Unfortunately, and the reason I withhold a star, is that it becomes a little too easy to figure out a huge piece of the puzzle and knowing or assuming that as you read takes something away from the suspense.  That being said, the plot is still very tightly constructed and the characters are, for the most part, very well drawn.  A nice piece of work from the master.	2003-11-10
US	52425643	R3LA7CTJWSFBTC	B00008AJCI	592016606	21 Dog Years : Doing Time @ Amazon.com	Books	2	14	22	N	N	Why should we care?	This was an amusing little slip of a book, but in the end, I really couldn't help but be really put off by Daisey's attitude and funny descending into smarmy writing style.  He has some good fun at Amazon's expense and okay, who doesn't often have revenge fantasies about their place of employment, but after page after mind-numbing page of Daisey's attempts at self-deprecation (through which he only comes across as lazy and stupid) you'll be glad when you reach the end.  And it just ends.  For someone who can be, at times, expansive and philosophical there is nothing in the way of an ending to wrap things up effectively.<br />If what he says is true, my appreciation goes out to those who went through the experiences Daisey describes.  However, I don't see how it can't be taken with a grain of salt.  More power to him, though.  Amazon is selling his book.	2003-11-03
US	52425643	R7OS145O3JVQ6	0679722610	645212410	Red Harvest	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quick, Sharp, and Still the Best	The best thing about Dashiell Hammett books is that they are usually readable within 48 hours and yet still contain enough interesting content to prove satisfying.  The Continental Op is in full force in Red Harvest, which often gets overlooked in favor of the Maltese Falcon or the Thin Man but which is still evidence of Hammett's eminent skill in crafting an intricate plot with interesting characters.  Unlike the meandering prose of others in the genre, Hammett manages to combine a flowery descriptive style with a human quality that achieves a high level of suspense.  When the Op is finally sucked into the machinations of Poisonville, you can't turn the pages fast enough to find out how it will turn out.  That's the mark of a good book in any form.	2003-10-31
US	52425643	R3HVE2EHV3NUZJ	0393057550	467312085	Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville: A Lifelong Passion for Baseball	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Very disappointing	Based on Prof. Gould's previous books and his appearances in, among others, the Ken Burns Baseball series, I was supremely disappointed by this book, although perhaps for reasons other than those expressed by other reviewers.<br />Anyone who has read Prof. Gould's other books should know that he is an acquired taste, whether his subject is baseball, paleontology, evolution, or what have you.  Many of his books have passages or whole sections that are simply unreadable but the remainder manages to buoy them up.  However, because Prof. Gould was in the process of dying as he finished some of the later dated essays and the rest are culled from his history of writing on the sport, it only stands to reason that there is going to be a lot of repetition (he traces his family's history of Yankee fandom so many times I lost count) and his better chapters are the shorter, more distinct ones than the lengthy scientific breakdowns like why no one hits .400 any more.<br />I could have done without the last section of baseball book and movie reviews - they were okay but they didn't do anything for me, perhaps because Prof. Gould was simply reacting to the work of others rather than producing his own contemplations.<br />It is a true shame that Prof. Gould's last work should leave so much to be desired, but there are lots of other volumes of his out there if one wants to revisit them.	2003-10-27
US	52425643	R46MBT83OBC22	1576600998	197948282	Full Frontal PR: Getting People Talking about You, Your Business, or Your Product	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Very very good, but....	Full Frontal PR is a great book for any novice business-owner or budding PR professional to get a baseline on how the successful PR execs perform their job.  I don't quite buy the argument that the book is the only resource one would need because there is a ton of information thrown at you and it's difficult to absorb all at once - a human element seems to still be essential.  That being said, it does provide excellent insights into public relations and the resource information is invaluable.  It's also a bit daunting to realize how much is actually involved, but that's the whole point of the book.  You can't just send out a press release and wait for people to come beating down your door.  It just won't happen that way.<br />This book should take up permanent residence in your briefcase/backpack/duffel bag/etc. for a handy reference when needed.  I only deduct a star because I thought the chapters could have been organized and laid out a little better.	2003-10-15
US	52425643	R3C3L7XCM3PGDV	159184021X	557165611	Purple Cow: Transform Your Business by Being Remarkable	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting and Informative, but...	As a small business owner, I was recommended this book on the hopes that it would break the mold of every other business book I've read, namely that it would be able to provide more than just broad theories that were not necessarily applicable to the &quot;real world&quot;.  While it did provide some excellent case studies and some very good ideas, from a personal level I felt that it focused to much on products and not enough on services, which I feel is a much harder area to &quot;be remarkable&quot; as it is not a tangible good.<br />I completely understand the philosophy and the usefulness that some might find from it, but it didn't really do me much good.  I am sure I can use parts of it, but I guess my expectations were too high.  I can, however, understand the value that others might find from it and so might rate it higher.	2003-08-25
US	52425643	R5NZBC2AB89QE	0609609831	466838124	Your Marketing Sucks	Books	1	1	2	N	N	I was "suck"-ered	My biggest problem with this book is that it tells you nothing you can't already figure out if you have any kind of common sense and the ability to step back from your marketing plan and give it an objective once-over.  Maybe it deserves some credit for that, but for all the hype that the first couple of chapters generate (in some cases ad nauseum), there's absolutely no way that anything that follows could possibly deliver on the promise.  This in itself may be a good lesson on Mark Stevens.  I picked up this book because I saw a lot of local press on it and the title was intriguing, but that's all it did.  I think Stevens is teaching us suckers who bought the book that it really is all about style rather than substance.<br />I'd suggest forming a 12-step program for others who were similarly conned but I think we all know better.  Someday we'll wise up and realize that no one who writes a book like this really knows anything except how to promote themselves.	2003-07-08
US	52425643	RNETZXEXRQRX1	076791032X	141760283	The Great Movies	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Populist and Elitist	Roger Ebert has become the common man's movie writer, often putting together compilations that hit home with the everyday casual movie fan as well as the true cinema buff.  While the films listed in The Great Movies are always going to be debatable, what's interesting is A) they are not all such clear-cut run of the mill choices, i.e. Citizen Kane or Casablanca, and B) it's apparent that each one of these films holds a special place in Ebert's heart.  His writing is fluid and accessible, even if a reading of each essay will reveal certain catch-phrases and repetitions that he uses time and time again.  It can also be read on two levels.  One is where the reader can skip around to read Ebert's thoughts on films that he or she loves as well, and the other is to read about films of which the reader has no personal experience, and therefore possibly turn themselves on to something new.<br />Roger Ebert may have evolved into a cariacature from his television show, but as a writer and editor he has no peer.  It's my belief that he's opened up film theory and criticism to a new audience who might otherwise be put off by pretentious pseudo-intellectual babbling, and unlike many other critics he understands that movies are sometimes supposed to just be fun and not necessarily art.  His essays in this book convey that extremely well.	2002-05-29
US	52425643	R1H1RZFJVBH0JR	031227453X	411298568	Close-up on Sunset Boulevard: Billy Wilder, Norma Desmond, and the Dark Hollywood Dream	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Nosedives halfway through	Sunset Boulevard is one of my favorite films, simply because it operates on so many different levels that you can more or less find something new in it every time you see it.  Thus, when I came across this book I was looking forward to an in-depth, substantial recap and analysis of the making of the film and its after-effects outside of a general Billy Wilder biography. I got that, but I also got a lot of useless drivel that serves no purpose except to fill pages.<br />The first part which documents the process by which the film was written, cast, and produced is excellent.  Even the segments that follow, displaying the level of lingering influence Sunset Boulevard and Norma Desmond in particular have had on popular culture were somewhat interesting.  That's where it should have ended.  Instead, Sam Staggs continues on with chapters and passages that are too much about him and not about the movie.   Personally, particularly in the wake of Billy Wilder's death, I don't think it serves any great purpose but his own for Stagg, with a few exceptions, to more or less trash every Billy Wilder film that was made post-SB. <br />I also didn't really care for the long, drawn out chapters on the musical version and Andrew Lloyd Webber, although I guess that they are necessary in sticking with his overall theme.  Staggs is really a victim of himself in that he makes some cogent points but then either beats them to death (as in the case of the Norma Desmond mystique/phenomenon/icon/whatever) or contradicts himself a few pages later.<br />I guess I would recommend it to fans but be prepared for the pitfalls.	2002-05-22
US	52425643	R8UW3W46CV7ND	156025338X	902990326	I'd Hate Myself in the Morning: A Memoir (Nation Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Spoken Softly, Hard Hitting	Less an autobiography and more a series of reflections, philosophies, and anecdotes, I'd Hate Myself In The Morning is a slender but superb work by one of the most underrated writers America has ever produced.  I say underrated because he was not only competing with the legacy of his famous father, but also because of his experiences with the blacklist and his subsequent emergence from that period, all of which Lardner discusses with a candor that is very engaging, honest, and thought-provoking.  In noting that he passed away shortly after the book was published, it casts a very eerie, but not creepy, shadow over the last chapter in which he discusses his views on mortality and death.  A very quick read and well worth it.	2002-04-12
US	52425643	RWFH9MO443XAN	0786867345	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Great Book	It's hard to imagine how difficult it must be to write a historical-based novel, especially one based on something so esoteric as magic, but Glen David Gold has made it look easy.  He blends an acute sense of time and place with a character that simply holds the reader's attention the entire length of the book.  How else can the Marx Brothers, Harry Houdini, Warren G. Harding, and Philo Farnsworth be peripheral characters unless the protagonist is just that much more fascinating?  I don't know if the real Carter the Great could have lived up to his portrayal in this novel, but it's immensely pleasurable to try and figure that out.<br />I can't remember the last time I read a novel with so many plot twists that come out of nowhere and yet make perfect sense.  Obviously in his magic research Gold learned a thing or two about misdirection.  His only missteps are on two occasions where he foreshadows a bit too obviously, but that's nitpicking.  Like John Irving, Gold will refer back to passages that came up several chapters ago and tie everything up in a neat package before the reader realizes it.<br />Great book, plowed through it in less than a week, recommending it to everyone.	2002-01-29
US	52425643	R31YZJK7K8VPIL	0679441549	825488903	Dazzler: The Life and Times of Moss Hart	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Stutter Steps	Hmmm...where to begin?  I looked forward to reading Dazzler based on my love of history, the theatre, and New York in general.  In those respects, the book doesn't disappoint.  Steven Bach paints a terrific picture of early twentieth century Broadway that really brings it to life as he follows Moss Hart's life and career.  It's very obvious that he's done his homework and he fills gaps in his narrative very nicely.<br />The problem lies in an area that can be very troublesome for biography and I'm afraid that Bach falls into the trap a bit much.  First, the individual chapters, while well crafted, seem to lack a cohesiveness that would make the book flow well.  It seemed difficult to read more than two or three chapters in a sitting.  To give Bach the benefit of the doubt, I'll say that it's because there was so much information to digest.<br />Second, to echo some of the other reviews that have been posted, in the end Moss Hart is a big name that does not carry a corresponding talent.  Yes, he was the co-author of some of the standards of twentieth century theater, but upon the closer scrutiny Mr. Bach provides he doesn't really seem to measure up to the level of greatness that Mr. Bach thinks he deserves (or wants him to deserve to merit this book).  A quick sidebar, to label Moss Hart the Neil Simon of his day, as others have, is a disservice to Mr. Simon.  Sitcoms may have made us more sensitive to fluff, but there is a distinct difference in the two men's careers.<br />Lastly, Mr. Bach goes to great lengths to bring Moss Hart's sexuality to light, providing anecdotes and evidence that, if not outright gay, he was at least bisexual.  All well and good, except that in trying so hard to prove this particular thesis, Bach loses sight of one very important point, namely that an artist's sexuality (or for that matter their upbringing) does not automatically mean that every piece of work they do is colored by it.  It may be true, but it isn't necessarily true.  Bach interrupts too many interesting stories to go into this subject, which only applies toward making his point about one-third of the time.<br />Overall it helps to have some vague form of familiarity with the plays and, since some of them are such mainstays of high school and regional theaters across the country, it will provide some interesting insights.  As Bach rightly points out, some of these plays have not held up well over the course of time but, taken for what they are, they are undeniable classics.  To a lesser degree, so was Moss Hart.	2001-12-01
US	52425643	R2DUUMMDEOVF0Q	0813122023	227491540	Engulfed: The Death of Paramount Pictures and the Birth of Corporate Hollywood	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A little too clinical	This book probably falls more in the 3 and a half star category, because Bernard Dick does do a good job of laying out the narrative regarding Hollywood's turn toward the &quot;dark side&quot;, becoming less about entertainment and more about business.  He is thorough and meticulous.<br />However, the book reads a bit too much like a college text.  Professor Dick's last book about a studio, City of Dreams, was a blow-by-blow history of Universal and he references his studies for that book a bit too much here.  Clearly there was plenty of original research done, but it seems like some of it is missing.  Also, with the exception of the passages pertaining to The Godfather, the examples (perhaps case-studies is a better term) don't really make the point I think the book is trying to make, namely that the film community is most definitely the worse off for having gone down the road of textiles, electronics, and other mainstream industries.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is a die hard Hollywood historian or movie fan, but others might be left a bit put off.	2001-10-02
US	52425643	R2VMB1PFALKMMB	0316105317	429876240	Stork Club : America's Most Famous Nightspot and the Lost World of Cafe Society	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Great &quot;You Are There&quot; Account	This book captures a long gone time and place so well, you can almost smell the smoldering cigarettes from the famous Stork Club ashtrays as you read.  While it is lamentable that so many of these great places are no more, at least the Stork Club's spirit is preserved for those who wish to live or re-live the experience of being there, if only in their imaginations.  It's very engaging and entertaining.	2000-10-16
US	52425643	R2XS2OD44VMMYG	0375411445	435436234	American Rhapsody	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Consider The Source &amp; Keep An Open Mind	Let me first state that I am not a fan of Joe Eszterhas by anymeans.  I never really liked his movies...  That being said, AmericanRhapsody was a very, very interesting book.<br />As many of the otherreviews have stated, this is not a story told with compassion orunderstanding, even though the author would have you believe that hegenuinely feels for Bill Clinton and his anger comes more fromdisappointment at his behavior than a disagreement with his policies.I think the same can be said for most people.  I think it is a verydeliberate move in this book that Eszterhas goes way too far beyondthe realm of decency...  A lot of it is aimed at making the readeruncomfortable with its frankness and open sexuality.  Even those whoconsider themselves pretty open minded will squirm at some of thepassages.  It's just something that can't be verbalized or printedwithout seeming both ridiculous and insensitive.<br />What saves thisbook is that it's hysterical.  Eszterhas goes after EVERYONE,regardless of position, office, or level of fame.  There are severaldozen passages where I was laughing so hard I had to pause to composemyself.  The chapter about Warren Beatty alone is worth the cost ofthe book.  I am not going to comment about what it means that suchtruly dishonorable material can be made so humorous.  I'm sure a lotof it has to do with our inability to decide if we should laugh or getangry, but at the very least you have to admire the author's sheergall.  It's what's kept his film career alive.<br />The big disclaimerwith this book is that it is a fictional account.  What's scary isthat you could very easily forget that it is and accept it as thetruth.  With all the predisposed notions about Eszterhas, whatprompted me to read the book in the end was one comment I heard himmake in an interview regarding politics and the entertainment industrywhich, I almost hate to say, I agreed with completely.  In the end, itis the general public who have the ultimate right to determine if apiece of entertainment is good or bad, not the politicians.	2000-10-01
US	52425643	R3EW8S8L5MCNFQ	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Expose, Confession, Textbook, &amp; Restaurant Guide	I am next to ignorant when it comes to the ways and means of preparing  food, but after I saw an interview with Anthony Bourdain promoting Kitchen  Confidential, I had to get myself a copy.  The man is downright hysterical,  and even more enjoyable is that all the stuff he talks about is true.   Okay, in all likelihood it's not all true since it is his own point of  view, but he does go to some effort to change or hide names of people and  restaurants to avoid problems which would indicate he fears some kind of  libel or other legal retaliation.<br />For a kitchen novice like me, the book  is illuminating.  Bourdain shifts nicely between his own escapades in the  business and general point of interest stories about people he has known  and restaurants he has worked in.  He also tries to explain to the  uninformed things that everyone should know about dining out, such as never  order fish on a Monday (read the book to find out why) and exactly what a  sous-chef is.  The book's reputation is that it is causing a bit of a  scandal among those who are in the industry, but if that's true than it  only adds to the enjoyment, like being let in on big secrets.  I would  think that those in the industry would enjoy it even more than the average  lay person, but to each his own.<br />Another nice little effect is  appreciation for what actually goes on inside a restaurant beyond what the  customer may see.  It's a revelation as to just how hard these people have  to work and all they have to do in preparation, which is sometimes so  complicated it takes one or two re-reads of Bourdain's &quot;Day in the  Life&quot; chapter to fully comprehend.  The other fringe benefit is the  various restaurants that Bourdain does refer to as being worthwhile.  I can  only imagine that it would be great fun to use the book as a guide and eat  at as many of these places as possible, assuming that they still  exist.<br />One word of caution: by necessity, there is a lot of explicit (but  honest) language and situations.  I only say this because it might give  some people pause, but in its defense it is also factual and detailed  reporting.  Bourdain isn't trying to hide the dark side of the restaurant  business and there is no need that he should.  The passage which serves as  an interpreter's guide to kitchen speak is one of the funniest in the  book.<br />Amateur chef, gourmand, or just an average person with an eye  towards the finer aspects of the culinary world, Kitchen Confidential is  one book you will be sorry you missed if you don't read it.	2000-07-10
US	52425643	R111RKXA0GCWKE	1566632609	614274677	Matinee Idylls: Reflections on the Movies	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Hits And Misses	I generally like Richard Schickel a lot.  I find his film reviews to be mostly on target and in those times I disagree with him, I at least come away with a slightly perspective.  I wish I could say the same for this  collection of essays.  Written over the course of many years and collected  for this volume, they reflect the best and the worst of Richard Schickel,  sometime within the same essay.<br />The best chapters are either the ones  that move away from critical theory and discuss specific actors or  directors from a specific perspective or the ones that discuss films from  the point of view of the general movie-going population.  In particular, I  thought his analysis of the American Film Institute's 100 Years 100 Movies  (for which he was both a voter and a producer of the television special) to  be exemplary.  He was able to put into words what was probably on the minds  of everyone who has debated that subject and address certain questions that  were probably not raised before.  He also pays nice tributes to certain  icons of the Hollywood community with genuine affection that is nice to  see, particularly coming from a critic.  Schickel doesn't really look down  his nose at anyone, regardless of his personal taste in their work.<br />The  essays tend to bog down when they become more like a memoir.  Not to say  that some of his experiences don't make entertaining anecdotes, but I think  that people read Richard Schickel for insights into the movies and for his  valued opinion, not for insights into himself.  It's unfortunate that I  felt that certain essays were not worth reading beyond the first few  pages.<br />However, most of the essays do contribute something as far as  provoking thought, and I suppose that is better than most books of this  nature.  Having to pick and choose what selections you read doesn't mean  it's not worth reading, but it makes you wish that the entire book was more  like the good stuff.	2000-06-30
US	52425643	R3PH2E56TZZOW3	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	19	28	N	N	Dense Prose Telling A Relatively Simple Story	Last year during all the millennium hoopla, the editorial board of the Modern Library released their list of the Top 100 English-language novels of the 20th century.  Mainly because I had nothing else to do, I decided to  familiarize myself with all the books on the list that I had not read or  attempted to read.  Henderson The Rain King checked in at #21.<br />Now I  certainly know Saul Bellow by his reputation, but I can't say that I am all  that familiar with his other work.  He's always been a bit too wordy for me  to really get into his stories.  Since this was the only one of his novels  to crack the top 100, I thought maybe there was some additional merit to  this one that I was not aware of and so I picked up a copy.<br />I'm not  suggesting by any means that it is a bad thing to be overly descriptive.   In fact, one of the great things about this book is that we come to know  Henderson as an extremely real person by the various acts he performs and  by the first-person narration.  He is a living, breathing person by the  time the main thrust of the story begins, but unfortunately we've already  expended so much of ourselves investing in this character that when the  introduction is over, we're left with 75% of the book remaining and nowhere  left to really go.<br />Bellow tries to compensate for this by weaving an  exotic tale about Africa and the people who inhabit some of the more  unspoiled regions of it, but the story turns on what is basically a midlife  crisis and I thought, so what?  Maybe I'm too young to fully appreciate  that aspect of the story, and Bellow does come up with an interesting ways  for his character to deal with the onset of age, but I couldn't help  thinking about how this would be much better served if it was clearer  exactly what Henderson is after.  Don't get me wrong, there are innumerable  passages about his search for...something.  But since he isn't sure what it  is, neither are we.  There's a general idea, but nothing specific.<br />The  story does wind up with some intriguing plot devices that hold the  imagination, but really nothing so earth-moving that it causes us to take  stock of ourselves.  I almost got the sense that this was supposed to be a  kind of snipe at the Hemingway tough guy image by having a main character  who is, by all accounts and actions, a tough guy who shows an introspective  side.<br />The ending just sort of happens, in that the narrative comes to its  conclusion without resolving a key part of the story.  I won't give it  away, but suffice it to say that the whole impetus for the plot's big leap  forward doesn't get any time in terms of how Henderson responds to his  pre-crisis world.<br />On the plus side, there are some great lyrical passages  and there's no doubt that Bellow has a command of the language that few  have.  If you can avoid being intimidated by his reputation, I think you  have a decent chance of enjoying this book.	2000-06-30
US	52425643	R1BS0ZOX194PI5	0679438408	458620636	Silent Stars	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Enthusiasm Means A Lot	Jeanine Basinger's premise is to explore the silent cinema through the stars who are either forgotten or misunderstood by today's film buffs, but she succeeds only partially, mainly because most people have some kind of  concept of who these people were.  What she is really trying to do is  de-bunk the stereotypes that the modern world holds on those who were the  pioneers in creating the matinee idol.  For example, say Rudolph Valentino  and you think latin lover.  Say Douglas Fairbanks and you think  swashbuckler.  Ms. Basinger's point is that there was a lot more to these  and the other actors she profiles and she makes a good argument by backing  up that premise with examinations of the complete filmographies of these  stars, rather than simply focusing on the more well-known ones.<br />One of  the things that comes across immediately is that Ms. Basinger is a big fan,  and she presents her writing as much from a fan's perspective as a critical  or historical point of view.  However, where Ms. Basinger does herself in  is by letting herself gush too much.  Bringing something personal to the  table is not necessarily a bad thing, and it's kind of nice to see that  she's so ardent in her work.  Her problem in trying to write in a more  familiar manner is a disservice to her overall work.  She takes the reader  out of the stories she is telling, which are mostly very enjoyable and  compelling, by interjecting her own sly comments. Besides that, it's still  worth appreciating the variety Ms. Basinger provides as she discusses the  flappers, cowboys, romantic leads, cosmopolitan women (Gloria Swanson),  action stars (Douglas Fairbanks), character actors (Lon Chaney) and even  Rin Tin Tin.<br />Silent Stars is a great read if you have any kind of love of  film or history.  Ms. Basinger does a nice job of putting her characters in  the context of the times and generally painting full pictures of them as  individuals.  The writing can be a lot more dense than a straighthistory  of silent film, so it takes about two chapters to get used to it.  Ms.  Basinger has also had the opportunity to view prints of many of the films  she writes about and those passages are clearly more illuminating than when  she has to rely on other secondary sources to get her information.  It's  truly remarkable to remind yourself as you go along that no one had ever  really known what it meant to be world famous and instantly recognizable  before these silent film stars reached the peaks of their popularity.  I  almost think people like Tom Cruise or Julia Roberts should read this book  just to get an idea of what it REALLY means to be famous.  She also  demonstrates some strong conclusive reasoning in her epilogue about the  arrival of sound and why some stars faded and others thrived.  All told,  it's worth the read if you can stand the cheerleader aspects of it.	2000-06-06
US	52425643	R12A14SGZDZS2D	0316926086	926124045	The Loved One	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Pungent Piece of Satire	I really don't know what else to say except that The Loved One is cover-to-cover the sharpest satire I have ever read, filled with tongue-in-cheek plot lines and caricatures rather than characters.  That  anyone could take the death industry and make it seem so self-important and  as normal as something like the automobile industry is sheer brilliance.   At less than 200 pages, it's a one day read and a very funny one at that.   The only conclusion that can be drawn from it is that Waugh probably didn't  enjoy his tenure in Hollywood very much, which may be the biggest  understatement I could make.	2000-05-26
US	52425643	RMPUFINK0X6YN	0679457542	418762857	The Operator: David Geffen Builds, Buys, and Sells the New Hollywood	Books	3	1	1	N	N	How David Geffen does it	Regardless of what opinion, if any, you may have of David Geffen, reading The Operator will change it.  It is absolutely remarkable that one man could have had a hand in so many pop culture institutions that we take for  granted nowadays, but which were innovative or clever twenty years ago.   One of the true benefits of this book is that it details these things  nicely, to the point where you shake your head in amazement.  Even if  you're up on your entertainment history, odds are you'll be surprised at  just how much Geffen has been involved with.  Also, since most of it is by  and large about recent occurrences, it's interesting to compare the events  in the book to how they exist in one's memory.  Truthfully, there is a lot  of sheer stuff that you have probably forgotten about, but which will jog  your memory, specifically albums that you may have listened to or films  that you may have seen.<br />All that being said, David Geffen himself comes  across as a crybaby, a hypocrite, and a backstabber.  This isn't a knock on  the style or on the reporting.  In fact, Mr. King goes to great pains to  show the generous and more human side of David Geffen.  I probably would  have rated this book higher if not for the stories that left such a bad  taste in my mouth.  Unfortunately, there are too many of those stories and  the narrative seems repetitive, mainly because Geffen's behavior does not  change all that much over his forty-plus years in the entertainment  industry.  Hey, the man does earn a tremendous amount of respect for  building an empire and making himself possibly the wealthiest man in  Hollywood, but he does it by screaming and pitching fits.  It's hard to  believe that such well-respected businessmen like Time-Warner's Steve Ross  or Atlantic Records' Ahmet Ertegun could allow themselves to be drawn in to  Geffen's schemes, but he managed to charm his way in.  If the facts  presented in the book are to be taken at face value, David Geffen has done  more things in his life to be ashamed of than just about anyone else.  What  makes him so successful is that he isn't ashamed, and would probably do it  again if he could.  It's a great insight into what a mogul really is and  how he got that way.<br />I am not sure exactly how a biography can be written  with the subject's cooperation but without authorization, but from the  episodes described in the book it can only mean that Geffen had every  intention of making this book his legacy until he realized that it told the  truth, or at least presented the facts in an unbiased (or non-Geffen  biased) manner.  Mr. King deserves credit for this, particulary since his  subject is still very much alive and around to make his own opinions known.	2000-05-18
US	52425643	R399YCVBUO5402	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	64	71	N	N	Creating A Template	It's often been said that Raymond Chandler is the quintessential writer about Los Angeles in the 1940's in the way that Faulkner fictionalized the American South.  The Big Sleep is the best example of Chandler's affinity for the city, particularly in the light of it's unique blend of  pre-fabricated history associated with the film industry and the  pre-Hollywood era.  That being said, it's a bit ironic that we tend to  think of Philip Marlowe as personified by Humphrey Bogart, even though he's  been played by several actors over the years and the film of The Big Sleep  is markedly different from the book.<br />&quot;Chandleresque&quot; suggests a  certain style of writing and of using metaphors and language that can't  really be described to anyone unfamiliar with his work without lapsing into  stereotype.  For any other mystery writer, that would be a negative, but  since Chandler is the man who, with The Big Sleep, more or less invented  the detective novel as we know it today it's astonishing to read and  realize what kind of impact it might have had on those who read the first  printing.<br />The Big Sleep introduces Philip Marlowe as the private eye who  is both uncorruptable and one step ahead of his antagonists.  His  characterization is what drives the story, which as mysteries go is not the  most suspensful or even all that mysterious. Indeed, the  &quot;mystery&quot; such as it is is barely given notice by Chandler, short  of the necessities.  While there are some good plot twists, they seem to  come together in a generally haphazard manner.  None of that matters,  because the main interest is in what Marlowe will do next and how he will  react.  Chandler creates some interesting supporting characters as well,  but they float in and out of the story overwhelmed by the  protagonist.<br />The Big Sleep is an excellent starting point for getting  re-acquainted with classic detective fiction and exploring the development  of the genre.  It's a relatively quick read as well, which helps the  suspense build and leaves you wanting more.  It's also a classic vessel for  channeling the aura of Los Angeles as it was in what we consider to be its  heyday, and what Chandler considered to be something else altogether.	2000-05-09
US	52425643	RV1NZ2YYNVLQC	1881846075	354550974	Who's Buried in Grant's Tomb? A Tour of Presidential Gravesites	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A bit twisted but fascinating	When you take knowledgeable historians and focus them on such a finite topic, you're bound to come away with lots of fascinating tidbits and stories to keep your interest all the way through.  That's exactly what you  get here.  I've been known to wander through cemetaries in search of famous  people myself, so it's nice to know I'm not alone in my macabre interests.   All the chapters are well-written, particularly the short epilogue to each  as done by Richard Norton Smith.  The concluding essay by Douglas Brinkley  also hits home.  I particularly thought it clever that, along with the  photographs of each presidential gravesite (and future gravesites), the  authors included photos from the graves of Jefferson Davis and David Rice  Atcheson (reported to have been president of the U.S. for 1 day).  It's  great as either a travel guide or just as a historical reference.	2000-04-12
US	52425643	R3LZFMWXHAQDC5	0811824705	198614278	Batman The Complete History: The Life and Times of the Dark Knight	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent	I don't know if Batman is easier to identify with because he's just a normal man in a cape instead of an alien with superhuman powers, but there's obviously something human and provoking about the character that  has lasted for upwards of 60 years.  This book covers it all.  It's a great  history, particularly the early chapters which illustrate various  influences and inspirations on the characters we all grew up with.   Particularly fascinating (or freaky, depending on your point of view), is  the development of the Joker and his evolution into Batman's perfect foil.   The artwork is, of course, top notch and it's great to take a trip back to  revisit whatever point in time you started reading the comics.  Keep this  one on your coffee table and I guarantee every visitor you have will not be  able to resist picking it up.	2000-04-10
US	52425643	R35DBMNGGTD328	0684867192	792974017	Scandalmonger: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good for History Buffs	William Safire would have you believe that today's political world is tame when compared with the formative years of our country when in actuality there is no comparison between a country trying to define itself as a new  form of democratic republic and the current number one power in the world.   You have to give Safire credit, though.  He knows his history and knows his  topics.  I don't know that I would go so far as to label him a  scandalmonger in his own right, but knowing Safire's own stance on certain  issues certainly colors how the novel can be interpreted.  It seems so  obvious that he would would try and create an allegory for the current  administration's foibles, but in a strange way his failure to fully connect  those parallels succeeds in making his novel more compelling.  We all know  more than we need to know about scandalmongering in the 20th century, so  why not allow ourselves to recognize that the 18th was no better and  probably worse?<br />The best thing to be said about the novelization is that  it works on 2 different levels.  If you are a casual reader whose interest  in history never made it out of high school classrooms, the book is a  decent enough story with enough subplots and intrigue to keep you going.   However, if you are keenly fascinated with history and American history in  particular, then the book takes on a whole new meaning.  If you are at all  familiar with the lives of the men it portrays (Hamilton, Jefferson,  Madison, Adams, etc.) then you bring your own perspective to the story.   It's a kind of automatic foreshadowing, because if you know something about  what is supposed to happen you can read between the lines to see how the  events Safire highlights lead up to those key moments that are more  familiar.<br />Whether you agree with Safire's politics of the right or not  (and I happen to be in the latter category), he does put together an  interesting narrative.  It won't change any preconceived notions you have  about the Founding Fathers, but it will prove mildly educational while  being entertaining.  Any lover of history will enjoy it, and even those  with fleeting interest will as well.	2000-03-22
US	52425643	R19SOO971KCCUN	0520217810	117928751	Hitchcock and Selznick: The Rich and Strange Collaboration of Alfred Hitchcock and David O. Selznick in Hollywood	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good History, Fascinating Characters, Slightly Tedious	You probably couldn't find two more fascinating personalities in the history of cinema than Hitchcock and Selznick, and Mr. Leff does an excellent job providing background information and behind-the-scenes  details on their collaborations.  The book tends to slow down at times,  mostly due to expositionary passages which are essential, but which delay  getting to the good stuff.<br />One thing I would have liked more of would  have been more information on what each of these characters did away from  each other.  I realize that gets away from the main thesis, but I think  that Mr. Leff tries to involve as many of those details as he can into his  narrative but is forced to pare it down to stay on course.<br />What's  particularly interesting is how Hitchcock and Selznick virtually switched  places in the Hollywood hierarchy over the course of their time together.   Knowing what we know about each man in his later years lends an extra  creedence to Mr. Leff's work.	2000-03-17
US	52425643	RHTDGN1MY0EHA	0520209494	329403749	City of Nets: A Portrait of Hollywood in the 1940’s	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Thorough and Entertaining	I think I've read City of Nets 4 times since I got it.  The main reason is because it's so packed with details and fascinating information that I am always finding something I missed or had forgotten in the flood of  knowledge.  Some might see that as a detraction, but I think it speaks to  how well the author did his homework.<br />One of the great appeals in this  book is in its truth and how it correctly points out that 1940's Hollywood,  which we think we know so well from legend and the films, was actually much  much more.  As the book shows, Los Angeles was not only the filmmaking  capital of the world, but quite possibly the center of business, classical  music, and literature.  It was one of those times and places when most  things that were &quot;great&quot; were all lumped together.  Throw that  against a backdrop of World War II and the ensuing Cold War, and you have a  narrative that is almost too good to be true.<br />Really a great read, many  times over.	2000-02-11
US	52425643	RFKUGADLBL0DX	0399145672	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very funny but a bit uneven	Dave Barry is a great humorist and his first novel is no exception to that label, but I think that he was clued into what his major problem was going to be in his introduction where he talks about his problem with plotting.   Not that the plot is bad, but the tone with which he writes seems to shift  midway through the book and he starts drifting more and more into the  sarcasm that he's famous for.  It's very funny and enjoyable, but it's a  bit disconcerting.  The other thing that was kind of surprising was that it  moves fast.  Really, really fast.  In fact, I think I read the whole thing  in one day, which shows you that there's no messing around with the stuff  that usually bogs down most first-time novelists.	2000-01-21
US	52425643	RZ8M32UEMRD62	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Torn between fun and aggravation	Before going any further, I gave Timeline four stars for approximately the last third of the book.  Michael Crichton seems to always tick me off everytime I read one his novels, mainly because I start off thinking I'm  going to hate it and then I have to admit at the end that I enjoyed it.   You have to give the guy a lot of credit.  He certainly knows a good deal  about his material.  It's aggravating because he takes so damn long to get  going, but when he does you can't put it down.<br />One of the things that I  find so appealing about Michael Crichton is that he takes very specific and  current events in the scientific world and blends them with, in this case,  very specific historical events that are clearly researched and throroughly  presented.  Regardless of what you may have thought of Jurassic Park, the  same formula applied there too.  Where Jurassic Park was about genetics,  Timeline is about quantum physics.  However, by the time all the requisite  scientific set-up and explanation is out of the way, you're itching for the  actual plot to start moving.  Fortunately, that's always when it  does.<br />The thrust of the story is very well done and the combination of  modern technology and medieval warfare works great.  As with most of his  books, the action and sequence of events are where Michael Crichton shines  the most.  I would be shocked beyond belief if this book did not become a  film.  I think it is too his credit that most of Crichton's books become  films because he writes in such a descriptive and visual way.<br />The main  problems with Timeline are not inconsiderable.  Characters are introduced  in the first few chapters who are purely for exposition and never appear  again, yet we learn a great deal about them which leads me to suspect they  are a set-up for a possible sequel.  Other characters who are critical to  the plot are not really developed, although one could make an argument that  all Michael Crichton characters are secondary to the plot.  Lastly, there  are major plot developments which are crucial to the overall suspense of  the story, and yet they are so blatantly foreshadowed that the attentive  reader can see them coming from several dozen pages before.<br />I have the  good fortune to share a mutual acquaintance with Michael Crichton and I met  him several years ago when Disclosure was first released.  He's an  incredibly nice guy and perhaps one of the most intelligent writers working  today.  I just wish that he would be a little more careful and come to the  realization that not all of us are hardcore scientists.  I will say that I  read Timeline in 2 days and, once I got past a certain point, could not put  it down until I was finished.  Judge for yourself.	2000-01-17
US	52425643	RNR8LIRE9FH82	0684811618	918524732	Print the Legend: The Life and Times of John Ford	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Worth it for the films, not for the man	I read Print the Legend before I read Richard Schickel's review in the New York Times Book Review but I couldn't agree with him more.  Scott Eyman is very careful in how he chooses to present situations in which John Ford  behaved boorishly, which as it turns out happened quite often.  The problem  is that in not wanting to appear either soft on his subject or too harsh,  Eyman ends up explaining away serious character defects as colorful  personality quirks.<br />The best parts of the book are, of course, the  discussions of the films, but even these are not really as good as they  should have been, especially since the one thing no one can deny about John  Ford is that he made terrific films.  I can't really argue about the merits  of discussing all the silent film work, particularly since most of it is  lost to posterity.  However, films like Young Mr. Lincoln and Drums Along  The Mohawk are barely touched upon which I think does a disservice to  Ford's filmography.  One of the reasons John Ford was such a great director  was because he was not as one-dimensional as some may think.  Eyman has not  taken advantage of his opportunity to go into more detail on the lesser  films instead of focusing on the films we've all seen like Stagecoach or  the Grapes of Wrath.  Even so, the passages on the filmmaking and the  studio politics are worthwhile and the research pays off.<br />One of the  things I have noticed about biographies of notable figures who have not had  the most endearing traits is that the reader tends to feel unsympathetic  with the subject and therefore less inclined to want to know more about  them.  I think this is the opposite with Print the Legend.  The more you  come to realize that John Ford was a slightly less-than-reprehensible  person with tremendous talent and flashes of humanity, the more you want to  discover how he was able to achieve what he did.	2000-01-11
US	52425643	RQU68192N3X4P	0312198949	445141257	The Gross	Books	2	8	8	N	N	In bad need of work	Having read some of the other reviews, I tend to echo some of those sentiments.  While this was a relatively quick read, there were a number of things that struck my attention.  First of all, the book could have used a  good editor.  There were all kinds of spelling and grammatical errors.   <br />Second, the book could have used a fact-checker.  There are too many  instances of incorrect information, some mentioned in the other reviews,  but some that were downright blatant.  The author confuses &quot;Ghosts of  Mississippi&quot; with &quot;Mississippi Burning&quot;, mentions actors as  featured in movies they did not appear in, and sometimes seems to be  confused as to who did what in a particular instance.<br />Third, I found it  annoying and more than a bit hypocritical that an author who will take a  filmmaker or actor to task for their ego will find it so completely  necessary to feed his own ego by mentioning how intimate he was or is with  several of the big names in Hollywood.  It's fine if Mr. Bart, in his  official capacity as editor of Variety, goes right to the source, but if he  thinks that the reader cares, my guess is he's mistaken.<br />Fourth, the book  could really have used an index.  I wanted to refer to a previous chapter  somewhere towards the middle of the book and had to thumb through the pages  until I found it.<br />Lastly, to again echo some of the other reviews, it's  more than a bit ironic that someone who feels that movies suffer from the  manipulations of the studio executives in trying to make some films over  into what they were not intended to be has (I would venture) published a  book that is probably not what he intended it to be.  I'm sure Mr. Bart  could shrug it off as being emblematic of Hollywood, but I sure came away  with a little of the glitter worn off.	2000-01-04
US	52425643	R2T6XP821U7EQ4	0684846918	575093783	The Play Goes On: A Memoir	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Take it for what it is	Neil Simon is best studied by reading and seeing interpretations of his plays, but since this book is an autobiography, it is interesting at the very least for seeing what the man's own perspective on his life has been.   There are definitely some moments that appear repetitive and unnecessary,  but as he says in the book, Mr. Simon was not keeping notes throughout his  life with the knowledge that he would someday write a book.  That means he  and we are forced to rely on his memories and notions when they occur to  him, which is why some of the book is out of sequence.  I would have loved  to have seen more insights into the plays and screenplays themselves,  especially since he completely neglects to mention &quot;Laughter On The  23rd Floor&quot;, which I saw twice on Broadway and laughed harder the  second time than the first.  He alludes to it once, but never says anything  regarding the production even though he spends at least a few pages on some  of his less-successful works.  However, it's those exact pages on the  lesser known stuff like &quot;The Good Doctor&quot;, &quot;Rumors&quot;,  and &quot;Jake's Women&quot; that are so interesting.<br />Generally, I find  it difficult to read biographies of people who are still with us, for the  simple fact that that story can never be complete.  One of the good things  about the first volume of autobiography, Rewrites, was that it ended at a  specific point in time with the death of Mr. Simon's first wife which  represented the &quot;end&quot; of a chapter in his life and therefore lent  itself to being presented as a complete story.  I was impressed at how up  to date The Play Goes On was, but how can even this be the definitive story  of Neil Simon and his work unless he retires?  Surely (and hopefully) Neil  Simon has many more years and several plays ahead of him, so maybe he's  just leaving open the option of doing a third book.	2000-01-03
US	52425643	R1FVEH4WT1LPP7	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	4	43	48	N	N	A Flawed Great Book	Michael Frayn is an excellent writer who can appeal to the intellectuals and can also reach a mass audience with his wit and great prose.  However, Headlong is a work of fiction that requires at minimum a passing knowledge  of art history, because the detail is intense and can sometimes be  detrimental to the plot.  Even if your knowledge is minimal, an interest in  art helps if you are willing to absorb the lessons that the book teaches as  a matter of course.  This is the book's one big flaw, because it becomes  absolutely necessary to understand the historical and cultural facts that  Frayn gives because they are essential to the plot moving forward and you  can get bogged down in trying to follow it.  It's really not that bad, but  sometimes it's frustrating.  In spite of that, this is one of those books  that you can read in a few days because once the plot gets in full swing,  there is a strong urge to get to the end and see how everything is  resolved.  It's very enjoyable and more importantly, makes you think.  I  can definitely see this novel becoming a film someday.	1999-12-30
US	52425643	R2UZ7G3F1BOD2T	0306807300	279849587	M-G-M's Greatest Musicals	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent	I was expecting this to be a straight biography of Arthur Freed with discussions on his films but instead I was pleasantly surprised to see that the entire book is a blow-by-blow account of how the films were made (which  to a movie buff is pure heaven) and, as the author says, Freed's movies  were his life anyway.<br />I think it says something that the title of this  book is &quot;M.G.M.'s Greatest Musicals&quot;, since the truly amazing  thing is that one man was more or less responsible for all of them.  Great  behind-the-scenes stories.	1999-12-20
US	52425643	R1JOH4CSJOXVB2	0385497091	984594764	Thumbsucker: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Pleasant Enough	I admit to not being to up on Walter Kirn's previous work, but Thumbsucker is a nice little diversion and one of the quickest reads I've ever had.  The characters are clearly well-defined and (almost surprisingly) never  fall into stereotype.  The plot is somewhat mediocre, but good enough to  keep going.  The best passages are the ones where Justin is caught in the  throes of whatever his drug-of-the-moment is.  I almost felt the symptoms  and side effects along with him.<br />The one drawback I felt was that it just  seemed to end and rather hastily at that.  However, it sets itself up for  an interesting sequel, which would be great to see.	1999-12-14
US	52425643	R12WWAV85Q8BF1	0304700541	381012195	Film Follies: The Cinema Out of Order	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Disappointing	I was really looking forward to this book when I read Mr. Klawan's excerpt in Newsweek, but I have to say that the book disappointed me more often than not.  The author seems determined to show us how educated he is by  drawing parallels between these out-of-control films and the history of  popular culture in the world society.  All that really does is detract from  his main throughline.  The best passages were the ones regarding  &quot;Cleopatra&quot; and &quot;Apocalypse Now&quot;.  The rest were  interesting, but most of the time I was lost.	1999-12-10
US	52425643	R3IHFR1B7SGL98	0761513760	224472567	Hollywood Party: How Communism Seduced the American Film Industry in the 1930s and 1940s	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Fascinating	I thought this was an excellent narrative and I have no doubt that the facts as presented here are true.  The only reason I did not give this book 5 stars is because I perceived a bias on Mr. Billingley's part that I think  detracts from the overall value of his book.  Most of this is pretty subtle  but there were times when I felt like screaming.  Yes, it is important to  clarify who did what and what affiliations they may have had, and there are  several passages in which Mr. Billingsley treats all issues equally, but  there are just as many others where you can tell what side of the fence he  falls on and in a book such as this I think that is wrong. Either be  consistently opinionated or consistently unbiased.  Since this is  historical documentation, any assumptions or conclusions should be made by  the reader when presented with the facts. Ironically, when he lets his own  opinion show, Mr. Billingsley is leaning toward some of the same tactics he  exposes and condemns in his book which I highly doubt is his  intent.<br />Definitely worth the read.	1999-12-10
US	52425643	R2XH8WVCII4O5Q	038533401X	186149727	City of Light	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Good Beginning and a Frustrating Middle and End	After reading City of Light, I will confess to 2 things:  first, I thought that it was a fascinating study of a time and place to which not enough attention is paid.  Second, as a narrative it was both tedious and frustrating.  The mystery, such as it is, was superbly set-up and well  placed within its setting to keep me interested.  However, too often the  story took little off-beat side trips that were not really necessary to  move the story forward.  I am not a novelist, but I would think that it is  not necessarily a good idea to develop a good plot and interesting  characters and then prevent those elements from proceeding at their natural  progression and for that reason the whole story becomes &quot;forced&quot;  halfway through.  The main problem is that it is not too difficult to  figure out what is going to happen if you pay attention to the details, and  since the main character of Louisa Barrett is the prime participant in this  story, it is EXTREMELY aggravating when her narration states, &quot;If I  had only known...&quot; of &quot;I should have seen...&quot;  Come on  already!  I don't want the protagonist of a mystery to apologize to me.  I  would think it a disservice to have created such an appealing and  intelligent character who must constantly state that she was both naive and  short-sighted.  HOWEVER, as a glimpse into life in turn-of-the-century  Buffalo it is unsurpassed.  So I guess that balances out the problems with  the overall storyline.	1999-09-08
US	52425643	R9Y3SW9KCDNTS	0679428887	926822340	Archangel: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A genuine page-turner	Okay, I have read the other reviews that have already been posted on this book, and I think the important thing to remember is that this is a novel and not a textbook on Russian History.  Robert Harris does an excellent job  of putting together all the elements of past and modern Russia to make you  feel like you are there, and though I admit that his ending is a little bit  beyond the realm of believability, that's why this is called historical  FICTION and not historical FACT.  As an historian, I have several  colleagues who despise any work of art or literature which presents itself  as the absolute truth (i.e. &quot;J.F.K.&quot;) but I don't see any  footnotes or endpaper from Robert Harris making any such suggestions and  the book does in fact keep your interest for the simple matter of finding  out how it ends.  The last book I read this quickly was some Agatha  Christie mystery, and like those works &quot;Archangel&quot; demands that  you find out how it ends and quickly.  If you really have more of a problem  with endings that fail to support strong set-ups, then I suppose you could  deduct another star, but I think you would be denying yourself a decent  glimpse into Russian culture and history.	1999-03-15
US	52425643	R1T6W0DLZXUVGC	0679448179	47652371	Stephen Sondheim: A Life	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Oh, All Right	This was worth reading for the insights Sondheim provided into his work and for the numerous interviews conducted in its writing, but I wish someone would tell Ms. Secrest that the numerous analogies she draws  between Mr. Sondheim's life and classical literature are both pretentious  and overdone.  What's the point you're trying to make Meryle?  I'm sure  it's not how well read you happen to be.  And one other thing:  being a  homosexual does NOT mean that everything you produce artistically is  colored by your sexuality.  Couldn't she think of any thing else to say  that was relevant?  I guess not, but this book is worth reading for  die-hard Sondheim fans.	1999-03-12
US	52425643	R17UJWYPNZKGO1	0688159141	499305285	Gates of Eden: Stories	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Mixed Bag	First of all, if you are not a Coen Brothers fan or if you are not familiar with at least a few of their movies, then this book might be a good way to acquaint yourself with the quirkiness that dominates some of  their work.  That being said, this collection might also be construed as a  subliminal method of boosting their video rentals.  Brother Ethan has  crafted some decent pieces of fiction that make for a very quick and mostly  enjoyable read.  Sure, he has a few clunkers, but he also has some fine  laugh-out-loud moments that make you wonder just what the hell he must be  on that he can think of some of this stuff.  I find myself eagerly  anticipating the next output from him, whether it be literary or cinematic.   Even though you get the idea that Ethan Coen is a big idiot, he's sure a  creative idiot.	1998-12-29
US	52425643	RZKDUPU0IWG2G	0306808374	251476878	All His Jazz: The Life And Death Of Bob Fosse	Books	3	28	34	N	N	Neither Hero Nor Villain	&quot;All His Jazz&quot; is compelling for the blow-by-blow account that it gives of Bob Fosse's unparalled career.  It is probably one of the more comprehensive and insightful books about show business that has been  written.  The main problem with the book lies in his subject matter, which  one would think would be untenable for a biography.  Bob Fosse and those  around him (with the exception of very few) come across as arrogant,  self-centered, and certainly self-destructive.  Hey, let's face it.  Truth  certainly can be stranger than fiction, but it kept me from really getting  into the book on a personal level.  I ended up angry more than sympathetic  and incredulous more than intrigued.   The other problem I had with the  book is a noble one, but exposes the flaws all the same.  There really are  not enough photos to supplement the narrative.  The only reason I say this  is because so much attention is spent on the details of Fosse's career,  that it is a shame there are so few photos representing his amazing stage  career.  We can all go rent the movies if we want to see what they are  about, and it might not be a bad idea to watch &quot;All That Jazz&quot;  (which, by the way, is one of my all time favorites) before picking up a  copy of this book.	1998-12-14
US	52425643	R35JQRAQC08UO9	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best ever?	This is the novel that makes you wish they still wrote 'em like this one.  To all of those who know this as only a movie, it's a fascinating trip re-tracing the roots of film noir and the ensuing detective novel.  With a  tip of the hat to Bogart, Astor, Greenstreet, Lorre, &amp; Huston, the  original is still the way to go.	1998-11-09
US	52425643	R38LS70JKEMM9O	0451523482	283617845	The Day of the Locust (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The flip-side of the Golden Age of Hollywood	Nathanael West hits it right on the head.  The subject matter of his most famous novel is all the more remarkable in light of the fact that it was written in the 1930's.  What we take for granted as the sordid and seedy  stories of Hollywood today are actually nothing new, but it takes a shrewd  observer like West to show us how even the periphery of the glamour capitol  can go down in flames.  Perhaps the greatest single symbol is the hero's  painting, titled &quot;The Burning of Los Angeles&quot;.   Think about that  when you conjur images of Watts, Rodney King, Mark Fuhrman, and O.J.  Simpson.  I picked up this book when I saw it listed on the controversial  &quot;100 Greatest English-Language Novels of the 20th Century&quot;.   Until then, I knew it only by reputation but it was well worth  investigating.  Nathanael West is the real godfather of Hollywood.  A shame  he is not around to comment on it today.	1998-11-09
